April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||#Coronaconcerns: Corporates retract campus placements amid global economic crisis||The global economic crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic is unprecedented, given that it has affected small and large enterprises and people across socio-economic strata. In the corporate sector, for instance, employees are looking at job losses, pay cuts and furloughs, as companies deal with the massive fall in revenue. Recruitments are always the first to be frozen in times of a financial crunch. This time around, it comes at an inopportune moment for the student population, many of who were on the cusp of a professional journey, having cleared campus selection processes, only to now be told that the offers stand cancelled. CAMPUS PLACEMENTS ON HOLD DESPITE HRD MINISTRY AND INSTITUTION REQUESTS In early April, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank appealed to companies to not withdraw job offers made during campus placements due to the current economic downturn. Days later, the director of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur, Professor Santanu Choudhary wrote an open letter to companies, imploring them to not cancel or freeze hiring in their respective companies for students from IIT’s different branches. But that, it would seem, has not deterred MNCs from withdrawing offers, with rejection letters sent out as recent as this week. STUDENTS WITH CONFIRMED OFFERS HAD NO BACKUP PLAN Arjani Roy (named changed) a multimedia journalism student from a Bengaluru-based journalism institute was one of eight from her batch chosen by an international news agency. The prospect was so alluring that she let go of an opportunity to work with an English daily newspaper. “On April 13, the news agency decided against hiring me, giving no explanation and leaving me with no backup plan in the current atmosphere,” she says. Shreya Mishra, who is graduating from the Bengaluru-based Symbiosis Institute of Management, and 15 of her classmates, all of who were hired by a tech firm in March, were given rejection letters after the pandemic broke out. COMPANIES STATE LACK OF REVENUE AS REASON Kunvarjit Singh, a mechanical engineering student from Delhi Technology University, was expecting a postponement in his joining date or a renewed offer with lesser pay. “What I got was a termination letter. When I discussed this with the HR department, I was told it was because of a lack of revenue at the time.” ALUMNI, SOCIAL CONNECTIONS TRY TO HELP Graduating students from different branches of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) are now posting their profiles and resumes on LinkedIn, which are being shared by their teachers, seniors, friends and classmates to increase visibility and the prospect of a job. “One of my students was to move to Mumbai, to join an event management firm. But when she couldn’t travel owing to the lockdown, they terminated the offer. I have been spreading word about my students in my circles, as a word-of-mouth from a trusted source could work to their benefit,” says Kolkata-based Arghyadeep Banerjee, who teaches marketing in the media studies department at Ashutosh College, Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronaconcerns-corporates-retract-campus-placements-amid-global-economic-crisis/articleshow/75236939.cms||Hansy Sanctis
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||#LockdownGoals: Tips and tricks to jazz up your Insta shoots||Mobile phone cameras have turned most of us into photography enthusiasts. There’s a constant urge to beat each other with regular posts on social media. After all, how can you disappoint your followers? Ever since this lockdown clipped our wings, people have either been posting throwback photos or showing off their culinary skills with food pictures. But why join the crowd? Say goodbye to boredom, as this is the time when you can actually boost your photography skills. Challenge yourself to click a few stylised photos right inside your house and surprise everyone. So, what are you waiting for? Lights, camera, post! Prep clicks, not the final productAn interesting idea would be to click the preparation stage and not the final product. Before storing your grocery, just take a shot of the messy kitchen counter. Colourful grains look beautiful, don’t they? But while shooting indoors, make sure the lighting is good and there’s no shadow. “I enjoy food photography with my phone camera. I did an entire series on whatever I cooked during lockdown. I got several likes. But now, not just my friends, even I am getting bored of sharing similar posts. This time, I am thinking of clicking food grains and spices for a change,” says Shuchika Agarwal Goyal, an image consultant from Delhi.” Hunt for fun ideasLook for beautiful objects in your kitchen or drawing room. Ask your family members to select objects that they want you to shoot. If you live alone, you can ask your friends choose stuff for you through video calls. Be it your phone or sofa set, use your creativity in capturing them. “Go around the house, find any object and try to photograph them in different ways. It can be pieces from your cutlery set or a set of wine glasses. Unleash your creativity and raise it to the next level. With a little self-motivation, you can actually end up learning more,” says Swaarup S Chatterjjee, a professional photographer from Mumbai. Change your viewBeauty lies in simple things, especially when you are shooting indoors. “We normally tend to look at eye level. But you can amp up your photography skills by changing the angles of your camera. Take a bird’s eye view of your dinner table, shoot your balcony plants from a low angle or zoom in on a bud or leaf. This will help you understand how to balance light and shade in different scenarios,” says Cinderella Dsilva, an amateur photographer and communications personnel from Mumbai. The outcome will inspire your friends as well. Be minimalisticOpportunities are endless, especially with today’s smartphones. “In our daily lives, we might be constantly looking for inspiration while on the move. But when you are trying photography at home, focus on one single point and cut out the clutter around it. Remember, the subject you choose has to be strong enough. You can light up an incense stick and place it behind any prop, such as a toy or a bottle. Switch off all the lights in the room. Place a torch or table lamp behind the stick and start clicking photos using your smartphone. You can also use a glass bowl filled with water. Pour a teaspoon of oil and stir well. Take out a colourful image saved on your phone. Place the phone under the bowl to create a beautiful reflection. Shoot it with another phone,” shares Kunal Malhotra, a professional photographer from Delhi. Go monochromeA splash of colours has its own attraction, but making something look equally eye-catching in black and white is quite a challenge. You need to look for the right texture, line, pattern, shape, as well as light and shade. “Though mobile cameras have certain limitations in quality and format, you can still give it a shot. No one is judging you. If you don’t want to take a selfie, just capture your own silhouette,” suggests Swaarup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdowngoals-tips-and-tricks-to-jazz-up-your-insta-shoots/articleshow/75233374.cms||Jaya Biswas
April 20, 2020||India||CIC upholds EC view against sharing info on Lavasa's dissent under RTI||NEW DELHI: The Central Information Commission (CIC) has disposed of an appeal against refusal of the Election Commission to furnish information sought by an RTI applicant regarding dissent expressed by election commissioner Ashok Lavasa over clean chits given by EC in model code violation complaints filed against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then BJP president Amit Shah during 2019 Lok Sabha poll campaign. The CPIO, vide its letter dated 23.07.2019 had denied disclosure of information u/s 8 (1) (g) of the RTI Act, 2005. It has been consistently articulated by the respondent that in view of the provision contained in the RTI Act, 2005, that requires only information and records that are available to any public authority to be shared through RTI, as also the confidentiality of the discussions held in the ECI, further details could not be furnished. On being queried by the Commission, if a similar reply could be provided to the Parliament, the respondent replied in the affirmative. The same stand was taken at subsequent levels of appeal. The CIC finally heard the appeal via video conference due to lockdown on account of COVID 19 pandemic. It was articulated that in view of the provision contained in the RTI Act, 2005, as also the confidentiality of the discussions held in the ECI, further details could not be furnished. The Commission was in receipt of a written submission from the Respondent dated 25.03.2020 wherein while reiterating the contents of the RTI application, reply/order of the CPIO/FAA, it was submitted that the information applied for contains extensive references to inputs received by the ECI from field officers including the identity of such officers. Any disclosure of aforesaid poses a certain risk to the safety of such officers. Secondly, the information sought for by the Appellant and the inputs relied therein is in aid of law enforcement which is confidential in nature. In any event, there is no prejudice caused neither to the Appellant nor to the public at large since all final decisions taken by the ECI based on inputs received are published in the public domain. Therefore, it was submitted that the information sought for is clearly exempt from disclosure under Section 8(1) (g) of the Act. Citing the reference made by Supreme Court in CBSE & Anr. Vs. Aditya Bandopadhyay and Ors), (Civil Appeal No. 6454 of 2011), it was held as under “information as to the names or particulars of the examiners/coordinators/scrutinisers/head examiners are therefore exempted from disclosure under Section 8 (1)(g) of RTI Act, on the ground that if such information is disclosed, it may endanger their physical safety. Therefore, if the examinees are to be given access to evaluated answer-books either by permitting inspection or by granting certified copies, such access will have to be given only to that part of the answer-book which does not contain any information or signature of the examiners/coordinators/scrutinisers/head examiners, exempted from disclosure under Section 8 (1)(g) of RTI Act.” Accordingly, CIC in its decision disposing of the appeal, held that “keeping in view the facts of the case and the submissions made by both the parties and in the light of the aforesaid decisions, no further intervention of the Commission is required in the matter”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cic-upholds-ec-view-against-sharing-info-on-lavasas-dissent-under-rti/articleshow/75240043.cms||Bharti Jain
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Coronavirus outbreak: Mob attacks health workers in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Tension prevailed in Padarayanapura ward in the city, which has been sealed after 17 people from the area tested positive for Covid-19, after a mob attacked a team of health workers on Sunday night. Trouble erupted when the authorities visited the area to shift 58 primary and secondary contacts of coronavirus patients to a to a public quarantine centre. A 200-strong mob gathered at the spot, and demanded they too be taken to public quarantine as they could also have been infected and their lives were at stake. A BBMP team including doctors and ASHA workers that tried to reason it out with the mob was attacked. Police switched off the power supply to the locality and whisked away the officials and those identified to be taken to the public quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/coronavirus-outbreak-mob-attacks-health-workers-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75240094.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 20, 2020||Thane||110 arrested after three beaten to death in Maharashtra's Palghar||PALGHAR: Three people, who were travelling from Kandivali in Mumbai to Gujrat via interior roads of Palghar, were beaten to death on April 17 by Gadchinchle villagers in Palghar, suspecting them as thieves, police said on Sunday.  An FIR has been filed against 110 people, who have been arrested, and out of which 101 accused have been sent to the police custody till April 30. Nine minors have been sent to a juvenile shelter home, police said.  K Shinde, District Magistrate, Palghar, said the police reached the spot immediately but villagers continued to attack the three men.  "A video related to the incident is viral on social media, in which it can be seen that villagers damaged the car of the deceased using sticks, stones, and other objects. Police reached the spot immediately but villagers continued to attack them," said Shinde.  "The three men were taken to the hospital where they were declared brought dead. Our policemen also got injured in the incident. The investigation is underway," added Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/110-arrested-after-three-beaten-to-death-in-maharashtras-palghar/articleshow/75240114.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Agra||Cops cut short 15 migrants’ bicycle expedition from Gurugram to Bihar at Firozabad||AGRA: A bicycle expedition of 15 manual workers, which kicked-off in Gurugram and were to end in their Bihar village, was cut short by police in Firozabad on Sunday, about 250km from the millennium city. According to Narkhi police, the 15 bicycled to Firozabad from NCR while seven others walked and took ride from Bharatpur in order to reach home. All the 22 were booked under IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for violating the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, station house officer of Narkhi, Vinod Kumar said, “The 22 men violated CrPc 144. “Riding bicycle or walking towards home from one state to another is not an act of bravery but stupidity. All the state governments and district administrations are providing food, shelter to those who are in need. These migrant workers should have contacted the local authorities for food and shelter instead of talking long journey via road.” “We have quarantined everyone in Firozabad and will provide them food and all the necessary help. A medical test too has been conducted on all of them,” he added. Meanwhile, a worker, identified as Jageshwar Yadav of Bihar, said, “Since we had no money or food during our stay in Gurugram, we decided to leave for our village in Bihar on bicycle. There was no one to help us.” While another, Bhagwandheer, who took lift in truck and walked 50 km to reach Firozabad said, “I was working for a police officer in Gurugram. He told me to leave for my home in Hardoi and assured me to help, if I’m confronted by other policemen during the journey. I was tired after the long journey and decided to take a rest, when I was caught by Firozabad police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-cut-short-15-migrants-bicycle-expedition-from-gurugram-to-bihar-at-firozabad/articleshow/75239301.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19: Landlady in Odisha waives off rent for seven tenants||BHUBANESWAR: Soudamini Samantaray, 60, a landlady from Baramunda in the city, waived off one month's rent of around Rs 45,000 for her seven tenants keeping the difficult situation arising out of Covid-19 in mind. Her tenants are small traders and employees of private companies. "I found many people are facing difficulties due to the Covid-19 crisis. Financial hardship is the biggest one among these problems. Some of my tenants are small traders who closed their shops due to lockdown. Others are working in private companies. My small help will at least reduce their financial burden," said Samantaray. The landlady is a social activist and also a trained singer. Her husband is a retired professor of statistics. She has a son and two daughters. "I am connected with many cultural and social organisations including Mahila Suraksha Manch and help people whenever they need me. I wanted to help people in the field during this pandemic situation, but lockdown order and my age did not allow me. So I thought waiving rent will be a great help for our tenants," she added. The idea came to her mind after chief minister Naveen Patnaik requested house owners to waive off and defer rents by three months. "My family members agreed with my proposal to waive off the rent for one month. These tenants are like my family members, so I did not want to give them more problems," she added. Samantaray said she had worked with many organisations to provide relief during cyclone and flood. Though I cannot come out during the lockdown period, my younger daughter, a government officer, is working tirelessly in the field during this Covid-19 time," she added. This social activist also donated money to PM CARES Fund and Odisha chief minister's relief fund (CMRF) as a small contribution to fight against the deadly disease. She has helped some people to get ration and food. Her tenants thanked her for the kind gesture. Tenants of other areas of the city also praised this noble work. "I really appreciate the compassionate heart and empathetic spirit of the land lady. Other landlords should follow the footsteps of Samantaray," said Susanta Behera, a tenant staying in Nayapalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-19-landlady-in-odisha-waives-off-rent-for-seven-tenants/articleshow/75240164.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 20, 2020||India||Amit Shah reviews lockdown situation, tells officials to allow relaxation in genuine cases||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah, who reviewed the situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic in the country with senior ministry officials on Saturday, has called for due caution to be exercised so that only genuine exemptions and relaxations are given while allowing certain economic and industrial activities to be undertaken in areas not falling within hot-spots/clusters/containment zones. It was decided at the review meeting — also attended by ministers of state G Kishan Reddy and Nityanand Rai — that district administrations, in collaboration with industries, should make arrangements to transfer labourers to their place of work within the state. “Modi government believes that on one hand, this will give a fillip to economic activity and on the other, provide employment to the labourers,” a home ministry spokesperson said on Sunday. States have been asked to give attention to operationalize big industrial units, industrial estates and industrial complexes, especially where the labourers can be accommodated within the complex. Such activities can help triggering economic revival, while ensuring that the labourers are provided gainful employment, the ministry stated. District magistrates should also explore the possibility of providing labourers employment through agriculture as well as MGNREGA activities, the home minister suggested during that review meeting. In respect of the labourers who continue to stay in relief camps, greater attention should be paid to the their welfare, including quality of meals being provided to them. While it is understandable that the situation is challenging, the issue can be addressed. Shah said with community-based testing to be taken up by medical teams, stat s should take special care to ensure that each medical team is provided security. Before the team goes for testing in the community, the ground work in the community can be done by activating the peace committee and involving responsible community leaders, who can assuage the fear and confusion amongst the people with respect to testing, treatment and other aspects of Covid-19. Patrolling in rural areas should be increased to monitor compliance with national directives to fight Covid-19. DMs/DCs can draw upon police, panchayat officials, revenue officials etc. to help monitor the compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-reviews-lockdown-situation-tells-officials-to-allow-relaxation-in-genuine-cases/articleshow/75240075.cms||Bharti Jain
April 20, 2020||Cuttack||Sarpanches in Odisha to get collectors’ power for effective Covid-19 management||BHUBANESWAR: In a significant post lockdown strategy anticipating influx of lakhs of migrant workers, students, professionals and other stranded Odia people after end of the restrictions, the state government on Sunday made registration and 14-days quarantine mandatory for all people returning to the state from outside after May 3. Addressing the people in a video message, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said his government will facilitate smooth return of the stranded Odia people from different states after lifting of the lockdown restrictions. To effectively carry out the registration and quarantine exercises at the level of gram panchayats, the sarpanches are also delegated with the “collectors’ power” within their jurisdiction in accordance with the provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and Odisha Covid-19 regulation. Odisha is the only state to make such provision. Delegating collectors’ power to sarpanches means they can plan, coordinate and take steps to contain the spread of Covid-19. It is part of the community-based monitoring strategy to contain Covid-19 pandemic in the state, said official sources. “Every gram panchayat will have registration facilities. Family members and friends of people can register for those, who want to return to the state after lockdown restrictions. They will be placed in a 14-days mandatory quarantine at the panchayat with free of cost accommodation, food and treatment. After completion of quarantine period, an incentive of Rs 2000 will be given to them by the state government,” said CM in the message. CM said mandatory registration, streamlined movement and 14-days quarantine are very important to protect the returnees, their own families, the community and the state at-large “Compulsory registration and quarantine of all foreign returnees became a vital strategy to keep the Covid-19 situation under control in Odisha with 61 positive cases,” said the chief minister. The CM minister also spoke on smooth arrival of stranded Odias from outside after lifting of restrictions. He said in spite of best efforts of his state and the host states, life is not normal for them what he said ”pains him.” “My government will discuss with the Centre and other host states on smooth arrival of stranded Odia people in different states and take steps accordingly,” he underlined. Though the state government has no concrete data on number of people including students, professionals, stranded pilgrims, patients and migrant workers stuck outside the state, unconfirmed sources said it could be more than 5 lakh. The chief minister said his government will have a scientific technology based system to facilitate smooth arrival of migrant labourers. “The magnitude of the exercise demands a decentralised approach and the nature of the problem demands a humane approach. Both these will be accomplished by community based monitoring system involving gram panchayats and urban local bodies,” said Naveen. Official sources said the state government will involve the local elected representatives, anganwadi workers and ASHAs to ascertain the number of people (state-wise), who are expected to return after completion of lockdown restrictions. Justifying empowerment of gram panchayats and ULBs, Naveen said it will facilitate smooth movement, track and monitor the returnees, and strengthen the fight against COVID-19 “In my view every life is precious and has to be protected in a dignified manner. The involvement of panchayati raj institutions which are peoples’ institutions at the grassroots will go a long way in this,” said Naveen. The chief minister said the situation is under control because of the complete support sacrifice of people at all levels and hard work the dedicated machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/sarpanches-in-odisha-to-get-collectors-power-for-effective-covid-19-management/articleshow/75242624.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
April 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sarpanches in Odisha to get collectors’ power for effective Covid-19 management||BHUBANESWAR: In a significant post lockdown strategy anticipating influx of lakhs of migrant workers, students, professionals and other stranded Odia people after end of the restrictions, the state government on Sunday made registration and 14-days quarantine mandatory for all people returning to the state from outside after May 3. Addressing the people in a video message, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said his government will facilitate smooth return of the stranded Odia people from different states after lifting of the lockdown restrictions. To effectively carry out the registration and quarantine exercises at the level of gram panchayats, the sarpanches are also delegated with the “collectors’ power” within their jurisdiction in accordance with the provision of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and Odisha Covid-19 regulation. Odisha is the only state to make such provision. Delegating collectors’ power to sarpanches means they can plan, coordinate and take steps to contain the spread of Covid-19. It is part of the community-based monitoring strategy to contain Covid-19 pandemic in the state, said official sources. “Every gram panchayat will have registration facilities. Family members and friends of people can register for those, who want to return to the state after lockdown restrictions. They will be placed in a 14-days mandatory quarantine at the panchayat with free of cost accommodation, food and treatment. After completion of quarantine period, an incentive of Rs 2000 will be given to them by the state government,” said CM in the message. CM said mandatory registration, streamlined movement and 14-days quarantine are very important to protect the returnees, their own families, the community and the state at-large “Compulsory registration and quarantine of all foreign returnees became a vital strategy to keep the Covid-19 situation under control in Odisha with 61 positive cases,” said the chief minister. The CM minister also spoke on smooth arrival of stranded Odias from outside after lifting of restrictions. He said in spite of best efforts of his state and the host states, life is not normal for them what he said ”pains him.” “My government will discuss with the Centre and other host states on smooth arrival of stranded Odia people in different states and take steps accordingly,” he underlined. Though the state government has no concrete data on number of people including students, professionals, stranded pilgrims, patients and migrant workers stuck outside the state, unconfirmed sources said it could be more than 5 lakh. The chief minister said his government will have a scientific technology based system to facilitate smooth arrival of migrant labourers. “The magnitude of the exercise demands a decentralised approach and the nature of the problem demands a humane approach. Both these will be accomplished by community based monitoring system involving gram panchayats and urban local bodies,” said Naveen. Official sources said the state government will involve the local elected representatives, anganwadi workers and ASHAs to ascertain the number of people (state-wise), who are expected to return after completion of lockdown restrictions. Justifying empowerment of gram panchayats and ULBs, Naveen said it will facilitate smooth movement, track and monitor the returnees, and strengthen the fight against COVID-19 “In my view every life is precious and has to be protected in a dignified manner. The involvement of panchayati raj institutions which are peoples’ institutions at the grassroots will go a long way in this,” said Naveen. The chief minister said the situation is under control because of the complete support sacrifice of people at all levels and hard work the dedicated machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sarpanches-in-odisha-to-get-collectors-power-for-effective-covid-19-management/articleshow/75240250.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
April 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Expert committee to examine house to house data this week||PANAJI: An expert committee headed by head of department for preventive and social medicine, GMC Dr Jagdish Kakodkar will start examining the house to house Covid-19 data in the coming days, health secretary Nila Mohanan informed the State Executive Committee (SEC). “Secretary health informed that the expert committee under Dr Jagdish Kakodkar of the GMC would examine the data of the house-to-house survey by early next week to prioritise the testing,” the SEC said in a statement. The state has also decided to allow migrants from certain states to purchase ration using ration cards of other states, the secretary for civil supplies said. “Goa is amongst the 12 states which have started a national ration card portability facility. Migrants from the other 11 states can avail ration in Goa, provided the person has verified biometrics at least once in his native place and their family has not taken ration in their native place,” said the SEC. The incident commanders were urged to keep a check on fair prices shops to prevent pilferage. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, financial assistance will be provided to 2,061 beneficiaries such as widows, senior citizens and persons with disabilities would get financial assistance on Monday through direct transfers into bank accounts. Data of the remaining 21,500 beneficiaries will be completed by next weekend. Given the rise in confirmed coronavirus cases in Belagavi, the SEC advised authorities to keep a strict vigil on people and vehicles coming into Goa Chief secretary Parimal Rai, who heads the SEC, reviewed the measures in place in the state to combat the corona virus pandemic where he emphasized on the need for compulsory use of face covers in public place or at workplace, social distancing norms, frequent use of sanitizers or hand wash, sanitization of work spaces, access control, limited staff, etc in this awareness campaign. Municipal bodies and panchayat secretaries have been authorised to issue permits for self-employed professionals such as electricians, IT technicians, plumbers, motor-mechanics and carpenters. The tourism department informed the SEC that around 10,000 hotels rooms, with tariffs below Rs 5,000 have been identified and inspected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-expert-committee-to-examine-house-to-house-data-this-week/articleshow/75240285.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 20, 2020||India||Sitting 6 feet apart, wearing mask & bringing own lunch to be new normal in govt offices from today||NEW DELHI: As offices of all Central government departments, PSUs and CPSEs open with more staff from Monday, most of these entities have put proper system in place, including specific roster duty of people, thermal screening and also registering the details of all visitors. In what could become a template for all departments, the Rajya Sabha secretariat has issued a detailed circular for its working. According to the circular, the seating of persons attending office should be so arranged that at least six feet distance is maintained between two persons. The employees shall compulsorily wear face masks and there will be staggered lunch breaks to avoid gathering during lunch, the RS secretariat circular said. It said normal office timings may not be insisted upon for the officers and staff who would be attending the office and staggered hours of work may be adopted. People should bring their food and water, the circular says. It also said file movements should be through electronic mode in e-office and physical files shall be avoided as a precautionary measure. However, some of officers across departments told TOI that there are some major causes of concerns including how to deal with handling of "dak" (letters and other physical communications) and physical files and the common toilets majority of them use in every floor. Though most of the senior officers have been coming to office during the lockdown, they have been largely avoiding taking files and any holding any face-to-face interaction. Some of the senior officers said the issues will settle down in the next few days. “For example, in my wing, I have prepared a list of persons who will attend office. I have suggested that we avoid holding any official meeting in a room rather we must have video conference even with people who are sitting in adjoining rooms,” said one of them. He added the sense of fear is high among all employees as the “threat is invisible”. Meanwhile, Delhi Police in a circular issued on Sunday said movement of all Central government employees will be permitted after checking their identity cards. This blanket decision has been taken since it's not possible to "gauge" who are within 30% share of staff below director and deputy secretary level. Hired vehicles carrying them will also be allowed once the Central government employee shows his/ her identity card. On why the government employees should not cite any excuse to avoid attending office, an officer said, “The government has protected every employee from all risks and they have secured job. Therefore, they must be the first ones to attend office. We will lose the authority to ask private sector employees to work, if we are not doing so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sitting-6-feet-apart-wearing-mask-bringing-own-lunch-to-be-new-normal-in-govt-offices-from-today/articleshow/75240239.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||Crisis looms over College Street as lockdown puts lakhs of books at risk||“It’ll take termites just a week to reduce our book stocks into a pile of mud,” says the owner of a small bookshop on College Street -- Kolkata’s famous boi para, which is a haven for millions of bibliophiles. Avik Bandyopadhyay of Dhyanbindu has stocks worth Rs 10 lakh lying unattended at his outlet and a nearby storeroom since Janata Curfew. “Not just books, we have a large stock of imported sheets of paper. We doubt if anything will be in usable condition once we are able to open the shop,” says Avik, who lives in Baranagar and doesn’t have a single staff living close to the store. Avik’s fear is shared by owners of thousands of small, medium and big bookstores operating on the 1.5 km-long stretch of College Street and surrounding areas that now wears a deserted look with piles of books unattended since the lockdown started. Asim Das of Suprakash Boighor had to leave stocks worth more than Rs 5 lakh at his small shack on the pavement adjacent to College Square before hurriedly packing up. “The area is rodent-infested. There are packs of rats in College Square. If they attack the books, we’ll be left with nothing,” says Asim, who last opened his shop on March 21 before leaving for Nadia. Large publishers are at their wits' end too. While some big houses like Patra Bharati and Dey’s have conducted partial pest treatments at their warehouses, most publishers could not get that done. “Our books are at great risk. All the staff members have returned home. Besides, books are stuck in warehouses around the country. Our future is so uncertain,” says Raju Barman of Rupa. Many stores regularly get pest controlling done to maintain the books. “Before the lockdown, we’d have someone do it every Saturday. But maintenance has stopped since March 21,” says Sribindu Bhattacharya of Best Books and Jijnasa Publishing House who currently has stocks worth more than `20 lakh. “Besides, we have books worth Rs 30-40 lakh with our binders too,” adds the 74-year-old who has been in this business since the ’60s and has ‘never seen anything like this before’. To add to the bookstore owners’ woes, the lockdown has led to a surge in grey market for e-books and not all of them abide by copyright policies. “Readers are downloading whatever they can get their hands on. We too have started our e-book and audio book sections with third parties and the traction has gone up. This lockdown has made us realise how obsessively dependent we have been on physical books,” says Esha Chatterjee of Patra Bharati. The perils of unattended books In a place like Kolkata, where humidity is high, books need special care. Otherwise, insects including booklice, termites, silverfish and others bore through books and ruin them. Books need fresh air to avoid damp apart from regular dusting and pest or termite control plan. Tridib Chatterjee, president, Publishers & Booksellers Guild, said, “This is a never-seen-before situation for us. Around 4.5 lakh people are directly or indirectly related to this business. Besides the losses incurred during the market closure, the fear of damage is eating the booksellers. Buildings are old in this area and hence the chances of damp and pest infestation are high. Some big publishers, especially those who live nearby, are treating their stock with pesticides. But many of them live far away. Besides the publishers, there are binders, printers, daily wage-earning transporters and other staff members. We don’t know what will happen to them. We have appealed to the government to look into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crisis-looms-over-college-street-as-lockdown-puts-lakhs-of-books-at-risk/articleshow/75240503.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
April 20, 2020||Business||Tough road ahead, economy gears up for limited restart||NEW DELHI: Several key sectors of the economy are expected to begin operations from Monday as the Centre has given its nod for a limited start to jumpstart activities in some segments but industry representatives say it would be a tough task given the lack of public transport and several other restrictions such as movement of inter-state labour. Last week, the Centre announced limited resumption of economic activity outside Covid-19 containment zones, particularly in industrial zones and rural areas. It said all facilities involved in supply of essential goods, shops dealing in food and groceries would be allowed to resume operations as well as all goods traffic for essential goods. Industries outside city limits, units in SEZs, industrial estates and townships and export-oriented units have also been permitted to start their units but with strict conditions and in compliance with social distancing norms. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsCourier, services by self-employed such as plumbers, electricians, carpenters, IT repair as well as construction of roads, buildings and irrigation projects have been allowed. To restart farming, the Centre has allowed harvesting, procurement, mandi operations and inter-state movement of agri machinery. The mega jobs programme MGNREGA with priority for irrigation and water conservation has been allowed to provide relief to workers in rural areas. IT and IT-enabled services at 50% capacity, IT and hardware manufacturing have been permitted while food processing outside municipal limits and production of packaging material, jute industry, brick kilns have been permitted among a raft of other segments. All health services and social sector to remain functional while public utilities will operate with any obstacles. The supply chain of essential goods to operate without any hindrance and important offices of central and state governments and local bodies will remain open with the required staff strength. Read AlsoGovernment U-turn: E-commerce firms can deliver only essentialsThe Centre on Sunday rescinded permission to e-commerce firms to resume the sale and delivery of non-essential items from Monday, a move that seems to have been prompted by protests by local traders whose businesses will continue to face restrictions during the extended national lockdown till May 3.Operations of fishing (marine and inland), aquaculture industry including feeding and maintenance, harvesting, processing, packaging and cold chain, sales and marketing will be functional. Movement of fish/shrimp and fish products, fish seed and feed workers for all these activities have been allowed. The Centre has also allowed operations of tea, coffee and rubber plantations with maximum 50% workers. Processing, packaging, sale and marketing of tea, coffee, rubber and cashew with maximum of 50% workers have also been allowed Educational institutions will remain shut and emphasis is on online teaching. Air, rail and bus travel will also remain closed while hotels, restaurants, malls, cinema halls, gyms will remain closed as well as all religious places. The move to reboot some segments of the economy has been fast-tracked by the devastating impact of the lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak on jobs and growth. Several assessments have shown a severe dent on the economy and growth estimates have ranged from 1.5 to 2.8% depending on the extent and duration of the virus outbreak. Industry representatives said it would be tough to start in states which account for majority of cases and have several containment zones. Besides, there are problems with companies in Delhi NCR as top executives live in a different location from the plant. They said if sales channels were stuck, there was no point in producing or transporting goods such as textiles, sanitary ware or even automobiles. It is easier for companies with factories or construction sites where workers live, especially if they are outside municipal limits. Exporters with orders have signalled their intent to resume production from Monday. "Post-Covid, there will be a new normal for production, transportation, supply and sales. A graded opening will help people earn their livelihood and enable companies and the nation to develop a framework so that we can ramp up economic activity as we go forward," said Dilip Chenoy, secretary general of industry lobby group Ficci The courier industry said it would be difficult to resume operations given the fact that the railways and air services still remain stalled. “The industry depends on three modes — train, air and inter-state movement. How do you start?” said Ajay Kumar Malhotra of Flyking and ex-CEO of Worldpak, adding that the industry was ready to comply with all necessary precautions to start work. “How do we generate business if the corporate sector and retail businesses are closed?” asked Malhotra. Another key issue that has been flagged by industry is the availability of labour. Adhering to the strict lockdown by some state governments such as Delhi to contain the outbreak will also act as a major hurdle. On Sunday, the home ministry issued standard operating procedures for movement of labour but made it clear that there shall be no movement of labour outside a state or Union Territory from where they are currently located.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tough-road-ahead-economy-gears-up-for-limited-restart/articleshow/75240635.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 20, 2020||India||Obesity puts young at risk of severe corona infection||NEW DELHI: Obesity, a condition that often coexists with diabetes and hypertension, is emerging as a risk factor for severe Covid-19 infection even in those below 60 years. In this light, doctors have recommended to the WHO and the ICMR that it include information on weight and height of patients to enable estimation of body mass index (BMI) and assessment of obesity in the current case record forms. The risk was highlighted in a paper in the journal Current Science. Recently, doctors in the UK’s NHS had issued a public health warning after it was found that the majority who were severely ill were overweight or obese. It was reported that out of 2,204 Covid-19 patients admitted to 286 NHS intensive care units, 73% were overweight or obese. A very high proportion of those requiring mechanical ventilation in a study in France were also obese, and the risk increases with increasing obesity. A study which analysed data for more than 4,000 Covid-19 patients who sought care in a hospital in New York identified obesity as a prominent risk factor. One of the authors of the paper, Dr Anurag Bhargava, Professor of Medicine and Head Centre for Nutrition Studies at Yenepoya (Deemed University), Mangalore, pointed out that obesity, a risk factor for mortality in the Covid-19 pandemic, was also one in the H1N1 pandemic. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“Obesity, general and/or abdominal is associated with higher levels of inflammatory markers in the body even before the virus strikes. The virus markedly accelerates the inflammatory process,” said Dr Srinath Reddy of the Public Health Foundation of India. Dr Reddy explained that abdominal obesity is more common than general obesity in Indians and that it is also a better predictor of cardiometabolic risk than general obesity. The paper also states that obesity could predispose to more severe Covid-19, as higher levels of proteins favor inflammation in the obese. One of the mechanisms for severe Covid-19 are high levels of these proteins, which are called cytokines. Dr Reddy explained that both forms of obesity also reduced the lungs’ capacity to expand, causing mechanical limitation. With the coronavirus targeting the lungs, this could tilt the balance towards a poor outcome. “It would be prudent for obese individuals (Body mass index greater than 30 kg/m2) to observe hand hygiene, adopt masking in crowded places, and social distancing more meticulously,” said Dr Bhargava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/obesity-puts-young-at-risk-of-severe-corona-infection/articleshow/75240758.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 20, 2020||India||PM Modi calls for unity, says virus knows no religion, caste||NEW DELHI: Emphasising that the world will require new business models in the wake of the devastation wreaked by coronavirus, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday called upon the country's youth to summon their spirit of innovation to come up with solutions for the post-pandemic world. He said the world was in pursuit of new business models and India could take the lead. Modi also emphasised that the the virus did not discriminate between people on the basis of faith, community, race or nationality. “India, with the right blend of the physical and the virtual, can emerge as the global nerve centre of complex modern multinational supply chains in the post Covid-19 world. Let us rise to that occasion and seize this opportunity. I urge you all to think about this and contribute to the discourse,” the PM urged the youth. The shift from BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) to WFH (Work From Home) brought new challenges to balance the official and personal, he wrote on Linkedin, the social media platform for professionals. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsCiting examples of optimisation of technology under his government to tackle corruption and smoothen the delivery of welfare benefits, Modi said India could take the lead in helping the world transition to the the “work-from-home” era. “The need of the hour is to think of business and lifestyle models that are easily adaptable. Doing so would mean that even in a time of crisis, our offices, businesses and commerce could get moving faster, ensuring loss of life does not occur. As the world battles Covid-19, India’s energetic and innovative youth can show the way in ensuring a healthier and prosperous future," Modi said. He listed what, according to him, could be the five defining features of business and work culture in the post-pandemic world. “I call them vowels of the new normal because like vowels in the English language, these would become essential ingredients of any business model in the post-Covid world — Adaptability (business and lifestyle models that are easily adaptable), Efficiency (re-imagining what we refer to as being efficient), Inclusivity (that attaches primacy to care for the poor, the most vulnerable as well as our planet), Opportunity(every crisis brings with it an opportunity), and Universalism (the virus does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking),” he said. Modi said the next big ideas from India should find global relevance and application and should have the potential to drive changes globally. Emphasising on the need for unity in the fight against the virus, he said, "Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together. Unlike previous moments in history, when countries or societies faced off each against each other, today we together facing a common challenge. The future will be about togetherness and resilience."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-calls-for-unity-says-virus-knows-no-religion-caste/articleshow/75240790.cms||Akhilesh Singh
April 20, 2020||World||16 killed in shooting rampage, deadliest in Canadian history||TORONTO: A gunman disguised as a police officer went on a rampage across the Canadian province of Nova Scotia, shooting people in their homes and setting fires, leaving 16 people dead Sunday, in the deadliest such attack in the country’s history. Officials said the suspected shooter was also dead. A police officer was among those killed. Several bodies were found inside and outside one home in the small, rural town of Portapique, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) north of Halifax — what police called the first scene. Bodies were also found at other locations. Authorities believe the shooter may have targeted his first victims but then began attacking randomly. Overnight, police began advising residents of the town — already on lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic — to lock their doors and stay in their basements. Several homes in the area were set on fire as well. Police identified the man believed to be the shooter as Gabriel Wortman, 51, who was thought to live part-time in Portapique. Authorities said he wore a police uniform at one point and made his car look like a Royal Canadian Mounted Police cruiser. Police first announced that they had arrested Wortman at a gas station in Enfield, outside Halifax, but later said he had died. It was not clear how, and they did not explain further. "This is one of the most senseless acts of violence in our province’s history," said Nova Scotia Premier Stephen McNeil. RCMP spokesman Daniel Brien confirmed that 16 people had been killed in addition to the suspect. The dead officer was identified as Constable Heidi Stevenson, a mother of two and a 23-year veteran of the force. Another officer was also injured. Mass shootings are relatively rare in Canada. The country overhauled its gun-control laws after gunman Marc Lepine killed 14 women and himself at Montreal’s Ecole Polytechnique college in 1989. Before this weekend’s rampage, that had been the country’s worst. It is now illegal to possess an unregistered handgun or any kind of rapid-fire weapon in Canada. The country also requires training, a personal risk assessment, two references, spousal notification and criminal record checks to purchase a weapon. "As a country, in moments like these, we come together to support one another. Together we will mourn with the families of the victims, and help them get through this difficult time," Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said in a written news release. While they believe the attack did not begin as random, police did not say what the initial motive was. RCMP Chief Superintendent Chris Leather said many of the victims did not know the shooter. "That fact that this individual had a uniform and a police car at his disposal certainly speaks to it not being a random act," Leather said. He added that police believe he acted alone. Leather said they would investigate whether the attack had anything to do with the coronavirus pandemic but no link has been found thus far. At one point, there was an exchange of gunfire between the suspect and police, he said. Late Sunday morning, there were half a dozen police vehicles at the scene of the gas station where the suspect died. Yellow police tape surrounded the gas pumps, and a large silver-colored SUV was being investigated. Cpl. Lisa Croteau, a spokeswoman with the provincial force, said police received a call about "a person with firearms" late Saturday night, and the investigation "evolved into an active shooting investigation." Christine Mills, a resident of the area, said it had been a frightening night for the small town, with armed officers patrolling the streets. In the morning, helicopters flew overhead searching for the suspect. "It’s nerve-wracking because you don’t know if somebody has lost their mind and is going to beat in your front door," she said. Tom Taggart, a lawmaker who represents the Portapique area in the Municipality of Colchester, said the quiet community has been shaken. "This is just an absolutely wonderful, peaceful quiet community and the idea that this could happen in our community is unbelievable," Taggart said by phone from his home in nearby Bass River. A Gabriel Wortman is listed as a denturist — a person who makes dentures — in the city of Dartmouth, near Halifax, according to the Denturist Society of Nova Scotia website. A suspect photo issued by the RCMP appears to be of the same person seen in video footage being interviewed about dentures by CTV Atlantic in 2014. Mills also said that Wortman was known locally as someone who divided his time between a residence in Halifax and a residence in Portapique. Taggart said he didn’t know Wortman well, but spoke to him a few times when he telephoned about municipal issues. Taggart described knowing Wortman’s "lovely big home" on Portapique Beach Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/at-least-10-killed-in-shooting-rampage-in-canada-police/articleshow/75240804.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||Government U-turn: E-commerce firms can deliver only essentials||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Sunday rescinded permission to e-commerce firms to resume the sale and delivery of non-essential items from Monday, a move that seems to have been prompted by protests by local traders whose businesses will continue to face restrictions during the extended national lockdown till May 3. The home ministry spokesperson said the process of permissions and revisions was dynamic and when the list of items that e-commerce firms would have been able to deliver was examined, it was found to be too extensive, raising concerns of the lockdown to contain Covid-19 being compromised. Home ministry officials also said renewed curbs on e-commerce will ensure a "level playing field" with small retailers. As of now, only kirana shops, meat, fruit & vegetable sellers and pharmacies are allowed to function. The revision was accompanied by a dose of politics. Congress had on Saturday said the rules favoured e-commerce platforms. "While their (local traders) shops are locked down for the last one month, their main competitors are open and have been allowed to sell non-essential items online. This is injustice to retailers and the government should not allow this," Congress leader Ajay Maken had said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsGovernment sources said while Congress was supporting this position, states where it was in office, like Rajasthan and Maharashtra, were opening up all goods for e-commerce. In an order on Sunday, home secretary Ajay Bhalla excluded from the revised MHA guidelines issued only four days ago the sub-clause allowing e-commerce companies to function and their vehicles to ply with the necessary permissions in non-containment zones from April 20. The delivery of essential items, such as groceries and hygiene products, by e-commerce companies will, however, continue. Traders’ associations, including organisations aligned with BJP and RSS, had protested against the move to remove all curbs on e-commerce firms, saying the decision placed them at a disadvantage. Associations like CAIT (Confederation of All India Traders) welcomed the home ministry clarification. The rethink by the home ministry comes even as e-tailers had started accepting advance orders for phones, tablets and TVs. Since these were to be delivered only from April 20, the e-commerce companies may now refund the payments. Sources said there was a realisation within the government that allowing e-commerce in non-essential items while keeping local retail stores closed — unlike in the case of essential items which can be sold by both — would discriminate against the latter. Home minister Amit Shah, while acknowledging the small retailers' concerns, is said to have given the green signal for reimposing the ban on sale of non-essential items by e-commerce firms. CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal on Sunday said the ministry had accepted its objections. Joint secretary in the home ministry Punya Salila Srivastava said at the daily joint briefing on Sunday that the Covid-19 situation was very dynamic and the government was taking decisions on a day-to-day basis. When the government realised that the list was long and allowing non-essential commodities to sell through e-commerce platforms may affect proper implementation of the lockdown, the decision was reviewed and reversed, she said. Meanwhile, the home secretary on Sunday wrote to all states and Union territories clarifying that while operations of e-commerce companies for non-essential goods stand prohibited, they may continue for essential goods. Bhalla requested the chief secretaries to clarify this to all field agencies and also adequately disseminate it among the general public so as to ensure the smooth movement of the supply chain of essential goods, including by e-commerce firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-u-turn-e-comm-firms-can-deliver-only-essentials/articleshow/75240818.cms||Bharti Jain
April 20, 2020||Business||Government wary of tax cuts, may offer funding to keep businesses afloat||NEW DELHI: Support for businesses hit by the pandemic and the lockdown can come in the form of measures like a higher working capital limit to help them tide over the disruption and meet statutory dues rather than outright tax concessions at a time when the government's fiscal situation is stretched. Meeting demands for relief and waivers spanning virtually all sectors of the economy will be hard to meet and a better option is to take steps that will enable companies to function and meet obligations like staff salaries and vendor bills. While the idea is to support business, some economic pain is inevitable and needs to be shared. "Everyone will have to take a hit in some measure," an official source said. With the government gearing up for a protracted battle against the coronavirus, it is wary of loosening purse strings too much. It is also felt that the support offered must make the best use of resources rather than giveaways that may be spread too thin and may not sustain economic activity for long. It is pointed out that businesses have at times come up with demands that are not easy to implement. Read AlsoTough road ahead, economy gears up for limited restartSeveral key sectors of the economy are expected to begin operations from Monday as the Centre has given its nod for a limited start to jumpstart activities in some segments but industry representatives say it would be a tough task given the lack of public transport and several other restrictions‘Burden should be shared by all stakeholders’For instance, exporters want an additional 3-4% support, which is not feasible. "Sectoral packages are difficult because the government is already burdened, plus how do you prioritise when several sectors are hit?" asked an official. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsCompanies have petitioned the government to get banks to provide higher short-term loans in the form of working capital support with the repayments being back-ended, a proposal the Centre seems amenable to, though it is not in favour of providing large-scale guarantees to firms to access loans, sources said. Companies have sought funds to help meet their payment obligations at a time when sales have dried up for a large part of the economy due to the lockdown. Read AlsoGovernment U-turn: E-commerce firms can deliver only essentialsThe Centre on Sunday rescinded permission to e-commerce firms to resume the sale and delivery of non-essential items from Monday, a move that seems to have been prompted by protests by local traders whose businesses will continue to face restrictions during the extended national lockdown till May 3.At the same time, the government is of the view that the burden of the crisis has to be shared by all stakeholders and the Centre and states alone can’t take the fiscal hit. Like companies, revenues for the government have dried up in the absence of economic activity, resulting in meagre tax collections. But the burden has gone up and the government has stepped up spending to support the poor. While the much-awaited stimulus has been discussed at the highest level in the government, a key focus is on ensuring that the poor and the vulnerable get sufficient support. The other focus area is providing enough funds to not just keep the healthcare system running but also bolster it. The Centre has already earmarked an additional Rs 15,000 crore for the healthcare system and expenditure in other areas may need to be prioritised, depending on how things shape up over the next month or so. The idea will be to speed up construction and other works, which will not only help the capex plan but also create jobs and help other crucial sectors such as cement and steel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-wary-of-tax-cuts-may-offer-funding-to-keep-businesses-afloat/articleshow/75240862.cms||Sidhartha
April 20, 2020||India||Calls for air ambulances soar, but tough norms make medical evacuation harder||MUMBAI: A Kolkata family that flew their 10-year-old son to Mumbai for an emergency brain tumour surgery, a middle-aged man from Raipur who flew home after a bypass surgery in Mumbai, a seriously ill elderly woman with liver and kidney ailments who had exhausted her treatment options at a Hyderabad hospital and so left for her home in Indore. These are some of the patients who took the nearly two dozen air ambulance flights operated over the past four weeks as domestic flights and trains were suspended across India due to the lockdown. Air ambulance operators say despite calls for medical evacuation soaring during the lockdown, the tougher norms have badly hit families who need to fly down patients to different cities. On March 23, the ministry of civil aviation banned all airline flights, but medical evacuation flights by charter operators were permitted. On April 15, the ministry issued a clarification stating medical evacuation flights “should not be permitted without the explicit permission of the government”. “During normal times, all that was needed to operate a medical flight was a hospital discharge summary and clearance from the aviation regulator. Now, we need permission from collectors or district magistrates of both arrival and departure cities, letters from the doctor and hospital giving patient’s details, an NOC from the state health department, which is needed for both the origin and destination states, and then medical certificates for the patient’s attendants saying they are not Covid-positive and neither have come in contact with any Covid-positive person in the last 15 days,” said Rahul Muchhal, founder, Accretion Aviation, an aggregator. He said only a few companies offer air ambulance services now due to these restrictions. Mucchal says they do bed-to-bed transfers. An ICCU ambulance along with a doctor and a technician picks up the patient from the hospital and takes him/her right up to the aircraft in the apron and the process is repeated after landing. “So if a patient has to be taken to Bhilai, then you land at Raipur airport and for the nearly 30-km journey on ground, you need clearances to show the cops. If the journey is from one district to another, then written permission from each magistrate is needed,” he added. He says almost every single patient’s family called to thank them for the service, with some even breaking down over the phone because they had exhausted most of the options to transport the patient. “That is something that never happens in a customer service business where customers are always complaining about something or the other,” he said. His company has operated about 10 flights during the lockdown, including eight departures, arrivals from/into Mumbai. “A 10-year-old boy from Kolkata was flown into Mumbai for an emergency brain tumour surgery. A patient who underwent a bypass surgery had to be moved to Raipur. Then, there are cancer patients who don’t want to miss the chemo cycle. After we receive the call, we ask the patient to get the permission from the state authorities as they need to show the medical papers, our team gets permissions from the hospital, the aviation regulator…the entire process takes about two to three days,” says Mucchal. Mandar Bharde, managing director, MAB Aviation Pvt Ltd, a DGCA-licenced aircraft charter company said inquiries for air ambulances have gone up post lockdown. “We used to get about 10 inquiries a day, but after the lockdown, the number has gone up to 30-35,” Bharde said, adding his company has operated about 10 flights during the lockdown. “In most cases, it’s those with elderly parents who need to be flown back home. A lot of them don’t have the money for the air ambulance flight, but approach us as last resort,” said Bharde. “Never in the past 10 years of charter business have I come across such emotional requests. I got a call from a couple in South India who wanted to take possession of their baby, born to a surrogate in another city. They wanted to get the baby back home. But now it’s not possible as it is not deemed an emergency,” Bharde added. He said that it is getting increasingly difficult to operate these flights. “Now, some airports have also begun taking advice from the airport doctor on whether to accept the patient or not. Apart from the documents we supply, they have begun taking their own doctor’s opinion,” said Bharde. India has about five to eight major air ambulance operators, with about eight aircraft between them. There is a huge demand in India for air ambulances, says Bharde. An air ambulance is an aircraft fitted with a stretcher and ICU equipment like BP, pulse monitor, ECG machine, ventilator and other items as demanded by the passenger’s condition. A doctor has to be on board to accompany the patient. “Mumbai is a big centre for cancer treatment. We operate about 60-80 air ambulance flights a year in and out of Mumbai. Most of the patients with heart ailments go to Delhi, those with liver problems go to Hyderabad,” said Mucchal. “We largely operate a Cessna C90 aircraft and charge a subsidised Rs 90,000 per flying hour for air ambulance. For normal charter, it is Rs 95,000 per hour, but then for normal flights we have conditions like minimum cost would be for two hours of flying time per day etc. For air ambulances, we have don’t have such conditions,’’ he said. TOI tried to contact patient’s families, but none of them wanted to be quoted or written about.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/calls-for-air-ambulances-soar-but-tough-norms-make-medical-evacuation-harder/articleshow/75240867.cms||Manju V
April 20, 2020||India||Entire Pune declared a containment zone||PUNE: The combined metropolitan area of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad was declared a containment zone late Sunday and sealed till April 27, making the twin cities with a total population of over 7.5 million the first in India to be entirely locked down. The move came a day after Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar announced stricter implementation of lockdown measures in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad for the next eight days, beginning Monday, following a meeting with the Pune’s divisional commissioner and other senior district and police officials. Areas with a concentration of Covid-19 cases have been declared containment zones across states, but no city barring Pune has so far been sealed in its entirety. With all border entry and exit points in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad sealed, movement of even vehicles exempted from the order will be controlled. The exemption list includes essential goods transport and services. Thirteen of the 15 civic wards in Pune had been classified as “red zones” since April 10 and the other two as “orange zones”. The Pune Municipal Corporation will conduct an extensive Covid-19 screening drive in the entire sealed area over the next eight days. There will be restrictions on business hours of shops, banks and other establishments. Pune police will issue an order mentioning the timings on Monday morning, sources said. In Pimpri Chinchwad, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said employees and vehicles of the municipal corporation, police and state and central government departments involved in Covid-19 prevention are exempted from the order along with essential services. All banks must keep their branches open on weekdays from 10am to 2pm. ATMs must be functional, too. Retail sale of milk, vegetables, fruits will be allowed from 10am to 2pm at designated places. Home delivery of vegetables and fruits will be allowed only after obtaining prior permission from the civic body. All hospitals, dispensaries, clinics and medicine stores will function normally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/entire-pune-declared-a-containment-zone/articleshow/75240875.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Patna||Martyred CRPF man’s village, family in shock||PATNA: A pall of gloom descended on the ancestral house of CRPF head constable Rajiv Kumar Sharma, who sacrificed his life for the country in a terrorist attack at Baramula in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. Sharma (39), a resident of Rasulpur village in Vaishali district, had joined the elite force in 2000 and was posted in J&K. Birendra Sharma, a local, said on Sunday that the martyred head constable’s younger brother Sanjiv Sharma, who is also with CRPF and posted in Arunachal Pradesh, had talked to Rajiv on Saturday morning. However, the shocking news came barely six hours after his conversation on cellphone. Sanjiv immediately informed his widowed mother Geeta Devi about the incident. The slain head constable is survived by his wife Anju Sharma (35) and two children — Shivangi (11) and Ayush (8). “We are waiting for the body to reach the village,” Birendra added. Rajiv’s father Prem Chand Sharma had died about five years ago. While slain cop’s wife was weeping inconsolably ever since she came to know about the incident, her two children were shocked. Some residents of the village consoled the bereaved family members. The condition of Geeta Devi deteriorated in the evening. She is under supervision of a medical team. Describing Sharma as well-behaved, courteous, meek and mild, his classmate Manoj Kumar said, “His supreme sacrifice will not go in vain. The terrorists will never succeed in their mission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/martyred-crpf-mans-village-family-in-shock/articleshow/75238434.cms||Ramashankar
April 20, 2020||Patna||Hailstorm, unseasonal rain damage wheat crops||PATNA: Untimely rains and heavy hail storm in north Bihar caused extensive damage to the wheat crops on Saturday. However, their was no report of any casualty from any part of the region. Officials manning the control room of the disaster management department said that reports of rain and hail storm were received from several parts of the state but there was no incident of loss of human life or livestock. “Wheat crop was damaged largely because of unseasonal rain. Though standing crops have been harvested, they were still lying in the field. The farmers have to incur a huge loss due due to hail storm,” said Bhola Singh, a farmer from Vaishali district. Sitamarhi, East East Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj, Purnia and Supaul district were the worst hit. Maize crops too were damaged. “It’s a double shocker for us. First we had to suffer a lot due to lockdown and now the untimely rains,” said a Sitamarhi farmer Sanjiv Singh. Meanwhile, the met department has predicted rains on Monday also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hailstorm-unseasonal-rain-damage-wheat-crops/articleshow/75238418.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Jamtara gang cons citizens with booze-delivery scam||KOLKATA: Fraudsters from Jamtara who used to call or text posing as bank managers or KYC executives have now started circulating texts promising to deliver branded liquor to people’s homes. Hundreds of desperate citizens have already fallen for this con — after transferring the money upfront, the customers realized all channels of communication with these men had been closed. The bank fraud cell of Kolkata Police has received around 10 complaints so far and traced the incoming calls from the same locations where the phishing calls and messages asking for bank details and OTPs came from. Over the years, Jamtara in Jharkhand has emerged as the country’s phishing capital, where teenagers running the digital scam keep changing their modus operandi from time to time.The number of those conned in Kolkata over liquor delivery may be higher than reported as not everyone has lodged a formal complaint. TimesViewIt is expected that organised crime syndicates will adapt to the new situation. So it is wiser to update our usual list of dos and don’ts. The police force is stretched right now and so prevention may be a better option.“Taking advantage of people’s desperation for liquor, the same gang members who used to run phishing scams have switched to liquor scams. They pose as liquor sellers and claim they would deliver to the doorsteps. They ask people to first transfer the money via UPI or card. Once that is done, the caller either switches off the phone or transfers the call to another number. Often they just don’t answer,” said an officer. Two weeks into the first phase of lockdown, when city tipplers had started getting desperate, a slew of forwards on social media regarding home delivery of liquor started doing the rounds. With bars and off shops remaining closed for over a month now, alcohol prices in the grey market have soared more than four times the MRP and web searches for how to make alcohol at home have gone up. Such has been the desperation, that four persons in East Midnapore allegedly drank ethanol they bought from a homoeopathy shop. Two of them, including a teenager, died. “I saw a post of someone home-delivering liquor and called the number. The man seemed genuine and said the bottle would be delivered at MRP to my home in an hour. I made a bank transfer for three bottles, but nothing came. When I called, the man said the delivery personnel was stopped by cops. But after three-four hours, the number went unavailable,” said a 34-year-old Jadavpur resident. He didn’t lodge a police complaint but posted about his ordeal on Kolkata Police’s Facebook page. Police said some victims even ended up sharing their CVV or net banking details, leading to large amounts being stolen. “One complainant lost Rs 74,000. The total amount duped so far — as per complaints — is around Rs 3 lakh,” said the officer, adding that no arrest in this connection has been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jamtara-gang-cons-citizens-with-booze-delivery-scam/articleshow/75239832.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Farmers not willing to sell wheat to PACS and dealers||PATNA: The wheat harvesting is almost over in the state, but the farmers are hard pressed to sell their produce at the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs1,925 per quintal, as the Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS) tasked with the procurement have been just gearing up to take up the job. It is learnt that private warehouses have come up in large numbers in north Bihar districts, while the farmers in south Bihar districts sell their wheat to the flour-mill companies. Following a high-level meeting held here on Thursday, CM Nitish Kumar had directed the PACS to be operationalized to procure wheat from the farmers at the MSP. Officially, PACS would conduct wheat procurement activities till July 15, cooperative minister Rana Randhir Singh said. “The formalities have been completed. PACS just need to be issued with wheat procurement authorization,” an agriculture department source said. Ironically, not many farmers were willing either to sell their wheat produce to PACS or rush their produce to traditional foodgrain ‘mandis’ (bazar) where wholesale foodgrain dealers pay highly depressed returns. “No, I will not sell my wheat to PACS, nor in the mandi. PACS don’t pay money on time and there are lots of complications. Further, they themselves show reluctance to procure wheat directly from the farmers. Instead, they purchase it from the local and other foodgrain traders at the MSP,” Raghav Singh, a farmer from Katihar district, said. He also has his private godown to store his harvested crops and also rents it out to other farmers for storage facility at the rate of Rs10 per quintal. “Farmers do not get the benefit of MSP. He has to depend on the favourable market price. I will sell my wheat to any willing foodgrain trader when the market price nears the MSP or is only slightly below it,” he added. Similar concerns were expressed by Sudhanshu Kumar, a progressive farmer from Nayanagar in Samastipur district. “A startup company has been providing warehousing facility with a huge capacity in our district. They follow all the officially prescribed protocols of foodgrain storage and trade. It is to the satisfaction of the farmers, who authorize them to do trading of their wheat on their behalf,” Sudhanshu said, adding that he himself has been the company’s client for the last few years. As a general practice, most of the big farmers store their harvested wheat and then wait for one or two months to let the market forces jack up the prices. Accordingly, they sell their wheat produce to the dealers at rates near the MSP, or to the companies whose representatives contact them to store or purchase the wheat on the same pattern, reports indicated. “The state government changed its foodgrain marketing policy in 2006. The construction of godowns and warehouses was privatized,” an expert in the agriculture department said, adding that it helped the farmers who began to “get returns on their produce as determined by market forces.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-not-willing-to-sell-wheat-to-pacs-dealers/articleshow/75238318.cms||Abhay Singh
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||EPFO settles 20,000 Covid advance claims amounting to Rs 45 crore||AHMEDABAD: Around 20,000 Covid -19 advance related claims amounting to Rs 45 crore have been settled by the Employee’s Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) regional office in Gujarat zone. Another 25,000 claims and other claims amounting to Rs 50 crore were also cleared recently, the EPFO said in an official communique. In this time of lockdown, when people are finding it difficult to satisfy their basic necessities, the proactive approach by the EPFO, not just in the offices but also on the socials media, has brought much-needed relief to various stakeholders like PF subscribers and employers, according to Manoranjan Kumar, regional commissioner of Ahmedabad PF office. To fight the coronavirus pandemic, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) has made a provision for payment of 24% of an employees monthly wages in their provident fund accounts for next three months i.e. April, 2020, May, 2020 and June, 2020. This will cover the employees and employers share of PF contribution, giving a big financial support to the workers and the companies. This move is also expected to prevent disruption in their employment as well as keep them away from risk of losing their employment. The PMGKY also makes provision for allowing non-refundable advance of 75% of the amount or three months of the wages, whichever is lower, from their provident fund accounts. Families of four crore workers registered under EPF can take benefit of this window. The officials coming to office are taking all possible precautions and following norms of social distancing and personal hygiene. The authorities are taking special efforts to sanitize the workplace and officials coming to office are thermally screened at the entrance, according to the press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/epfo-settles-20000-covid-advance-claims-amounting-to-rs-45-crore/articleshow/75240182.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nayara Energy’s public hearing deferred||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) has deferred a public hearing for Nayara Energy’s Rs 1.3 lakh crore expansion project near Jamnagar, for an indefinite period.The state pollution regulator has taken the decision in the wake of the recent government decision to extend the lockdown period from April 14 to May 3. GPCB had earlier fixed May 1 for public hearing to consider grant of environmental clearance for the Rosneft-backed Nayara Energy’s massive expansion plans. The decision did not go down well for the villagers of Gagava near Jamnagar, who were of the view that the lockdown situation posed a major hurdle for them to participate in the public hearing process. The village head, Mahendrasinh Jadeja, had also sought a special permission from the district collector which allowed them to move outside and hold public meetings in the lockdown period. His request was based on GPCB’s directive to spread awareness about Nayara Energy’ environment impact assessment (EIA) report by conducting a village-level meeting, said sources. “The Centre has extended the lockdown period from April 14 to May 3. As a result GPCB has decided to defer the public hearing of the project. The new date will be announced after the lockdown period is over. GPCB will wait for further directives from the Centre,” said a government official. Nayara Energy’s expansion plan includes setting up a 10.75 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA) capacity petrochemical complex and expansion of the refinery from 20MMTPA to 46MMTPA for a total investment of about Rs 1.3 lakh crore, according to the EIA report. In August last year, a public consultation was held over grant of environmental clearance to Nayara’s proposed expansion plans. Local villagers and others to be affected by the project were required to send responses in writing to Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) member secretary till August 5. A petition was filed in the Gujarat high court which objected to grant of environmental clearance on the basis of public consultation. It stated that people from more than 10 villages had demanded public hearing for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nayara-energys-public-hearing-deferred/articleshow/75240160.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Patna||Patna district administration uses ten drones for surveillance||PATNA: The administration has started using drones for surveillances in ten different areas of Patna district from Sunday. This step has been taken to ensure that people in Patna district follow the social distancing norms. Police will monitor the movement of residents through drones in congested areas during the lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. The drones are being used in Danapur, Secretariat, Dak Bungalow crossing to Gandhi Maidan, Patna City, Bypass, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Barh, Masuarhi, Paliganj and Phulwarisharif areas. These drones are also being used to spread awareness about social distancing. Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Sunday monitored the movement of drones. He said it would help police in finding those violating the social distancing norms in Patna. “One pilot has been deployed at each location to update the local police stations about congestion and social distancing,” he told this newspaper. “The cameras fitted in these hi-tech drones will take photographs in 2.5km radius. The photographs will contain the area, date, time, latitude and longitude among other details,” Ravi said. The captured images would be quickly accessed by the district administration and police officers through a software. “Accordingly, the officials concerned will take necessary action against the violators,” the DM said. Istiyaque Ajmal has been appointed as the nodal officer to ensure the successful and smooth monitoring of drones. A WhatsApp group has also been created for coordination at district administration level on the inputs provided by the drones. Through this, information about the status of congestion in a particular area and the status of social distancing will be obtained for effective monitoring of the situation. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the drones would create fear among people of being caught for violating the social distancing norms. “Hence, they would automatically follow the social distancing norms. It would help the police in monitoring the congested areas and take action against the violators accordingly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/district-administration-uses-ten-drones-for-surveillance/articleshow/75238350.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 20, 2020||Business||Sebi weighs options to aid MFs in moratorium spot||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi is debating how it can help mutual funds and NBFCs to tide over the current difficult situation despite the regulator not having any power to lend like the RBI (Reserve Bank of India). One of the key points of discussions is if mutual funds are to allow moratorium on their holdings of bonds and debentures issued by NBFCs, what could be the fall-back option. The RBI being the lender of the last resort can suggest banks to offer moratorium to customers and it stands as a backstop. However, Sebi is not in the same position as the RBI since the markets regulator doesn’t have any lending power, sources said. “So for mutual funds, which hold bonds and debentures issued by NBFCs, and if fund houses offer them moratorium, they have no backstop,” an official said. “If an investor comes to a fund house and wants to redeem, the fund house cannot ask the investor to come back after three months to get his money. Nor can the fund house take any recourse to any funding from the RBI, like a bank can.” In 2008 and 2013, during the global financial crisis and currency trouble, respectively, the RBI had provided a special window to mutual funds to borrow from banks to meet their redemption requests. This time, however, the central bank is yet to provide any such window to the fund houses. Fund houses meanwhile, are unable to sell the bonds issued by NBFCs on account of lack of clarity whether NBFCs are eligible for moratorium from banks. Another point of discussion is the legal position of Sebi in case of a debenture issuer and holder vis-a-vis a bank and its depositors and borrowers. “When a debenture is issued, Sebi only regulates the framework of the issuance process but is not a party to the process. The legal position is such that no third party can come in between a debenture issuer and holder, not even Sebi,” a source said. “On the other hand, when the central bank advices a bank to offer repayment moratorium to its borrowers, there’s an implicit guarantee to the bank’s depositor from the central bank that if the depositor needs money, as the lender of the last resort, RBI is there to support the bank.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-weighs-options-to-aid-mfs-in-moratorium-spot/articleshow/75239917.cms||Partha Sinha
April 20, 2020||Business||E-tail growth may fall to zero after government’s U-turn||BENGALURU: India, which is pegged as the world’s fastest-growing online retail market, is not expected to grow in 2020, according to revised projections by market research firm Forrester. The industry faces an indefinite closure of a large part of its business after the ministry of home affairs did a U-turn on it decision allowing the sale of “non-essentials”, including smartphones and stationary from Monday. Companies are putting new hirings for warehouses and delivery on hold, and may also have to lay off staff or put them on furlough, according to industry executives. The thousands of merchants that had prepared to sell on online platforms also face an uncertain future. The “non-essentials” business accounts for 85-90% of sale for India’s largest online retail platforms like Flipkart and Amazon India, both of whom also employ over 1 lakh delivery personnel and warehouse workers, mostly on contract. Following the latest directive from Centre, Forrester said the e-commerce industry might remain flat, from an estimate of 5%, which was based on the earlier lockdown of three weeks till April 14. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updates“There must be one way of commerce that should be open and e-commerce is the best channel, as of now, to limit contracting Covid-19 and serve consumers what they need, when we are looking at a 40-day lockdown,” said Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst, Forrester. Meena said the government’s move will impact all sizes of sellers and brands online beyond just the biggies like Flipkart and Amazon. E-commerce gross sales were at $23-24 billion in the previous year, as the industry grew by 26%. Read AlsoGovernment U-turn: E-commerce firms can deliver only essentialsThe Centre on Sunday rescinded permission to e-commerce firms to resume the sale and delivery of non-essential items from Monday, a move that seems to have been prompted by protests by local traders whose businesses will continue to face restrictions during the extended national lockdown till May 3.“E-commerce players are revisiting the number of workers they need for supply chain and logistics after the sale of non-essentials was prohibited. We can’t keep paying so many people when only grocery and FMCG products are being sold,” a top e-commerce executive said. Walmart-owned Flipkart, in the run-up to Monday — when they were supposed to start selling all goods — had hired about 4,000 workers amid the labour shortage, according to industry sources. Amazon India was also beefing up its delivery workforce. The impact on jobs or salary delays would also extend to independent smaller merchants. A Delhi-based merchant, who sells on both Amazon and Flipkart, told TOI he has told his staff there will be delays in their salaries. “The government is saying don’t cut jobs or salaries but how would I continue paying them, if I sell nothing and make no money? There is no government package either,” he said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThese players, through industry associations like Ficci and CII, are also writing to the government to include at least home & kitchen appliances, and work-from-home equipment in the list of essential products. A source aware of the matter said e-tailers would be less keen to demand inclusion of smartphones in this list after the latest developments. “Government officials are not entertaining the idea of mobiles being urgently needed. So, the idea is to get approval for other segments, where we are seeing high demand, for example — kitchen appliances, Wi-Fi routers,” this person said. Both Flipkart and Amazon India were preparing to deliver pending orders of non-essentials and had also started taking new orders but the revised guidelines have thrown a spanner in the works. Amazon India said in a statement the move will “disappoint” both its customers and merchants who were preparing for sales. Flipkart did not respond to TOI’s emailed query on the matter till the time of going to press. By Sunday evening, Amazon had changed the messaging on its app saying it was “getting back on track” to deliver essentials, while the message earlier was that it was accepting orders for most items. “30% of the sellers we spoke to expressed their interest in resuming operations. While we awaited clarification, we request the government to declare selling on marketplaces as an essential service and put a tariff policy in place so that marketplaces cannot take undue advantage of sellers,” said a spokesperson of AIOVA, a group of online sellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tail-growth-may-fall-to-zero-after-govts-u-turn/articleshow/75239909.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||Eight more test positive in Rampur, dist tally rises to 10||Rampur: Eight more people tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking Rampur district tally to 10. Out of the eight cases, six are residents of Amroha district, one is from Bihar, who has been residing in Aghapur locality under the jurisdiction of Civil Lines police station here and was quarantined at the district hospital a few days ago, and another patient is a sweeper at the Rampur district hospital, said district health department officials. Speaking with TOI, Rampur chief medical officer (CMO) Subodh Sharma said, “All eight people, including a hospital employee, have been shifted to different isolation centres. The six Amroha residents have been isolated at the CHC in Tanda tehsil, while the other two were isolated at the district hospital in Rampur.” The CMO added, “With two patients already undergoing treatment, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district reached 10.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-more-test-positive-in-rampur-dist-tally-rises-to-10/articleshow/75238917.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Civic agency to fine those found spitting, not wearing masks||Hubballi: The next time you spit in a public place, be ready to cough up a hefty fine. The Union home ministry has made the act a punishable offence under the strict Disaster Management Act in its revised guidelines for lockdown to contain Covid-19HDMC will fine those who spit in public places and and also those not wearing masks. Suresh Itnal, commissioner, HDMC, said health inspectors of each ward have prepared a list of places to monitored to track down those who spit. The corporation has also sought the help of seven police stations which have 350 CCTVs. The officers will also check CCTV footage daily to identify those who spit and fine them. "We will also penalise those venturing out without masks," he said. As per the new guidelines, Rs 200 fine will be collected from first time offenders for spitting or not wearing a mask. The fine amount will increase to Rs 300 for second time offenders. The third offence will see a case being filed against the offender. These fines will be applicable to those who urinate or defecate in public places. "The walls of most public places have been defaced by paan and gutka stains. Hopefully, collection of spot fines will deter people from dirtying the city," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/civic-agency-to-fine-those-found-spitting-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75236802.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||People eagerly await relaxation in lockdown norms||Dharwad: With the state government expected to issue guidelines on relaxation of lockdown norms from April 21, the people are expecting chief minister B S Yediyurappa to give some relief to those who are adversely affected by the lockdown, and make their lives easier. There are many people, including migrant workers, who are stranded and away from their homes due to the lockdown, who want to return home and be with their families. Similarly, those depending on daily wages and vendors of non-essential commodities, want to return to work, so that they can earn their livelihood. Small business establishments are expecting the chief minister to allow them to conduct business, on the condition that they should follow norms like social distancing. A group of 29 migrant labourers who walked from Goa to Karnataka, and are stranded in Alnavar in Dharwad taluk, are desperate to reach their homes in Koppal and Gadag districts. All these 29 migrants have been provided food, clothing, shelter and medical care, but they are homesick, and want to go home. People are also expecting the sale of liquor to resume, once the lockdown is relaxed. Tipplers are desperately waiting for liquor shops to open, so that they can stock up. Occasional drinkers, are feeling bored sitting at home, and want to find solace by having a peg or two. However, liquor is currently selling at a very high price, due to the lockdown. Prasanna Bijapur, a resident of Malamaddi, wants haircutting saloons to be allowed to remain open for a few hours, so that people can get haircuts. However, an official ruled out such a possibility, because the work does not allow social distancing. We have asked dental clinics to remain closed, as it is not possible for a dentist to maintain social distancing from his patient. When this is the case, permitting haircutting saloons to open is ruled out,” the official added. Lockdown norms at APMC yards to be relaxed Dharwad: District minister Jagadish Shettar has stated that the government will relax some lockdown norms for farmers, traders and customers at the APMC yard, during the lockdown. However, if any merchant or customer is found flouting the conditions, subject to which the relaxations are given, the trade licence of the wholesale merchant will be seized, and stern legal action will be taken against them, he warned. Business can take place at the APMC yard, throughout the day, but by practicing social distancing. Permission has been given to transport agriculture produce from neighbouring states. Excluding chilli, online tender for other agriculture produce is being allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/people-eagerly-await-relaxation-in-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75237140.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka Milk Federation registers slight spike in daily milk procurement||Mysuru: Although the lockdown has hampered the operations of the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) - the second largest dairy firm in the country – the pre-monsoon showers that lashed several districts of the state has helped the dairy cooperative register a surge in the amount of milk produced on a daily basis. The lockdown has resulted in KMF being left with a large quantity of milk, which would otherwise be transformed into some of its flagship products such as ice cream, milk powder, et al. However, the spike in the amount of milk collected on a daily basis is likely to usher in some cheer for the management. The summer showers have resulted in the amount of milk being collected across the state rising to 70 lakh litres a day from 68 lakh litres. Despite the restrictions imposed across the country owing to the lockdown, KMF has not faced much trouble in marketing its products. “Owing to the closure of inter-state borders, schools and hotels, our revenue was affected considerably, but the Karnataka government, as always, came to our rescue. In the last week of March, we had eight lakh litres that was unsold on our inventory and the Karnataka government purchased 7.76 lakh litres, and used it for distribution to the needy. The chief minister has ordered purchase of milk till April 21,” KMF managing director BC Satish told TOI. Mysuru Milk Union director KC Balaram told TOI that, in addition to good rain the past year, the incentive of Rs 7 provided to dairy farmers, had helped increase the daily collection of milk across the state. Although the lockdown has been extended to May 3, the state government has not renewed its contract with KMF for procurement of milk beyond April 20, thereby casting a doubt on whether those in the slums and the needy will be provided with free milk beyond Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-milk-federation-registers-slight-spike-in-daily-milk-procurement/articleshow/75237256.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Patna||Purnea University creates ‘lecture bank’ for students||PATNA: Purnea University has created an online bank of sorts that helps students have access to teachers’ lectures and PowerPoint presentations during the period of the extended lockdown. Vice-chancellor (VC) Rajesh Singh told this newspaper that the step was taken on the directive of the Raj Bhavan and the University Grants Commission (UGC) to benefit both postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate (UG) students. “We have set up a committee to go through the quality of the lectures, upload them to the university’s website and take students’ feedback. E-content on approximately 2,500 topics from different streams have been received so far. Few research-oriented lectures are also being uploaded to YouTube,” the VC said and added that the committee comprised senior academics from science, arts and commerce streams. Calling the extended lockdown “a blessing in disguise”, Singh, who is also in charge of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) in Darbhanga, pointed out, “We are creating a ‘lecture bank’ that will benefit students before their exams as they will have ready-made study materials.” A comprehensive report with details of the academic activities of Purnea University and LNMU during the lockdown period will soon be prepared and submitted to the UGC and the Raj Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/purnea-university-creates-lecture-bank-for-students/articleshow/75238441.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Patna||Corona fight: Railways to felicitate 43 ECR employees||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to honour its 43 employees who have emerged as ‘corona warriors’ in a bid to motivate others to take up Covid-19 challenges strongly. “These corona warriors, who are working at different places falling under the jurisdiction of ECR, will be felicitated with commendation, certificates and incentives soon,” ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said. Kumar said the ECR has selected these employees for providing assistance to the needy and helping railways prevent spread of coronavirus. Pranav Kumar of Patna Junction will be felicitated for successfully manning the movement of parcel trains through route relay interlocking (RRI) system despite the coronavirus threat. Birendra Prasad of Dehri-on-Sone will be felicitated for adopting a village in Rohtas district along with his team members to provide free food, medicines and other essential items to the villagers. Prasad was instrumental in motivating other employees of signal and telecom department to serve the poor of the village during the lockdown. Similarly, Sanjiv Kumar, RPF inspector at Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction, has been selected as corona warrior for helping the poor living in and around the station premises. Vijay Kumar Dangar, RPF sub inspector at Fatuha, stuck to his duty with full sincerity to protect railway property in the yards while Ajay Kumar, a key man of Dhanbad division, was selected for keeping rail tracks completely fit on the bridges for safe movement of goods trains, the CPRO said. Besides, railways will felicitate some of its employees for sanitising railway colonies at Garhara and Barauni to prevent spread of coronavirus. Some employees from engineering, commercial and traffic departments will also be felicitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-fight-railways-to-felicitate-43-ecr-employees/articleshow/75238378.cms||Kumod Verma
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Survey finds poor exercise routine among elderly in Ekm||Kochi: Only 29% of the elderly in the district exercise regularly, as per a survey conducted by the women and child development department. The ongoing study, which covered 3.41 lakh senior citizens in Ernakulam till Thursday, shows that around 38% of the elderly do not exercise, while 32% of them exercise once in a while. The survey was started after March 20 following the directive of the state government. Anganwadi workers are carrying out the survey by visiting each household and handing over a questionnaire, containing 20 questions. “The survey is still going on and it is conducted to provide healthcare support to the needy,” said a district official. One of the questions in the questionnaire is whether they have heard about Covid-19 and are aware of the precautions. To which, 3,37,552 elders said they have heard about the illness and are aware about the precautions. Only 3,582 gave a negative reply. Health officials warn lack of exercise will lead to serious health issues especially among the elders. “Lack of exercise will lead to obesity, lifestyle diseases, hypertension, diabetes, muscle weakness, obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), arthritis, hypothyroidism and other health issues. Once there is reduction on mobility, one will develop osteoarthritis. It is commonly seen in women after menopause. In some cases, I have seen women being brought to the hospital lifted by others due to osteoarthritis. The health issues will lead to depression in some people. Everybody should exercise from childhood itself and follow healthy lifestyle,’ says Dr Shyamala Menon, department of internal medicine, Medical Trust hospital. Fitness trainers and yoga instructors recommend simple exercises and yoga postures for beginners. “On the spot walking is good since it is a full body exercise. Doing it for one minute is enough to improve blood circulation. There are also several simple postures in yoga that one can choose depending on the health condition. It would be good to seek advice of a yoga instructor. One has to do yoga for one hour daily and finish it with Savasanam, to get complete effect of the practice. After this, one should meditate for 20 minutes, for which one can use any medium — a picture or song — to concentrate,” says V G Jaigi, a yoga master based in Kochi. Liji Ebraham, another yoga instructor in the city, started online yoga class after the lockdown started. “Around 25 people from various parts of the world joined my online class. It is a win-win situation for the instructor as well as the trainees,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/survey-finds-poor-exercise-routine-among-elderly-in-ekm/articleshow/75238944.cms||T C Sreemol
April 20, 2020||Business||Cognizant comes under ‘Maze’ ransomware attack||Chennai: Tech major Cognizant Technology Solutions (CTS) has said that it was a victim of ransomware attack on Friday night. The anonymous hackers group behind Maze attacked the company’s systems causing disruptions to its clients. Ransomware attackers hold its victims hostage by threatening to leak company information if the target doesn’t pay its ransom. Cognizant, one of the largest tech companies with 3 lakh employees and more than $15 bn in revenues manages IT backbone for several Fortune 500 companies. “Our internal security teams, supplemented by leading cyber defence firms, are actively taking steps to contain this incident. Cognizant has also engaged with appropriate law enforcement authorities. We are in an ongoing communication with our clients and have provided them with Indicators of Compromise (IOC) and other technical information of a defensive nature,” the company said in a post on its website. Company CEO Brian Humphries wrote to employees that it was a target of a ransomware attack, which comes of course on top of extraordinary Covid 19 challenges the entire industry is already dealing with. “While this is a fluid situation, we see no evidence that the ransomware that's impacted some of our systems is propagating to client environments, “ he wrote in a note to employees. “Although we are still in the early stages of responding to this attack, I am confident we will successfully make our way through this cyber incident. It may be slim consolation but we are not alone in being victimes. Sophisticated ransomware attackers have successfully penetrated many other companies this year, including banks, defence contracting firms and professional service firms,” Humphries wrote. Cognizant, like most tech companies, has moved more than 90% of its employees to work from home due to lockdown orders issued by governments. “The reported Maze ransomware on Cognizant is worrisome, as Maze is not like any typical ransomware. Other than encrypting the data, it is able to spread across a network, infecting and encrypting every computer in its path. It can also exfiltrate the data to the attackers. Though the Maze operators have denied the attack, it has still been categorized as Maze because the listed IOCs included IP addresses of servers and file hashes for the kepstl32.dll, memes.tmp, and maze.dll files. These are known to be used in previous attacks by the Maze ransomware actors,” said .Saket Modi, co-founder & CEO, Lucideus, an enterprise cybersecurity platforms company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-comes-under-maze-ransomware-attack/articleshow/75239553.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||Fino helps keep rural cash circulating during lockdown||Mayur Shetty | TNN Mumbai: Fino Payments Bank, which acts as a business correspondent for several large commercial lenders, is helping keep retail cash in circulation in rural areas. The bank is incentivising its business correspondents who are largely kirana stores owners to offer the cash in their till for withdrawal to Jan Dhan account holders who in turn spend it for basic requirements. Fino has a network of around 2 lakh banking points across the country, largely in rural areas. These banking points are helping in the disbursements of government relief in the form of direct benefit transfers into basic bank accounts. The government has until now transferred Rs 36,659 crore into Jan Dhan accounts through various schemes in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Given the number of accounts they have to service and limited working hours, bank branches are finding it difficult to cope with disbursements and are making the use of banking correspondents. Speaking to TOI, Rishi Gupta, MD & CEO, Fino Payments Bank, said that one of the bank’s main businesses — remittance by migrant workers to villages has dropped by over 70% after the lockdown. “We were doing a million transactions a day before the lockdown and continue to do a million everyday because of the government transfers into Jan Dhan accounts,” he said. To motivate and drive Fino customers to deposit cash at merchant points, the bank is waiving off deposit charges, where applicable, for April. The move is aimed at ensuring a healthy cash flow within a micro-market. To meet the rural demand for cash, Fino has activated all the business correspondent in rural areas. “We talked to the government and local administration to allow banking correspondents,” he said. “Our banking points are present in almost all villages where customers can withdraw cash to make purchases thereby helping local cash remain in the local economy. This rotation of cash cycle is beneficial for everyone in the village and it also helps avoid unnecessary travel in the lockdown situation,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fino-helps-keep-rural-cash-circulating-during-lockdown/articleshow/75239964.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 20, 2020||Varanasi||Sankat Mochan music fest concludes on high note||Varanasi: The digital version of the seven-day Sankat Mochan Sangeet Samaroh concluded with high notes amid a pleasant shower on Saturday night. The annual music festival was organised on social media platform due to the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Top musicians performed at their places and connected with the audience through social media. The seventh day of the fest commenced with the flute recital by Pt Shashank Subramanyam from Chennai after which Pt Prodyut Mukherjee from Kolkata mesmerized the audience with his tabla performance and Manali Deo from Mumbai presented a Kathak composition. Famous santoor player Pt Sathish Vyas from Mumbai presented ba composition in raga Charukeshi followed by drumming sensation Sivamani from Chennai, a composition by the noted vocalist Pt Suman Ghosh from Huston, performance by bhajan singer Anup Jalota from Mumbai and mridangam player Pt P Satish from Chennai. Next was the sarangi recital by Ustad Moiuddin Khan and his son Momin Khan from Jaipur. They presented a composition in raga Shivranjani. They were followed by vocalist Shaunak Abhisheki from Pune, who presented a composition of Hanuman strotam. Flute maestro Pt Hari Prasad Chaurasiya from Mumbai expressed his best wishes for the successful organisation of digital concert and his disciple Vivek Sonar presented a composition in raga Chandrakauns. Singer Mohammad Aman and his tabla player brother Zafar Rehman joined the concert from Jaipur, while tabla maestro Ananda Gopal Bandopadhyaya and his son Pran Gopal Bandopadhyaya presented tabla recital from Kolkata. Lokesh Anand from Delhi played on shehnai, while Pt Devashish Bhattacharya from Kolkata presented sarod recital. The concert concluded with the well wishes of Ustad Shujaat Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sankat-mochan-music-fest-concludes-on-high-note/articleshow/75238671.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Teacher designs foot operable sanitizer holder foot||Madurai: In an attempt to control the spread of Covid-19 infection using sanitizers, a resident of Tirumangalam in Madurai has designed a foot operable sanitizer holder. P Jeyakumar, 44, is a research faculty at the International Research Centre at Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education at Srivilliputhur Taluk in Virudhunagar district. Jeyakumar said that he came up with the idea since all the people started using sanitizers following the lockdown. He said that he designed the foot operable sanitizer holder since there are chances that the infection may spread as several people touch the sanitizer bottle. “It has been designed in such a way that sanitizer bottles with different sizes ranging from 250ml to one litre could be fixed in the holder,” said Jeyakumar. He said that he had also demonstrated the working of the holder to Madurai district collector T G Vinay and minister for revenue, IT and disaster management R B Udayakumar. With the support of the college management, he had issued a sanitizer holder free of cost to Madurai collectorate and one to Tirumangalam taluk office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teacher-designs-foot-operable-sanitizer-holder-foot/articleshow/75240416.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 3 murders in 48 hours leave cops red-faced in Begusarai||BEGUSARAI: Even the nationwide lockdown has failed to deter the criminals. The district reported three murders in the last 48 hours. On Sunday, body of one Ramchandra Sahni, a middle-aged man, was found hanging from a tree at an orchard of Pachmukhi village under the Cheria Bariarpur police station area. Villagers suspect that Ramchandra was killed elsewhere and the body was later hanged. On Saturday, police recovered one Binod Paswan’s (40) body lying near Dahla overbridge under the same police station area. Binod had gone out of his house on Friday morning. However, when he did not return even by late Friday evening, his family members started searching for him only to find his body on Saturday. In yet another incident on Friday night, a farmer Sunil Sharma was shot dead while he was sleeping on the verandah of his house at Shamho village under the same police station area. Apart from these incidents that took place during the last two days, one Rajiv Kumar who was brutally assaulted by his neighbours under Lakho police outpost on March 30. He succumbed to his injuries on Saturday. The district has witnessed a sharp rise in criminal activities during the last few weeks. On being asked as to how the criminals managed to venture out during the lockdown and even commit murders, Cheria Bariarpur police station SHO Pallav Kumar on Sunday said police have already arrested one of the accused in Paswan murder case. “However, in Sahni’s case, preliminary investigation indicates it to be a case of suicide,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-murders-in-48-hours-leave-cops-red-faced-in-begusarai/articleshow/75238344.cms||Rajiv Kumar
April 20, 2020||Patna||Rush in Darbhanga banks worries administration||DARBHANGA: The transfer of Rs 500 and cost of one LPG cylinder into the Jan Dhan accounts of the beneficiaries by the government has led to rush of customers in bank branches in rural areas of the district, making it difficult for the administration to ensure social distancing. Darbhanga DM Thyagrajan S M has asked the branch managers and the lead bank manager of the district to create additional space in front of the bank branches by erecting tents. “A proper token system should be in place at all bank branches to avoid crowding,” the DM told the bankers. Rumours that the money would vanish from the accounts if not withdrawn have added to the woes of bankers. The DM said the funds released under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana can also be withdrawn from post offices. The DM had earlier flagged off mobile ATM vans to help people withdraw money without visiting banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rush-in-darbhanga-banks-worries-admn/articleshow/75238244.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
April 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: Khajpura area sealed, 10 people quarantined||PATNA: Khajpura area in the state capital has been sealed and declared ‘containment zone’ after a 32-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. A medical team also quarantined 10 persons, including the woman’s husband, daughter and son besides renter, neighbours and a vegetable seller, state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra, said on Sunday. The infected woman’s husband is the driver of a private cash van. “Their samples of swabs were taken for testing. The results are awaited,” she said. “The woman from Khajpura was suffering from mild fever and cough. Her sample for test was collected on April 18 and the result came positive the same day. She has no travel history,” Ragini said. Meanwhile, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said as Khajpura area has been sealed, the inhabitants shall strictly remain indoors. “Neither the residents of that locality can come out of their homes nor anyone from outside can enter the locality,” he told this newspaper. “The door-to-door screening of residents in Khajpura has been started. Samples of those showing symptoms will be sent for Covid testing. The supply of essential commodities and medicines would be ensured through various teams and the shopping establishments in the area would remain open. People would not face difficulties in getting things from the shops,” Agarwal said. In a bid to sanitise the locality, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started disinfection drive in the 3km radius of Khajpura. Kumar Pankaj, executive officer of New Capital circle of PMC, said around 50 sanitation workers have been working since morning to disinfect the area. “The workers are equipped with masks, boots and gloves. They are spraying sodium hypochlorite in all the lanes while marking the areas in Khajpura,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/khajpura-area-sealed-10-people-quarantined/articleshow/75238370.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 20, 2020||Patna||Lawyers struggle to survive during lockdown in Bihar||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown has financially hit lawyers and their assistants in the state hard as their earnings depend on appearance in the courts. Though the high court and subordinate courts in Patna district have allowed e-filing of petitions and case argument through videoconferencing, very few cases are being taken up in order to main social distancing since the end of Holi vacation. Sharing his problems, Akshay Ashish said he is unable to pay Rs16,000 as two months’ rent. “Though my landlord has agreed to demand rent after the situation normalizes, but I have no other income for other expenses and it’s not always possible to ask for money from parents,” he said, adding that the plight of clerks is also the same. Another lawyer, who lives on rent in Danapur and didn’t wish to be named, said lawyers can’t even ask clients to pay in advance. “No client has turned up in the last two months — first due to Holi and then lockdown. I spent whatever savings I had. Parents are always ready to support me but my conscience does not permit to ask them for money,” she said. “The problem is more with young lawyers who have no support. The Advocates’ Act also doesn’t permit us to practise any other profession for livelihood,” she said, adding that the situation is more critical for at least 15 of her colleagues who were living in hostels. Meanwhile, high court lawyer Naresh Dixit said he had financially helped at least 15 juniors. “The junior lawyers are in real problem. The 15 juniors I had helped had run out of ration. I remember one of them is diabetic and he didn’t have money to buy the required medicines,” Dixit said. Ashok Kumar, who practises at Patna civil court, said he had to take Rs15,000 as loan on 10% interest to bear the family expenses. “I could not pay rent for March and April. After much request, my landlord agreed to take rent later. At present we are surviving on my mother’s pension,” said Kumar, who lives with his family at Birla Colony. Patna civil court public prosecutor Vijay Sinha said lawyers, either on government panels or in private practice, are just like daily wagers. “A government pleader can submit bills only after appearing in cases daily. It would be of great help if the government clears all pending bills of government pleaders and public prosecutors,” he said. The chairman of coordination committee of all three advocate associations of Patna high court, Yogesh Chandra Verma, on Sunday urged CM Nitish Kumar to make available ration to lawyers through the Patna high court cooperative society at subsidized rates. “A letter has already been written to the DM on the issue, but there is no response yet. Large numbers of lawyers are running out of money and ration,” he said and added that the high court has around 7,500 practising lawyers. Verma said Bihar State Bar Council had also written to district level bar associations to seek details about their financial status in order to help needy lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lawyers-struggle-to-survive-during-lockdown/articleshow/75237941.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Mane problem: Bald is beautiful for Baroda men||VADODARA: Men’s mane problem is closed salons in the lockdown. Therefore, many have decided to nip the problem from its roots. They are going bald, Bala style, tonsuring to rid themselves of the mane headache! So, if you happen to bump into any bald men on the street, know that we have already told you so! When the nationwide lockdown was announced last month, many Gujaratis were letting their hair down at home. However, they soon realized that the locks were curling at the edges with the extension of the lockdown. “It’s a good 16 more days to go before the lockdown ends hopefully. My hair was growing too long and I knew that this rate, I would have a ponytail by the time I can walk free. So, I decided to shave my head,” said Jaydeep Juvekar, football coach. “I told my wife about my decision and she didn’t mind me sporting the Bala look. Now, I don’t need to worry about visiting any barber for at least the next two months,” said a relaxed Juvekar talking to TOI. Many men are also worried that even if the lockdown ends, salons may not open for hygiene reasons. “The salons may prefer to keep their shutters down even afterwards. Even if they start operating, there will be a huge crowd of customers. So I shaved my head two days ago. It’s a different look and I was bit uncomfortable for a day. But now I find it cool,” said Nyandev Pawar, who runs a food joint in Manjalpur. Interestingly, most men are getting the new cut from their wives, who don’t mind their partners sporting a bald look. “Eve if I tried, I wouldn’t have got a good haircut done at home. So I thought of shaving it off and going bald. Even my dad’s happy that at least I am not wearing a ponytail! I think bald looks cool,” said 16-year-old Ashutosh Sinha, a student of Vibgyor School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mane-problem-bald-is-beautiful-for-baroda-men/articleshow/75239098.cms||Tushar Tere
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,500 units in Gujarat to start operations from today||AHMEDABAD: As many as 1,500 industrial units spread across 20 functional Special Economic Zones (SEZs) are set to resume production as they have been granted permission to begin operations from April 20, said sources privy to the information.Apart from this, 285 export oriented units (EoUs) in the state have also received approvals from the concerned authorities to commence production. The permissions have been accorded after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed manufacturing and industrial establishments in SEZs and EoUs to operate from April 20 subject to the compliance of guidelines laid down by the ministry. Following MHA guidelines, Gujarat government also relaxed lockdown in select areas for industrial activities and announced formation of committees at district levels to examine and give approvals to units to resume work in the permitted areas. “All the units will have to strictly adhere to the MHA guidelines with regard to social distancing, sanitization, truncated manpower, movement of workers and hygiene,” the sources added. The units will have to maintain social distancing while transporting workforce, their arrival and exit from the premise as well as during operations and lunch time. “All have been asked to download Aarogya Setu app. Concerned authorities have worked very hard to ensure that these units resume operations with strict compliance to the guidelines without any hassles,” sources said. According to sources, almost all the units in functional SEZs have evinced interest in resuming operations. There are over 2,000 industrial units in 20 functional SEZs in the state. These SEZs also include names like Kandla SEZ, Adani Ports and SEZs in Mundra, Dahej SEZ and GIFT Multi-services SEZ in Gandhinagar. The total exports from all the functional SEZs in Gujarat stood at Rs 1.85 lakh crore in 2018-19, which included Kandla SEZ's exports worth Rs 7,381 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1500-units-in-20-sezs-in-gujarat-to-start-ops-from-today/articleshow/75240096.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||NBFC moratorium to be referred to RBI||MUMBAI: A meeting of lenders organised by the Indian Banks’ Association on Saturday failed to arrive at an agreement on the issue of granting moratorium to NBFCs under the RBI’s March 27 guidelines in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.  Bankers said that the matter would be referred to the RBI. Last week, the Delhi high court had asked Sidbi to ascertain whether RBI’s moratorium on loan repayment will apply to NBFCs like Indiabulls Commercial Credit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfc-moratorium-to-be-referred-to-rbi/articleshow/75239941.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||NCC cadets deployed in war on virus||AHMEDABAD: As part of Exercise NCC Yogdan, 36 cadets and officials have been deployed in Valsad town under Lieutenant Commander Vishal Nair to aid the civil administration in the fight against Covid-19. They have been deployed at 11 locations and have been undertaking the task of queue management at banks and provision stores. In Ahmedabad, 27 girl cadets and others have been deployed under Col Damodaran at Sola, Sabarmati, Naroda, and Odhav. Forty-one cadets in Ahmedabad are on standby after training to be deployed at short notice. Sixteen cadets have been deployed in Gandhinagar. Till date, the total deployment of NCC personnel under the Gujarat directorate in the various towns is 840 which includes 684 volunteer cadets and nine officers. Twenty-two NCC units are involved in the deployment process. All cadets undergo training before deployment. They are briefed about the importance of all Covid-19 precautions, handling and usage of various protective equipment, and the importance of the Arogya app. The cadets are also briefed on the process of decontamination after they reach back home. The response from cadets and their parents has been encouraging. The cadets are performing their tasks with high motivation and lot of enthusiasm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ncc-cadets-deployed-in-war-on-virus/articleshow/75240212.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal to start rapid testing from today||KOLKATA: From Monday, 14 medical colleges will start conducting state-wide rapid tests. This step coincided with ICMR clearing the decks for RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and Command Hospital, Alipore, to start Covid-19 testing. Institute of Post Graduate Medical Research and Education (IPGMER) has been tasked with conducting rapid tests in Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas. To stop panic-mongering, the Bengal government will follow the ICMR guidelines and will not immediately reveal the results to persons tested. ICMR had on Friday cautioned all states that rapid antibody test is only a supplementary test to gauge prevalence of the disease in specific zones and can be used for epidemiological studies and surveillance. The council has already made it clear that rapid tests cannot replace the real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based molecular test and can be effective within a week after a person develops symptoms. The Bengal government is likely to prioritize the rapid tests in the high-risk zones, or clusters, which have reported multiple Covid-19 positive cases, but it may also conduct these tests in places which have not reported even a single case for surveillance. The state notification also stressed that “such tests are to be done under strict medical supervision” and, therefore, all districts have been mapped with 14 medical colleges. While IPGMER will handle a bulk of the high-risk zones, including those in Kolkata and Howrah, School of Tropical Medicine (STM) will conduct rapid tests in East Midnapore and Nandigram and RG Kar Medical College and Hospital will take care of North 24 Parganas. Bengal has been scaling up its nCoV tests. On April 1, 659 samples were tested in the state. On Sunday, the figure was 5,045. “Several more facilities are likely to apply to ICMR for a testing nod,” an official said. Till now, NICED, Kolkata, IPGMER-SSKM and STM were the only government facilities in the city that were conducting Covid-19 tests. TOI has reported that the state on Saturday decided to start pool-testing samples in low-risk zones, which have reported 2% or lower Covid-19-positive cases, according to the preliminary samples tested. This method will involve pooling in samples of five possible suspects, even if they are asymptomatic, and testing them together. A negative result will prove that all five samples are negative and a positive result will prompt further tests of individual samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-start-rapid-testing-from-today/articleshow/75239940.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 20, 2020||Patna||Lockdown drives many to learn new skills in Patna||PATNA: With nowhere to go for studies, work or casual hangouts, people in city are beating lockdown blues by learning new skills at home. While some are using the opportunity to learn new languages, others are learning new skills like playing musical instruments, sketching and writing. Bailey Road resident Rishi Shrivastava believes there’s nothing wrong in starting late when it comes to learning something new. Shrivastava, who has enrolled in a 15-day online flute course, said virtual learning methods are equally beneficial as any other method. “Earlier I used to spend time by using my cellphone and watching TV series and movies, but the lockdown taught me to learn new skills. It has been 10 days since I started playing flute and I can already see myself playing it at a beginner’s level,” Shrivastava said, adding he is also helping his mother in household chores. Akshat Raj, a resident of Lohanipur, is learning Spanish through online workshops and webinar. “I always wanted to learn Spanish but never got the time to pursue a course in the language. Now that I have got a lot of free time, I have enrolled myself in a Spanish course. I think it is a great way to pass the monotonous lockdown days,” Raj said. With the world going through a crisis, Patnaites also think that learning new skills is the best way to keep negative thoughts at bay. “Having sound mental health at this point of time is very important for every individual. Hence, I have indulged myself in new activities like dancing by following one of the country’s prominent dancers, who recently started giving online dance lessons,” said Shristy Singh, a resident of Buddha Colony. Some people are also using the time in bettering and nurturing their growth and development. Aryan Raj of Digha-Danapur Canal Road has started doing internship in digital marketing. “Not only it is helping me reduce boredom, but also preparing me for the future,” he said. Aryan, a second-year student, said he finds himself lucky to get a paid internship during lockdown. “Surfing the internet can sometimes help us in finding good things. I am trying my best to take advantage of the lockdown by doing something productive which will also improve my resume,” he said. Gola Road resident Baljeet Singh, a collegian, said various apps and portals help him enhance his football skills. “I have got myself enrolled in an online football training class. It was a little expensive, but totally worth it. Two days back, my theoretical classes got over and I started practising football in my garden,” he said. Even parents are teaching new skills to their children. “Being a working woman, it was tough for me to spend with my child. However, I am now spending a lot of time with my five-year-old son and teaching him rhymes and words,” said Maya Sinha, a resident of Boring Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-drives-many-to-learn-new-skills/articleshow/75238456.cms||Archi Rani
April 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: More education institutions start online classes||PATNA: Following the intervention of the UGC and the Raj Bhavan, more and more institutions of higher education in the state have started reaching out to their students online and ensuring that the syllabus for the academic year is completed on time. With all the institutions closed, faculties are trying their best to interact with students online and provide study materials on the institution’s website . Using the available digital platforms like WhatsApp, Skype, You Tube and video conferencing, they are trying to satisfy the academic needs of the students. IIT-Patna has started online classes for students of all branches from April 3. “Classes are being held as per the fixed time table of the semesters,” said director, Pushpak Bhattacharya. In NIT Patna, faculty members are sending study materials to students through e-mails since April 8. Students have been advised to contact the faculty concerned or the head of the department in case of any problem in receiving the course content. NIT has already preponed its summer vacation from April 15 to May 31 in view of the current situation. The postgraduate departments and colleges of Patna University (PU) have also uploaded e-content of almost all subjects on their websites. Some PG departments of PU and undergraduate departments of colleges are also conducting online classes through video conferencing and other digital platforms. “Students, who have network connectivity, are attending classes. We are sharing PPTs and notes on our college website also with students who are unable to join online classes,” said a BCA teacher of PU. Besides, the university has provided on its website the links of various sites for pursuing online courses. “Teachers have been asked to identify teaching resources available on various digital platforms such as Swayam Online Courses, Massive Open Online Courses, e-PG Pathshala, Swayam Prabha, You Tube, WhatsApp, NPTEL, etc., and share them with the students during the lockdown period,” said PU pro-VC Dolly Sinha. Patna Women’s College, a constituent unit of PU, has made available on its website the AICTE designed ELIS (Enhancement in Learning with Improvement In Skills ) portal and that of National Digital Library for the benefit of students. The ELIS portal has been created to provide all students with content that not only enhances learning for regular subjects but also aims to build up valuable skills. Meanwhile, JD Women’s College, a constituent unit of Pataliputra University, has started sending e-contents of different subjects through WhatsApp group of students so that the their academic progress is not hampered. “Students of MBA, MCA, BCA, BBM and all general courses have been asked to check their WhatsApp regularly for the updates,” said college principal Shyama Roy. Patna-based Nalanda Open University (NOU) is also been providing e-content on its website for the benefit of distance learners, said joint registrar AN Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/more-education-institutions-start-online-classes/articleshow/75238411.cms||B K Mishra
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Five regulars nabbed after 3rd break-in at liquor shop||KOLKATA: A group of five regular customers of a liquor shop on Armenian Street were caught red-handed on Saturday morning after they broke into the closed establishment. Cops seized 26 bottles of branded alcohol from the group. However, this was the third time they had broken into the shop to drink to their fill and make off with bottles. According to cops, neighbours Md Imran, 20, Md Sheru, 22, Rabiul Islam, 32, Md Wasim, 28, and Md Saheb, 19, visited the shop every night after work. When the lockdown was announced, they had called the proprieter to ask if he had stock and even ordered some liquor for when the restrictions would be lifted. The friends from the Kalabagan slum off CR Avenue hatched the break-in plan together. “On nights that they planned the heists, they left their homes separately. A couple of them even carried prescriptions to show cops at the nakas. They waited for night to descend before breaking in. There was promoting work going on in the next building that shares a wall with the shop. This helped them,” said an officer. On Saturday, one of them still had an axe and range in his hand when cops nabbed them. Police said it was only last week when the owner found out about the theft and informed police. “We knew they would return. They walked into our trap,” said an officer from the Burrabazar police station. Cops said they are questioning the accused to ascertain if they were selling the stolen alcohol for a premium. “There is a possibility they were making exceptional profit through this illegal venture,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-regulars-nabbed-after-3rd-break-in-at-liquor-shop/articleshow/75239926.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Residents seal localities after misleading video goes viral||Hubballi: Residents of many areas here are sealing off their localities with bamboo, old gates and by putting big boulders to block roads, after a video of a youth, who allegedly had an epileptic seizure, was projected to be a Covid-19 case, and was circulated on social media platforms, which went viral. Panic-stricken residents blocked access to their areas, in order to prevent the movement of vehicles and entry of any outsiders. In some areas, residents have not allowed even the movement of vehicles which are deployed for essential services. Supply of groceries, vegetables, milk and medicines are affected in those areas. Many residents have raised their voice against such barricades being put up, but to no avail. Many people tried to reason with the residents, to at least allow vehicles engaged in essential services to pass, but those putting up the barricades were in no mood to listen. This is the situation in Old Hubballi, in areas such as Mayur Nagar, Anand Nagar, Padmaraj Nagar, Heggeri, Maruti Nagar, Banatikatta, Ayodhya Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Rajdhani Colony, Green Garden, Siddlingeshwar Colony and other areas. A constable attached to the Old Hubballi police station, said that he took a lift from one of his colleagues, to reach the station, as his residential area was sealed off by locals. He said he tried to convince them to not seal off the area, but was not able to persuade them. “If people are really worried about getting infected, then they should not venture out, and remain in self-isolation. We are working in KIMS hospital, which is an emergency service. If they seal off the area, how can we get to work. People should understand that staying at home is the only solution to not get infected by the coronavirus,” said a KIMS employee and resident of Mayur Nagar. “My husband works in a supermarket, which is open, as it is an essential service, but our entire locality was sealed off and inaccessible. A small opeining has been left to enter and exit our locality,” said Poonam Adhoni, a resident of Chaitanya Nagar. Grocery suppliers and vegetable vendors are skipping the areas which have been sealed off by panic-stricken residents, and orders for supply of groceries are being declined by vendors. Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Suresh Itnal said that barricades have been placed only in the containment areas. He said he is not aware about residents themselves sealing off their localities. He assured that necessary action will be taken in this regard. Youth who suffered epileptic seizure is safe The brother of the youth who suffered an epileptic seizure, whose video went viral, said that his brother had an epileptic seizure, while he was going for dinner at his aunt’s house in Rajnagar. A CAR police personnel took the video and circulated it on social media. He said that he has brought the issue to the notice of the deputy commissioner, and that she has promised to take action in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/residents-seal-localities-after-misleading-video-goes-viral/articleshow/75237070.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Man with fake pass booked for negligent driving, DC not enthused||Haveri: Deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai has disapproved of a negligent driving case filed by Savanur police when the accused had allegedly travelled on a fake pass created in the name of Byadagi MLA Verupakshappa Ballari. He insisted that the accused be booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC. Bajpai was also aghast that the name of the accused in the FIR is different from the one registered at Yalavigi checkpost where he was apprehended on April 16. In a WhatsApp group involving district officials and journalists, Bajpai took to task additional SP Mallikarjun Baladandi for defending the police move. Baladandi said court permission is required to register a cheating case, but the DC insisted on an FIR under Section 420 for cheating government officials on duty. Additional DC Yogeshwara had caught Dileep Bankapur with the fake pass and instructed Savanur police to initiate further action. However, Savanur Circle police inspector (CPI) Shashidhar M G named one Ashok in the FIR which mentioned only negligent driving. In the WhatsApp group, Bajpai said the Savanur CPI misguided the district administration in the case and the name of the accused was actually Dileep Bankapur and not Ashok as mentioned in the FIR. “If this is the case, there is no point in working at checkposts in Haveri district. I will remove all checkposts and report to the chief secretary and DIG about the attitude of the police department,” Bajpai said. As the DC was not ready to accept the additional SP’s justifications, Baladandi agreed to file a modified FIR after obtaining the court’s permission. Verupakshappa said he never gave his vehicle pass to anybody. “I don’t know about the fake pass created in my name. The district administration has the power to prosecute the accused involved in this cheating case,” he said. Meanwhile, the police move also came under criticism from netizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-with-fake-pass-booked-for-negligent-driving-dc-not-enthused/articleshow/75237000.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||3 MCH docs, 1 pvt hosp staffer test positive, 7 from SSKM quarantined||Kolkata: Three doctors of Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata (MCH), have tested positive to Covid-19, while seven junior doctors of SSKM Hospital have been sent on institutional quarantine after they showed symptoms. The three MCH doctors include a post-graduate trainee from the medicine department and two from the gynaecology department. A 47-year-old employee of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, too, tested positive. The man from Barrackpore’s Ward 5 used to commute from home in the hospital’s pool car. “The area where this man lives has been sanitized after we got the information,” said Barrackpore municipality chairman Uttam Das. Sources in the hospital off EM Bypass said a cancer patient who was undergoing treatment for about a month has also tested positive. About 10 healthcare professionals, including a senior oncologist under whom the patient was admitted, has been sent to quarantine At MCH, two patients being treated at the medicine ward tested positive a few days ago. The hospital authority traced the healthcare workers who had come in contact with the two patients, and found that one among them has tested positive. The two other doctors who tested positive were involved in the treatment of a Covid-positive woman who gave birth about a week ago in the hospital’s Eden Building. All the three doctors stayed in the hostel on the hospital premises. The hospital authority has also kept 12 other healthcare workers who had come in contact with the three either at the work place or in the hostel. “All three are doing well and none has any aggressive symptom,” said an MCH source. “This is the third incident where a patient coming for treatment of another ailment has tested positive. The hospital needs to ramp up segregation of patients. If one doctor after another goes on quarantine, the healthcare system will collapse,” said a doctor. At SSKM, at least seven doctors, including PG trainees and house staffers, have been sent to quarantine. Sources said some patients in the medicine ward are symptomatic and the doctors had tended to them. Swab samples of both patients and doctors are expected to be sent for confirmatory tests. “Hospitals are becoming hotspots for community transmission. Though measures, like restricting the number of healthcare professionals at the wards, are in place, more preventive steps should be taken. Otherwise we are working on a suicide mission,” said a junior doctor at SSKM Hospital. Swasthya Bhawan officials said due to measures, like restricting number of healthcare workers in wards, have led to a decline in the number of doctors and nurses who need to be quarantined if a patient turns positive. “For instance, earlier at NRS Medical College and Hospital, we had to put close to 90 people in quarantine and at RG Kar, around 50 were isolated. We are trying to work out the best possible ways so that our frontline medical employees do not get infected,” said a source. On Sunday the health department made it mandatory for all frontline healthcare workers in government hospitals to stay in government-arranged lodging facilities on campus or in the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-mch-docs-1-pvt-hosp-staffer-test-positive-7-from-sskm-quarantined/articleshow/75239804.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Self-financed colleges propose fee-hike freeze in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Amid growing concerns about Covid-19, self-financed colleges of Gujarat have, as a goodwill gesture, proposed to the state government that college tuition fees not be hiked for the next one year. In a letter to state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, the Association of Self-Financed Colleges, Gujarat, has requested the government to keep the tuition fees for colleges unchanged for the academic year 2020-21. All the colleges and academic institutes are academically non-functional during the lockdown period announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Owing to this situation, as part of our duty, we request and propose to you and the Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC) that for this academic year at least i.e. for 2020-2021, there should not be any increase in the prevailing fee structure,” the association president Janak Khandwala said in his representation to the minister. Many employers in several sectors will be unable to pay salaries in a sustained manner as the units are suffering during the lockdown period, the association said. Many businesses will hugely suffer during this period and they may even incur losses, according to the association. “Due to this situation it will be very difficult for the parents of the students to pay regular tuition fees,” the association said. The association, which consists of management trustees of various self-financed colleges, has proposed that the FRC carry out the procedure for the fee hike in 2021-22 academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/self-financed-colleges-propose-fee-hike-freeze-for-year/articleshow/75240120.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||GMB ports outshine major ports in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: At a time when the maritime sector is facing an unprecedented crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Gujarat’s non-major ports have continued to outperform the major ports in terms of year-on-year growth. These non-major ports that are under the jurisdiction of Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) cumulatively handled 411.8 million tonnes (MT) of cargo during the April-March period of 2019-20, clocking a growth rate of 3.16% over the preceding year’s cargo volume of about 399.2 MT, said a GMB official. This is almost 2.34 % higher than the growth rate registered by the major ports of India during the same period, said sources. The total traffic handled at major ports during the April-March period of 2019-20 was 704.63 MT as against 699.10 MT handled during the corresponding period of the previous year, showing an overall growth of 0.82%, a government official said. The growth in GMB regulated ports was led by captive jetties and private ports handled about 181.2 MT and 199.4 MT of cargo respectively, cumulatively handling about 93% of the total cargo with volumes growing at 6% and 2% respectively from the previous year, said sources. Crude oil, containers, coal, petroleum, oil & lubricants (POL), liquefied natural gas (LNG) and iron ore constituted the major commodities handled by the ports. For the year 2018-19, the non-major ports of Gujarat posted 7.6% growth for the cargo handled by them as compared to the year previous. The 12 major ports of the country, controlled by the central government posted 2.95% growth in 2018-19 as compared to 2017-18 fiscal. Since the last five years, the traffic at GMB ports has steadily grown at a CAGR of exceeding 4%. The growth trajectory maintained by GMB is remarkable given the adverse scenarios prevalent in global maritime sector with rising geopolitical tensions amidst protectionist policies of developed economies, muted domestic demand and weakened investor sentiments followed by the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic towards the end of 2019, according to the GMB official. The large-scale production shutdown in China owing to Covid-19 crisis, effected a tremendous disruption in cargo movement across the Indian ports. The subsequent 21-day national lockdown also caused lack of demand for cargo, cancellation of orders, congestion at ports owing to stranded vessels, shortage of labourers, movement of workers and truck drivers among other impediments for ports and shipping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gmb-ports-outshine-major-ports-in-state/articleshow/75240134.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Meanwhile, biohazard problems pile up||AHMEDABAD: The horror of biomedical waste overwhelming the capacity to collect and incinerate looms over authorities. Photographs of used PPE sets of paramedical staff and doctors being carried in plastic bags in their official vehicles to nearby urban health centres (UHCs) have caught the authorities’ attention. The images had been circulating on social media. Such a problem could put the lives of health workers at risk. It was on Saturday morning that biomedical waste collection from all 13 checkposts was streamlined with Medicare Environmental Management Private Limited being assigned the responsibility of collection. “Many of the paramedical staff who were supposed to travel in their official vehicles had avoided using them because of the waste bags,” said a senior Ahmedabad municipal official. “Earlier there was not much waste and the bags were deposited at nearest UHCs. But with more PPEs sets being used, a separate arrangement for their collection was made only now.” The problem will only grow after police personnel and staff of municipal general hospitals also used PPE sets, as required by the authorities. “We are planning to involve more agencies for waste incineration,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/meanwhile-biohazard-problems-pile-up/articleshow/75240199.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||Kotak Bank board to consider fund-raising plan||MUMBAI: Kotak Mahindra Bank said that its board will meet on April 22 to approve raising of equity capital either through a private placement, follow on public offer or qualified institutional placement. As part of a bank's plan approved by the Reserve Bank of India, the lender is required to reduce the promoters' stake to 26 per cent from the over 30 per cent held as of December 2019. The lender's total market capitalisation as of Friday's close stood at nearly Rs 2.27 lakh crore. The bank also for the second time this month cut interest rates on savings deposits by upto 50 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). From Monday, balances above Rs 1 lakh will earn 4.5% as against 5% earlier. Balances up to Rs 1 lakh will attract just 3.75% (4% earlier).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-bank-board-to-consider-fund-raising-plan/articleshow/75239927.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada records first Covid-19 fatality; 50-year-old woman dies of infection||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district has recorded its first Covid-19 death. A 50-year-old woman from Kasba in Bantwal taluk, admitted to district Wenlock Hospital with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) on Saturday, died at 9.15am on Sunday. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said she was undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit of the hospital. Given the woman’s SARI condition, the doctors sent her throat swab sample at the hospital’s lab. Even as the report was awaited, the woman breathed her last at the ICU. The report received in the afternoon confirmed her to be Covid-19 positive. The final rites were conducted at the local crematorium as per the medical protocol prescribed for Covid-19 patients. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said the family members saw her body for two minutes from a distance before it was cremated. “We have identified 19 primary contacts, including her husband and son and a doctor who treated her initially, and have quarantined them and more could be quarantined. We are also ascertaining news that her son had returned recently from Dubai,” Dr Bairy said. The district also recorded a positive case in the day with P-389, who is wife of P-325 from Uppinangadi. The total number of positive cases in the district has now risen to 15. There are two active cases, 12 discharged people and one death (P-390). The neighbouring Udupi district has had no fresh cases since March 29. It has no active cases as all the three patients have been discharged. In a related development, the Dakshina Kannada district administration sealed seven villages as per the state government guidelines and appointed incident commanders there to implement the same. The villages are Thokkottu, Uppinangady, Thumbe, Ajjavar, Sampya, Belthangady and Sajipapadu. The DC said all essential items will be supplied to residents of these villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-records-first-covid-19-fatality-50-year-old-woman-dies-of-infection/articleshow/75236685.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||1,400 join TOI culinary contest||The Times of India and NBT along with the UP tourism and Millenium School have launched a culinary contest ‘Family ki recipe, khushiyon ki recipe' wherein people are asked to send in recipes and photos of home-cooked food that they have been preparing in the lockdown. The campaign, launched on April 15, would commence on April 22. To participate, people need to join the Facebook group: 'Family ki recipe, khushiyon ki recipe'. Till date 1,400 people have joined the FB group and approx 300 entries have already been received. Celebrity MasterChef Pankaj Bhadouria will pick out the winners, who would be announced through Facebook Live on April 24. The winning recipes will be featured in NBT and the top three winners will win a free 'master class' with MasterChef Pankaj Bhadouria. Every participant shall be given a certificate of participation. Bhadoria said, “The response is amazing. People are sharing their recipes for #familykirecipe. The number of entries we have received is phenomenal. In the lockdown the best way of sharing food would be by sharing recipes and that is what the whole idea is all about.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1400-join-toi-culinary-contest/articleshow/75240720.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||Auto, phone cos to remain shut, await local clearance||The Union government’s plans to restart industrial activity in a staggered manner from Monday may have to wait as several states are yet to release operational guidelines to commence production. This would mean that India’s largest automotive clusters in the NCR region and Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu will remain shut for some more time. The Centre had accorded sanction for partial reopening of factories from Monday subject to clearances from state governments. It had said that tech companies can bring in half their workforce from Monday. West Bengal is among the states that have given permissions to restart factories. Nearly 72 jute mills in West Bengal employing over 2 lakh people, Haldia Petrochemicals, the biggest petrochemical unit in the East, and ITC’s Tribeni Tissues would start production, while its food plants are already operational. Carmakers, including Hyundai, Ford and Renault Nissan will remain shut and wait for local clearances. BMW and Daimler India Commercial Vehicles and Honda Cars have said they need to clear the supply chain backlog and were looking at May 3 as a possible date to reopen. The country’s biggest carmaker Maruti Suzuki is still to decide on restarting production. Maruti has decided to bar international and domestic travel for employees, and will begin work with only 50% staff. It will disable biometric entry, and has decided to mandate 2 meters as a measure to enforce social distancing. Meanwhile, two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp has said it will not start production before May 3, while TVS Motor is awaiting clearances before commencing operations. The plans to reopen industrial units are fraught with risks, as factory managements fear detection of the coronavirus in a worker will bring operations to a halt again, besides locking up the rest of the workforce in quarantine. Also, factories have to deal with issues of supply chain and workforce health audit, before commencing production. Factories of mobile phone makers will also remain shut. The biggest clusters are in Noida and the Sriperumbudur region. “Restarting manufacturing operations is challenging but feasible. The industry is gearing up with requisite permissions from state governments which are in the pipeline — they are evaluating permissions,” said Pankaj Mohindroo, president, Indian Cellular Association. While a majority of factories will remain shut, the rest have obtained clearances to commence work. “We shall open many of our plants on Monday as necessary permissions have been received from district authorities in most places. But, getting on to full steam operations may take a few days till system processes and supply chain issues are streamlined. Initial couple of days will also go in housekeeping and start-up,” said Sandip Ghose, COO of cement maker Birla Corporation. Nasscom has already communicated to the government that it was open to staggered reopening of its tech campuses until June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/auto-phone-cos-to-remain-shut-await-local-clearance/articleshow/75239884.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Patna||Over 1.84 crore people screened in Bihar: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday lauded the health department’s ongoing door-to-door screening drive to check further spread of Covid-19 in the state. Nitish said more than 30.88 lakh houses had so far been covered under the drive launched just a few days back on the pattern of the pulse polio campaign. “So far, more than 1.84 crore people have been screened under the drive and only 960 had minor symptoms of cough, cold and fever,” the CM said. He said cases of other diseases have drastically decreased in the state due to the lockdown. He asked the health officials to expedite the door-to-door screening. Nitish further asked the officials to ensure quality of foods being served at the disaster management department’s relief centres. He also asked them to take up maximum number of development projects in rural areas to generate job opportunities for unemployed people living in the villages. Chairing a review meeting with chief secretary, the CM asked the officials to increase the total target of wheat procurement to help maximum number of farmers in the wake of the lockdown. Following his directive, the state government increased the target of wheat procurement to 7 lakh metric tonne from the existing 2 lakh metric tonne. The CM said the maximum number of farmers across the state would now be able to get genuine price of their wheat produce due to more procurement at the government level. The CM said the officials have been asked to expedite wheat procurement through PACS so that the maximum number of farmers could get a chance to sell their produce. He said the farmers should also be motivated not to burn their crop residue in the field after harvesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-1-84-crore-people-screened-in-state-cm/articleshow/75238384.cms||Madan Kumar
April 20, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 lockdown: Beggars preparing relief material for homeless||PATNA: They are beggars with a difference. Instead of begging alms at road crossings, railway stations or temples they are helping the society to battle Covid-19 pandemic. The inmates of ‘Sewa Kutir’, a home for the beggars, are engaged in making envelopes and packets and distributing relief materials to the homeless and poor during the current lockdown. The home, which is being run by an NGO—‘Nav Jagriti’, working under the Mukhyamantri Bhiksha Nivaran Yojana (MBNY), has 46 inmates brought from different places. All the inmates of this home located at Sheopuri are apparently satisfied with their present assignment of making paper envelopes of varying sizes and making packets of relief materials, including foodgrains, sanitizers, masks and other essential items. They take all precautions while working and maintain basic norms of hygiene and sanitation. “Maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks they are rendering their services at the centre,” said Sewa Kutir superintendent Amresh Kumar. The packets thus prepared here are distributed among the poor, especially the mahadalits, dalits, homeless men and women and daily wage earners who are on the verge of starvation due to loss of work. Nav Jagriti secretary Jitendra Kumar Singh said, “The basic aim of Sewa Kutir is to motivate the beggars to come to this centre and we arrange all their basic necessities. The beggars are offered all help in their rehabilitation and encouraged to lead a dignified life.” This centre has served more than 850 beggars since its inception six years ago and as many as 625 of them have been successfully rehabilitated. Nearly 300 of them have been reconnected with their families and 177 have got employment through skill enhancement training provided by the centre. “At least five of them have been employed in this organization,” Singh said. Of the 46 occupants of this home, at present nine are elderly people, seven physically challenged and 18 mentally challenged. All the remaining beggars are normal and are receiving skill enhancement training like sewing, stiching and computer operation. Amresh pointed out that one P Balakrishna from Andhra Pradesh was found begging in Muzaffarpur and brought to this centre in August 2018. After lot of persuasion, he was sent back to his native place in March 2019. Similarly, Vijay Singh, an aged person, who was found in a precarious condition with severe wounds in his head at Kankarbagh was brought to this centre a couple of years back. He was admitted to PMCH for his treatment and after being cured, he returned to this centre in April last year. “He does not want to go back home and prefers to serve this very organization,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/beggars-preparing-relief-material-for-homeless/articleshow/75238392.cms||B K Mishra
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Cracker makers told to wait for guidelines before re-starting works||MADURAI: The Virudhunagar district administration officials had recently granted permission for all the cracker units situated in the rural areas to function from April 20. However, the officials had asked the fireworks manufacturers to wait for the detailed guidelines, which are to be issued by the government following the recommendations of expert committee. On April 16, Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan had said that permission would be granted for the cracker units situated in the rural areas to function from April 20. He said that the units can commence functioning with 50% employees and all safety norms by following social distancing, spraying disinfectant and issuing masks to the employees. But, soon after that the units were asked to await the detailed guidelines. Meanwhile, the manufactutrers had also decided to wait for the guidelines before starting the units. Speaking to TOI, president of Tamil Nadu fireworks and amorces manufacturers association (TANFAMA), P Ganesan said that though the district administration officials have permitted the functioning of cracker units situated in the rural area, they, however, said that no commercial activities would be permitted inside the municipal limits. He explained that most of the allied industries such as chemical vendors, go-downs, tube making and flower pot cone making, which would facilitate the production of fireworks, are situated in the municipal limits. Hence, there would a difficulty in supply of raw materials to the units. “Manufacturing fireworks involves several steps and the manufacturers are unaware about how to proceed with only 50% employees. The officials had also instructed that the unit premises should be disinfected at least seven times before the commencement of production. This would take at least six to seven days before opening the units ,” he explained. Ganesan said that according to the instructions, all the employees, who are working at these units, should be brought to the work place by buses. They have also asked us to disinfect the vehicles twice a day and to get passes for those vehicles. Since all the guidelines issued by the district administration officials are practically impossible to follow, the members of the association have decided not to open the cracker units till clarifications are issued in this regard, he added. The general secretary of the Indian fireworks manufacturers association (TIFMA), T Kannan said that the officials had also stated that actions would be taken against the units, if they identify any violations in the guidelines. Due to this reason, we had decided not to open the units, he added. While the manufactures had already taken a decision not to open the units, the district administration officials had also sent them a communication asking them not to open the cracker units till the state government issues detailed guidelines based on the recommendations given by experts committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cracker-makers-told-to-wait-for-guidelines-before-re-starting-works/articleshow/75240412.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 20, 2020||Goa||Ramp up screening, testing of all: Kamat||Panaji: With no new reported coronavirus cases in Goa, the state is safe, but not yet free from the threat of the pandemic, opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. He said that only after widespread testing of Goans was completed would people be able to relax. “As Goa turns into a Covid-19-free zone, we are now safe, but not free from the virus. Only testing can take us from safety to complete freedom. More preventive action should be the only way of celebration,” Kamat said. With all reported Covid-19 cases having recovered, Kamat said the state government must now shift focus to screening and testing. “The government needs to accelerate screening and testing. Steps must also be taken to address other core issues such as economic revival and financial stability of the state,” he said. Thanking the medical team of Goa Medical College and Hospital, as well as frontline staff for their hard work and dedication in combating Covid-19, Kamat said, “Salute to all of them for risking their lives to protect others. I also compliment the people of Goa who have shown restraint and maintained peace and discipline throughout the lockdown period, and appeal to all to continue with the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ramp-up-screening-testing-of-all-kamat/articleshow/75240739.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Corona spread shatters study abroad dreams of Lucknow students||LUCKNOW: For last one year, Neelav Arora had been preparing for admission to Stanford University in California but with coronavirus outbreak, this 20-year-old student is in a dilemma. “I was looking forward to joining the college in California this year. But now, the college has extended its admission dates and my parents are also in doubt whether they should send me all the way to a foreign land or not. Even I am scared since coronavirus has taken so many lives in the US,” said Neelav, a resident of Hazratganj, who passed his intermediate in 2019 and wants to pursue Arts Honours from a foreign university. Like Neelav, there are many students whose dreams have been shattered due to novel coronavirus outbreak. For Anchal Nagpal, her dream of getting an internship in one of the art galleries in France, is over. “My parents have asked me to stay back in Lucknow and pursue internship from Mumbai or Delhi. My elder brother is already stuck in New York and cannot come return due to travel ban and lockdown. There were days when he told us that he was left with no grocery at home. Looking at his condition, my parents have asked me to pursue internship and job in Delhi or Mumbai as it would be easier for them to be around. But for a visual arts student like me, France is more appealing as its art, history and cultural heritage are very rich,” said Anchal (25), who is pursuing Masters in Visual Arts. Madhumesh Shukla also cancelled his ticket to Barcelona which he had booked for August. “It seems dangerous now. Seeing how students are stranded and not able to return to their home, it is safer to stay put,” said Madhumesh, a resident of Gomtinagar, who had applied for Masters in Applied Linguistics at Barcelona University. Cousins Ayush (22) and Tejaswini Vyas (23), who completed their intermediate under open schooling, and were planning to apply for media communication at New York University have also cancelled their plan to study abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-spread-shatters-study-abroad-dreams-of-city-students/articleshow/75240736.cms||Aditi Singh
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Experts seek relaxation to agri, MSMEs and rural sectors||Dharwad: Economists have sought relaxation from lockdown to agriculture, agro-based industries and MSMEs in order to give fillip to economy. During an online panel discussion on the economic impact of the lockdown organized by the PG department of economics of Karnatak University (KU-D), economists recommended complete lockdown in urban, semi-urban areas and slums, and exemption in green zones and rural areas, to increase GDP. They said before imposing the lockdown, the supply of essential commodities, services and medicines should have been ensured. “Covid-19 has affected the entire world. It is spreading fast, but it is slow in India when compared to other countries. However, this should not be the reason to be complacent,” they said. The problems of unemployment, poverty and malnutrition will have serious aftereffects. However, lockdown is inevitable to prevent the spread of the virus, the experts felt. Migrant labourers, farm workers and the poor are hit hard by the crisis, and the government should provide them financial aid and other help so they can live a dignified life. Migrant workers, who are stranded away from their homes, should be allowed to return to their places. The priority of the state and central governments should be to spend on relief, rehabilitation and healthcare of the affected people, the panelists said. Though they appreciated the decision of educational institutions to go for online teaching, they expressed apprehensions over the efficacy of the method. Prof Krishnaraj of ISEC (Bengaluru), Rajendran of Gandhigram Rural Institute (Dindigul), P S Kamble of Kolhapur, S R Keshav of Bengaluru, R R Biradar, S T Bagalkoti, B H Nagoor of KU Dharwad and T M Bhaskar, acting vice-chancellor of KU, participated in the discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/experts-seek-relaxation-to-agri-msmes-and-rural-sectors/articleshow/75237186.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 65, killed in suspected tiger attack, partially eaten body found near DTR||Bareilly: A 65-year-old man was killed in a suspected tiger attack near Katarniaghat range of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) on Sunday. According to forest department officials, the partially eaten body of the man, a farmer, was found near railway lines near Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri district and “injury marks on the body suggest that the man was killed by a big cat”. Police and forest officials examined the spot, where the body was found, while officials are monitoring the feline’s movement using camera traps. Shree Prakash, son of the victim, Bahuri Lal of Majhra Pura village near the forest area, said his father had gone to collect shikakai, a forest produce, on Saturday, but didn’t return home. A manhunt for him was launched on Sunday and his body was found near the railway tracks close to Majhra railway station on Sunday afternoon, he said. After getting information, ranger Piyush Moshan rushed to the spot and sent the body for autopsy. DTR field director Sanjay Pathak told TOI, “We are uncertain whether the man was killed by a tiger or a leopard. The autopsy report will confirm it. The report is expected to arrive by Monday. We are installing motion sensor camera traps to monitor the movement of the big cat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-65-killed-in-suspected-tiger-attack-partially-eaten-body-found-near-dtr/articleshow/75238949.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown brings down rate of road deaths, crimes||MADURAI: The city has witnessed only one road death ever since the curfew restrictions were came into effect. As per the 2019 road accident data, the death rate in road accidents per week is 3.5. As per this rate, at least 15 road deaths would have occurred in the last four weeks, had there been normal traffic on roads, police said. A two-wheeler rider was run over by a sports utility vehicle on April 16 near Uchaparambumedu near Thiruppalai. It was found that the driver was under the influence of alcohol and he was booked under 304-II – culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The number of road accidents has come down drastically. The city police have recorded only five road accidents since March 25. It is lesser by around 35, since the city witnesses around 10 accidents every week. Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham told TOI that the number of vehicles on roads is less due to the stringent action taken by city police. Moreover, police presence on roads has resulted in commuters driving vehicles at a slow pace. According to city police officers, the number of crime incidents too has come down in Madurai city due to restrictions. City had recorded 40 to 50 murder cases on an average in a year in the last few years. But, the city witnessed only two murder cases in the last four weeks. Officials said that one of the murders was due to a family dispute, where a man murdered his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-brings-down-rate-of-road-deaths-crimes/articleshow/75240419.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Varanasi||Trader tests +ve, six hotspots in city now||Varanasi: A 75-year-old man, a diabetes patient, and native of Pitarkunda locality in Sigra area of Varanasi tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. The elderly trader has no foreign travel history though he visited Delhi in March. Officials are questioning his family members to ascertain his source of infection. The private hospital in Mahmoorganj area, where he was being treated for his other ailments and underwent a CT-scan before referred to isolation ward of SSL hospital in BHU, has been asked to shut its outdoor and indoor patient departments for four days till the investigation is complete. With this, the number of hotspots in the district rose to six. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “We received the report of the elderly man from the BHU microbiology laboratory on late Saturday night confirming his infection. He visited Delhi in first week of March. Teams of health officials are collecting details of the movement of the man, his four sons and other family members in past few weeks.” On April 17, the betel trader developed breathing problems and was rushed to a private hospital where he was being treated for diabetes and other ailments since many years. The doctors did a CT-scan and referred him to BHU where his sample was collected and he was declared Covid-19 positive. “The private hospital has been asked to provide details of all persons in hospital during his stay there, while screening of his family members is being done,” added DM. The Pitarkunda area was declared a hotspot and localities in one km radius declared buffer zone. We are counting all families and population in Pitarkunda and buffer zone. Health teams are camping there for screening people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/trader-tests-ve-six-hotspots-in-city-now/articleshow/75238698.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Many TJ survivors fear stigma, seek support||Madurai: For Covid-19 survivors, it is a long journey from testing positive to complete recovery. In Madurai district, 18 people were recently discharged from the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), cured but apprehensive about ‘communal distancing’. For members of the Tablighi Jamaat, many of whom were found to be Covid positive after they attended a conference in Delhi, the journey has been arduous, fearing as they did communal divide and stigma. Two of them recounted to TOI their experience. A 36-year-old man from Melur, a survivor, spent 16 days at the GRH. “Initially, there was panic with rumours flying thick and fast about those who attended the Delhi conference. But we came forward for screening voluntarily. I was admitted to GRH on March 30. The results were delayed. So, I had to wait a couple of days,” he said, recalling his anxiety and that of his wife and two children. He tested Covid positive along with 17 others. “None of us had even the mildest symptoms. We were given the anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine and some vitamin tablets,” he said. A 52-year-old man, also from Melur, said he put his faith in God and spent the days at the hospital praying. “The staff were friendly. We prayed, recited from the Quran, and whiled away time talking to each other,” he said. All those undergoing treatment were also provided phones to contact their families when needed and were allowed to make video calls. They were provided a breakfast of idli, dosa or pongal and a lunch of rice meal or vegetable rice with egg. “Initially, for two days, the food wasn’t good, but the authorities took note of our complaints and the quality improved. We were provided fruits and sundal. For dinner, we had chappathi or idiyappam,” said the 36-year-old man. “I had not told my mother, who is a cardiac patient, that I was Covid positive. I spoke to her every day, telling her I was fine. But, one of the officials spoke to my mother and asked her about being in contact with me,” he said. “My mother was worried sick. Many of my co-workers too got to know I was Covid positive. I sense fear and I feel I may be stigmatised,” he said, calling for more sensitivity and protection of their identities. Many feared they may lose their jobs too. On April 16, both survivors were discharged after they tested negative. Madurai collector Dr TG Vinay said he visited the discharged patients in the city on Sunday and assured them that the administration would offer its full support in ensuring communal harmony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-tj-survivors-fear-stigma-seek-support/articleshow/75240417.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Even under lockdown, dark flows the Periyar||Kochi: While air quality in the city has improved remarkably in the lockdown period, it does not seem to have made any impact in the Eloor-Edayar stretch of the Periyar river which continues to witness fish death and change in colour due to discharge of effluents. On Friday, environment activists lodged a complaint with the officials of the state pollution control board after they spotted discolouration in the river. According to them, some of the companies are active and were releasing effluents into the river. On Saturday, inky black fluid flowed into the river after the irrigation department opened the Pathalam regulator, sparking fears of more fish death. “The residents, environmental activists and everyone here are at their wits end. It is absolutely maddening that despite years of activism and hardships faced by people because of river pollution, the PCB has not been able to stop the damage being done to the river,” said Mohanan, an environmental activist. The PCB had asked the irrigation department to maintain average lean flow in the river after their tests found extremely low-levels of dissolved oxygen (DO) downstream. “In the last one-and-a-half months, the stretch witnessed several incidents of fish death. Some people have now made a business out of selling these fish,” said Mohanan. The District Industries Centre has allowed the functioning of 240 units in Ernakulam district after March 31, following an order from the district collector. These units are engaged in sectors like food and agriculture, oleoresin, packaging and manufacture of soaps, sanitisers, masks and medical equipment. But the PCB has currently suspended onsite visits to the lockdown regulations and would resume the same after April 24. “We do make site visits and collect samples if there is a complaint,” said a senior PCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/even-under-lockdown-dark-flows-the-periyar/articleshow/75238971.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath head priest reaches Ukhimath||Dehradun: Travelling over 2,000 km in three days by road, Kedarnath shrine’s head priest (Rawal)— Bhimashankar Ling —reached Ukhimath, the winter abode of the Kedar deity on Sunday morning. Officials said that he will now undergo a mandatory quarantine at Ukhimath for 15 days. The head priest was stuck in Maharashtra’s Nanded district due to lockdown and had written to PM Narendra Modi seeking special permission to travel to the shrine. Speaking with TOI, state protocol minister, Dhan Singh Rawat, said that the Badrinath Rawal would also reach Uttarakhand on Monday from Kerala and special permission had been obtained for him as well to travel. Meanwhile, on the question of whether the Kedar Rawal would be able to participate in the rituals during the opening of the shrine, Rudraprayag district magistrate Mangesh Ghildiyal said that the district administration is deciding on the matter. “His involvement in discharging his religious duties at the time of opening of the portals of Kedarnath would be decided after a meeting with the temple committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-head-priest-reaches-ukhimath/articleshow/75238985.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 20, 2020||Goa||Khandepar water levels replenished||Ponda: The water resources department had to open bandharas to rejuvenate the Khandepar after water levels in the river dropped. This department is also attempting to pour in water from the Ganjem river and Selaulim dam. On Sunday, the water level at the Opa water works was 3.6m. WRD canal officer Ankush Gaonkar said that they have opened Okamb, Collem I & II, Shigao and Velipwada bandharas. While 0.5m of water was drawn from Okamb, two meters was taken from Collem and one meter from the Velipwada bandhara. The Shigao bandhara has been emptied. The 12 bandharas along the Opa river, jointly store about 21.9 lakh cubic meter of water and the WRD opens the bundharas as per the need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khandepar-water-levels-replenished/articleshow/75240744.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Surat||Teacher in Gujarat trains girls to help defeat patriarchy||SURAT: Chandan Rathod, a government primary school teacher, felt disgusted when a couple met him for guidance to get their boy into the prestigious Jawahar Navodara Vidyalaya. The parents were ready to invest huge money in the boy’s education despite the fact that the academic record of their daughter was more brilliant. Hurt by this discrimination, Rathod, an award-winning teacher in Movan village of Devbhoomi Dwarka district, decided to take up a campaign to educate girls and help them crack admission test to JNV. JNV, run by the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, an autonomous body under the Union HRD ministry, is a unique educational institution in India, imparting quality education to students mainly from rural background. It provides quality education free of charge till Class XII if the student clears the selection tests. “The incident was a terrifying reality for me. I also saw parents discontinuing their daughters' schooling, but kept spending on their son’s education,” said Rathod, who adopted technology to give free training to girl students since November. Rathod wants to ensure that all girls wanting admission to JNV should be able to fulfil their dreams. “There were many families who stopped their girls’ education due to financial problems. This made my resolve firm that if I could help the girls crack the entrance test, their education could become free in a prestigious school,” he reasoned. Around Diwali last year, Rathod spent Rs one lakh from his own pocket to set up the modern smart classroom at his home to teach these girls. He holds classes for 20 students of class III and IV daily. Of them, 12 are girls of Class V who will appear for JNV entrance test from next year onwards. In fact Rathod is also a popular Youtuber with over 35,000 followers. His online classes have become very popular in the nearby villages and now Rathod teaches more than 90 children in his class daily. "Parents of most girls are small farmers and farm labourers. My aim is to bring these girls out of the household grind and prepare them to achieve their dreams,” said Rathod, who has been teaching in the government school for the last 14 years. INSET IIM-A lauds his methods Chandan Rathod’s innovative education methods have caught the attention of Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) too. Bhavesh Pandya, co-ordinator of IIM-A’s national education innovation selection committee, told TOI, "Rathod's case studies were selected for online professional development of teachers at innovation fair at IIM-A last year. He has been using technology in education effectively in rural areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teacher-trains-girls-to-help-defeat-patriarchy/articleshow/75239935.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Trichy: Despite lockdown, farmers sell 4,500 tonnes of banana||TRICHY: The efforts taken by the agriculture marketing and horticulture department to help banana farmers sell their produce after the Covid-19 outbreak have started reaping dividends. Banana farmers from Trichy have sold out about 4,500 tonnes of the fruit to the tune of Rs 5.78 crore during the lockdown period so far. Following appeals from the farmers, the state government instructed the district administrations to initiate steps to sell banana, which are ready to harvest. It may be recalled that TOI had carried stories highlighting the plights of banana farmers. Authorities from the agriculture marketing identified banana growers and helped them sell their produce at Uzhavar Santhai at seven places in the city and eight temporary vegetable markets, officials said. “We tied up with some farmers with Tamil Nadu Banana Producers’ Group functioning at Thottiam in the district. More than 40 farmers have sold out around 850 tonnes of banana for Rs 2.79 crore,” deputy director of agriculture marketing department Murugan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/despite-lockdown-farmers-sell-4500-tonnes-of-banana/articleshow/75240422.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 20, 2020||Madurai||15 new cases take count to 329 in south||Madurai: The number of positive cases in southern district touched 329 on Sunday, with 15 new cases reported from across the districts. Among the new cases, a 20-year-old woman from a village in Virudhunagar has been found to have no contact or travel history. In Madurai, two new cases have been reported, including a 40-year-old woman from Chokkalingapuram in Kottampatti block in Madurai district and a 53-year-old man from Thirumangalam. Both cases have no history of travel, but have been in contact with people who tested positive previously. Tenkasi, where the first case was reported on April 7, reported four more cases on Sunday, taking the total of Covid-19 positive cases in the district to 22. Dindigul came up with five new cases taking the count in the district to 74 while Tirunelveli has two new cases, taking the tally to 62. All these are contacts of positive cases reported earlier. Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said that two people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district. Out of the two cases, one is a 20-year-old woman from a village in Virudhunagar taluk. “She is a college student and is the resident of a small village. She had come to the primary health centre (PHC) at Kanniseri Pudur, with complaints of fever and cold. Her samples were taken on April 16. The girl does not have any contact history or any travel history. She had just traveled to her grandmother’s house situated in a village near Sivakasi,” said Kannan. He said that as the girl tested positive, her village and the village where her grandmother’s house is situated, have been cordoned off and samples have been taken from 50 contacts of the girl on Sunday. He said that the officials are conducting an inquiry to identify the source infection of the girl. The other new case is a man who returned from abroad on March 23, and was placed under home quarantine. Samples of this man were taken at the same PHC where the girl’s were taken. Since he too tested positive on Sunday, his village has been cordoned off and samples of 50 of his contacts have been taken. As several people visited the PHC, the villages around PHC have also been cordoned off and survey work is underway at all these villages, he added. Three persons were discharged from the Government Rajaji Hospital on Sunday and five from the Tuticorin Government Medical College Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/15-new-cases-take-count-to-329-in-south/articleshow/75240432.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Bad hair day for barbers as people take scissors in own hands||Nagpur: Even for those who keep their hair on point, the ‘don’t try this at home’ discretion for haircuts doesn’t hold true nowadays. Social distancing — necessitated by coronavirus — has kept barber shops shut, and many are forced to trim their hair at home. While some are picking up scissors for their own hair, others are donning the barber’s hat for their siblings or kids. Though the haircut-at-home episodes are making for some good social media posts, barbers are worried about how they will make a living. With the government not turning its hair to the plight of the barbers, some are forced to return to their native villages, while others are struggling to make ends meet. Given the intimate nature of their craft, people are afraid to bring barbers home for a haircut as well. “We are in dire straits. The government must do something,” says Amol Talkhande, district president of Maharashtra Nabhik Mahamangal, a state association formed by barbers. “We have written to the civic chief, divisional commissioner and even to the CM, requesting them to allow phased opening of salons,” he adds. The barbers say they only want to open shop for 3 hours in the morning. “We promise to take every necessary precaution like sanitizing our equipment, wearing gloves and masks and maintaining social distancing in our shops,” says Talkhande. The letter, in possession of TOI, also says that the salon owners will make sure that customers bring their own towels or napkins for haircuts and shaves. At the behest of barbers, former guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had written to the CM too, urging the government to pay Rs3,000 each to barbers and waive their electricity bills. “We know we are in the middle of a pandemic, but what’s happening to us is equally dangerous,” says Rupesh Umarkar, owner of a unisex salon. Umarkar was forced to return to Tumsar, his native place, before lockdown. Another salon owner Dinesh, who hails from Seoni, says his savings will last only for a week or so. “My shop is rented and so is my room. I can’t pay both the rents as my income is zero now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bad-hair-day-for-barbers-as-people-take-scissors-in-own-hands/articleshow/75240063.cms||Sudhanshu Bisen
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Demand for Covid-free home nurses on the rise||Kochi: A doctor couple residing at Najarakkal in Kochi are desperately reaching out to nursing care services providers in the city to help them find an experienced nursing person to take care of an expectant mother. The couple is particular that the nursing staff who comes to take up the job should have cleared all tests and be declared Covid-19 negative. Thesny Varghese, who runs a professional nursing care service at Tripunithura, said, “This is one of the major demands of clients who are seeking post-delivery care services. In these pressing times, it is difficult to bring nurses who are registered with us to the city as they reside in far off places. Even if they are willing to provide services, not all them will agree to the idea of bringing test results stating they are Covid-19 negative.” Nursing service providers, who provide services of experienced nurses to families residing outside Kerala, said though many of them have made advanced bookings, it is not possible to send the staff to other states because of lockdown. Nurses from across Kerala, who are registered members under various agencies based in Kochi, are sent to cities like Mysore, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bhubaneswar for providing care at home. “Many young couples are away from their families who are in Kerala are not in a position to take care of new-born baby and mother. They need nurses for post-delivery care. On the other hand, children and grandchildren of many elderly citizens who are in Kochi are away. They are also looking for experienced care-givers,” added Varghese. Smrithi Menon (name changed), who works in Bengaluru, is looking for a care giver for her mother and grandmother who are in Kochi. Most nursing service providers in the city remain closed due to lockdow. Menon’s mother is nearing 70 years old and her grandmother is 87, and both of them are unwell. “We have a home nurse to take care of them. But, as my grandmother is seriously ill, it is not possible for one nurse to take care of two elderly women. Though arrangements have been made to deliver food at home, I am in search for another home nurse to support them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demand-for-covid-free-home-nurses-on-the-rise/articleshow/75239000.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Varanasi||No relaxation in lockdown from today||Varanasi: The district will not get any relaxation in lockdown norms from Monday as Covid-19 lockdown will remain enforced strictly like past 27 days. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that as the state government has ordered no change in arrangements prescribed during lockdown in the districts where number of positive cases is more than 10, no further activity or services will be allowed in Varanasi. Shops of essential commodities, including grocery, milk, vegetable, fruit and others will be closed at 10 am now instead of 11 am after getting opened at 6 am, said the DM. The wholesale markets of medicine and other goods will be opened like past days of lockdown period. Maintaining social distance will be a must, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-relaxation-in-lockdown-from-today/articleshow/75238715.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Chullikkal in dist identified as Covid hotspot||Kochi: The health department has identified Chullikkal area in West Kochi as hotspot in the district following the death of a local resident due to Covid-19 and his three family members were tested positive for the illness. Agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar said restrictions will remain in the hotspot even after lockdown is lifted. The relaxation in restrictions at Chullikkal will be allowed after examining the prevailing situation in the area. The death of Yakub Hussain Sait of Chullikkal on March 28, was the first Covid-19 casualty in the state. Minister said there will be restrictions in the district even after lockdown is lifted. “Rumors that normal life will return once the lockdown ends are baseless. The relaxation will be given adhering to the protocols as per the directives of the state and central government directions. There will be restrictions on public transport and movement of vehicles inside the district,” he said. Adequate steps have been taken to address the shortage of certain medicines in Ernakulam. Health and district administration will also look into the spread of other diseases in Ernakulam. Around 2,000 health workers, including 600 doctors, have come forward to work as volunteers in the district. The service of additional doctors from the volunteers will be provided at community health centres, if necessary. As many as 18,707 people were placed under quarantine in Ernakulam. Now, it has come down to 378 and the number of people under treatment also come down to three. The construction activities in Ernakulam will resume after Friday. But the works will be carried out following the criteria under Covid-19 protocols. The facility for doctors to visit people with serious illness at their houses itself has been arranged and 120 vehicles have been arranged for this purpose. Social distancing and sanitization should be followed properly at the worksites. Health aspects of labourers are the responsibility of the employers. The workers who suffer from fever and cough should not be allowed to work. Guest workers should be employed for various works. Pre-monsoon cleaning works should be completed on a war footing. Steps to complete first and second phase works under Operation Breakthrough should be completed. Minister asked to start works with existing raw materials and speed up works with the help of machineries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chullikkal-in-dist-identified-as-covid-hotspot/articleshow/75239029.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Restrictions eased, Delhi’s Azadpur mandi to remain open 24x7||NEW DELHI: A week after it put several restrictions to maintain social distancing, Delhi government decided to open Asia’s biggest fruit and vegetable wholesale market in north Delhi’s Azadpur round-the-clock from Tuesday. Delhi development minister Gopal Rai said the decision has been taken to ensure that there is no shortage of supply of pantry staples and the prices of the commodities are in check. Officials said the restrictions in other mandis in Delhi — Ghazipur, Okhla and Keshopur — were not as stringent, hence the relaxation was given only at Azadpur. The government had last week changed the timings of the sale of fruits and vegetables and restricted the number of trucks one wholesaler could get to maintain social distancing. Rai said the mandi will now remain open 24 hours on all seven days of the week to facilitate the farmers to supply the vegetables and fruits from across the country. “There was a decline in the volume of fruits and vegetables flowing through the market. The arrivals nearly dropped by 50% post-lockdown. While the prices increased, the farmers also faced problems in supplying their produce to the markets,” he said. “To eradicate such issues, we have decided to open the mandi for 24 hours,” he added. While the sale of vegetables and fruits will take place between 6am and 10pm, truck movement will be allowed in the market in the remaining hours. Rai, however, said that the odd-even rule, which was implemented to allow the sale of commodities on the alternate shop in each shed to maintain social distancing, would continue. The token system to restrict the entry of retailers will also remain in place. “Instead of 2,000 people each in morning and evening, we have now decided to allow to give 1,000 tokens every four hours to ensure there are lesser number of people inside the mandi at any given point in time,” Azadpur Agricultural Produce Market Committee chairman Adil Ahmad Khan said. To ensure that the new arrangements do not lead to sudden rush, the government has asked the traders to take necessary measures. It has also deployed four teams that will videorecord the functioning of the market. “Several civil defence volunteers and officers have been appointed to ensure the smooth functioning of the mandi. Sanitation staff have been roped in from all three corporations to maintain the hygiene. About 50 public announcement systems will frequently urge people to strictly follow social distancing,” Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board vice-chairman Sanjay Goel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restrictions-eased-azadpur-mandi-to-remain-open-24x7/articleshow/75261038.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Ancient ways to combat modern virus onslaught||LUCKNOW: Get up before sunrise to boost your immunity, do at least half an hour yoga, take a walk on terrace or inside the house and eat light meals as your physical activity has slowed down due to the lockdown. These are basic Ayurveda tools to stay happy and healthy at times like these. Also add to it an adequate sleep and lukewarm water to satiate your thirst throughout the day. In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the ministry of ayush has issued an advisory on boosting immunity and self care, with special reference to respiratory health. The recommendations are “supported by Ayurvedic literature and scientific publications.” The advisory said, “While there is no medicine for Covid-19 as of now, it will be good to take preventive measures which boost our immunity.” “We should have more protein and minimum carbohydrates in our daily diest these days. Eat less as physical activity is also less,” said Dr Shiv Shankar Tripathi, MD, Ayurveda. He said that getting up before sunrise and doing a half-an-hour workout will improve health. Workout during the daytime will have little or no effect. Also, special care has to be taken of the digestive system. Stomach upsets have to be avoided. “Dinner should be done by eight in the night,” said Dr Tripathi, former medical officer incharge (Ayurveda), Raj Bhawan. Diet should have a lot of fibre content also and 'munakka' (raisin) is a good natural source of it. Jaggery also improves digestion. Special care has to be taken of the respiratory tract. ‘Giloy’, tulsi, ajwain, haldi, dalchini, gur, garlic and kaali mirch help boost immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ancient-ways-to-combat-modern-virus-onslaught/articleshow/75240749.cms||Neha Shukla
April 20, 2020||Allahabad||Two arrested for theft in liquor shops||Prayagraj: Two men were arrested on Sunday for allegedly stealing Rs 1.60 lakh from two wine shops, under Sarayinayat police station. The accused Jitendra Bharatiya and Gaurav Yadav are residents of Tharwai and had been on the run after robbing the two shops in January first week. Police also recovered Rs 24,600, two 0.315 bore country-made pistols along with two live cartridges, a motorcycle, and two mobile phones from their possession. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said that the two were among a group of six who looted the two liquor shops in trans-Ganga area in January. The SSP said that Bharatiya had nine criminal cases pending against him in different police stations of the city. Police said they are looking for the four other accused — Babloo Pasi, Rinkoo alias Jhinkoo and Gore Yadav and Gufran — who were also involved in the loot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-arrested-for-theft-in-liquor-shops/articleshow/75238779.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Varanasi||Three more persons test corona +ve in Basti||GORAKHPUR: Three more patients including two students were found to be COVID-19 positive in Basti, informed Basti DM Ashutosh Niranjan. As many as 19 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Basti so far. Out of the 19, four were cured and one died. Hence, there are 14 positive cases in the district currently. “The two students of Deoband Saharanpur, aged 18 years and 16 years, are residents of Parsa Jafar under Purani Basti police station. The third positive patient is a 58-year-old man of Jagmohara village who gave shelter to nine people who attended the Tablighi Jamat event in Delhi. Among the nine attendees, two were found to be positive,” said the DM. “Jagmohara village is already a hotspot area and Parsa Jafar village has been sealed. A detailed door to door survey will be conducted there,” he added. Basti additional CMO Dr Fakhreyar Hussain told TOI that the three patients, already quarantined at Basti Medical College, would now be shifted to the level one hospital, Munderwa CHC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-more-persons-test-corona-ve-in-basti/articleshow/75238752.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Bridging the gap between guest workers & officials||Kochi: Earlier, they used to help police with traffic management under the scorching heat. With the lockdown coming into force, home guards are now bridging the gap between guest workers and government officials, thanks to their fluency in various languages. Home guards are among the multiple frontline forces fighting Covid-19 adorning various roles. The home guards along with police personnel visit camps of guest workers everyday, hear their complaints, enquire their well-being, address their anxieties and make sure they are within reach to extend any help to the migrant workforce. The home guards have also shared their mobile numbers with the workers to contact them in case of emergency. Some home guards have even formed whatsapp groups, where migrants can share their complaints or anxieties. “ We create awareness among them on Covid-19 and the need for social distancing. While visiting them, we enquire about the availability of food and other difficulties, if any, they face. In Oonnukal there are workers from West Bengal and Assam. As I served in the Army, I can speak Hindi and Bengali. Most of the workers want to return home. We tell them about the current situation in the country and the difficulties they will face once they reach home,” said Saju Alias, a home guard attached to Oonnukal police station. Ernakulam superintendent of police K Karthick said they have appointed 60 home guards in rural areas to help police interact with guest workers and ensure that they do not violate restrictions imposed as part of the lockdown. Home guards, have been asked to attend to the health issues of guest workers and arrange facilities to transport ailing workers to hospital. They also ensure the workers do not step out of their rented houses except for buying groceries. They have to report the daily developments to special branch officials in rural area and covid cells set up in city areas. “We have been updating the guest workers about successive orders of the state government concerning them. However, they keep asking asking us to arrange at least one vehicle to transport them to their states. We pacify them by saying that when even ambulances carrying patients are not allowed to cross borders, how can you reach your states by crossing all other states on the way,” said Sanil Kumar K R, a home guard, who attends a camp in Kundannoor where 433 migrants stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bridging-the-gap-between-guest-workers-officials/articleshow/75239061.cms||T C Sreemol
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Meat stalls closed for violating order||Madurai: Madurai corporation officials shut down 15 stalls selling fishes, chicken and mutton for violating the district administration’s order, on Sunday. District collector T G Vinay issued the order a couple of days ago as a precautionary measure to avoid people thronging the stalls. However, there is no ban on opening for sales on other week days. A team of officials consisting of sanitary officers Vijayakumar, Rajkannan, Veeran and Sivasubramaniyan conducted inspection to check whether meats shops are functioning illegally. They found 15 shops open in violation of the order and closed them. 385 kg of chicken and mutton and 255 kg of fish were seized and destroyed during the search. Meat stalls and seafood stalls were closed for the third consecutive Sunday as crowed went berserk to purchase them on the prior the prior Sunday (March 29). A police officer from the city unit said more people were seen on Sunday morning on the city roads to buy vegetables, fruits and essentials.  A good number of people came around the city to buy seafood and meat. They had to return empty-handed as most of the shops were closed. Some shops opened illegally were shut by corporation officials, he said. Police ensured that social distance is maintained at vegetable markets and stores selling essential items. Public address system was used widely to keep reminding people about the mandatory social distance for covid-19 virus prevention. A good number of people came around the city to buy seafood and meat. They had to return empty-handed as most of the shops were closed. Some shops opened illegally were shut by corporation officials, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meat-stalls-closed-for-violating-order/articleshow/75240442.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||50-year-old man travelling to Karnataka tests positive||KOLHAPUR: A 50-year-old man, who was travelling from Mumbai to Karnataka in a private truck with 29 others, has tested positive for Covid-19. Police intercepted the truck at Kini toll plaza, some 20km from the city, on Thursday. Most of the people travelling were residents of Karnataka. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said that there were quite a few women and children among the 27-odd travellers, besides the driver and two cleaners of the truck. District collector Daulat Desai said all of the 30 people were admitted in the isolation ward on Thursday and their throat swab samples were sent for testing to the laboratory in Miraj government hospital as a precuationary measure. The reports of 12 people arrived on Sunday, of which one person has tested positive for the contagion. “The positive patient has been put in the isolation ward and is being administered treatment. Those who have tested negative will be kept under institutional quarantine,” said Desai. He appreciated the district administration’s timely action in preventing the truck from reaching Karnataka and thereby contributing in containing the spread of the infection. Desai said that they have requested the officials at the Miraj testing laboratory to send the throat swab sample test results of the remaining people as soon as possible. No pillion-rider on two-wheeler Desai said that criminal cases would be lodged against all those who travel with a pillion-rider on a two-wheeler and take more than one person on a four-wheeler. The decision has been taken to prevent Covid-19 from spreading further. In a four-wheeler, the co-traveller will have to sit on the back seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/50-yr-old-man-travelling-to-ktaka-tests-positive/articleshow/75239958.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Lockdown lets physiotherapist learn a new skill: Martial arts!||VADODARA: Hectic college schedule did not allow physiotherapy student Krishna Kondhiya to learn martial arts, which she had been longing for years. Lockdown has, however, given her the opportunity to learn the self-defence art. Krishna is being trained by her younger brother Nikunj, who is a student of martial arts for the last three years. “It gives a lot of energy, increases confidence and also helps in self-protection so I always wanted to learn it, but due to studies I could never join a formal training course,” said Krishna, who lives in Ellora Park. As lockdown came into effect, Nikunj decided to train her in martial arts as well as other exercises. “I have learned stick rolling, push-up and even Surya Namaskar,” she added. “I am undergoing formal training for three years now and since everything is under lockdown, I am self-learning through videos on YouTube and helping my sister too,” Nikunj said. The brother-sister duo trains themselves every morning in the compound of their house. “The self-protecting techniques and exercise will also help her in strengthening her physique,” said Nikunj, who is doing a diploma engineering course from a private college in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lockdown-lets-physiotherapist-learn-a-new-skill-martial-arts/articleshow/75239134.cms||Bharat Pathak
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Ten Covid-19 patients to be discharged today||VIJAYAWADA: Ten Covid-19 patients in Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College have recovered and will be discharged on Monday morning, as per Krishna district adminitration. The number of Covid-19 positive cases touched 75 on Sunday in Krishna district. Of them five patients have recovered and have been discharged after testing negative twice. Another ten patients will be discharged on Monday. Speaking to TOI, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said “Around 80% of Covid-19 patients from the district are below the age of 35 years. Recovery rate in them is high. A majority of the patients being treated at Vijayawada GGH and Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Medical College are stable. Around ten patients tested negative for two consecutive days and will be discharged,” Imtiaz said. “We hope more patients will recover soon,” Imtiaz added. Meanwhile, 103 suspected cases were admitted in the government hospitals till date. Altogether 3,905 patients have been testes, 2,606 patients have tested negative and reports of around 1,224 cases are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ten-patients-to-be-discharged-today/articleshow/75239050.cms||Venu Lanka
April 20, 2020||Kochi||This kitchen garden challenge is an instant hit||Kochi: In order to ensure that people are staying home, Ernakulam rural police have come up with a social media challenge called ‘Kitchen Garden Challenge’ that aims at improving self-reliance among the residents and to keep them engaged at home during the lockdown. The challenge was announced through the official Facebook page of the rural police chief on Wednesday. Police shared images of the Rural SP K Karthick along with his son tending to the kitchen garden at SP’s camp office premises to challenge residents to follow and post pictures of their kitchen garden or the garden produce as comments on the post. Learning to be self-reliant is the aim of this challenge, police said in the post announcing the challenge. “We have been in lockdown for nearly three weeks now and it is quite possible for people to get restless. Through the challenge, we are promoting kitchen gardening so that people would have a hobby to keep themselves engaged, which will eventually help in lockdown enforcement. Also, they would become more self-reliant when the vegetables start coming to the dining table from your own backyard,” said a senior officer. The rural SP is not just preaching. He regularly takes care of his garden so much so that the vegetables for policemen attached with the police headquarters on Vishu came from SP’s garden. Kitchen garden at the camp office has a variety of veggies like egg plants, cucumber, cabbage, chilly and even coriander. After the rural police put forward the challenge, several persons have already taken it up and have started commenting on the challenge post with images from their kitchen gardens. The post already has images of over 100 such gardens from across the district, posted as comments. Rural police have not only put up the challenge, but have also roped in celebrities to promote it. On Friday, actress Pearle Maaney shared a video encouraging people to join the challenge, while actor-director Renji Panicker shared a video in support on Saturday. Police said that they have lined up other actors as well to encourage people to take up the challenge in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-kitchen-garden-challenge-is-an-instant-hit/articleshow/75239093.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Haleem may not taste the same this Ramzan||VIJAYAWADA: This Ramzan, mouthwatering delicacy haleem may not be easily available in AP. Those engaged in haleem business in Vizag, Vijayawada, Guntur and other areas of the state normally hire haleem masters from Hyderabad, paying them somewhere between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh a month. But this year, the Covid-19 lockdown has raised doubts over setting up of haleem counters. S Zuber of ‘Dil Se Hyderabadi’ haleem outlet in Vizag said even if the lockdown is lifted after May 3, it is difficult to sell haleem as the government may not allow sale through restaurant counters. Some leading restaurants and haleem outlets in Vizag, Vijayawada and other cities are also chalking out plans to prepare haleem after the lockdown and provide door delivery service. “Hyderabadi haleem is a favourite of Andhraites and a majority of haleem lovers are non-Muslims. Even if restrictions are lifted after May 3, the number of haleem counters will be less and many may offer takeaway or deliver through food apps,” Zuber said. The lockdown has posed other problems too. “Normally, much before Ramzan, we procure special herbs from Delhi and other parts of the country to give a unique taste and flavor to haleem. This year, due to the lockdown, we failed to buy the herbs. The taste and flavour may not be perfect this time,” haleem masters Rasool and Jaleel said. The regular haleem customers, who wait the whole year to have the delicacy during Ramzan, are also downcast. “Ramzan is usually the time when we go out at night to relish mutton haleem at various restaurants in Vijayawada. This year I may not get that chance, not just because of lockdown, but because we need to observe social distancing too. Haleem is best enjoyed in groups, which might not be possible this year,” said Vijayawada resident Kiran Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/haleem-may-not-taste-the-same-this-ramzan/articleshow/75239087.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Over 7,000 community kitchens, shelter homes across Uttar Pradesh geo-tagged||LUCKNOW: The state government has geo-tagged 7,368 community kitchens and shelter homes across 75 districts and forged tie-up with Google to ‘geo-map’ these locations over Google Maps app to zoom in and track even remote locations through coordinates for seamless food distribution. Relief commissioner Sanjay Goyal said, the state government had anticipated the fallout of the coronavirus crisis early and successfully established community kitchens by mobilising the state machinery and ploughing in state resources on a massive scale. This was achieved by reaching out to civil society, religious establishments and non-governmental organisations. Currently, these kitchens are producing 12 lakh food packets every day. More than two crore food packets have been distributed in Uttar Pradesh since March 25 when the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Of 7,368 operation community kitchens, 668 are being run by NGOs or religious institutions. Goyal said one of the biggest problems faced by the state was lack of information among beneficiaries to locate shelter homes and community kitchens. The government, Goyal said, directed the department of information technology to hammer out a solution. The IT department, in turn, approached Remote Sensing Applications Center (RSAC), Lucknow. RSAC promptly developed an app by feeding location data as per latitudes and longitudes of community kitchens and shelter homes across the state. The app will help guide beneficiaries to the nearest centre. At the same time Google was roped in to provide geo-location of all such centers through Google Maps application. The data on such facilities will go live on Google Maps in next couple of days. It will also come in handy even after the lockdown as majority of these shelter homes will be operating on reduced capacity curbs are lifted and pandemic eases out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-7000-community-kitchens-shelter-homes-across-state-geo-tagged/articleshow/75240757.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Allahabad||Aarogya Setu gets boost from Prayagraj cops||Prayagraj: In an attempt to enforce lockdown strictly in the city, police on Sunday checked two and four-wheeler riders in different parts of the city and challaned over 600 on the charges of loitering aimlessly. Police not only asked all violators to download Aarogya Setu App but asked to advise at least three of their acquaintances for downloading the app. SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Apart from deployment of police force, five special police teams have been roped in to maintain strict watch at alll nook and corner of the city”. Those found violating the lockdown orders and loitering on streets were not only taught a lesson but also asked to download AarogyaSetuapp., he added and claimed that around 2000 people have downloaded the app. Meanwhile, additional mobile police pickets have been deployed at inter-district bordering areas. Strict vigilance has also been maintained in old city pockets where police used drones to keep a tab in narrow streets. Police have also arrested 55 persons after lodging 14 FIRs in different parts of the city like Soraon, Holagarh, Mauaima, Baharia, Saratinayat, Naini, Koraon, Mutthiganj and Kareli in the past 24 hours against those found violating the lockdown rules. ” Over 90 persons were booked under section 188 of the IPC which covers violation of section 144 of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/aarogya-setu-gets-boost-from-prayagraj-cops/articleshow/75238805.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||CP worried about rise in +ve cases in red zones||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Sunday expressed concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases, especially in red zones. He said the reason for it is that people are not adhering to the lockdown. The city commissioner made the observation while he was at Kummaripalem, a red zone, reviewing the situation. The police chief visited red zones across the city on Sunday. He observed that although people in the red zones have been restricted from move out of the containment area, they are still roaming around within the containment zone. In order to impose the lockdown more stringently in the red zones, the city police have launched mobile teams and are using drones to monitor people’s movement. Tiruamala Rao said, an analysis of the recent cases highlighted that the patients neither had a history of foreign travel nor did they have anything to do with the religious congregation in Delhi. The only thing common among them is that they all went out in the neighbourhood to shop. The assumption is that they might have come into contact with asymptomatic virus carriers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cp-worried-about-rise-in-ve-cases-in-red-zones/articleshow/75239071.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops received 522 DV calls since Mar 22||Hyderabad: Amid Covid-19 lockdown in the city, Cyberabad police have received over 500 domestic violence-related calls since March 22. According to police, as many as 522 calls were received through dial 100 and WhatsApp complaints. Out of this, a total of 455 cases were resolved through tele-counselling. During the lockdown period, the Cyberabad police registered nine domestic violence-related cases, while 13 cases were referred to She Team and 14 were referred to Bharosa Center for counselling. As many as 31 calls were either out of coverage area or went unattended. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a dedicated team from Women and Children Safety Wing, Cyberabad has been assigned for collecting facts of all domestic violence communication . The team has been approaching all the complainants via the phone. If the issue is not resolved, the case is taken up by the concerned She Team in-charge and necessary action is initiated. “Counselling is conducted telephonically based on the case by social counselors, legal counsellor and clinical psychologist of Bharosa Center, Cyberabad,” said DCP C Anasuya. The officer advised women who are facing domestic violence, stalking or sexual harassment, to report immediately by dialing 100 or 9490617261. The victims can also send a complaint through WhatsApp on 9490617444 or 9490617261.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyberabad-cops-received-522-dv-calls-since-mar-22/articleshow/75240789.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||May take 2-3 days for production to start: Industrialists||Nagpur: As the lockdown will be partially eased, the MIDC’s industrial estates at Butibori and Hingna as well as the Mihan-SEZ are expected to begin.“It may still take 2-3 days for the actual production to start,” said industrialists. Sources said the first day may see lukewarm response.Earlier, there was a confusion whether the lockdown can be lifted in Nagpur as the state government’s order has put a condition that workers from hotspots and containment zones cannot be allowed. As Nagpur itself is categorized as a hotspot, there were questions whether the workers from the entire district or the city will be permitted to work at all. However, district collector Ravindra Thakre, later in the evening, clarified that the area within the jurisdiction of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is a hotspot. Industries outside can start but subject to certain conditions for which they will have to give an undertaking.Majority of the central government offices which are within the NMC limits too are expected to start. In the central government offices, all officers of deputy secretary level will have to compulsorily report to work with 30% staff of rest of the cadre to come on a rotational basis.As TOI talked to officials in three major central government departments, it was told that the offices would start. Though only staffers residing in the containment zones within the city will not be taken in.The MIDC has opened a portal for the industrialists to give a self-declaration that the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid down for coronavirus protection will be adhered to.Chinmay Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries Association (MIA) at Hingna, said, less than half of the industries are expected to start on the first day. As the industries were closed for a month, the first day will go in disinfecting the area and arranging curfew passes for the workers to reach the factories.An official in Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) said major players like Mahindra and Mahindra which have a unit here are preparing to start operations from MondayA source in the Butibori Manufactures’ Association said even as industries coming under the essential services are continuing, only a selected units are expected to start. This is because even if the factories can be started, the markets in the cities are closed. So, units whose products go to the retail market may remain closed as well.In Mihan, permission has been granted to the units to continue with 20% of workforce. The units will not be allowed to operate in night shifts, a source said.The form for giving a self declaration was uploaded by 5pm. Only one part of the format was uploaded, said Shegaonkar of MIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/may-take-2-3-days-for-production-to-start-industrialists/articleshow/75239967.cms||Shishir Arya
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Ten more test +ve, Satranjipura cases touch 40||Nagpur: Ten more persons from the city tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday taking the district’s total to 73. Nine of these are connected to 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, city’s first coronavirus victim, taking total positive cases from this single one to 40 which is nearly 55% of total cases in the district. One positive person is from Mominpura from where total cases have increased to 11.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “One of the ten positive persons is an attendant at clinic where deceased used to visit for treatment and situated at Satranjipura itself. Samples of this patient were negative when he was quarantined. Now, his second sample has tested positive.” The patient is a 35-year-old woman and a resident of Patwapura slum situated under containment zone of Satranjipura. She along with doctor and one more attendant were quarantined on April 6, the day on which deceased’s reports came positive. He died at IGGMCH on April 5. The deceased was taking treatment from the doctor since April 1.Reports of all three were negative when they were quarantined. Reports of latest samples of doctor and one more attendant are awaited as per NMC officials.The samples were taken for the second time as some who had tested negative completed 14 days in institutional quarantine.NMC quarantined family members of the woman on Sunday. She became third person from the district who tested negative in first sample and positive in second. Two earlier cases were of a youth from Gittikhadan and a retired WCL employee from Kanhan.Two of remaining nine positive persons are relatives of the deceased and a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar and adjoining Kundanlal Gupta Nagar. Rajiv Gandhi Nagar was already notified as containment zone as one of the relatives from here had tested positive. Thus, number of cases in this containment zone has increased to three.Six positive persons are distant relatives and neighbours from the same area who had visited the deceased when he fell sick and was at home.As of Saturday, total number of persons traced and quarantined in this case in 192 of which 40 are positive. Twenty two are family members and remaining 18 distant relatives and contacts of the deceased. Reports of 144 (first sample of a few and second sample of many) are awaited.Tenth positive person (35) is a resident of Mominpura.NMC Mahal-Gandhibagh Zonal Medical Officer Dr Khwaja Moinuddin said, “This person was taking care of food and other requirements of seven Jabalpur-based Tablighi Jamaatis (TJs) during their stay at Darul Falah at Takia Deewanshah,” he said.TJs had tested positive on April 12 and 13. Before TJs, a cap seller from the same area had tested positive on April 4. The NMC had traced and quarantined all people in contact with them. The 42-year-old who tested positive on Saturday was also connected with TJs.Khwaja said, “Some from Jama Masjid and Darul Salah were quarantined in the last two days. Number of persons quarantined from Mominpura has crossed over 100,” he said.The positive cases from Satranjipura and Mominpura are now at 51 which is 69.86% of total cases in the district. Twelve positive persons were discharged after recovery of whom the cap seller was quarantined again for not violating quarantine norms.Mundhe said, “Increase in number of positive persons is worrying. People should stay at home and become warriors instead of enemy. Satranjipura case alone has contributed a large number of cases. We did not get proper information from family members. We could trace and quarantine 192 persons in connection with Satranjipura case. It helped in finding large number of positive cases and containing the spread.”IAN* Ten new cases registered on Sunday* One is attendant at clinic where Satranjipura deceased used to take treatment* Two are relatives of deceased and residents of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar and Kundanlal Gupta Nagar. Rajiv Gandhi Nagar is already a containment zone* Six are distant relatives and neighbours of Satranjipura victim* Total cases with Satranjipura connection increased to 40 of which 22 are family members and 18 distant relatives and close contacts of the deceased* Tenth positive person is from Mominpura and connected with seven Jabalpur-based Tablighi Jamaatis who had tested positive on April 12 and 13* Number of positive cases from Mominpura now 11* Total positive cases in district now at 73||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ten-more-test-ve-satranjipura-cases-touch-40/articleshow/75239979.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh forms panel to explore employment for 5 lakh migrants||LUCKNOW: A day after announcing creation of jobs for migrants under the MNREGS, UP government on Sunday decided to form a high-level committee to look into the possibility of reviving rural economy by creating jobs for around 5 lakh people who arrived in UP after the start of the lockdown. The decision was taken at a meeting presided over by CM Yogi Adityanath, said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, adding that the committee would be headed by agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha and would comprise principal secretaries of rural development, panchayati raj, MSMEs and skill development departments. “The committee will find ways to revive the rural economy while generating employment opportunities,” he said. The committee is expected to submit a plan by Tuesday. The committee, Awasthi said, would look into all the parameters, including boosting rural development activities and projects related to small scale industries, besides providing training to youth under PM Employment Guarantee Scheme, Mukhyamantri employment generation scheme and one district one product (ODOP) scheme. The committee, he said, would also be entrusted with the job of organising loan fairs with the help of banks in rural areas so that more youth get employment opportunities. CM Yogi told the official to track the migrants who arrived in UP in the past 45 days. He said that the increase in revolving fund by the Centre may be utilized to give boost to women self help groups. He said that products manufactured by women SHGs may be marketed under ODOP scheme. The CM said the state government was committed to provide help to street vendors who have been deprived of their livelihood following the lockdown. UP government’s decision to set up a special committee to revive rural economy comes cafter the PMO and cabinet secretariat asked the state government to resume permission economic activity to the maximum possible level. Sources said the main reason for putting in an extra week after April 14, the last day of lockdown-1, was to allow local administration to place development protocols to ensure work is carried out without violating social distancing norms. Awasthi said the state government distributed around 36 lakh litres of milk in the past 24 hours. Besides, more than 46,000 vehicles were roped in to distribute fruits, vegetables and grocery through 21,827 Kirana stores with the help of more than 50,000 people. ‘Areas with over 10 corona cases won’t open’The CM has directed principal secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad not to allow opening of areas from where 10 or more Corona cases have been reported. He also stressed on providing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) Kits and N-95 masks to doctors, nurses and paramedic staff engaged in treatment of corona cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-forms-panel-to-explore-employment-for-5l-migrants/articleshow/75240759.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Snatching incidents take a dip in city||Madurai: In a rather uplifitng news in the lockdown period, the chain snatching incidents in the city have taken a huge dip. Only one incident has been reported in Madurai city in the last four weeks, since the lockdown was announced. In the lone case reported, an unidentified duo, who came on a bike, snatched a chain from a 38-year-old woman from Villapuram in the wee hours of Friday, when she ventured out to purchase vegetables. According to official data, the average number of snatching incidents in the city a week was 1.25 and 2.5 in 2019 and 2018 respectively. Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham said that even habitual chain snatchers have been staying indoors as they risk getting caught easily if they were operate in the open, with the curfew restrictions in place. Chain snatchers require anonymity, while going about commiting crimes. They mingle with the crowd and take cover to go about their business. With not many people on the streets, their cover would be blown easily, he said. With police personnel posted at many spots around the city, it would be really hard for the chain snatchers to escape. Increase in the number of CCTV cameras has also helped deter such untoward incidents, the commissioner said. Another police officer said that Madurai city was once notorious for chain snatching incidents. While 173 snatching incidents took place in 2017, it came down to 66 in 2019 due to various steps taken by the police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/snatching-incidents-take-a-dip-in-city/articleshow/75240445.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Will frame rules for carrot washing units’||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The tragic incident of a woman worker getting killed after her head was severed by the rolling blades of a carrot washing machine near Ketti Palada in the Nilgiris on Saturday has exposed how such units have been functioning in the district with hardly any safety measures in place. There are more than 40 such units in the Nilgiris. They need only a clearance certificate from the pollution control board to function, that too since the past one year. Otherwise, they needn’t have to obtain any licence from any government department. Apart from individual units, farmer producer companies that are attached to the horticulture department are also running carrot washing machine units in the district. It is considered a commercial activity related to agri processing. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “There have always been complaints about carrot washing machine units letting out sewage in the open, polluting waterbodies close to them. After inspection, we had asked them to set up treatment plants and leave only the treated water out.” She said four units were sealed in last February as they didn’t set up treatment plants. “The Saturday’s incident has underlined the need to frame a set of rules to ensure that these units are implementing certain safety measures,” Divya said. She said the district administration would come up with guidelines for the units in consultation with the agri marketing department. “The rules will cover every aspect of functioning of these units from dress code to duty allocation to ensure the safety of workers.” Carrot washing machines were introduced in the district some two decades ago. Some of them are imported ones. Earlier, carrots were washed manually in the fields itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/will-frame-rules-for-carrot-washing-units/articleshow/75239977.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Madurai||GRH staff made to ensure social distancing at bus stop after duty||Madurai: The workers at the Government Rajaji Hospital, where Covid-19 positive cases have been admitted, were made to ensure social distancing while waiting for their bus as they were previously found standing close to each other after finishing their shifts at the hospital. This move came after TOI published an article in this regard, which appeared on Sunday. Health workers are the most vulnerable as far as the Covid-19 crisis is concerned and the doctors and paramedics working in the isolation wards are made to stay in hotels during their weekly shifts to ensure that they do not come into contact with their families while taking care of the patients. But, other workers and sanitary workers, who are not in direct contact with the patients, are being transported through special TNSTC buses from their homes every day. These workers are working within the hospital. On Saturday, they were found standing close to each other outside the GRH building while waiting for the buses. TOI reported the same and also took it to the notice of the district administration. On Sunday, a police official was stationed at the gates and he kept making announcements on the public address system as soon as the specific bus arrived at the bus stop. The staff was asked to form a queue with a one meter distance from each other and avoid contact. The immediate action by the district administration to ensure the safety of the workers was welcomed by the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-staff-made-to-ensure-social-distancing-at-bus-stop-after-duty/articleshow/75240448.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Question mark over functioning of central govt offices in Madurai||Madurai: While it was stated that Central government offices in the state would start functioning from April 20, the Madurai district administration is awaiting clear instructions from the state government. Sources at the Madurai Railway division said that they were in the process of resuming work from Monday, when they received a communication saying that the state government would take a decision on functioning of offices and industries, based on the expert committee’s report, which is submitted to it. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay said that they expect to get clear guidelines on this from the government on Monday. He also said that even if offices are permitted to function, workers and employees living in the containment zones in the district would not be given passes. Some post office employees have said that they would report for duty, as directed by the chief postmaster general. They had raised their concerns with the heads, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/question-mark-over-functioning-of-central-govt-offices-in-madurai/articleshow/75240453.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Allahabad||RSS volunteers pray to defeat coronavirus||PRAYAGRAJ: Lakhs of Rastriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) volunteers sang Bharat Mata Vandana in chorus and recited Sangh prayers on Sunday to generate satvik (positive) energy in the universe to defeat Covid-19 virus and for welfare of all human beings. RSS members, volunteers and their families recited Bharat Mata and Sangh Prathana (prayers) at their homes during Kutumb shakha while following social distancing norms. A senior RSS functionary told TOI, “We organised a Saamuhik Shakti Jagran in which lakhs of organisation members, volunteers and their families recited Bharat Mata Vandana and Sangh prathana (prayers) at their homes.” “This was the first time when lakhs of volunteers, workers and their family members prayed for the welfare of the world,” he said. “We wish to defeat the Covid- 19 virus by generating satvik energy by reciting prayers. It would help in welfare of all human beings,” said another senior functionary. RSS had taken up a massive campaign on social media to make the event a mega success. All the active members and volunteers of organisation connected online and offline to ensure that the prayers are recited in every household and no volunteer family is left and. On March 15, all RSS workers had recited the Mahamrityunjaya mantra 108 times at their homes and also held yajna for the welfare of the country. The RSS volunteers are holding Kutumb shakha at their homes without a miss. The events assume importance since people rang bells, clapped and lit diyas and candles in solidarity with the health workers at the forefront of fight against Covid-19 on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rss-volunteers-pray-to-defeat-coronavirus/articleshow/75238880.cms||Kapil Dixit
April 20, 2020||Kanpur||HRD min praises IIT-K tech role in corona fight||Kanpur: Union minister for human resource development Ramesh Pokhriyal has praised IIT-Kanpur’s faculty and students for their constant efforts to fight the current pandemic through technological solutions and social initiatives. “The hard-working faculty & students of IIT Kanpur are giving their best to help in the Fight Against Coronavirus. We want to take this opportunity to appreciate their efforts for helping the nation combat Covid-19,” he tweeted. He also shared a video mentioning the various research initiatives undertaken by IIT Kanpur in the fight against this virus. “I would like to thank HRM and the Ministry for their support and the IIT Kanpur team for putting the extraordinary effort to make all of this happen in such a short time,” said Prof Abhay Karandikar, Director, IIT Kanpur. IIT-K researchers have been working to develop different ways to tackle the spread of coronavirus. From protective gear for healthcare workers to helping daily wage workers, the institute has been able to substantially contribute in the country’s collective fight against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/hrd-min-praises-iit-k-tech-role-in-corona-fight/articleshow/75239312.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Rapid testing kits on way to all south dists||Madurai: Covid-19 rapid antibody testing kits are slowly making their way to all southern districts and testing has begun in Madurai and Dindigul districts so far using them. Each of the districts has received as many as 1,000 rapid testing kits with which results can be obtained in 15 minutes. The testing is set to be done on priority covering all contacts of Covid-19 positive patients, health workers and police personnel in containment areas. On Saturday and Sunday, 61 tests were done in Madurai district alone using these kits and all returned negative. Rapid testing kicked off in Dindigul at Poochinayakanpatti urban primary health centre. A total of 20 health care workers were screened using the kits and all tested negative. Dindigul district administration is set to speed up testing in containment areas where about 100 people are being screened every day. Rapid testing will begin soon uniformly in all districts on arrival of the kits.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rapid-testing-kits-on-way-to-all-south-dists/articleshow/75240464.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Amid lockdown, teachers stay in touch with students over phone||Madurai: Many teachers and principals from various government, government-aided and private schools across the district are actively reaching out to their pupils through phone calls or WhatsApp. The teachers are trying to engage the children, create awareness about COVID-19 and generally cheer them up. One of the teachers from Y Othakadai Government Primary School, Moses said, “We have a WhatsApp group and we encourage students to participate in creative activity and competitions online. Every class teacher is also talking to their students and parents over phone and sharing how they are spending their time.” Several other government school teachers are also following similar ways to bond with their students despite lockdown. With Class X students likely to write their board exams post lockdown, many schools are following up and engaging with such students so they don’t get laidback due to the prevailing uncertainty. “Teachers are always open to clearing doubts and we had given our contact numbers to all students. However, while some students voluntarily seek help to study, some don’t come forward unless you push them so it has become a necessity to reach out to students. Sometimes, such calls can bring a smile to your face when students start enthusiastically talking about their time at home or discuss what’s happening in lockdown,” said Ramesh C, a Class X science teacher. At Al-Ameen Higher Secondary School, K Pudur, which has strength of 700 students, all teachers have been calling up every single one of them to check in on them. “We wanted teachers to encourage students to study and be productive during this lockdown. We also wanted to create awareness about COVID-19 and ask students to follow all preventive measures. Apart from that, such calls can spread positivity that teachers care so much,” said S Sheikh Nabi, the school headmaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/amid-lockdown-teachers-stay-in-touch-with-students-over-phone/articleshow/75240457.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Donated PPE kits under scanner after poor quality complaints||KOLHAPUR: The district administration has been forced to check the quality of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits being donated to them after the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital reported that the PPE supplied to the institute are of poor quality. Since the last few weeks, various organisations and individuals are donating PPE kits to the district administration that are subsequently being delivered to the doctors and nurses working in the isolation wards with Covid-19 patients. However, the nurses at CPR have complained that some of the kits they received were already damaged along with discomfort while wearing them. The administration has reported that the kits donated are of uniform size that does not fit all the health staff. A senior district health official said, "Most of the kits currently in use were received through donations. We have decided to get the quality of the kits checked before using them. We have also found that the masks donated to us are not as per the requirement. We are going to appeal to the donors to ensure that they check the quality of the equipment before donation." The official also said that same quality checks are required for kits donated to private doctors. "Due to lack of PPE, many doctors have shut their clinics and the staff in big hospitals are reluctant to work. Currently, their is shortage of the PPE owing to which the administration decided to provide the kits to the health staff involved in treating and screening of Covid-19 patients," he added. Several local manufacturers have also started producing PPE kits. The administration has asked them to get their products certified before providing it to the medicos. Yuvraj Ghorpade, a garment manufacturer from the textile town of Ichalkaranji, said he has started making PPE kits at his facility. "I have sent some kits to the government for certification. The PPE kits manufacture requires special material and I have procured the same from a certified supplier in Coimbatore," he said. "As per guidelines, the sneeze or cough droplets should not pass through the layers of the PPE. Along with repellent capacity, the material should be such that it can be reused after putting in warm water after half-an-hour. It is only for those involved in survey of suspect patients. For doctors and nurses, the PPE kits should be disposed after use," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/donated-ppe-kits-under-scanner-after-poor-quality-complaints/articleshow/75239981.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Salem||DMK workers violate curfew rules, booked||Salem: Police have booked A Prabhu, son of late DMK heavyweight Veerapandi S Arumugam, for violating curfew rules on Sunday. Police said that Prabhu had along with a group of DMK men visited rural areas without obtaining government permission and gave groceries to the villagers. Prabhu as well as other DMK men had failed to wear mask as mandated and did not maintain social distancing norms, police said. Based on a complaint from village administrative officer of Nilavarapatti, police booked Prabhu under two IPC sections including 269 (negligent act likely to spread disease). A few more DMK functionaries including Salem east district in charge S R Sivalingam were booked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dmk-workers-violate-curfew-rules-booked/articleshow/75239984.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Corpn likely to resume work on smart cities mission projects||Trichy: Using available raw materials and manpower, Trichy Corporation is likely to resume construction work on stalled smart cities mission projects this week onwards. Except for Chathiram bus stand redevelopment project, all other smart cities mission projects were put on hold following the lockdown. With 25 projects proposed under the smart cities mission by Trichy Corporation, the civic body had completed two projects while around 13 proposals are in the execution phase. As the civil work for underground drainage (UGD) project, Uyyakondan riverfront development and multi-level car Parking (MLCP) are progressing, the Covid-19 lockdown had stalled the progress of the smart city projects. But the civic body with the workers stationed in Chathiram bus stand redevelopment site had been making minor progress in the proposal even during the lockdown. “Social distancing was ensured at the bus stand’s work site. The workers were provided commodities to cook food on their own,” an official source said. As the Indian government is mulling to partially relax the lockdown from April 20, corporation sources said that they have received instructions to consider resuming the smart cities mission construction work by ensuring mandatory Covid-19 precautionary measures. Since the raw materials required for the construction projects are available within the worksites, the civic body plans to rope in the available skilled workers to restart the projects. But, few projects including the commercial complex coming up at Thillai Nagar have exhausted their raw materials. The resumption of biomining in Ariyamangalam dumpyard depends on the functioning of cement plants as a section of waste segregated at the dump yard is being sent to the cement factories for reuse. “As Amma canteens are functioning, we can arrange food for the labourers. Social distancing will be followed sincerely while resuming the work,” a senior official with the corporation said. Periodical health check-up will be conducted for the workers to be involved in civil work. Underground drainage and Purathana park redevelopment works are among the smart cities mission projects likely to resume in a week. The urban local body has made efforts to avail curfew passes for the labourers. Apart from the smart cities mission projects, Trichy Corporation utilising the deserted roads during the lockdown has also expedited the construction work for Karur bypass road widening work. Smart cities mission projects Total projects under smart cities mission: 25 Completed: 2 Execution stage: 13 DPR preparation stage: 3 Source: MoHUA, Jan 2020. Some of the Smart cities mission projects: 1) Biomining the Ariyamangalam dump yard 2) Thillai Nagar commercial complex 3) Uyyakondan riverfront development 4) WB road multi-level car parking||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-likely-to-resume-work-on-smart-cities-mission-projects/articleshow/75240463.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli registers first death due to Covid-19||KOLHAPUR: Sangli city registered its first death due to Covid-19 after a 47-year-old man, admitted to Miraj-based Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Friday, succumbed to the disease on Sunday evening. According to district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary, the patient died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which is a type of respiratory failure, generally characterised by rapid onset of widespread inflammation in the lungs. "The patient was already in a critical stage from Sunday morning and was also put on ventilator. Our staff did everything they could, but the patient succumbed to the infection on Sunday evening," he said. Chaudhary told TOI that the deceased had no travel history and had consulted a private physician on Thursday and got admitted to GMCH on Friday. "The said patient was a resident of Vijaynagar area of the city and the entire area has been declared as containment zone. The intensive disinfection drive is underway across the area and the vehicular movement is shunned. The District Rapid Response Team (DRRT) has been deployed to identify the close contacts associated with the index patient," he said. The deceased was the 26th Covid-19 positive case in Sangli. At present only one case is active, while 24 have recovered from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-registers-first-death-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/75239988.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur town records its first case||VADODARA: Chhota Udepur town registered its first case of coronavirus on Sunday taking the total number of cases in the district to seven. The 31-year-old patient Sohail Ranger is a resident of station road in Vasedi locality, district administration officials said. After Ranger’s reports arrived, Vasedi area was put under cluster quarantine on Sunday evening. The administration and health department are trying to establish Ranger’s epidemiological connection. However, preliminary investigation revealed that Ranger has not been in Chhota Udepur since April 15. “Although he lives here, he went to Godhra on April 15. He developed health issues there following which he got admitted at Savita Hospital on Waghodia Road in Vadodara,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra. At the hospital in Vadodara, he was suspected to be affected by the virus and so his samples were collected. So far, all cases in Chhota Udepur district were reported from Bodeli town. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-town-records-its-first-case/articleshow/75239189.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Khambhat man dies, woman tests positive in Anand district||VADODARA/ANAND: Anand district recorded its second Covid-19 related death as a 54-year-old man from Khambhat’s Aling crossroads area passed away on Sunday. Dinesh Halvasanwala, admitted at Karamsad’s Shree Krishna Hospital, was also suffering from diabetes and epilepsy. He was admitted at the hospital on April 13. It is second death that the district has recorded. Earlier, a 45-year-old male, a resident of Umreth town’s Vohravad area, had passed away in Kheda district. The man passed away at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad. Meanwhile, number of Covid-19 positive cases in Anand district has reached 26 as a 30-year-old female from Aling crossroads area of Khambhat tested positive for the virus on Sunday. Khambhat’s Aling crossroads has been declared a containment zone since over a week. The female, who has tested positive, is wife of a Covid-19 positive patient. She has been admitted at Cambay General hospital, Khambhat where her condition is said to be stable. Of the 26 positive cases, three have been discharged after full recovery while two have died. There are 13 patients currently under treatment at Anand Civil Hospital, seven at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad and one at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad. Of these, three patients are currently being treated with oxygen support while 18 others are normal. So far, samples of 305 individuals have tested negative in the district. While 1,507 people are under home quarantine, 51 have been quarantined at government facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/khambhat-man-dies-woman-tests-positive-in-anand-district/articleshow/75239169.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Birders ready with draft of Coimbatore City Bird Atlas||Coimbatore: A team of city-based birdwatchers have prepared the first draft of the Coimbatore City Bird Atlas, which will give information on the distribution of bird species in urban spaces. The citizen science project is the first-of-its-kind in the state, coordinators said. While the number of birders in the city has increased, their recordings are scattered. An atlas will present comprehensive and scientific information and can be used as basis for informed conservation work, they said.The project had been in talks for a long time, said T Arulvelan, a veterinarian and a coordinator. “We decided to get to work towards the end of last year and started contacting birders across the state and experts from the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (Sacon). Initially, 115 birders from the state registered for the project. We selected 74 who were mainly from in and around the city,” he said.For the survey, the cityscape was divided into 37 cells of 3.3 sqkm each. The cells were further divided into nine sub-cells of 1.1 sqkm each. The volunteer birders recorded birds for 15 minutes in three of the sub-cells. Surveys were conducted from February 22 to March 18 from 6am to 10am. The teams recorded 142 bird species. The report contains the frequency of the birds and visualisation on the city map. The coordinators got in touch with the team behind the Kerala Bird Atlas for inputs and were also inspired by the Mysore City Bird Atlas.Two of the most commonly spotted birds were house crow and common myna with 89% of frequency, said K Selvaganesh, a school teacher and a coordinator. “The teams also spotted some rare birds such as slaty-breasted rail and ashy drongo with a frequency of 0.68%, and red-necked falcon with 2.03%,” he told TOI.The data will help determine whether a species is flourishing or diminishing. P Jeganathan of Bird Count India, a project advisor, said the project used a standard survey method. “In this method, the frequency of reporting of a bird species we get now can be compared with what we get years later. Based on that, we can decide whether it is increasing or decreasing.”The data will also help in sustainable policymaking and in initiatives like the smart cities mission, said Rajah Jayapal, an ornithologist and a senior principal scientist at Sacon. “We will be able to know whether population of a bird species has increased or decreased and in what proportion. From that, we will be able to ascertain the effect of landscape-level changes on the species,” he said.This is only the initial step in the project, said P Pramod, principal scientist at Sacon, another advisor. “The first round concluded reasonably well. More work is needed to refine the atlas so that we can get the dynamics of the city,” he said. Selvaganesh said they will continue the survey for three more years. “What we have done is the first round. We plan to do it once in six months for three years. Apart from individuals, environmental organisations in the city such as the Coimbatore Nature Society, Osai, Arulagam, WWF-India and Western Ghats Wildlife Conservation Trust supported the project,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/birders-ready-with-draft-of-coimbatore-city-bird-atlas/articleshow/75239997.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||Process Covid-19 claims in 2 hours, regulator tells health insurers||BENGALURU: The insurance regulator has asked companies providing health cover to approve hospital claims for cashless treatment of policyholders within two hours and has warned of strict action in case of non-compliance. Insurers have also been asked to set up a 24/7 mechanism for processing requests — so that late-night admissions also do not suffer. In a circular released on Sunday, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India told insurers that they must put in place systems and procedures to ensure authorisations and claim settlement on a 24-hour basis. “Decision on final discharge shall be communicated to the network provider within two hours from the time of receipt of the final bill and last requirement from the hospital either to the insurer or to the third-party administrator (TPA) whichever is earlier,” said the regulator. Earlier, industry-practice was to work normal business hours. IRDAI said it will be closely monitoring time taken for each cashless request — after complaints that TPAs, insurers and officials were not being proactive in a pandemic like doctors, nurses and hospital staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/process-covid-19-claims-in-2-hours-regulator-tells-health-insurers/articleshow/75240878.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Toll collection on highways to resume today||TRICHY/CHENNAI: Following instructions from the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is all set to resume toll collection from Monday. Toll plazas across the state have taken up precautionary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 while collecting toll from road users. There are a total of 48 toll plazas in Tamil Nadu, 22 in Madurai region and 26 in Chennai region. A majority of the plazas are operated by private players. Since most of the employees reside near the toll plazas, the concessionaires said their employees will reach their work locations in their personal vehicles. Apart from the trucks carrying essential commodities and government vehicles for Covid-19 duty, medical professionals were also found using the plazas on the Chennai-Trichy NH during the lockdown. NHAI officials said they have taken up precautionary measures according to the Centre’s direction. The staff will be screened for their body temperature before being allowed to work. The toll plazas were also disinfected and each plaza will have a quarantine facility. “Most of the trucks have FasTag accounts and in the absence of public transportation, exiting the toll plazas will be smooth,” said an official source at a toll plaza. The volume of vehicles passing through plazas in Trichy has come down by 90-95% since the lockdown, the sources added. From Monday, two lanes for FasTag payment and two for cash mode will be opened across toll plazas in Trichy district. “We will resume toll collection from midnight (on Sunday) and execute the direction until there is further communication,” NHAI’s regional officer for Chennai and Madurai Pawan Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/toll-plazas-to-collect-fee-from-today-with-caution/articleshow/75240469.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Truckers may raise freight charge by 10%||Trichy: Citing the proposed resumption of toll fee collection across toll plazas on national highways from Monday, truck owners have hinted at a possible hike in freight charge to transport food and essential commodities during the lockdown. They said they had not hiked the freight charge so far under lockdown as toll fee was suspended.Usually, trucks unload their consignments at destinations and return with another load. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, closure of industries and other commercial establishments had denied them such return loads. Most of the trucks carrying commodities to Chennai from Trichy have been coming back without any load. However, the routine business loss did not impact the truck owners much as their expenses so far covered only the driver’s salary and fuel expense.With the proposed resumption of toll fee collection, which is an average Rs 3,000 for a round trip, the truck owners said they have no other go but to increase freight charge. “With curfew under way, return load availability is almost nil. Further, toll fee collection will only burden us,” R K Prabhakaran, secretary of Trichy District Lorry Owners Association, said. Out of the 4,500 trucks in the district, due to poor demand and unavailability of drivers, only 500 ply on roads to transport essential commodities, mostly vegetables. The truck owners anticipate freight charge to go up by at least 10% if toll fee collection resumes. Members of the public have also demanded that toll fee collection be suspended throughout the lockdown period. “Prices of essential commodities may increase citing the surge in freight charge,” K C Neelamegam, state adviser, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/truckers-may-raise-freight-charge-by-10/articleshow/75240467.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 20, 2020||Kanpur||Two Afghan nationals among 6 discharged||Kanpur: There came a good news on Sunday afternoon when six persons, including two Afghan nationals, who had earlier been tested positive for Covid-19, were discharged from the Covid-19 hospital after their two nasal and a swab test reports was found negative. These men, having links with Tablighi Jamaat, had attended the congregation at Markaz in Delhi last month. When these six men, wearing mask and gloves, started leaving the hospital, the entire medical staff, including doctors, bid them good-bye by clapping and lauded for their high spirits. All six men thanked the medics for taking their all possible care during the past two weeks. One of the Afghan nationals, while replying to the media query said that he had been in the hospital for the past 16 days and was treated well by the doctors. Dr Aarti Lalchandani, principal, GSVM medical college, said the six men were discharged only after their two reports came out to be negative. She said that from Covid-19 ward hospital, they were ferried to their destination in an ambulance. She said ,“They have been instructed to remain under home quarantine for the next 14 days ” With this, a total of 7 persons who had contracted Covid-19 have been discharged so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-afghan-nationals-among-6-discharged/articleshow/75239328.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara get three more positive cases||KOLHAPUR: Satara registered three new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Two men, aged 30 and 35 years, having travel history to Pune and Nagpur, tested positive on Sunday at Satara. Moreover, a 17-year-old boy, a high-risk contact of an earlier positive patient, also tested positive for the infection. According to the Satara health department officials, the 35-year-old man was admitted to the Krishna Medical College in Karad after he complained of fever and sore throat. His throat swab sample was sent for testing. On Sunday morning, it was confirmed that he had Covid-19. Last month, he had travelled to Nagpur. Another 30-year-old man, who had returned from Pune last month, was admitted to the sub-district hospital in Karad and his throat swab sample too returned positive on Sunday. According to Satara district civil surgeon Amod Gadikar, both the patients are being treated and are stable. The contact tracing for both of these patients is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-get-3-more-positive-cases/articleshow/75239996.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||6-year-old boy beaten up by mother dies||COIMBATORE: A six-year-old boy was allegedly killed by his mother on Sunday. Police said there were marks of physical torture on his body. Police said the deceased, Abishek, lived with his mother and younger sister in a rented house at Kovilmedu. The woman, a daily wage labourer, had separated from her husband a few months ago. Police said a call taxi driver used to visit her often. On Saturday night, the woman beat her son severely, which resulted in the boy falling unconscious. The next morning, she informed 108 ambulance service, whose staff told her upon arrival that the boy was already dead. Subsequently, police were informed and the body was sent to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The woman has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-year-old-boy-beaten-up-by-mother-dies/articleshow/75240012.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur registers second Covid-19||KOLHAPUR: Solapur city registered its second death due to Covid-19 after a 69-year-old woman admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sarvopchar Rugnalaya (civil hospital) succumbed to the respiratory disease on Sunday. District collector Milind Shambharkar said that the patient was suffering from hypertension. Her throat swab sample tested positive on Sunday and the area where she lived, Indira Nagar, has also been cordoned off. "Indira Nagar has been declared a containment zone. We have identified 8 close contacts of the deceased and they too have been admitted to the civil hospital. Their throat swab samples have been collected and sent for testing. All kinds of transportation in the said area has been shunned and a disinfection drive is underway," he said. Shambharkar appealed to the citizens to remain indoors for their own safety and cooperate with the administration officials during the door-to-door survey. The first death reported in Solapur was of a 62-year-old grocery story owner from Paccha Peth area. He was also the first Covid-19 positive case in Solapur. After tracing his close contacts, it was found out that a private hospital nurse from the same area later had contracted the infection from him. The nurse’s contact tracing led to nine more positive cases. There are still 13 active cases that are being treated at the isolation ward of the civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-registers-second-covid-19/articleshow/75240008.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mysuru||Two secondary contacts of pharma patient test +ve||Mysuru: The cluster of Covid-19 cases from Jubilant Life Sciences in Nanjangud, could lead to more Covid-19 cases, as the secondary contacts of positive cases have started to test positive for the disease. On Sunday, of the four cases that tested positive from Mysuru, two are secondary contacts of a positive case that was detected earlier. This is the second such incident in as many days, which is a cause for concern, as it could lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases, related to the pharmaceutical firm. This comes amidst the authorities almost completing collecting samples from a little over 1,100 employees of the pharmaceutical plant at the temple town. Given that 68 employees and their contacts have tested positive so far, if even the secondary contacts start to test positive, it will take Nanjangud’s tally well past 100. Of the six positive cases related to the Nanjangud case reported on Saturday, five are secondary contacts of P-52, who is believed to be the patient zero. Within 24 hours, two secondary contacts, a 39-year-old man and 23-years-old woman, have tested positive. The problem is the cases that are turning positive are asymptomatic, which has surprised the authorities. They didn’t show any symptoms like fever or cough, but were infected. The district reported another two Covid-19 positive cases, taking Mysuru district’s tally to 84. The patients are two men aged 46 and 20, who had travelled to Delhi. They are related to the Tablighi Jamaat cluster of cases from Delhi, said deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. In all, 10 Tablighi Jamaat attendees were quarantined, of whom eight had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, and the remaining two tested positive on Sunday, he said. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has gone up to 84. DC Abhiram G Sankar informed that two patients, P-104 and P-139, were discharged from the Covid-19 Hospital in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-secondary-contacts-of-pharma-patient-test-ve/articleshow/75238177.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kanpur||Seven madrassa students, 19 others test Covid-19 positive||KANPUR:The number of Covid-19 patients in Kanpur has jumped from 31 to 57, with 26 more people testing positive in the city since Saturday. Of the total 57, 14 were tested positive on late Saturday evening while 12 tested positive on Sunday evening. District health department officials said that the 14 patients tested positive on Saturday evening comprise seven local residents of Quli Bazar and seven madrassa students. While 12 patients who were tested positive on Sunday evening belong to Colonelganj, Civil Lines, Jajmau and Baraf Khana areas. Following this, the administration has sealed Quli Bazar area and Machariya area of Naubasta, besides Colonelganj, Civil Lines, Jajmau and Baraf Khana areas and a massive thermal screening drive has been launched. Among 57, one patient had attained normalcy after undergoing rigorous treatment at Ursala Horseman hospital, while one other had died during the treatment at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. Sources further informed that those tested positive belongs to hotspot areas and were already following quarantine procedure. Health department stated that now they will be shifted to Covid-19 hospital at LLR hospital for treatment. Following confirmation of 26 more corona positive cases, the district administration has sealed the Quli Bazar area and Machariya area of Naubasta, besides Colonelganj, Civil Lines, Jajmau and Baraf Khana, and with the help of health officials launched a massive thermal screening and other medical tests of people in these areas to detect suspected or confirmed cases of coronavirus. The contacts of all 26 people, including their family members and relatives, have also been quarantined at various quarantine centres. Nasal and throat swab samples of the suspected people from Quli Bazar, students of Madrassa, Colonelganj, Civil Lines, Jajmau and Baraf Khana, besides medical and para-medical staff of Naraina medical college in Panki and Lala Lajpat Rai hospital were sent to Ganesh Shankar Vidhyarthi memorial medical college Covid-19 laboratory for testing on Thursday and Friday, said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Ashok Shukla. "Test report, which we had received on late Saturday night confirmed 14 including seven locals of Quli Bazar and seven madrassa students, positive for coronavirus. Similarly, test report which we received on Sunday evening confirmed 12 more positive cases of coronavirus. The total number of coronavirus positive cases in the city has now rose to 57. The positive patients, who were already in quarantine, have now been shifted to Covid -19 hospital at the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital for treatment," the CMO said further. To recall, city's first positive case was reported from NRI City on March 23. The man, however, after rigorous treatment at the COVID 19 ward at Ursala Horseman hospital attained normalcy, and was discharged later. However, the first corona positive death was reported on April 14 wherein a 40-year-old man died in Neuro Science Centre of COVID -19 ward at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/seven-madrassa-students-19-others-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75239397.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Farmers sell 4,500t bananas as officials chip in to beat curfew||Trichy: The efforts taken by the agriculture marketing and horticulture department to help banana farmers sell their produce after the Covid-19 outbreak have started reaping dividends. Banana farmers from Trichy have sold out about 4,500 tonnes of banana to the tune of Rs 5.78 crore during the lockdown period so far.Following appeals from the farmers, the state government instructed the district administrations to initiate steps to sell banana, which are ready to harvest. It may be recalled that TOI had carried stories highlighting the plights of banana farmers.Authorities from the agriculture marketing identified banana growers and helped them sell their produce at Uzhavar Santhai at seven places in the city and eight temporary vegetable markets, officials said.“We tied up with some farmers with Tamil Nadu Banana Producers’ Group functioning at Thottiam in the district. More than 40 farmers have sold out around 850 tonnes of banana for Rs 2.79 crore,” deputy director of agriculture marketing department Murugan said.The initiative was taken by district collector S Sivarasu who made all possible ways to help banana farmers by issuing passes to the farmers who have been identified by our department and travel passes to transport their produce to help them overcome the lockdown, deputy director Murugan added.This apart, officials from the horticulture department have taken various measures to help farmers transport their produce. “So far we have facilitated the mobilization of 3,722 tonnes of all varieties of banana to Kerala, Karnataka, Hosur, Dharmapuri and Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency (TANHODA), which is running outlets at Chemmozhi Park and Madhavaram in Chennai”, deputy director of horticulture department C Vimala told TOI.Mobile outlets have also been arranged in coordination with farmer producer groups. Retail sales of poovan have been arranged through 15 to 20 mobile outlets in Lalgudi block. Permits were also issued to farmers to bring their produce for sales in five shops exclusively allotted at eight temporary vegetable markets established on the outskirts of Trichy, the deputy director of horticulture added.Banana varieties: Poovan, Rasthali, Nendran, Karpooravalli, Neipoovan, Elarisi and MonthanSales in various places7 Uzhavar santhai: 113 tonnes for Rs 25 lakh8 temporary markets: 320 tonnes for Rs 1.94 croreSales through Tamil Nadu Banana Producers’ Group: 305 tonnes for Rs 61 lakhSold in Namakkal, Coimbatore, & SivakasiTransported to neighbouring states and districts by the horticulture departmentTotal volume 3,722 tonnesAmount realized by the farmers Rs 2.98 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-sell-4500t-bananas-as-officials-chip-in-to-beat-curfew/articleshow/75240477.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||Two arrested for violating lockdown norms||Pilibhit: Two persons were arrested on Sunday for allegedly violating lockdown rules in two different areas in the district. In the first case, a halwai (sweet maker), Navneet Yadav, of Bujkasawan locality under Pilibhit Kotwali police station, was allegedly caught preparing samosa for sale at his shop and for using a domestic LPG cylinder. A written complaint was filled against Yadav by the area food inspector, Ritesh Chandra. The shop is situated at Deshnagar crossing here. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said an FIR was registered against Yadav under provisions of the Essential Commodities Act. In the second incident, a resident of Deshnagar, Rajkumar, was arrested for carrying out construction work of his house by employing five or six labourers and masons despite prohibitory orders against construction activities in the lockdown period. Dwivedi said Rajkumar was booked under IPC sections 147 (rioting) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75238184.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kanpur||Administration declares three hospitals high-risk zones in Kanpur||KANPUR: Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, Ursala Horseman hospital and Sarsaul Community Health centre have been declared as high-risk zones due to increasing number of novel coronavirus patients. The health authorities have asked the doctors, paramedical and nursing staff, and family attendants to use masks and gloves. The Kanpur municipal corporation has proposed to sanitize all three hospitals three times in a day. LLR hospital administration has deployed a screening committee at the main gate and people can enter the hospital only after screening. Each visitor has to inform the committee consisting of junior doctors after which entry is allowed in emergency and other wards. There are 11 corona positive cases in LLR hospital and 21 at Sarsaul CHC, while nasal and throat swab samples are being collected at Ursala Horseman hospital. The hospital administration has pasted a notice at the gate saying wearing of gloves and mask is mandatory. Prof R K Maurya, chief superintendent, LLR hospital said the hospital has been declared high-risk zone since Covid-19 patients are being admitted. Murari Lal Chest hospital is included in LLR hospital jurisdiction. All medical and paramedical staff have been advised to use sanitizer regularly. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla said people should be cautious and use protection while going to the three hospitals as they are high-risk zones. Meanwhile, GSVM medical college has taken a tough stand against 140 junior resident doctors who are evading duty. The authorities have issued showcause notice to them. Dr Prem Singh in-charge of student section said doctors would have to join duty or else action would be taken against them and a recommendation would be made to stop their wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/admin-declares-three-hospitals-high-risk-zones/articleshow/75239423.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Vegetable gets costly, chicken being sold at Rs 220 per kg||KOLHAPUR: The unseasonal rainfall that the city has been receiving for the past two days has led to shortage of vegetable supply in the market making the prices go up by around 15 to 20%. The rainfall has not only damaged the vegetable, but has also affected its transportation. On Sunday, tomatoes were sold for Rs 40 per kg while a bunch of coriander was sold for Rs 20. Also, okra, cauliflower and brinjal were short in supply. A farmer, who had come to sell his produce in the Sunday market at Kasba Bawada, said, "The demand for vegetable is usually high in the Sunday market and it is for the first time in the past few months that the amount of vegetable brought to the market was less. The main vegetable markets are closed due to which people run to the Sunday markets. The rain, however, has played a spoilsport." The Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMC) are closed on Sundays and on other days, the local vendors get the vegetable from the APMCs. Hence, this also led to lesser supply of vegetable in the market. The civic administration, too, has imposed strict restrictions on the Sunday markets to ensure that the social distancing norm is being followed. Since the lockdown has ben imposed, the farmers have now been allotted spaces on the roadsides to sell their produce. Meanwhile, other than vegetable, the price of chicken meat has also gone up. Chicken was earlier being sold between Rs 50 and Rs 80 per kg as a lot of rumours were doing rounds when the coronavirus outbreak had just begun. However, the price of chicken has now rocketed to Rs 220 per kg as the meat shops are being open only on Sundays. "The current hike in price is due to shortage in supply. The price of chicken has shot up for the first time. The eggs have also become costly and are being sold at Rs 6 per piece," a chicken meat shop owner said, adding that the mutton shops were closed on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vegetable-gets-costly-chicken-being-sold-at-rs-220-per-kg/articleshow/75240015.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kanpur||KMC sanitizes Ganga Apartment||Kanpur: Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Sunday launched a sanitization programme at Chandra Ganga Apartment in Kidwai Nagar where a corona positive case was found a few days back. KMC sprayed medicated water in the entire apartment asking the residents to not come out of their flats. The health department also tracked the contacts and the travel history of the corona positive trader. It was reported that a corona positive person had come in contact with a dozen people, including a neighbour, relative, doctor and a lab technician. All of them have been quarantined. Meanwhile, another health team conducted door-to-door survey in the Kidwai Nagar area focussing on persons having flu like symptoms and outsiders who had visited the locality. The health team also visited Quli Bazar area which had reported around seven corona cases. The team, in presence of the city magistrate and circle officer of Collectoganj collected samples of several persons. Meanwhile, a social welfare organization, Friends Maheshwari, presented 500 face shields for sanitary workers to municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi who later handed them over to the chief health officer of KMC..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kmc-sanitizes-ganga-apartment/articleshow/75239457.cms||---
April 20, 2020||India||Govt sets up high-level force to work on vaccine & drugs||NEW DELHI: The government has set up a high-level task force to work on cutting edge vaccine and drug testing for Covid-19 in India with the aim of forging convergence of industry and research to come up with lasting solutions to the pandemic, the health ministry said. “A high-level task force has been constituted to work on the frontier of vaccine and drug testing. Its main task is to speed up academia, industry and international efforts,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said. The task force, co-chaired by principal scientific adviser to the government K Vijay Raghavan and Niti Aayog member V K Paul, will also have representatives from other departments like Indian Council of Medical Research, Department of Biotechnology, Ayush ministry, DRDO and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. Besides, the Drugs Controller General of India and Director General of Health Services will also be part of the task force. “Under this, the department of biotechnology has been made the central coordination committee to develop the vaccine. It will make efforts to identify the pathways for vaccine development. We will make efforts to make a list of national and international efforts of those working on vaccine development and monitor their progress,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-sets-up-high-level-force-to-work-on-vaccine-drugs/articleshow/75240903.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer ready for modified lockdown||AJMER: The district is ready for a modified lockdown from Monday, but over 28,000 people are still in home quarantine and of the 114 sent to quarantine centres, only 44 have been discharged. Government offices, including Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, will be opened from Monday. The district magistrate issued an advisory for a modified lockdown in which offices related to health and medical department, agriculture, police, finance, IT, electricity, water supply, municipality, RIICO, rural development, zila parishad, forest and others will open. Offices will be sanitised and social distancing will be maintained. Meanwhile, there are 18 positive cases in Ajmer of whom 12 are admitted to the coronavirus ward of JLN Hospital. Samples of 276 people were taken from different shelter homes of the city of which 165 were from the rail museum shelter home. A total 1,175 samples have been taken and screening of more than 12 lakh people has been completed. A few days ago, 11 positive cases were found from the rail museum shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-ready-for-modified-lockdown/articleshow/75240496.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Trichy||To avert losses, farmers try valueaddition, sell chips||Trichy: Many farmers have started finding alternate ways to keep afloat in the market like a banana farmer who has started preparing nendran chips at his house and sell them along with banana at Uzhavar Sandhai in Tennur, Trichy. D Kirubakaran, a farmer from Trichy, has raised rasthali, nendran, elarisi in seven acres. He used to transport banana to various districts in the state and Kerala too. Like other farmers, Kirubakaran too was shocked at the emergence of the pandemic across the country, he said. “At this juncture, as per the instruction of the district administration, officials from agriculture marketing and horticulture department have done a tremendous job. Apart from transporting banana to various parts of the country before the lockdown, now I am selling banana at Uzhavar Santhai in Tennur Anna Nagar,” he said. As banana is a perishable item, it was not wise to allow all bananas to ripe. So, he started making chips and sell it along with banana, Kirubakaran said. “We are selling it at my home too. Around 200 to 300 kg of chips are being sold on a daily basis,” he added. Like Kirubakaran, many farmers also started making use of the situation and started value addition of banana, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/to-avert-losses-farmers-try-valueaddition-sell-chips/articleshow/75240485.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Dimhans to start testing samples from today||Hubballi: The Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Dimhans) will start testing samples for the novel coronavirus from Monday. This means that the Bombay-Karnataka region now has two laboratories – Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi being the other one – dedicated to testing samples for the pandemic. Although ICMR gave the nod for Dimhans to go ahead with the tests on April 7, the institute had been waiting for the equipment. KIMS, meanwhile, started conducting tests from April 8. Dimhans director Mahesh Desai confirmed that they had started testing samples for the Covid-19 infection on an experimental basis, and the laboratory would commence full-fledged operations from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dimhans-to-start-testing-samples-from-today/articleshow/75238200.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 20, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer ready for modified lockdown||AJMER: The district is ready for a modified lockdown from Monday, but over 28,000 people are still in home quarantine and of the 114 sent to quarantine centres, only 44 have been discharged. Government offices, including Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, will be opened from Monday. The district magistrate issued an advisory for a modified lockdown in which offices related to health and medical department, agriculture, police, finance, IT, electricity, water supply, municipality, RIICO, rural development, zila parishad, forest and others will open. Offices will be sanitised and social distancing will be maintained. Meanwhile, there are 18 positive cases in Ajmer of whom 12 are admitted to the coronavirus ward of JLN Hospital. Samples of 276 people were taken from different shelter homes of the city of which 165 were from the rail museum shelter home. A total 1,175 samples have been taken and screening of more than 12 lakh people has been completed. A few days ago, 11 positive cases were found from the rail museum shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-ready-for-modified-lockdown/articleshow/75246988.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||26 quarantined in Ramdeora, villagers protest||Jaisalmer: Residents of Ramdeora resorted to a massive protest when 26 people were brought here to be kept in quarantine from Pokhran area of the district. On getting information, the SDO and deputy SP reached Ramdeora and spoke to villagers. The batch of 26 people was to be quarantined at Maheshwari Vikas Samiti Dharamshala in Ramdeora. Over 300 people led by Ramdeora sarpanch Samandar Singh Tanwar demanded that the administration shift this quarantine centre, which is situated in a populated area. The administration, however, did not listen to villagers. SDO Ajay Amarawat said as per the national disaster act, patients have to be kept wherever place is available and these people are not corona positive and their reports are negative, but they have to be kept in quarantine for some days. The villagers stuck to their demand for three hours and after a long discussion the SDO persuaded the villagers. Tanwar said that another dharamshala which was situated far away from the population was identified as a quarantine centre, but the administration has kept these people at the dharamshala situated in middle of the village. Meanwhile, residents of ward number 1 in Pokhran staged a protest when a health team arrived there to collect samples after a resident tested positive on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/26-quarantined-in-ramdeora-villagers-protest/articleshow/75240494.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Central govt offices unlikely to function from today||Trichy: While the central government offices are expected to function with minimum workforce from Monday across the country, it is most unlikely to happen in Trichy district, which houses several central government establishments.A circular issued by Southern Railway, saidhe opening of administrative offices and workshops in the state including Trichy stands postponed. Senior staff said that the exact date of reopening of the offices will be subject to the directives issued by the respective state government from time to time.Administrative offices of Trichy Railway Division and Ponmalai Railway Workshop will not function even though relaxation was announced by the Union government, official sources from Trichy Railway division said.India Post being announced as an essential service is likely to have staff in the head post office as well as railway mail service (RMS). RMS employees have been allowed to work. They have also been asked to communicate in case they face any issue regarding transportation.Defence establishment such as Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project (HAPP), Ordnance Factory Tiruchirappalli (OFT) and central government organisations such as Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) Trichy are unlikely to function as employees coming from outside have expressed inability to turn up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-govt-offices-unlikely-to-function-from-today/articleshow/75240490.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||2 kill selves in separate incidents in Rudrapur||Rudrapur: In two separate incidents, two men hanged themselves in Rudrapur on Sunday. In the first incident, 44-year-old Om Prakash was found hanging from a tree in a field in village Bhagwanpur located at Kashipur road. The incident came to light when few laborers from the village had gone to the field for harvesting wheat crop. Police have been informed and the body has been sent for postmortem. According to police, the deceased was a labourer and reasons for his suicide are yet to be ascertained. However, villagers said that there was a dispute in the family and Om Prakash was depressed for the past few days. In other incident reported from village Bhura Rani, a 21-year-old hanged himself from the ceiling. He was identified as Shyam Babu, a native of Bihar, who worked here and lived alone in a rented house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-kill-selves-in-separate-incidents-in-rudrapur/articleshow/75239280.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Man, sister die after allegedly consuming hand sanitiser||HUBBALLI: A 45-year-old man, struggling to cope with the non-availability of liquor, and allegedly took to consuming hand sanitisers as an alternative, died at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi on Sunday. The victim, Basavaraj Kuruvinkoppa, sources said was a habitual drinker, and had been going through withdrawal symptoms. KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani said that Kuruvinkoppa reportedly drank the sanitiser three days ago, and had been admitted to the district hospital in Dharwad, and shifted to KIMS on Sunday morning. “He died within an hour of being admitted to KIMS,” Dr Antartani told TOI. Meanwhile, doctors have been advising tipplers against experimenting with other substances owing to the non-availability of liquor. Drinking sanitisers can prove fatal, they warned. Basavaraj Kuruvinkoppa’s sister Jambavva, allegedly an alcholic too, reportedly drank hand sanitiser after being unable to cope with withdrawal. The brother-sister duo allegedly had the sanitiser three days ago. Jambavva passed away on Sunday evening. Kalaghatagi police are yet to register a case in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-sister-die-after-allegedly-consuming-hand-sanitiser/articleshow/75236718.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: G Kishan Reddy urges Markaz participants to get tested||HYDERABAD: Minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy urged the participants of Tablighi Jamaat at Markaz Nizamuddin to come forward and get tested. He said that home ministry came to know that some Rohingya refugees and foreigners, who attended the Delhi meet, might have died due to coronavirus and their last rites were performed secretly. Fearing inquiry, some local organisers could have resorted to this hush up act, the minister told TOI. Thirteen Rohingya, who were hiding in two masjids - one in Punjagutta and another in Old City, were identified on Friday. Authorities are on the look out for 29 people - eight from Balapur (Hyderabad), 14 from Nalgonda and five from Jagityal, who attended the Tabilighi Jamaat. “It is unfortunate that some participants of Tablighi Jamaat are concealing the details of their Markaz visit. The Centre and state governments want to protect them, their family members and others who are in contact with them,” Kishan Reddy told TOI from Delhi. “In Hyderabad, 90% of the Covid-19 positives were attendees of the Markaz event. The religious leaders should also take initiative and cooperate with the state government,” the minister said. Reddy, who is coordinating with the states as the incharge of the command control wing on Covid-19, said that the Centre has been doing all that it could to help the states. “The Centre is providing personal protection equipment (PPE), masks and rapid test kits to the states. Twelve companies have been roped in to manufacture PPEs and masks,” he said. “The Centre has already procured five lakh rapid test kits from China and has been distributing them among the states. Another 10 lakh testing kits are expected in a couple of days, our planes are waiting in China. Over 6.50 lakh kits, which were donated by an organization, were rejected as they were defective,” Kishan Reddy said. The minister also said that the Centre is steadily increasing the number of tests conducted every day. “On March 1, we had just one laboratory at Pune, now we have 240 laboratories across the country. There are 1.73 lakh beds in 602 dedicated hospitals for Covid-19, out of them, 1.30 lakh are ICU beds,” the union minister said, adding that though 50,000 ventilators are available in various states, only 100 have been put to use so far. Kishan Reddy informed that the Centre has released Rs 224 crore to Telangana and Rs 559 crore to Andhra Pradesh under the Disaster Mitigation Fund to take care of the migrant workers. “This amount would be utilized for their food, shelter and other facilities. I am also speaking to some district collectors and SPs to assess the situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-reddy-urges-markaz-participants-to-get-tested/articleshow/75240792.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Hadoti farmers forced to sell produce below MSP||KOTA: Already disappointed by the delay in procurement of wheat due to the lockdown, Hadoti farmers are now forced to sell their wheat crop below the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs 1,925. The FCI procurement centres in Bha mashah Mandis of Hadoti region are not able to purchase the huge inflow of the crop at MSP. However, the mandi officials claimed the produce of farmers possessing procurement tokens issued by the district administration are being purchased on MSP. The bumper production of wheat in the region has caught the government unawares. The government’s wheat procurement target was 3.50 lakh tons from the four districts of Hadoti region as against the actual production of 28-30 lakh tons. The farmer leaders and Congress MLA Ramnarayan Meena have urged the government to speed up the procurement of wheat by improving technical infrastructure at MSP of Rs 1,925 and to raise the procurement target in accordance with the bumper production. The procurement of wheat at MSP was scheduled to start by April 1, but the work at FCI centres began from April 16 due to the lockdown. “The farmers are forced to sell their wheat crop for Rs 1,600-1,700 quintal in various mandis of Hadoti region as procurement centres are not able to procure the huge inflow,” Ramnarayan Meena, Congress MLA from Piplda of Kota district said. The Centre should ensure that the farmers get at least the Rs 1,925 MSP for a quintal of wheat. Meena demanded to increase the number of procurement centres so that the huge inflow of the crop can be procured and farmers are not compelled to sell their yield at a lower price in the open market. The MLA alleged that the revenue officials and patwari have issued tokens for procurement only to their near and dear ones in lieu of a handsome amount. He also blamed the Narendra Modi-led BJP government for weakening the Food Corporation of India (FCI) established by Prime Minister Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru in 1964-65. Refuting the allegations, Kota Bhamashah Mandi secretary M L Jatav said that 26 procurement centres have been set up in Kota district and procurement of crop is on since April 16. “All the wheat reaching at the centres is being procured at MSP. Nearly 10,000-12,000 wheat is being procured daily at the centres,” he said. He informed that the last date of procurement, June 30, is also likely to be extended, adding that the procurement target has also been raised. “The unseasonal rain has degraded the quality of wheat and has dulled its shine prompting the FCI officials to reject sub-standard wheat at procurement centres. This has left the farmers with no option but to sell the crop in the open market for Rs 1,700-2,200 per quintal,” said Manoj Kumar Meena, Baran Bhamashah Mandi secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hadoti-farmers-forced-to-sell-produce-below-msp/articleshow/75240495.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Cops don new hat, ensure drugs, groceries for needy||JAIPUR: The outbreak of Covid-19 has brought several changes in the job profile of public servants and police are no different. Apart from doing their regular job of maintaining law and order, police are now facilitating public especially senior citizens and others in getting free consultation from doctors. Patients complaining of kidney related problems, neuro disorders, hypertension and diabetes are getting free consultation over phone. For pensioners with medical diaries, the state government has already made a provision of considering their last prescription in repeating their medicines. Police in Jodhpur (West) have arranged a pool of doctors who are giving their free consultation to their patients. “We have got seven senior doctors who have volunteered to give free consultation to the patients. We shared their numbers and through social networking platforms like WhatsApp and the people started interacting with the doctors,” said Priti Chandra, deputy commissioner of police (West) told TOI on Sunday. People with complains of hypertension, neuro disorders, kidney problems and others are in touch with this pool of doctors for their consultation. She added that while police is expecting that public should abide the lockdown and curfew, it is also the duty of the police to facilitate public as much as possible so that they may not come out of home unnecessarily. Similarly, in districts like Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Jhunjhunu and Bhilwara police have also roped in medical stores to ensure senior citizens at least get their medicines at their doorstep. Jaipur police is getting calls from senior citizens and other people for various problems. “I got a call from an 86-year-old man who was unknown to me. He told me that he neither has his medicines left nor the grocery and told he lives alone. I arranged and ensure delivery of those items. Likewise, in Jaipur every day we are attending several such calls and trying to help the public,” said Ashok Gupta, additional commissioner of police (Crime) said. There are cases in which police used their government vehicles to transport a pregnant woman to the hospital. Senior police officers of the state police headquarters too have asked its IGs and SPs to ensure they should help the public while imposing lockdown and curfew. “We are getting calls where people are calling us to ensure a pregnant woman or a man having heart attack should get ambulance and reach at hospital. At many districts our men took them to their hospitals. Lockdown and curfew would be successful only when we will give pubic minimal chances to come out,” said BL Soni, additional director general (Crime) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-don-new-hat-ensure-drugs-groceries-for-needy/articleshow/75240497.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 20, 2020||Agra||1st Covid death in Firozabad, 71 test positive in Agra region||Agra: Agra district, Uttar Pradesh's "Covid-19 epicentre", and its surrounding areas continued to be in the grip of the deadly virus. Firozabad reported its first Covid-19 death on Sunday, while Agra and its neighbouring districts of Firozabad, Etah and Mathura reported a total of 71 positive cases. The total cases in Agra district alone has reached 255 - with 56 fresh ones. The cases in Etah were a first for the district. Also, alarmingly, among Sunday's new cases included a senior section engineer (SSE) of carriage and wagon-mechanical department posted at Tundla junction - a vital railway operation control centre of the Delhi-Howrah route. In Firozabad, the 65-year-old deceased was a resident of Chetiwali Masjid, Shishgram. He was suffering from hypertension and, after testing positive, was admitted to Firozabad medical college isolation ward on Saturday evening. He suffered a heart attack at 6:40am on Sunday. Chief medical officer (CMO) of Firozabad Dr S K Dixit told TOI, “The deceased man came in direct contact with Tablighi Jamaat members and tested positive. He succumbed following a heart attack. We have started contact tracing and have quarantined his family and other contacts. Sample collection has been done as well.” The Firozabad district reported 11 more Covid-19 cases, including that of the railway SSE, taking the district tally to 52. Most of the patients were related to a private hospital in Agra, which reported 43 cases. According to local administration, the railway SSE had visited the Agra hospital along with his father-in-law on March 31. On April 7, the officer’s father-in-law died. He was suffering from cancer. On April 10, Agra district administration asked the officer’s relatives to contact the local administration of Firozabad for sample collection and get themselves quarantined. On April 14, six family members of the officer’s father-in-law were found Covid-19 positive. The officer’s duty record, however, showed that he continued to work at Tundla railway station till April 13. On April 16, the railway officer contacted Firozabad district administration and informed about his travel history, after which he was asked to be in quarantine. And, on Sunday, he was tested positive. He was then shifted to isolation facility. North Central Railways CPRO Ajeet Kumar Singh said, “Five others who came in direct contact with the SSE have been asked to quarantine themselves immediately. Contact tracing and sanitisation work have begun.” Meanwhile, in Agra district, 56 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced taking the tally past the 200 mark. Out of the new cases, 21 were related to the private hospital and five linked to Jamaat. According to health department, three cases each were traced to another private hospital in Rakabganj and S N Medical College. Moreover, a vegetable seller in Freeganj and a staff of wholesale pharmacy in Fuwara were reported positive. Agra CMO Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the 56 new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. Their contacts are being identified and traced.” Significantly, on Sunday, Etah district for the first time reported three Covid-19 positive cases, of which two were linked to the Agra private hospital. Etah CMO Dr Ajay Agrawal said, “One of the patients, a 20-year-old resident of Jalesar, works as a compounder at the Agra private hospital. His 36-year-old uncle has been tested positive too, while a 55-year-old woman of Marahara who stayed in Tajganj along with her daughter, was also found positive.” In Mathura, there was a positive case as well, which took the district's tally to six. Mathura CMO Sher Singh said, "A 30-year-old man tested positive on Sunday. He hails from Ol village of the district's Farah block. The man used to visit medical stores for supplying medicines in Agra and Mathura."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/1st-covid-death-in-firozabad-71-test-positive-in-agra-region/articleshow/75239286.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Udaipur||For tired UP, Bihar workers, this camp is a home away from home||UDAIPUR: Kids are bored, women are grouchy, while men are patient and rational here. Some grumpy women sitting in a corner of a room are heard complaining about spicy curry and half-cooked chapatis they had for lunch. Some enthusiastic youths unmindful of the sun, play cricket on the large playground while a batch of youth is busy stitching masks on sewing machines in another building. A man in spectacles completes a round of the place and enters into a tent where a cook and some helpers are busy in preparations for the dinner which is potato-tomato curry, Urad dal, rice and roti. “Make it less spicy and don’t make the dal too watery. I don’t want to hear any complaints,” Shailesh Surana, Vallabhnagar SDM warns the cook. This is the scene at a relief camp-cum-quarantine facility at Padampat Singhania University, some 30 kilometres away from city on the Udaipur-Chittorgarh national highway. Housing 517 of the 800 institutional quarantined people in the district, this is perhaps the largest such facility in Rajasthan. The inmates here are migrant workers originating from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar who happened to reach here from Ahmedabad and other cities of Gujarat. While people who have been quarantined in other places of the country have been complaining of mismanagement, unhygienic conditions, dirty linen, tasteless food, here the inmates have no major problems other than that they badly want to reach back home. Two OPD’s work here in morning and afternoon shifts to attend to the medical issues. “Teams of allopathic and ayurvedic doctors visit every day for two hours. At least 15 people come up daily with minor health concerns like stomach ailment, common cold or headaches etc,” says Laxmikant Sharma, ayurvedic doctor. The facility appears clean and cool even as the day’s temperature had crossed 37 degrees. “The people have been accommodated in more than 200 rooms with two or three persons in a room. Those with families have rooms for themselves so that kids can stay with both parents,” the SDM informed. The administration has distributed a kit consisting of toiletries to each person carrying a set of toothbrush-paste, soap, hair oil, washing soap, towel etc. There are beddings in each room and the common toilets are clean and safe. The inmates are served breakfast, two time tea, lunch and dinner and at times they have even received a treat of halwa and poori. “There is no such schedule for the inmates for waking up but we request them to participate in the daily yoga session when three experts come here to conduct classes at 7 am. Two lady counselors also visit here daily evening to cheer up the women inmates who are grouchy at times and too impatient to get back home" Devendra Pratap Singh, the revenue inspector on duty here said. There are staff from the education department, ANMs, anganwadi workers, patwaris and policemen on duty round the clock to ensure the inmates are comfortable. There is a room and time stipulated for recreation too as inmates gather to watch Ramayan, Mahabharata and Vikram-Betal serials everyday. Children have been given toys and are even allowed to play in the ground so that they do not get irritated. Children are given milk twice a day, alongwith fruits and biscuits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/for-tired-up-bihar-workers-this-camp-is-a-home-away-from-home/articleshow/75246906.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Agra||AMU alumnus develops COVID-19 testing kit, approved by ICMR||Agra: An alumnus of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has developed the first indigenous Covid-19 testing kit in response to the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) call to all the countries to ramp up coronavirus testing. The testing kits have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), AMU officials said. According to AMU administration, AMU alumnus from the department of biochemistry Nadeem Rahman, director of NuLife Consultants and Distributors Pvt Ltd, New Delhi, has developed India's first antibody-based testing kit which takes less than 15 minutes to yield accurate results. Rahman was permitted by the government to reopen NuLife Consultants and Distributors Pvt Ltd lab during the nationwide lockdown where he developed India’s first ‘Antibody-based Testing Kit’ to conduct finger-prick tests. The test takes only about fifteen minutes to yield accurate results. “The testing kits were launched in just a span of two weeks. Regular production will start soon,” Rahman said and added that they are confident of making one lakh kits per day to yield faster and suitable solution to large-scale screenings. Rahman pointed out that a set of this testing kit will cost around Rs 500-600 and the price is likely to lessen further. “The best part about this rapid and less time-taking kit is that it is economical to produce unlike the expensive RT-PCR testing kits,” he said. Rahman added that the antibody-based kit will ease the pressure on the pathology services struggling with COVID-19 detection in the country. “We are proud that an AMU alumnus has developed the much needed affordable testing kit in times when the country is witnessing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases despite stringent measures being implemented in the country. It is a major cause of worry,” AMU vice-chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor said. He also praised Rahman for his invaluable contribution to India’s fight to curb COVID-19. Dean, faculty of Life Sciences, Prof Qayyum Husain who taught Rahman when he was pursuing BSc and MSc in Biochemistry at AMU said that the launch of first antibody-based testing kit in India is an extra-ordinary achievement. AMU and its alumni are at the forefront of India’s fight against coronavirus. The Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College of the University has already conducted 2,500 free-of-cost tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-alumnus-develops-covid-19-testing-kit-approved-by-icmr/articleshow/75239295.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Gusty winds uproot may trees, temp down||Nagpur: The city experienced sudden gusty winds accompanied by rainfall on Saturday due to wind discontinuity in lower level passing through Vidarbha. The strong winds also led to the collapse of trees in some areas. According to the data of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the city recorded a rainfall of 1.5 millimeters. Apart from this, the maximum wind speed recorded in the city was 40 kilometers per hour. The change in weather provided some relief from the scorching heat, with the city’s maximum temperature going down to 37.5 degree Celsius on Sunday. This was 3.3 degrees below normal. The minimum temperature was 23.8 degree Celsius. At 42.6 degree Celsius, Washim replaced Akola as the hottest city in the region on Sunday. As per the forecast of met department, more thundershowers are expected on Sunday and Monday. In the coming week, maximum temperatures are expected to go as high as 44 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gusty-winds-uproot-may-trees-temp-down/articleshow/75240040.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Police increases vigilance after one person travelling to Karnataka tested positive||KOLHAPUR: After a person who was illegally travelling from Mumbai to Karnataka tested positive for Covid-19, the police have increased the vigilance on the roads connecting Kolhapur district to other districts. Police have increased the checking of vehicles entering Kolhapur district from Mumbai and Pune and are ensuring that the vehicles carrying essential commodities do not have passengers. The Covid-19 patient was among 30 people who were illegally travelling in a truck from Santacruz, Mumbai, to their native place in Karnataka. Police detained them at Kini toll plaza. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said, “The timely action of our police personnel by detaining these people who were illegally travelling and admitting all of them to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital for Covid-19 testing helped us in detecting one patient and containing the spread of the disease. The police have increased vigilance after this incident to ensure that no one enters or leaves Kolhapur district without any valid reason.” “Our teams are present at all the major roads bordering the district and are keeping a check on the vehicular movements. The teams are also keeping a check on the arterial roads connecting the villages with the main roads and the natural borders of the district like rivers to ensure that no one enters the district through those,” said a senior police officer. “With the relaxation on some of the vehicular movements from Monday, our role has increased to ensure that only those people with valid reasons can travel on the roads,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-increases-vigilance-after-one-person-travelling-to-karnataka-tested-positive/articleshow/75240033.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||For tired UP, Bihar workers, this camp is a home away from home||UDAIPUR: Kids are bored, women are grouchy, while men are patient and rational here. Some grumpy women sitting in a corner of a room are heard complaining about spicy curry and half-cooked chapatis they had for lunch. Some enthusiastic youths unmindful of the sun, play cricket on the large playground while a batch of youth is busy stitching masks on sewing machines in another building. A man in spectacles completes a round of the place and enters into a tent where a cook and some helpers are busy in preparations for the dinner which is potato-tomato curry, Urad dal, rice and roti. “Make it less spicy and don’t make the dal too watery. I don’t want to hear any complaints,” Shailesh Surana, Vallabhnagar SDM warns the cook. This is the scene at a relief camp-cum-quarantine facility at Padampat Singhania University, some 30 kilometres away from city on the Udaipur-Chittorgarh national highway. Housing 517 of the 800 institutional quarantined people in the district, this is perhaps the largest such facility in Rajasthan. The inmates here are migrant workers originating from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar who happened to reach here from Ahmedabad and other cities of Gujarat. While people who have been quarantined in other places of the country have been complaining of mismanagement, unhygienic conditions, dirty linen, tasteless food, here the inmates have no major problems other than that they badly want to reach back home. Two OPD’s work here in morning and afternoon shifts to attend to the medical issues. “Teams of allopathic and ayurvedic doctors visit every day for two hours. At least 15 people come up daily with minor health concerns like stomach ailment, common cold or headaches etc,” says Laxmikant Sharma, ayurvedic doctor. The facility appears clean and cool even as the day’s temperature had crossed 37 degrees. “The people have been accommodated in more than 200 rooms with two or three persons in a room. Those with families have rooms for themselves so that kids can stay with both parents,” the SDM informed. The administration has distributed a kit consisting of toiletries to each person carrying a set of toothbrush-paste, soap, hair oil, washing soap, towel etc. There are beddings in each room and the common toilets are clean and safe. The inmates are served breakfast, two time tea, lunch and dinner and at times they have even received a treat of halwa and poori. “There is no such schedule for the inmates for waking up but we request them to participate in the daily yoga session when three experts come here to conduct classes at 7 am. Two lady counselors also visit here daily evening to cheer up the women inmates who are grouchy at times and too impatient to get back home" Devendra Pratap Singh, the revenue inspector on duty here said. There are staff from the education department, ANMs, anganwadi workers, patwaris and policemen on duty round the clock to ensure the inmates are comfortable. There is a room and time stipulated for recreation too as inmates gather to watch Ramayan, Mahabharata and Vikram-Betal serials everyday. Children have been given toys and are even allowed to play in the ground so that they do not get irritated. Children are given milk twice a day, alongwith fruits and biscuits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-tired-up-bihar-workers-this-camp-is-a-home-away-from-home/articleshow/75240500.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Karur artists come forward to create awareness on Covid-19||Karur: The selfless gesture shown by a group of artists in the district to create awareness among people on novel coronavirus was recognised by the district administration which not just gave permission to paint at three major locations in Karur town but also decided to pay them for their service. The artists have drawn a 40-feet wide colourful painting on the road at the light house corner junction, as it is an entry point to Karur town, to attract the attention of people on the ill-effects of Covid-19. Similarly, a giant painting was raised near the collector’s office while another will come up near Karur bus stand. V Raju, 60, president of Karur District Painters’ Association, said they met the district collector on Saturday for permission to create giant awareness paintings on roads on Covid-19. “Though we told him that we only needed permission, collector T Anbalagan was kind enough bear the cost incurred in the process.” Raju said that their depiction of coronavirus will have a lasting impact on people and compel them to follow directions from the administration. On the plight of painters, he said, “unlike in the past when there were over a 100-members in the association, it has now come down to less than 50.” Raju currently works as drawing teacher in a private school in Karur. A senior official from the district administration said they will be engaging them in painting works for the district administration as and when there will be any requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-artists-come-forward-to-create-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/75240499.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 20, 2020||Agra||No proper coordination, lockdown unsatisfactory’ in 20 west UP dists||Agra: The UP government has termed the "status of lockdown" in 20 districts of west Uttar Pradesh, including Agra, which has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases, as “unsatisfactory”, mainly, due to local administration’s failure to enforce it strictly. However, the lockdown situation in six districts - Aligarh, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur - has been described as “satisfactory”, as only two or three cases have been reported from there so far. The report, prepared by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, on the basis of different parameters, including the number of Covid-19 cases, attacks on police and medical staff, implementation of lockdown conditions and other medical facilities, mentioned reasons for the poor performance by districts. According to officials, the number of Coronavirus patients and Jamaatis have increased during the lockdown period in 20 districts, which shows that the lockdown rules are not being followed. The ACS has sent the report to all the district authorities and directed them to improve functioning to check the transmission of the disease and follow lockdown protocols. The report stated that in Agra lack of coordination was witnessed even between the principal and doctors of the medical college. Thereafter, action was taken by the government and a professor and head of medicine department was suspended while a departmental inquiry has been initiated against the head of paediatric department for the same. “Lack of coordination also exists between police and administration in districts of Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gautam Budh Nagar,” the report stated. Till now, 241 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Agra, which is the highest in the state, followed by other districts of west UP such as Gautam Budh Nagar (95), Saharanpur (91), Meerut (75) and Moradabad (55).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-proper-coordination-lockdown-unsatisfactory-in-20-west-up-dists/articleshow/75239308.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Another cop in Hyderabad tests +ve for virus||HYDERABAD: A day after a constable working at a police station in the Hyderabad police commissionerate limits tested positive for Covid-19, his colleague, who is under quarantine, has contracted the infection. The 35-year-old police constable is the second policeman from central zone to test positive in the past few days. Till date, three policemen, including a head constable, have tested positive in the city. None of them have travel history and they all tested positive while performing duties at check points. Two days ago, a 35-year-old constable who performed duties at a check point had tested positive. Subsequently, three members of the constable’s family and five cops who worked with him have been sent for quarantine. On Saturday night, one of the quarantined cops, a 35-year-old constable, tested positive. Authorities have now placed three of his family members in quarantine. In the wake of the new positive case, senior officials have once again instructed all policemen working in the city to use sanitisers, face masks and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-cop-in-hyd-tests-ve-for-virus/articleshow/75240794.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Built during one pandemic, Daga statue collapses in another||Nagpur: The fierce squall amid the lockdown lull on Saturday night left nearly a century old statue of Sir Kasturchand Daga shattered as a tree fell on it. Erected on December 8, 1924, Daga’s statue has been a landmark in the city, with the ground next to it also named after him. It is a coincidence that work on the statue began in 1918-1919, a year after Daga’s death in February 1917, when the Spanish flu pandemic had hit the world. Now when it fell, the world is in the grip of coronavirus pandemic, said his great grandson Govind Daga, an industrialist. Ashok Mokha, a member of NMC’s heritage committee and an architect, told TOI it may not be possible to put reassemble the statue from the pieces. The white stone may be marble. Mokha said the committee will be taking up the issue in its next meeting. Daga’s firm M/s Bansilal Abirchand ran a successful business extending to areas in today’s Pakistan and Rangoon. A known philanthropist of his time, he was also among the pioneers of coal and manganese mining in the erstwhile Central Provinces (CP) and Berar. The statue dedicated to the city by his business partner Sir Manekji Dadabhoy was unveiled at the hands of then governor of CP&Berar, Sir Frank Sly. It was built by noted sculptor of the time G K Mahatre of erstwhile Bombay. The stone having Mahatre’s name was also broken. “The firm was also the bankers to the British government during the World War,” Daga said. The family had learnt of a ground named Kasturchand Park at Rawal Pindi in Pakistan too. This was confirmed by Daga’s classmate in the US, Ishaq Khan Khakwani, who had served as the railways minister in General Musharaff’s government. “After Govind requested, I deputed an officer of divisional superintendent’s rank sometime in 2005-06, who confirmed there was a place by that name in Rawal Pindi. It was part of railways property. Of course. it as not in same condition as it is in India,” Khakwani told TOI. Sly in his speech had noted that the statute could have been ready long ago but got delayed due to World War I. In December 2017, Sly’s grandniece Alison Graham Varney had also visited the statue. In a function, she read the speech delivered by Sly in 1924. It also happened to be centenary of Daga’s death. “My granduncle died in 1928. My grandfather, his youngest brother, inherited his mementos from India. I grew up with this knowledge of India,” Varney told TOI over emai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/built-during-one-pandemic-daga-statue-collapses-in-another/articleshow/75240044.cms||Shishir Arya
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Breather for Pokhran as patients heal||JAISALMER: Pokhran that emerged as an epicentre of coronavirus in Jaisalmer district with a spurt in cases is now returning to normal with patients recovering and returning home. Till now, 32 positive cases have been reported from Pokhran, of which six have recovered and returned home after testing negative in Jodhpur. Similarly, of the 32 positive cases sent from Jaisalmer’s Military Station to Jodhpur for treatment, 19 have been discharged and sent back to the military station. The third phase of door-to-door survey and screening has also started in Jaisalmer. CMHO Dr B K Barupal said around 15 days ago, a man from Pokhran had come in contact with people from Tablighi Jamaat and was tested positive, after which around 31 people tested positive and were referred to Jodhpur. In the last two days, six people have returned to Pokhran after being recovered. He said two days ago, the first case tested negative twice and was discharged from the hospital. He will be kept in 14-day quarantine in Pokhran. Similarly, five more patients returned on Saturday after recovering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/breather-for-pokhran-as-patients-heal/articleshow/75240501.cms||Vimal Bhatia
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Spl officers to ensure farming activities are not disrupted||Trichy: Special police officers have been assigned to coordinate with agriculture department officials to get information on police personnel unnecessarily intercepting vehicles with farm produce and other essential commodities.To ease farmers’ routine during the lockdown, central zone DIG V Balakrishnan had earlier instructed police personnel not to restrict farmers who were transporting their produce to the markets. On reviewing the progress, officials from the agriculture department told him that farmers from various parts of the district are still being intercepted in the name of inspection. To prevent such instances again, he has nominated five special officers who have discussed with the joint directors of agriculture department of respective districts and charted out ways to help farmers. Based on the discussion, it has been decided to ease transportation of essential commodities to markets, allow farmers and labourers travelling to harvest sugarcane, transporting canes to sugar mills, allowing farm labourers to remain till 4pm at their workplace and not questioning during their return, the DIG stated. “If anyone finds any obstacle in their movement, they can immediately contact police officers on 9498158901 (Trichy), 9498150081 (Pudukottai), 9498104410 (Karur), 9498153276 (Perambalur) and 9498167666 (Ariyalur),” DIG Balakrishnan stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spl-officers-to-ensure-farming-activities-are-not-disrupted/articleshow/75240502.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Toll collection at Kini toll plaza to resume from today||KOLHAPUR: As partial relaxation on lockdown rules are expected to come into effect from Monday, the toll collection will also resume at Kini toll plaza subsequently. NHAI has written to all toll collection centres, the copy of which is with TOI, asking them to resume the collection of the user fee at all plazas on National Highways with immediate effect. The NHAI has also issued guidelines to the concerned people to ensure that they maintain social distancing rules and apply hand sanitisers for frequent cleaning of hands. The concerned employees should be putting their masks, hand gloves and other preventive measures as per the guidelines issued by the Government of India to contain the spread of Covid-19. The vehicle owners are appealed to use FASTag to avoid any direct human involvement. “The instructions have been issued to the concerned authorities and the associations of the Truck and Motor transport to encourage the vehicles that are on road for essential services and carrying commodities from one place to another. Everyone travelling on National Highway are told to use FASTags for payment of tolls at Kini toll plaza. This will help in reducing the contact between the employees at toll plaza and the drivers that will help in preventing the spread of Covid-19. The vehicles that will start coming on roads after some relaxations from Monday will have to abide by the rules and pay toll at toll plazas on NH4,” said an official from district collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/toll-collection-at-kini-toll-plaza-to-resume-from-today/articleshow/75240056.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Agra||Now, SN Med College will only admit Covid-19 patients for treatment||Agra: Agra administration on Sunday decided to earmark government’s SN Medical College (SNMC) Hospital exclusively for treatment of Covid-19 patients, after 20 people, including three resident doctors, health workers and their family members, tested positive for the infection. Confirming this, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that the medical college will treat Covid-19 patients only and non-Covid patients will be treated at the district hospital to contain the spread of the infection among health workers, who are working together in the same premises. However, emergency services will remain operational at the medical college, he added. Babloo Kumar, SSP, told TOI that many ward boys have tested positive for the disease as they were not following social distancing rules. “Though ward boys were not allowed to meet anyone while deputed in the Covid ward, they were ignoring the directions. Now, they will not be allowed to go anywhere and will be grounded on the campus till they complete their 21-day cycle of quarantine and seven days of duty in the Covid ward,” he said. District authorities have also issued an advisory for private hospitals to allow only 30-40% of manpower for treating their patients at one go, so that the remaining staff can be used in rotation when the earlier one goes back home after completing a certain period at the hospital. All these steps are being taken to contain the spread of coronavirus in Agra, said officials. Till now, nine health workers from various departments of the medical college, three resident doctors and their family members have tested positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/now-sn-med-college-will-only-admit-covid-19-patients-for-treatment/articleshow/75239310.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: 22 persons booked gather to make marriage plans, booked||KOLHAPUR: Taking tough action against those violating lockdown norms, Karveer police have booked 22 people who had congregated at a house in the Bondrenagar area of the city to fix a marriage and accordingly make plans for the wedding. A case has been registered against the 22 people at Karveer police station on late Friday night. “We got information from local residents that some people had gathered at a house in the Bondrenagar area. As soon as we received the information, our police team rushed to the spot and found that as many as 22 people from various parts of the city and sub-urban areas had gathered at a house,” said an officer attached with Karveer police station. “When we asked them the reason behind gathering in such huge numbers at a time when the lockdown is already in place, they said that they had gathered to fix a marriage and make plans accordingly so that the wedding could be executed right after the lockdown,” said the officer. “Not only did they flout the lockdown rules, they were not even observing social distancing at the house. We have registered an offence under section 188 of the IPC (disobedience of public order),” said the officer. In another case, police have booked two people for allegedly carrying Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 1,200 at Kitwad village in Chandgad taluka. Police have seized their motorcycle and registered an offence under relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/22-persons-booked-gather-to-make-marriage-plans-booked/articleshow/75240048.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Neeri too says pollution is less during lockdown||Nagpur: Scientists at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) have ascertained that the overall air quality of the city has significantly improved post the nationwide lockdown. Also, they have analysed that Metro will help in reducing air pollution in the city. Identifying vehicular emissions, re-suspension of road dust and emissions from fossil fuel combustion as the major sources of air pollution in the city, scientists maintained that there were no region-specific sources. TOI recently reported that with drop in consumption of fossil, the levels of nitrogen dioxide significantly declined during the lockdown. A scientific analysis done by Neel Kamal, senior scientist at Neeri’s air pollution control division compared the ambient air quality monitoring data before and after the lock down. Most of the air polluting activities were non-operation post the nationwide curfew. According to the analysis, major pollutants including particulate matter (PM) 10, PM2.5 and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) show reduction in concentration due to the lockdown. The daily mean value of PM10 has come down from 61 to 47 while that of PM2.5 has come down from 31 to 23. Further, NO2 has come down from 48 to 25, indicating absence of vehicles on the road. Speaking to TOI, Kamal stated, “Air Pollution Emission sources in Nagpur are similar to sources in any other urban centre. There are no region specific sources in Nagpur. Also, the ambient air pollution levels in the city are not very high like in Delhi-National Capital Region.” In the analysis, the hourly variation of PM2.5 averaged for the lockdown period indicates towards a single set of source which is now absent, causing constant reduction. “After 6pm the PM2.5 levels increase due to setting up of temperature inversion which restricts vertical movement of pollutants. While, during day, the pollution sources are relatively high compared to night, the heating of ground surface from bright sunshine causes pollutants to move in the upper atmosphere,” the analysis stated. It further mentioned that the daily averaged SO2, which is an indicator of fossil fuel combustion, was found to be 9 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) before the lockdown. Post it, the pollutant’s level further reduced to 2 mpcm, which was far much lower than the regulatory limit value of 80mpcm prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi. As per Kamal, the upcoming Metro will reduce the number of vehicles on road, thereby further reducing the air pollution. “Once the cement road and Metro-related activity is completed, the construction-related emission will come down,” the scientist stated. Adding that efforts towards smart city development, green cover, road widening, solid waste lifting can be done to mitigate air pollution, Kamal stated, “The Nagpur Municipal Corporation is already active on all these fronts. What is important is to accept the likely pollution levels in the city with routine activities in progress.” Daily Mean Pollutant concentration (mg/m3) PM10 PM2.5 NO2 SO2 Before Lockdown 20th Feb to 20th March 61 31 48 9 During Lockdown 21st March to 17th April 47 23 25 2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neeri-too-says-pollution-is-less-during-lockdown/articleshow/75240054.cms||Manka Behl
April 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Meagre meals become the norm at many daily wage earners’ homes||PUNE: Sushma Dumade and her family of five have been surviving on watery dal and roti for the past week. Her children have been asking her to make at least a simple potato curry, but the family has no money to buy essentials. Whatever money Dumade had saved up was first used to rebuild the house after it was destroyed in the 2018 fire that gutted over 250 shanties in Patil Estate. Last year, the swollen Mutha river claimed much of the nearby area and wiped away the money Dumade had left in her kitty. Her husband, an auto rickshaw driver has also not been able to work since the lockdown was announced. Like Dumade, many daily wage labourers are living frugally in the hope that the lockdown will end soon. The ration shops provide only wheat and rice per card but when enquired about pulses and sugar, those running the shops say that they haven’t received any supply themselves. Moreover, with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announcing 5kg free foodgrain, the queue at the shops has been growing. As of now, however, families are only getting their monthly share of ration as the shops are yet to get the promised free foodgrain. Dumade holds a yellow ration card, given to families below the poverty line. “I spent Rs60 to get 15kg wheat and 10kg rice. There is absolutely no earning right now,” she said. Local residents said that even ration shops remain open only for a very short time, which is not enough to cater to the needs of so many people. Ration shop owners denied that they have not helped people despite the fact that two such shops were shut when TOI visited the site. The owners said that apart from regular rice and wheat, no other supply had reached them. “They are also entitled to pulses but either there is no supply or the quality of dal is very poor and so people don’t buy it,” said a ration shop owne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/meagre-meals-become-the-norm-at-many-daily-wage-earners-homes/articleshow/75240508.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 20, 2020||India||‘Passengers’ pop out of meds train from Bengal to Jharkhand||RANCHI: A special train meant to ferry medical supplies from Bengal to Jharkhand arrived in Ranchi on Friday after dropping off 30-odd "passengers" at different stations along the route, prompting the state government to seek a clarification from the railways on its standard operating procedure for freight and other services during the lockdown. The train had left Shalimar station in Howrah on Thursday evening with more than 30 male passengers, some of them identified as former railway staffers, travelling in the three sleeper coaches carrying a consignment of medicines, personal protective equipment and other medical items. By the time the train chugged into Ranchi station the next day, only a few of the passengers were inside the coaches, sources said. The rest apparently alighted at Bondamunda, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur and other stations. In a letter to the divisional railway managers of Ranchi, Chakradharpur, Adra, Asansol, Dhanbad, Bhagalpur and Malda, Jharkhand transport secretary K Ravikumar asked for a clarification by Monday evening on the lockdown SOP for movement of freight, parcel and personnel. He also asked for the names, phone numbers and addresses of those who travelled by the special train from Shalimar and got off at various stations. A copy of the letter has been marked to the chairman of the Railway Board. Officials of the Ranchi division and the South Eastern Railway headquarters in Kolkata said the passengers were all rail personnel, including some retired staff who had undergone medical treatment at various railway hospitals. "The railways is working in accordance with instructions and guidelines from the Centre. We are not aware if we need to take any clearance from the state government to start any special train," said a senior railway official in Kolkata. Neeraj Kumar, chief public relations officer of the Ranchi railway division, said: "We have received a letter from the state transport department. We will reply to it soon." A transport department official said the state government needed to know specifically if those who travelled by the special train were quarantined on arrival at their destinations, as mandated by the Union health ministry. A week ago, seven RPF jawans reached Ranchi from New Delhi on board a parcel train without official approval. A 35-year-old railway employee tested positive in Dhanbad on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/passengers-pop-out-of-meds-train-from-bengal-to-jharkhand/articleshow/75240915.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 20, 2020||Pune||Difficult times for 20,000 migrants in industrial belt||PUNE: Over 20,000 migrant workers living in villages around the Chakan-Talegaon industrial belt are facing tough times because of the lockdown, which has now been extended to May 3. Upendra Kumar (25), a machine operator with an engineering firm in Chakan, is worried — his groceries will run out soon and he is yet get his salary. “Usually, we get our salary in the first week of month, but this time they said we would be paid in a few days. If I don’t get money, I don’t know how I’ll be able to afford supplies. I may have to seek free rations being distributed by local villagers,” he said. Kumar hails from Bihar and lives with two other employees in a tiny room in a chawl in Nanekarwadi, near Chakan. Vinod Jadhav, a native of Nanded district and a machine operator with a private firm in Kuruli village, is ins similar dire straits. “Our company told us we would be paid for the days on which we worked in March, but only paid us half. They said they would pay the rest in a few weeks. They don’t even call us for work any more. I don't know if I’ll get my salary. I have to pay rent and look after my family of four. I can’t return to my village, and surviving here has become tough,” Jadhav said. Ram Mormare, a supervisor with a motorcycle spare parts manufacturer, said, “One local organization had given us 5kg of wheat, a litre of edible oil and besan in mid-March. No one has helped us since them. I haven’t gotten my salary yet and do not know how to take care of my family. The company has not even told me if I have my job,” Mormare said. For the past few days, the Federation of Chakan Industry (FCI) has been supplying dry ration to the stranded migrants. “Initially, we had supplied food to them. But logistics issues and restrictions on transport forced us to change our strategy. Now we have passes from the police and supply dry rations to as many employees as possible daily,” FCI secretary Dilip Batwal said. He said many industrial units, especially the smaller ones that supply spares to big auto firms, are in financial trouble. “This has had an effect on the migrant workers,” he said. Chief Officer Nilam Patil of Chakan Municipal Council said he too has received several complaints from the workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/difficult-times-for-20000-migrants-in-industrial-belt/articleshow/75240514.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Six of a family test positive, cases spike to 179 in Vadodara||VADODARA: In a major spike in number of Covid-19 cases in the city, 22 more people tested positive since Saturday night, taking total number of affected persons up to 179. Those who tested positive include six family members of Chirag Kachhiya, who had died due to Covid-19 on Thursday. Chirag, his immediate family and other relatives used to stay in the same building. Those who tested positive on Sunday include his mother, wife as well as other relatives. Their samples were collected after Chirag had tested positive. The new areas from where cases were reported include Jagmalni Pole and Bhayli areas of the city. The case from Jagmalni Pole was the first case from the walled city area while that from Bhayli was that of a nurse. The north zone of the city continued to reel under the outbreak with 17 cases being reported from this zone followed by four in the east zone. The case of the nurse in Bhayli area was the only case to be reported from outside the civic limits. Sources said a major reason for the large number of positive cases on Sunday was that the laboratory at SSG Hospital was hardly able to conduct tests on Saturday. This was due to kits that were not found up to the mark and returned by the hospital. Tests resumed after fresh kits arrived. Health teams of the civic body collected 78 fresh samples from different parts of the city and these included 22 samples from the red zone, 11 from the orange zone, 20 from yellow zone and 25 from green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-of-a-family-test-positive-cases-spike-to-179-in-city/articleshow/75239213.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Maharastra government struggles to give supplies to workers||PUNE: For two weeks now, Tulsidas, a construction worker, who stayed back in one of the sites near Kharadi has been struggling for ration. He has a family to feed and three friends to care for, and so far, they have depended on their saved money. Now, with the lockdown extended, they are not sure they will be able to manage till the end of the month. “We have to request the administration to send us back home. The lockdown will go on. We cannot keep waiting here,” he said. With no work and no money, the situation looks bleak for the 300-odd families staying at this construction site. The district administration had decided that they cannot leave the site and these families who are not staying in the shelter camps are grappling with how to make ends meet. “We cannot step out and with strict bandobast we cannot go to the camp which is almost 2.5km away. The administration should make arrangements to send us home or we will be hungry,”he told TOI. Most construction sites have similar tales. Premkumar, a resident of Wagholi, who had hoped that the government would allow them to leave after the April 14 lockdown. “We have old parents. The fields have to be tended to,” he said. He has not sent money home and they are struggling, he added. The district administration said they would ensure there is no food shortage at the shelter camps and has told those staying closeby to shift there. “There are facilities at these shelters and we want to ensure that nobody goes without food. It is not practically possible for the staff to reach out to all the sites with ration. If these workers shift to the camps, they will be taken care of,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-govt-struggles-to-give-supplies-to-workers/articleshow/75240516.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Forced to buy ration of poor quality||I live in Zingabai Takli. My family has six members, including my wife, three daughters and an aged mother. I am the sole breadwinner of my family. Government should now lift the lockdown otherwise I won’t be able to feed my family. I own the autorickshaw I drive. I used to earn around Rs 15,000 a month before the lockdown. However, I haven’t earned anything since March 15. I had only Rs 1,000 in my bank account. However, there was some money with my wife at home. I used to take kids to school. Two parents recently gave me March’s charges after the lockdown was enforced, which helped a lot. Fortunately, I got an opportunity to transport ration from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godown to ration shops and this enabled me to earn some money. I have been unable to pay my electricity and water bill. While the companies have not sent me any messages, I appeal to them to not disconnect me. Fortunately, I own the house and hence don’t have to pay rent. I have a below poverty line (BPL) card but I didn’t use it to buy subsidized ration as the quality of wheat and rice was very poor. My kids refused to eat it. However, for the first time I had to buy ration as I have no money. I hail from Nagpur and can’t go to any village to get a full meal. Social distancing is necessary to beat the pandemic but I need money to survive. The government has to allow me to ply my auto.  (As told to Ashish Roy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forced-to-buy-ration-of-poor-quality/articleshow/75240068.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Expect showers across some parts of Maharashtra: IMD||PUNE: Some parts of the state, including central Maharashtra as well as Marathwada, will Iikely record showers over the next two days, stated the India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Sunday, some parts of the state, including Pune and Mahabaleshwar, recorded a drizzle or showers. In fact, cloudy conditions prevailed across many cities in the state. According to the meteorological department’s daily report, Pune is expected to witness cloudy conditions on Monday. Thereafter, mainly clear skies are expected until April 25. As per the all-India weather report, currently a trough/wind discontinuity runs from Tamil Nadu to South Marathwada, across interior Karnataka. The city is expected to continue to record hot days through this week. The maximum temperature is likely to be between 40 and 41 degrees Celsius during the week, stated the weekly weather forecast for the city. Data provided by the IMD stated that the city had on Sunday recorded maximum temperature of 39.3 degrees Celsius, higher than normal by 1.5 degrees. The minimum temperature in Pune was 24.5 degrees Celsius, 4.8 degrees above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expect-showers-across-some-parts-of-state-imd/articleshow/75240519.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Cops barricade arterial roads to check movement of people during lockdown||Nagpur: Police have now erected barricades at important junctions on arterial roads, to create bottlenecks and slow down traffic to allow stricter checking. NMC too has deployed a drone for aerial surveillance of the city roads and nakabandis. With rising violations of lockdown norms, and increasing Covid-19 patients and suspects in the city, cops have decided to block stretches of several arterial roads with barricades at both ends, making free flow of vehicular traffic through them almost impossible. Apart from the containment areas, city police have resorted to blockading several main junctions, like Ram Nagar, Ambazari-Futala turning, Dhantoli, Variety Square, LIC Chowk, Old Katol Naka Chowk, Kamal Chowk, Indora, Bole petrol pump chowk, Bajaj Nagar Chowk, Mayo Hospital Chowk and several others, including on the fringes of the city, to slow down flow of traffic. The hectic police barricading at places like Ram Nagar and Ambazari on Saturday had also triggered widespread rumours about corona positive patients being traced to such places. Senior PI of Ambazari Vijay Kare said the barricading has nothing to do with patients being found at such places. “At Ram Nagar chowk, around seven roads converge. We had to deploy barricades to stop people from fleeing when they are stopped. It’s happening everywhere and now we are not permitting anyone to cross the barricades without police permission,” he said. Kare, who seized two cars on Sunday, said he had to clarify the doubts of many residents through social media about police decision to step up checking and restrict movements as part of strategy and not because anyone with corona was found here. Joint CP Ravindra Kadam said the barricades have been placed across the roads in such a way that there is lesser chance of avoiding being checked on the roads. “Police are going to be stricter now. Citizens are violating norms to come on the streets. We are registering offences and more actions would be initiated,” he said. “Police had almost 1,000-1,500 barricades but another 300 have been rented to replace the bamboo ones,” said the Joint CP.  “If such measures stop residents from venturing out on the streets then we would silently support it,” said a PI. Meanwhile, Zonal DCP Neelotpal’s squad cracked down on a high profile gambling den at Oberoi Palace at Yashodhara Nagar. More tha Rs 52,000 were seized along with nine mobile phones and four cars. Total seizure was more than Rs 26 lakhs. The businessmen were taken to Yashodhara Nagar police station to register offences against them. City police on Sunday registered 76 offences against violators of lockdown norms and also detained 45 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-barricade-arterial-roads-to-check-movement-of-people-during-lockdown/articleshow/75240079.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: 141 victims of cyber fraud get refund of Rs 57.77 lakh from banks||PUNE: The cybercrime branch of the Pune police facilitated a collective refund of Rs57.77 lakh via their respective banks and other financial agencies of the 141 people, who had lost money to cybercrooks during the lockdown period. The victims had lost money after downloading links or sharing OTPs with the cybercrooks. The 141 persons had approached the cybercrime police station after they were cheated. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Sambhaji Kadam said the police took prompt action after the complainants approached them. Senior inspector Jayram Paygude of the cybercrime police station said, “Many people received suspicious links via text messages on their cellphones. They opened it and the suspects utilized remote access softwares to siphon off money from their UPI applications or e-wallets.” Similarly, many people had unknowingly shared their OTPs with the suspects, who had called them under the garb of executives of the banks, Paygude said. “The police wrote emails to the banks where the suspects had their accounts. The officers told the victims to fill the dispute forms with the banks where they had accounts. They told the banks to freeze these accounts. The banks followed the police’s directions,” he said, adding that in these cases, the suspects failed to withdraw cash and it was sent back to the victims’ accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/141-victims-of-cyber-fraud-get-refund-of-rs-57-77l-from-banks/articleshow/75240523.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Constable dies of heart attack in Pune||PUNE: A 43-year-old police constable attached to Shivajinagar police station headquarters died after suffering a heart attack while in the office on Sunday afternoon . The deceased, Sandip Bhosale, was immediately taken to a hospital. He was declared dead on arrival by the doctors. Bhosale had served at Sahakarnagar, Hinjewadi and Bhosari MIDC police stations in his 22 years of service within the police department. The constable was currently posted at the Shivajinagar police headquarters. Bhosale is survived by his wife and two children — a daughter (10) and son (6) tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/75240525.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Five-year-old in Gujarat fights back corona||PALANPUR/RAJKOT/BHARUCH/SURAT: A five-yearold boy from Banaskantha district was among the youngest patients in Gujarat to recover from the deadly novel coronavirus on Sunday. The boy Mahek Vadalia from Mithavi Charan village in Vav taluka near Indo-Pak border had tested positive on April 13 and admitted to the isolation ward of Palanpur Civil Hospital. However, the child will require to stay under quarantine in Deesa for another 14 days, said epidemic Medical Oficer (EMO) Banaskntha NK Garg. Mahek had got infected after he returned with his family from Surat. After his discharge, there are nine infected patients in isolation ward at the Palanpur hospital. In Sabarkantha, the 33-yearold male nurse Narendrasinh Chauhan of Himmatnagar Civil Hospital was discharged after he recovered fully. Chief district health officer Rajesh Patel said Chauhan will have to remain in isolation for 14 days. Chauhan, who lives in block number 2 of the hospital campus, was later booked for hiding information about his travel to Rajasthan. He used to ferry passengers to and from Rajasthan after putting up the label of ambulance on his private car. More encouraging news came in from Bhavnagar with five more corona patients being discharged from the Sir T Hospital on Sunday. All these patients were from areas declared as cluster containment zones. Officials said none of these patients had any co-morbid conditions. In all, 15 people have recovered in Bhavnagar so far while 13 are under treatment. According to district administration, those discharged - Mohammed Yasar Hussainmiya Kadri (26), Waheeda Dholakiya (55) and Iqbal Gori (41) - were admited on April 10. Two other patients - Shehzad Keliya (21) and Avinash Vasaya (26) - were admitted on April 8. All these are residents of Sandhiyavad and nearby areas. The hospital authorities were providing them psychological counselling in the isolation ward to keep them mentally strong in fighting the deadly disease. In Bharuch district too, one patient each from Ikhar village and Devla village of Jambusar - were discharged from Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar. One patient was also discharged in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-year-old-boy-among-10-covid-19-patients-to-recover/articleshow/75239372.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Surat||Five-year-old in Gujarat fights back corona||PALANPUR/RAJKOT/BHARUCH/SURAT: A five-yearold boy from Banaskantha district was among the youngest patients in Gujarat to recover from the deadly novel coronavirus on Sunday. The boy Mahek Vadalia from Mithavi Charan village in Vav taluka near Indo-Pak border had tested positive on April 13 and admitted to the isolation ward of Palanpur Civil Hospital. However, the child will require to stay under quarantine in Deesa for another 14 days, said epidemic Medical Oficer (EMO) Banaskntha NK Garg. Mahek had got infected after he returned with his family from Surat. After his discharge, there are nine infected patients in isolation ward at the Palanpur hospital. In Sabarkantha, the 33-yearold male nurse Narendrasinh Chauhan of Himmatnagar Civil Hospital was discharged after he recovered fully. Chief district health officer Rajesh Patel said Chauhan will have to remain in isolation for 14 days. Chauhan, who lives in block number 2 of the hospital campus, was later booked for hiding information about his travel to Rajasthan. He used to ferry passengers to and from Rajasthan after putting up the label of ambulance on his private car. More encouraging news came in from Bhavnagar with five more corona patients being discharged from the Sir T Hospital on Sunday. All these patients were from areas declared as cluster containment zones. Officials said none of these patients had any co-morbid conditions. In all, 15 people have recovered in Bhavnagar so far while 13 are under treatment. According to district administration, those discharged - Mohammed Yasar Hussainmiya Kadri (26), Waheeda Dholakiya (55) and Iqbal Gori (41) - were admited on April 10. Two other patients - Shehzad Keliya (21) and Avinash Vasaya (26) - were admitted on April 8. All these are residents of Sandhiyavad and nearby areas. The hospital authorities were providing them psychological counselling in the isolation ward to keep them mentally strong in fighting the deadly disease. In Bharuch district too, one patient each from Ikhar village and Devla village of Jambusar - were discharged from Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar. One patient was also discharged in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-year-old-boy-among-10-covid-19-patients-to-recover/articleshow/75242340.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Quirky features of Covid-19 leave doctors in DK district baffled||Mangaluru: World over, medical researchers are scratching their heads, as they try to come out with an effective vaccine against the novel coronavirus. However, in Dakshina Kannada district, it is the strange and ‘quirky’ aspects of the deadly virus that has the doctors baffled. The case of the 10-month-old infant that tested positive for Covid-19, while neither the baby’s mother nor the grandmother was found infected, left the doctors astounded, before they were confronted with yet another puzzling case: A lawyer, who had returned to the district from New Delhi, testing positive after the stipulated quarantine period had elapsed. In a third instance, medical tests confirmed that two delegates from the district who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat were infected, but 10 days after they had been with their families. The total number of cases in the district – two fresh cases were reported on Sunday – is now at 15. However, of these, 12 have been discharged, and directed to stay quarantined at home for a fortnight. Lack of clarity on the lifecycle of the virus has compelled doctors and government agencies to adopt the precautionary measure of keeping those patients who are discharged in quarantine at home, while their primary and secondary contacts will also be closely monitored. Dakshina Kannada district health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachanra Bairy said that they had observed the virus exhibiting virulent behaviour after as long as a 21-day incubation period. “The district is being utmost careful in handling the crisis, and we appeal to the people to adopt all the precautionary measures prescribed by the government. The lack of sufficient samples, and the sudden eruption of the crisis has left the scientific community with too many grey areas to explore,” Dr Bairy told TOI. Illustrating his point with the example of the lawyer, who had been to New Delhi to appear at the Supreme Court, Dr Bairy said, “He was quarantined on April 1, and his throat swabs sent for medical tests on the same day. The results confirmed that he was not infected, but the result of the tests on samples that were collected from him on April 13 proved otherwise. There was another incident of a patient from Karkala taluk in Udupi district, who was quarantined at ESI Hospital and initially tested negative, also tested positive later.” Dr Bairy added, “In the case of the ten-month-old baby that has been confirmed infected, we cannot isolate the baby from the mother since that is the treatment protocol.” Epidemiologist Dr Prashanth N Srinivas, of the Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, said that several ‘false negative’ cases had been reported in Wuhan province in China and South Korea. “The viral load, when tested initially, may have been low. We can, in fact, not rule out that testing may not have been carried out properly. There have also been reports of ‘false positives’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/quirky-features-of-covid-19-leave-doctors-in-dk-district-baffled/articleshow/75238312.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 63% students unable to access online classes, reveals UoH survey||HYDERABAD: Even as there is a growing clamour for online education during the Covid-19 lockdown period, a survey by the University of Hyderabad (UoH) revealed that only 37% of students will be able to access online classes regularly. The survey suggested a more cautious approach may be needed, which led the varsity to decide against imposing it on students and faculty now . “While 45% said they would be able to attend online classes ‘infrequently’, 18% (about 450 students) said they can’t access at all,” revealed UoH’s internal survey, which had responses from about 2,500 students. Even among students favourable towards online classes, most suggested asynchronous (pre-recorded classes, online sharing etc) mode (90%).  About 90% of students also said they access the Internet at least some time, with about 75% of them doing so by using their mobile data, with the rest using WiFi or fixed Internet lines. Students also pointed out issues such as mental state, lack of private space in small houses, increased screen time, and the anomalies that it may create among students from various levels of social hierarchy. The university said that it took into consideration these views, as part of its brainstorming on pedagogical options during the pandemic. “Given the issues of uneven access and levels of comfort with online classes, the university made a policy decision not to impose it on the students and faculty at this juncture,” said Vinod Pavarala, one of the two professors who led the survey team. “The university took the decision not to include any online inputs as part of the syllabus for exams and also directed faculty not to put any added pressure on students by giving assignments and projects with strict deadlines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/63-students-unable-to-access-online-classes-reveals-uoh-survey/articleshow/75240798.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Ahmedabad has high-risk factor for Covid-19’||AHMEDABAD: Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra has said the city has a high-risk factor because it has a population of around 80 lakh. Moreover a total of 6,000 people had come to the city from abroad, some people had visited cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Indore, and the most important reason was that the Walled City was densely populated. “These four factors made the Ahmedabad city a hotspot for corona. But with our strategy of aggressive testing we have been able to detect more cases from the field. Around 70% of testing was done through proactive surveillance. We definitely see a spike in the number of cases, but with each case we detect, we reduce the chances of spread of infection as one patient infects around 4,00l people,” Nehra said. The commissioner said that the number of cases in Ahmedabad was high as the city has a high-risk factor and surveillance is high priority. The AMC has adopted the strategy of aggressive testing which helps detect cases early. Nehra said, “We are going in for aggressive testing and as a result we have been able to catch asymptomatic patients. The city has a total of 978 such cases. Active surveillance has led to detection of 775 cases and as a result of active surveillance we were able to save 3 lakh people from getting infected, and trying that by May 3 all active infection cases are removed or reduced from the population.” The commissioner said, “We will see a high number of cases in the city for next two or three days as 90% of the population in Walled City, Behrampura and Danilimda areas have been covered.” He further said that the city had 139 new cases in the last 12 hours and of these 84 cases are from Central zone — the hotspot zone, while there were 36 cases from South zone of the city. In North zone there were eight cases in the past 12 hours, two cases each from Southwest and Northwest zone areas, and three from West zone of the city. The commissioner said that of the 139 cases there are 15 cases with symptoms and the remaining 124 were asymptomatic cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-has-high-risk-factor-for-covid-19/articleshow/75240080.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Khadki Cantonment Board extends lockdown for 5 more days||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has extended the complete lockdown by another five days till Friday. Shuja James, office superintendent of the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) said, “As per discussions with police and elected members, decision has been taken to extend the lockdown till April 24.” “We have found four positive patients today,” James added. People have been caught unawares due to the decision of KCB to extend the lockdown. Francis David, the president of South Indian Association, Khadki said, “People will suffer because of the extension of complete lockdown.” Nitin Shinde, a resident, said, “It is better to suffer the hardships than see our near and dear ones getting infected.” Selvaraj Anthony, another resident, said, “Daily wage earners are worst affected as they have lost their jobs and do not have money to purchase essential goods.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khadki-cantt-board-extends-lockdown-for-5-more-days/articleshow/75240527.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt makes insurance for staff a must, then backtracks||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after issuing an order making health insurance scheme covering Covid-19 infection mandatory for workers in industrial units which want to resume operations from Monday, the state industries department has made a volte-face by stating that it was just a suggestion inspired by a central government guideline issued earlier. The state government order dated April 18 — relaxing lockdown restrictions — issued by the industries department clearly stated in the 18-point ‘standard operating procedures/conditions to be followed by the industrial units/houses in the state while resuming their operations’ that it was mandatory for the employers to provide ‘medical insurance including for infection of coronavirus’ for the workers while operating under the lockdown period. “It’s just a suggestion and not a rule for resuming operations. We were actually re-conveying the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs issued on April 15. The state government has not taken any decision to make such an insurance coverage mandatory,” principal secretary K Ellangovan, in whose name the order was issued, told TOI when sought a clarification. Currently, insurance cover for Covid-19 is in place only for frontline health workers involved in managing the outbreak (including sanitation staff, doctors, Asha workers, paramedics and nurses), which was first announced by the state government and later by the Centre. The industrial units can resume work on Monday even without providing insurance coverage for Covid-19 infection, for which a clarification will be issued later, Ellangovan said. However, the industries department secretary’s clarification is likely to dilute all other conditions — to be followed by the industrial units which might resume operations during lockdown period — as well. They include ‘mandatory thermal scanning of everyone entering and exiting the workplace’, ‘strict ban on use of gutka, tobacco, etc and spitting’ on the premises and a total ban on non-essential visitors at sites. Among other conditions are a ‘single point of entry’ for the workers for proper accounting of number of people inside the plant, use of appropriate face mask and hand gloves (if required), frequent washing of hands with soap, a gap of one hour between shifts, staggering of lunch breaks to ensure social distancing and avoidance of large gatherings or meetings of 10 or more people. The conditions, the order says, are to be enforced by the district collectors, and warns that any violation of these conditions would lead to cancellation of the exemptions granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-makes-insurance-for-staff-a-must-then-backtracks/articleshow/75238329.cms||Salim Joseph
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Cheats exploiting people’s corona fear||Nagpur: Even though the whole country is currently in lockdown, an army of cyber tricksters is still active and trying to dupe citizens. Due to this threat, city police’s cyber cell has released an awareness video on how tricksters are targeting citizens during the lockdown. “All cyber criminals work on ongoing trends, so now they are using ‘corona trend’ to target citizens. These tricksters use similar modus to target citizens. Since corona is currently trending, they also use search engine optimization (SEO) to bring citizens to their fake websites and applications. As soon a citizen opens their website or downloads the app, their bank details are directly siphoned of by the trickster, who later withdraws money from the citizens’ account,” said city cyber cell in-charge Ashwini Jagtap. Another trick used by the tricksters involves posing as army personnel who want to send money to their stranded family through your bank account. The tricksters call a citizen and tell them that they are army personnel and want to send money to their elderly parents who are stuck in lockdown. “During the time of crises, citizens are ready to help needy persons and especially army men and policemen, as patriotism is high in these times. However, the tricksters use this opportunity to get your ATM card number, CVV and other details, and siphons off money from your accounts,” added PI Jagtap. The tricksters also pose as bank employees and asks for bank details of citizens by claiming that you have a bank loan but to get the extension of three months EMI, you need to share some details. This fraud came to fore after Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced three months moratorium on EMIs. “The tricksters are well updated on the ongoing trends and they use it for their own purposes. In Nagpur, no complaints have been received by cyber cell about such frauds but such frauds have taken place across the state. An attempt was made in the city by a trickster posing as an army men in need of help, however, the complainant did not fall prey to the trap,” added PI Jagtap. PRECAUTIONS AGAINST CYBER CRIMINALS Do not share ATM card number, account number over phone with any unidentified person Double check identity of anyone before lending a helping hand Do not visit any unverified websites Do not share OTP with anyone Use verified news websites to get updates on Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cheats-exploiting-peoples-corona-fear/articleshow/75240084.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 20, 2020||Pune||PCB residents struggle to get veggies and fruits||PUNE: The closure of the vegetable market in Ghorpadi and Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard has become a great cause of inconvenience for the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) residents. Several residents complained of scarce availability of vegetables and fruits in their area owing to the closure. The cantonment had a few days earlier started the vegetable and fruits market at Ghorpadi school and Golibar Maidan. “However, these markets were again shut as maximum vendors were residents of containment zones. They were unable to come out of their houses due to the restrictions imposed there,” PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said. “The PCB has not closed these markets. We realise that at people are facing issues at some places, but we do not have any immediate solution at present. Our primary focus is to provide adequate healthcare to those in need and ensuring that measures are in place to control the spread of the virus here,” Kumar added. The residents said since there is less supply of vegetables, the prices have increased. “One bunch of coriander, fenugreek and spinach are being sold in the range of Rs40 to Rs60. A kg of onion and potato is being sold in a similar range. But the prices of these vegetables have fallen drastically in the wholesale market. The board should fix this aspect of price rise,” a resident of Ghorpadi, Ravi Waghmare, said. Activists said the board should make arrangement for people in these unsettling times. “PCB should ensure the availability of essential items. If people don’t get such things easily, they are ought to break the law and come out to buy these items. This will create more chaos in the area,” activist lawyer Netra Prakash Bhog said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-residents-struggle-to-get-veggies-and-fruits/articleshow/75240528.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Will consider fee waiver on case basis, say school associations||JAIPUR: In a major relief to parents who suffered financial losses in the lockdown, the private school associations have announced to consider fee waiver on a case-to-case basis. Besides, many schools have agreed to defer quarterly fees payment. The move came after CBSE wrote to the state governments to resolve the fee issue taking all stakeholders into consideration. The relief measures were announced by the Society for Unaided Private Schools in Rajasthan which includes over 100 elite schools including Jayshree Periwal International School, Maharaja Sawai Mansingh Vidhyalaya, Neerja Modi School, Delhi Public School and Maharani Gayatri Devi School to name a few. “If there is a genuine case of any parent facing hardship in fees payment, his case should be considered sympathetically,” said Damodar Goyal, president of the society. The schools have decided to not charge any late fee penalty and are ready to accept fees on a monthly basis. Christian Missionary School Association, which includes over 120 schools has decided that parents can defer the first quarterly payment up to the last date of fourth quarterly fees disposition. Father Susai Manickan, member of Christian Missionary School Association and father of St Anselm’s Sen Sec School (Nevta) informed that missionary schools are meant for public service. “The lockdown period has impacted everyone. In this moment of need we are allowing parents to take their time in depositing fees of the first quarter. They can submit the fees in instalments as well,” said Ravi. All associations have agreed that parents who are capable should not ask for any favour. The demand for the blanket waiver of fee appears unreasonable as earnings of a sizable section will be not affected. Government employees, employees of organised sector, much of professionals and others will continue to receive their salaries without any deductions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/will-consider-fees-waiver-on-case-basis-school-assns/articleshow/75240542.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Surat||Seven positive staffers leave Bharuch Civil Hospital in a limbo||SURAT/BHARUCH: The industrial town of Bharuch has reported its first death due to coronavirus on Sunday. Memuna Bekriwala, 55, a resident of Munda Falia in Bharuch town, succumbed to the deadly virus at Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar. Health officials said the woman was not among Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment at Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar. She was suffering from diabetes and other ailments and thus taken to a private hospital for treatment. It was after doctors felt they should go for Covid-19 test of the patient that the woman was shifted to the hospital on Friday. Her samples were taken and sent for laboratory testing, but she passed away on Saturday. “We kept the body at the COVID-19 hospital as her report was pending. On Sunday afternoon, the report of the deceased woman came positive. The last rites of the deceased were performed as per government protocol,” said a health officer. District collector Dr MD Modiya said, “The woman died before her test result came. Entire family has been shifted to government quarantine facility and the area where she lived has been declared containment zone.” Modiya said, “We have shut down the civil hospital and got the OPD shifted to Sevashram Hospital. The civil hospital is being sanitized and disinfected as seven staff members had tested positive. We are taking samples of all the staff members. Those who test positive will be shifted to Jayaben Modi Hospital in Ankleshwar. The decision to reopen the civil hospital will be taken after knowing the test reports of all the staff members.” J D Parmar, civil surgeon of civil hospital, told reporters, “About 131 samples of staff members of civil hospital were taken on Saturday and of them 45 tested negative. Results of others are awaited. Another 150 samples will be taken on Monday.” Bharuch has reported 22 positive cases. All patients are under treatment at Hospital in Ankleshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-ve-staffers-leave-bharuch-civil-hospital-in-a-limbo/articleshow/75239406.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||Government to issue new I-T return forms for FY20 to aid taxpayers||NEW DELHI: The government is reworking the income tax return forms for the last financial year (2019-20) to enable taxpayers to avail full benefits of various timeline extensions due to Covid-19. “In order to facilitate taxpayer to avail full benefits with various timeline extension up to June 30, 2020 granted by the government, it has initiated necessary changes in the return forms so that taxpayers could take benefits of their transactions carried out during the period from April 1, 2020 to June 30, 2020 in the return forms for FY 2019-20,” the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe government had extended the deadline for several tax-related compliance, including investments for the last financial year, which can now be made up to June. “Once the revised forms are notified, it will further necessitate the consequential changes in the software and return filing utility. Hence, the return filing utility after incorporating necessary changes shall be made available by May 31, 2020 to avail benefits for FY 2019-20,” the tax department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-issue-new-i-t-return-forms-for-fy20-to-aid-taxpayers/articleshow/75240923.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre updates Kerala’s Covid-19 death toll to 3||Thiruvananthapuram: Even as the state government is yet to include the Mahe native’s death in its account, the Centre has updated the country statistics of Covid-19 with 400 cases and three deaths in Kerala while the state health department statistics say 399 cases and two deaths as on April 18. However, the state government is waiting for the official communication from the Union ministry of health family welfare in this regard. “There were two set of guidelines issued by the Centre on accounting the deaths of people who are coming from outside the state for treatment or people belonging to one state and working in a different state,” said a senior health department official. Hence, there was confusion over whether the nativity should be considered or the place of treatment should be considered. For this, the state government needs a clarification and hence has written to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. But the Union health ministry has already accounted the Mahe native’s death in Kerala’s account. As per the national data released by the Union ministry everyday in New Delhi, Kerala has three deaths. The Centre’s opinion is that death should be accounted where it has occurred irrespective of the nativity of the person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centre-updates-keralas-covid-19-death-toll-to-3/articleshow/75238387.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Those discharged from quarantine not given transport from hospitals||HYDERABAD: People being discarged from quarantine were left in the lurch after hospital authorities and ambulance service refused to provide them transport facility back home. Covid-19 suspect cases are being provided ambulance services at the time of shifting them to different isolation centres in Hyderabad but they are left to fend for themselves after being discharged, forcing them to arrange transport facility amid strict lockdown. People discharged from quarantine at places including Charminar Hospital and Gandhi Hospital told TOI that they were told to return home sans any transport facility. “We were told to go back home and were not provided any transport facility from Chest Hospital, Erragadda. It took me hours to reach home with my baggage after walking a long distance on foot. First, I had to walk to Gandhi Hospital to take my bike, which was parked at time of admission and then I returned home,” one of the quarantined told TOI, after spending 18 days in quarantine and whose test came negative. A similar case came to fore at Charminar on Saturday night, when a family, including children, was seen waiting anxiously at the bus stop to return home at about 11:30 pm. The family made all possible efforts to convince hospital and ambulance service authorities to drop them home but were not helped. Taking strong exception against the poor facilities in hospitals provided to the patients and discharged people, AIMIM corporator Mohammed Mustafa Ali Muzaffar alleged that Health Department had failed to ensure basic amenities for people in quarantine centres. “A family from Kishanbagh area was discharged Saturday night at about 11:30 pm from Charminar Hospital and were sitting helplessly at the bus stop in search of any vehicle. Despite this, they didn’t get transport facility and finally set out towards Shahalibanda where all of them stopped and could not continue. I took them in my vehicle and dropped them home,’’ saidMuzaffar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/those-discharged-from-quarantine-not-given-transport-from-hospitals/articleshow/75240802.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Woman complains of misbehaviour by cop||Nagpur: A 31-year-old teacher has complained of misbehaviour by a sub-inspector of Shanti Nagar police station during enforcement of lockdown on April 17. The sub-inspector allegedly berated the woman by making an objectionable gesture with stick in his hand pointing towards her. He also scuffled with her and snatched the mobile phone and keys of her scooter. Another person, who came in her support, was also targeted by the sub-inspector. Later, when the woman visited the police station to lodge a complaint she and her friend were at the receiving end once again from his seniors and colleagues. The woman and her friend had sent a mail to city police chief BK Upadhyay narrating the incident and also demanding justice from him. “We learnt that the complaint was forwarded to the Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar for action. The officer deserves to be at least suspended for the words he had used and also manhandling me,” said the teacher. “He should at least have woman cop with him if he wants to deal with a woman in this way,” she said. The woman was inside house when a three-and-half year old boy rushed out hearing the police announcements for awareness. She had gone to pick up the boy when the police jeep, with the officer, came near her. Upset at seeing her on the road, the officer wanted to send the woman back. Instead he dealt with her in rough manner and using derogatory language and gesture. Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar said the officer lost his temper but assured to look into the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-complains-of-misbehaviour-by-cop/articleshow/75240116.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress MLA refuses ration as beneficiary bats for PM Modi||JAIPUR: A video of Begun Congress MLA Rajendra Biduri asking a poor woman to choose between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot has gone viral. When the woman replies in favour of Modi, the MLA is allegedly heard telling her, “Go, light up diyas then and keep the ration here.” The incident took place during a ration distribution programme at Soniyana village in Begun tehsil of Chittorgarh on April 17. The video invited sharp reaction on social media. BJP state president Satish Poonia called the act an example of how Congress was discriminating those who did not subscribe to their ideology. In the 33 second video, he could be seen asking who is good — Gehlot or Modi. When the woman from the crowd (not visible) said Modi, the MLA re-confirmed by asking “Woh diya walla Modi (The one who lit the diya).. batao kaun achha, aap ko keh raha hu .....kya keh rahe ho Modi toh phir diya jalao ration chod jao (tell me who is good, I am asking you (while pointing his finger at woman in the crowd) are you saying Modi? Now light diya and leave the ration here.” At the programme, people including the MLA were seen violating social distancing norms by standing close to people. TOI repeatedly called and messaged Biduri for his response, but he chose to not respond. “The MLA has proved that Congress is playing the politics of appeasement and punishing those who don’t support them,” said Poonia. Jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the reaction of the Congress MLA showed his hatred towards Modi. Watch Shocking! Congress MLA refuses to give ration to BJP loyalist in Rajasthan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mla-refuses-ration-as-beneficiary-bats-for-modi/articleshow/75240544.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar implements single window system to allow workers from other states||RUDRAPUR: As the Central government has announced a partial lifting of lockdown for industries from April 20, the Udham Singh Nagar district administration and the city police department have launched a single window system for managing the influx of workers from other states. The two industrial areas — Pantnagar and Sitarganj — of the district are expected to witness a rush of trained professionals and unskilled workers to resume their jobs in production units. In view of this, the local administration has started an online system for industrialists who can apply to get the nod of bringing in workforce. Divulging the information, district’s Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Barinderjit Singh said that the single window system will cater to all the industries which will become operational from (and after) April 20. “As they will need staff and workers from other states as well, we have put this system into place. Once industry owners apply online for permission, they will be issued passes for transport vehicles which will bring the workers to the post allotted by the police department. Medical tests of the workers will be conducted by a team of health department and subsequently, the workers will be kept under supervision of the respective management of the industry. However, units will have to follow directives given by the administration,” SSP Singh added. SSP Singh further said that works related to farming are already being undertaken and those workers must also follow Covid-19 norms. During duty hours, the staff will not be allowed to commute elsewhere other than their place of work. "If any employer trespasses the due procedure or if anyone is found entering the district without due permission, the violator shall be booked under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” he added. Meanwhile, Paritosh Verma, regional manager of Pantnagar industrial area, said that more than 100 industrial units have applied for the permission and more such requests are being received. He urged everyone to adhere to the guidelines issued by the police and the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-implements-single-window-system-to-allow-workers-from-other-states/articleshow/75239414.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Quarantined man kills self in Ahmedabad after tiff with wife||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old daily wager, who hails from Malda district in West Bengal, has allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in qurantine, after a quarrel with his wife. They were quarantined at a boys’ hostel in the Sola area of city. The deceased, Kamal Pramanik, 40, was in the quarantine facility at the boys’ hostel of RC Technical College in Sola for around a week along with his wife Sumati,25, and their two kids. An official of Sola high court police said that Kamal had a quarrel with Sumati on Saturday evening over their kids who used to fight with each other. After quarreling with his wife, Kamal had gone to his room. Sumati stayed at another room with their children. On Sunday morning, when health officials of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) came to the boys’ hostel to distribute breakfast and knocked at room No. 20 where Kamal stayed, he did not open the door. Suspecting something was amiss, they broke down the door and found Kamal’s body hanging from the grill of a cupboard. A health official, Bipin Patel, later informed Sola high court police about Kamal’s death. An official of Sola high court police said that Sumati told cops that his husband was frustrated for being in quarantine and he had been picking fights with her and their children over petty issues. Police sent Kamal’s body for postmortem and began an investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/quarantined-man-kills-self-after-tiff-with-wife/articleshow/75240177.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||15 smaller containment zones in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The state health department on Sunday evening released a list of 15 new containment zones in Ahmedabad city and seven in the district. In all, the list contained 127 clusters under containment, covering 1.79 lakh houses and a population of 8.5 lakh. The health department officials said that Bareja, Ugrojpura, Bavla, Bopal, Kumarkhan, Changodar in Ahmedabad district and Jamalpur, Matavadi Pol, Qutbi Mohalla, Bodakdev, Bapunagar, Jashodanagar, Ambawadi and Gulbai Tekra had specific colonies/residential societies identified as containment zones. Parts of Ahmedabad city are already under curfew till April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-smaller-containment-zones/articleshow/75240123.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal students stuck in Kota pin hopes on govt||Kolkata: Nearly 1,000 students and many guardians from Bengal — who are stuck in Kota, Rajasthan — are not sure if they would be able to get back home anytime soon. “We had expected a breather after April 15 but the lockdown was extended. We are now thousands of kilometres away from home and it is getting difficult to procure even basic items. We have appealed to the Bengal government to arrange for our return. The kids are getting depressed watching their classmates from states like Uttar Pradesh leaving. I hope the authorities test us and then take us back to West Bengal,” said the mother of a student from Kolkata. Thousands of students from across the country travel to Kota to prepare for their engineering and medical entrance examinations. Several of them are from West Bengal. In many cases, one of the parents accompanies the student and they stay at a rented accommodation there. Running two establishments while paying tuition fees is a burden for most middle class families and the pressure is telling on many of them. Things are worsened by comments by a section of politicians. “A CPM leader has said that the government should not bother about people like us and concentrate on the poor. He probably doesn’t realize that most of us are middle-class people trying for a better future for our children. Many of us are burdened by loans,” the father of a student from Bansdroni said. Most guardians have approached the institutes, in which the students are studying,, but there has been no solution so far. According to a state government official, no decision has been taken on whether to bring them back home but discussions are on to find a way out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-students-stuck-in-kota-pin-hopes-on-govt/articleshow/75240113.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Asha workers not paid dues since January||Nagpur: The Asha workers who are carrying out door-to-door survey in the city for identifying Covid-19 suspects by risking their lives are a worried lot. The state government has failed to release their Rs 1,500 monthly honorarium from last three months.The women, mostly hailing from poor families, have also complained that they have been provided only masks and sanitisers but no hand gloves or personal protection equipment (PPE).According to the workers, they are sent to sensitive areas like Jaripatka where many positive patients were found. They also claimed that they are not provided any conveyance and have to walk from their homes to survey areas.“I stay in Gautam Nagar slums, which was made containment zone after a positive patient was found there. We are doing survey in such areas without PPE. They should release at least our three months’ salary,” an aggrieved worker told TOI.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) additional commissioner Ram Joshi said that all of them were working with them and necessary equipment like masks, sanitisers and hand gloves were provided to their heads. “I will inquire with our medical officer whether those have reached the workers. I will again have to talk to our subordinates about delay in releasing their dues. From this month they would be getting good remuneration for the survey work,” he told TOI.The workers are also mistreated by people. “At many homes, they misunderstood that we are carrying out survey for NRC/NPR. At times, they also abuse us,” another worker said.The nationwide lockdown has added to their woes. Their husbands who used to work as daily wagers lost their earnings and now sitting at home. “They assured us Rs200 per day for this survey, but we have not got anything till date. We are surviving on whatever savings we have,” a worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asha-workers-not-paid-dues-since-january/articleshow/75240128.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Two men in Kutch test positive||RAJKOT: A 70-year-old woman of Rajkot’s Jangleshwar area tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients in Rajkot district to 37 so far. In Kutch also, two more people, a 27-year-old man and a 62-year-old man, tested positive. With this, the number of positive cases in the district has risen to six.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-men-in-kutch-test-positive/articleshow/75239452.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Sterling Hospital nurse tests positive||VADODARA: A staff nurse working with city-based Sterling Hospital on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19. The 49-year-old woman, who is resident of Vasna-Bhayli area of the city, had attended to a Covid-19 positive patient at the isolation ward of the private hospital, officials of the district health department said. This is the first case of a Vasna-Bhayli resident testing positive in Vadodara. “The staff nurse was treating a patient, who was admitted at the hospital in the first week of April. Later, the patient tested positive for Covid-19 and was treated as per protocol,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara district. The 58-year-old patient who hailed from city’s red zone - Nagarwada - had tested positive on April 8. He passed away on April 14. Tilawat said three family members of the staff nurse, who had come in close contact with her, have been taken to GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri where their samples are being taken. Sources said the three members of the family have some symptoms like cough. But the test will confirm whether they are positive or not. The health official added that the hospital, which is already designated for Covid-19 in Vadodara, is functioning as per guidelines and protocol that are to be followed by all the designated Covid-19 hospitals of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sterling-hospital-nurse-tests-positive/articleshow/75239243.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Manufacturers raise production of personal protective equipment as demand surges||Trichy: As the demand for personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls for medical professionals handling Covid-19 patients has increased, medical textile products manufacturing companies in the district have increased production up to 10,000 units per day. Coveralls are necessary for frontline health workers in Covid-19 isolation wards in hospitals. There are only 16 companies which have been certified to produce body coverall in south India, including two from Karur. The two companies based in Karur, certified by the South India Textile Research Association to produce coveralls, have roped in man power and equipment from about 15 textile export manufacturing companies in the district to meet the production demand. Roughly 200 tailors were employed in the first week of April to meet the target production of 1,000 coveralls per day.“A total of 50,000 coverall units have already been supplied and the production capacity has reached 10,000 units per day with about 500 tailors at different locations,” said P Nallamuthu, managing director of Abhinav Fabrics.K Balamurugan, managing partner of Avani Feltz Inc, said, “the cost of non-woven poly coated fabric has gone up by Rs 50 per kg but we have decided not to increase the cost considering huge demand. However, government too should take steps on regulating the cost of raw material going up.”“We have planned our work for the next six months as the demand for the body coverall will be there for the next few months. However, there are many uncertified manufacturers who are offering their products and many private hospitals are purchasing them, he added. “If body coveralls are not properly manufactured as per norms, it may do more harm to those who are using them. Therefore, there needs to be stringent steps to curb dubious manufacturers considering the consequences,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/manufacturers-raise-production-of-personal-protective-equipment-as-demand-surges/articleshow/75240547.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 20, 2020||Trichy||Testing with rapid kits begins in dist||Trichy: Frontline workers and close contacts of people who had tested positive in the district were screened on Sunday using the rapid antibody testing kits. Speaking to TOI, district collector S Sivarasu said that they had received 1,000 antibody test kits in the first phase on Saturday. “So far about 150 people tested using the kits have tested negative. The kits are being used for testing in the containment zone primarily on family contacts of those were tested positive and their close contacts. Also, health staff who were closely handling Covid-19 positive patients and police personnel were also tested. “We are expecting the second allotment of the kits within two days which would help us improve testing,” said the collector. While Karur district received 900 antibody rapid test kits on Sunday, deputy director of public health Selva Kumar said they have tested 10 patients on Sunday in the isolation wards at the Karur government medical college hospital. All tested negative. “We will be testing patients being admitted with symptoms and discharge them after they test negative. Further, close contacts of the family members too will be tested across Karur district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/testing-with-rapid-kits-begins-in-dist/articleshow/75240549.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Home guard nabbed with 36 liquor bottles||HYDERABAD: A home guard was nabbed by Vanasthalipuram police on Sunday while he was transporting liquor bottles. As many as 36 liquor bottles were seized from his possession, along with a car and Rs 14,110 in cash. According to the police, Malakpet traffic home guard R Anil Kumar was caught based on a tip-off. A criminal case has been registered against him. In another incident at Vanasthalipuram, a constable who works in Nampally police station was nabbed while he was transporting liquor in a car. The constable, U Vijay, was caught when he was returning to the city. As many as 23 liquor bottles were seized from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-guard-nabbed-with-36-liquor-bottles/articleshow/75240805.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||Monday blues: Expect larger crowds in Chennai||CHENNAI: Crowd control and ensuring physical distancing will remain a challenge to the authorities as more people are likely report to work on Monday, with the Centre relaxing its lockdown rules. Employees of Central government offices will be reporting for work on Monday, meaning more traffic on the streets and crowding in addition to people who will be out to buy essentials. Postal department, airport and offices in Shastri Bhavan and Rajaji Bhavan will function. Railways has decided not to open its offices and workshops except for the staff needed to run parcel trains and to work on making masks and overalls. From full on aggression, beating up violators to literally falling at the feet and pleading with the public, artwork on roads, coronavirus shaped helmets, police and the civic body authorities have exhausted all tricks in their arsenal to control the crowd. The civic body shut down makeshift markets, sealed meat stalls for three months and even announced seizure of two-wheelers. Sunday still saw rush at vegetable and meat markets across the city, throwing physical distancing norms to a complete toss. A circular in the Central government offices instructed officers or section head to call in 30% of their staff for work. In some cases, however, almost all of the non-officer level staff have been told to come. Duraipandi M of Central Government Employees Union said people would be attending office on weekly rotation. “Employees have been told to come to work if they have their own vehicles. Some departments are also looking at arranging buses for the staff,” he added. The city police, however, said they have not made any special arrangements though more vehicles are expected to ply on the roads. “We have not received any specific instructions regarding this till Sunday evening. Messages will be sent on Monday morning and we will follow the guidelines issued by our higher-ups,” said an inspector from Koyambedu. Police will be checking identity cards of the Central government employees. For others, they would check for the passes issued by the corporation. Till date, the city corporation has issued 652 vehicle passes, with their validity extended up to May 3. Meanwhile, a day after a SI tested positive for Covid-19, police personnel have been asked to be careful while out on the roads. They were asked to wear necessary protection gears and not get too close to the motorists while checking documents. To boost the morale of cops, deputy commissioner, traffic (west), M M Ashok Kumar, gave a motivational speech to the traffic police personnel manning a stretch at Anna Nagar. “Keep your minds free from fear of coronavirus. Continue focusing on creating awareness among the motorists,” the deputy commissioner told his personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/monday-blues-expect-larger-crowds/articleshow/75240141.cms||Srikkanth D
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Currency notes found abandoned on road||DEHRADUN: A video showing currency notes in the denominations of Rs 100 and Rs 500 lying abandoned on a busy road near Dehradun’s Dharampur vegetable market went viral on social media platforms on Sunday. The currency notes, which can be seen in the video, neither had any cuts nor any spots but no passer-by picked them up. The fear among many people that currency notes could be carriers of the coronavirus disease resulted in the peculiar situation. Police officials seized the notes at around 1:30 pm after locals informed them about the abandoned currency notes. Shweta Choubey, SP (city), told TOI, “Three currency notes of Rs 500 and one currency note of Rs 100 were lying abandoned. It appears that the money belongs to a vegetable vendor and our teams are trying to trace him with help of CCTV footage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/viral-video-currency-notes-found-abandoned-on-road/articleshow/75239475.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 20, 2020||Surat||Dang stays Covid-free, 179 in home quarantine||SURAT: At a time when inter-state and even inter-district travel has been banned to stall the spread of the coronavirus, a 32-year-old woman who had gone to work in agriculture fields in Maharashtra a few months ago returned home on April 15, walking all the way through forests. Interestingly, she travelled during night hours only to escape police detection at the check posts. However, upon discovery, Ramila Pawar, a resident of Chinchod village in Vaghai taluka of Dang district, was booked by Vaghai Police on Sunday for her misadventure amid the lockdown. “Pawar told the police that after the lockdown, she was left jobless and therefore she had no option but to walk her way to her village via forests. Ramila was booked under the Disaster Management Act,” said cops. Pawar has been put under home quarantine by the district health administration. According to sources, the district authority was forced to increase its vigil after they learnt that some tribals have sneaked into the Dang district. Dang district has remained Covid-19 free so far. Like her, some other people too are trekking their way back home through the forests from Maharashtra. "We have sealed the border and do not allow anyone to enter Gujarat from Maharashtra. Police are manning the inter-state check posts in the district. But some people entered into the district using agricultural fields and forest routes. FIRs have been filed against them,'' said Sweta Shrimali, superintendent of police, Dang, told TOI. “Till now we have lodged 448 FIRs against the people for violation of public notification in Dang district which includes not wearing masks, and venturing out of homes without valid reasons,” said the police official. “The district has remained Covid-19 free and we have put 179 people under home quarantine. This includes those people who have entered into the district after the lockdown was imposed,” said a senior officer from Dang collectorate. "We have prepared a list of 33,000 labourers of Dang who migrated in search of work. This data has been shared with authorities concerned,” said a senior official from Dang collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dang-natives-trek-through-forests-at-night-to-reach-home/articleshow/75239493.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||NRGs serve meals to health workers in Los Angeles||A group of hoteliers and caterers based in Los Angeles, the US, supported frontline health workers, serving them meals at hospitals. Yogi Patel of Lebon Hospitality Group said that they served 2,600 meals to Adventist Health White Memorial Hospital in Los Angeles. “It was our privilege to reach out to over 1,000 doctors and other hospital staff,” he said. “They not only appreciated the gesture in this testing time but also got to know Indian cuisine.” Patel said that they had carried out the initiative under Indian Culture Society of North America.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nrgs-serve-meals-to-health-workers-in-los-angeles/articleshow/75240137.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Asha workers not paid dues since January||Nagpur: The Asha workers who are carrying out door-to-door survey in the city for identifying Covid-19 suspects by risking their lives are a worried lot. The state government has failed to release their Rs 1,500 monthly honorarium from last three months. The women, mostly hailing from poor families, have also complained that they have been provided only masks and sanitisers but no hand gloves or personal protection equipment (PPE). According to the workers, they are sent to sensitive areas like Jaripatka where many positive patients were found. They also claimed that they are not provided any conveyance and have to walk from their homes to survey areas. “I stay in Gautam Nagar slums, which was made containment zone after a positive patient was found there. We are doing survey in such areas without PPE. They should release at least our three months’ salary,” an aggrieved worker told TOI. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) additional commissioner Ram Joshi said that all of them were working with them and necessary equipment like masks, sanitisers and hand gloves were provided to their heads. “I will inquire with our medical officer whether those have reached the workers. I will again have to talk to our subordinates about delay in releasing their dues. From this month they would be getting good remuneration for the survey work,” he told TOI. The workers are also mistreated by people. “At many homes, they misunderstood that we are carrying out survey for NRC/NPR. At times, they also abuse us,” another worker said. The nationwide lockdown has added to their woes. Their husbands who used to work as daily wagers lost their earnings and now sitting at home. “They assured us Rs200 per day for this survey, but we have not got anything till date. We are surviving on whatever savings we have,” a worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asha-workers-not-paid-dues-since-january/articleshow/75240140.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teams perplexed over longer gestation||AHMEDABAD: A perplexing case has struck municipal health team on Saturday morning, contacts of Covid-19 cases are turning positive 26 to 34 days after they first came in contact with the patient. Five such cases have emerged over the last 10 days. An example being that 21-year-old girl, one of the first Covid-19 positive cases in the city, who was discharged from SVP hospital on Friday after 32 days of hospitalization, to finally return home at Ramdevnagar. Now her cousin brother, who stays in the same home, tested positive for Covid-19 the same day of the girl’s discharge, 34 days after the girl tested positive for the virus. On Saturday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) uploaded a list which shared the bungalow number 25 in a society in Ramdevnagar where the girl is also a resident. Her cousin is 35-year-old and has rarely moved out of his home. “There are five such cases of contacts of Covid-19 patients that have such a history," says a senior AMC official. This is the first time that such cases have emerged and have already perplexed health officials. "Most of these cases are asymptomatic and shows how the virus has longer gestation periods before symptoms start showing up," says the senior municipal official. The present regime of 14-day quarantine may have to be looked into because of such cases. "The girl’s case has already been referred to the ICMR," says the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teams-perplexed-over-longer-gestation/articleshow/75240138.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||1st deceased’s relatives regret gathering to mourn his death||Nagpur: Neighbours and distant relatives, who have tested positive for Covid-19 and those taken into institutional quarantine, now regret visiting the 68-year-old Satranjipura resident’s home soon after news of his death came on April 5 night. Some told TOI that over 100 of them from the adjoining areas had gathered to condole the man’s death assuming it to be a ‘normal’ death. The 68-year-old man passed away at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) before his Covid-19 test result came. The sampling was done hours before his death as he was showing sypmtoms of coronavirus and had been admitted in isolation ward. “All we knew was he was critically ill for some days and died of same complications. Had we known mamujaan (uncle) was coronavirus suspect, we would not have gathered to mourn. In fact, none of the close relatives was willing to take possession of his body when he was declared a positive patient the next day," said a group of relatives in institutional quarantine. Following confirmation that the deceased was Covid-19 positive, NMC quarantined over 100 relatives and neighbours since April 6. “From midnight to next evening (April 6), people continued to visit us,” said a relative. Of the over 100, 38 have tested positive including some distant relatives from other areas. These also include the deceased’s nephew, a tour operator, and his wife. The tour operator, having travel history, and his wife tested positive but his 80-year-old mother and three children are negative. NMC additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar didn’t respond to TOI’s message. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Sagar Pandey, who is nodal officer for Corona patien care, told TOI, “The deceased was brought in casualty on April 5 night. His relatives left after admitting him. Noticing breathlessness, we shifted him to isolation ward and took samples. Around 30 staff members too were immediately quarantined and their swabs taken. We had informed the NMC and the local police station that a suspected Covid-19 patient had passed away. We also contacted the family but no one was ready to come. Next day, his samples tested positive and as per protocol, the body was handed over through NMC. We have all records." Relatives said they received an official call asking them to not include more than 40 persons in funeral the next day. “This advisory was only for social distancing. They could have clearly told us to avoid any mourning at home too,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-deceaseds-relatives-regret-gathering-to-mourn-his-death/articleshow/75240557.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Firm gets ICMR nod to validate kits||Kochi: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its nod to a private firm to get a coronavirus diagnostic test kit made by it validated by the national institute of virology (NIV), Alappuzha. The diagnostic test kit was developed by Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCIMST). The kit, known as Chitra Gene LAMP-N, is considered to be cheaper, faster and more accurate than the existing kits used for RT-PCR test. The technology has been transferred to Agappe Diagnostics Ltd, Ernakulam, a private firm involved with in-vitro diagnostics. Once the kits produced by the private firm clears NIV validation, the company can go for clearance from Drug Controller General of India which is the final nod before commercially producing them. The ICMR had given its approval to the Gene LAMP-N kits developed by SCIMST a couple of days ago. “We have entered into an understanding with Agappe Diagnostics Private Limited for producing the kits on a commercial basis,” Dr Asha Kishore, director, SCIMST. The firm is expected to get test results of at least 100 samples validated within a few days. “If we clear the validation, we will apply for the licence from Drug Controller General of India. We have made the arrangements for starting commercial production,” an official with Agappe Diagnostics Private Limited said. Experts with SCIMST have started imparting training to Agappe officials for manufacturing the kits. “We had been associating with the firm for developing cheap and faster diagnostic kits for tuberculosis. The same technic came handy for us while developing testing kits for Covid-19,” a source with SCIMST said. The private firm has already set up five machines for manufacturing the kits. “Soon we will increase the number of machines to 20. We will arrange 100 machines by May and it will go up to 1,000 by June,” an official with the private firm said. “The price for testing a sample will be less than Rs 1,000 whereas the cost for an RT-PCR test is around Rs 4,500 per sample,” he said. “Covid-19 virus has various types of genes and in India we use E-gene of the virus for confirming its presence in the swab. As per WHO standards, E- gene can’t be confirmative as it is less sensitive. Moreover, E-gene mutates faster. So, we select N- gene (mandated by WHO for confirmatory tests), for diagnosis using Gene LAMP-N test. Moreover, the kit can detect two regions of the gene so as to give more accuracy,” a source with SCMIST said. The device for Gene LAMP-N testing costs less than Rs 2 lakh a piece while the one used for RT-PCR machine costs Rs 15-40 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/firm-gets-icmr-nod-to-validate-kits/articleshow/75238396.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Just 2 turn positive as 13 more recover||Thiruvananthapuram: With 13 more recovering on Sunday, the total number of persons recovered of coronavirus in the state touched 270. Of the 401 total cases reported in the state, 129 are undergoing treatment. Only two positive cases were reported on Sunday; one each in Kannur and Kasaragod. Both had travelled from the UAE. With this, the total number of people who had come from abroad and tested positive is 283, including eight foreigners. At present, 55,590 persons are under observation in the state, of which 55,129 are in home quarantine and 461 people with suspected symptoms are admitted in the isolation wards of various hospitals. As many as 19,351 samples have been sent for testing, of which 18,547 returned negative. Health minister K K Shailaja advised further caution in case some restrictions are relaxed. All the precautions announced by the health department must be adhered to strictly. Those with fever or symptoms of fever, cough and sore throat should not go out and mingle with others. Social distancing should continue and it is the key to checking the spread of the disease, she said. Use of masks and hand sanitizers should continue. Everyone should avoid mass gatherings and social visits. There should not be overcrowding in shops and establishments and people should avoid unnecessary travel, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/just-2-turn-positive-as-13-more-recover/articleshow/75238410.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Isolation can cut infections by 40%’||AHMEDABAD: India went into Lockdown 2.0 on April 14 which will continue till May 3. The entire nation will be indoors, except to get essentials, for 39 days — an unprecedented move to ensure that the number of new positive cases and fatalities is reduced. As on Sunday morning, India had already recorded 16,000-plus positive cases and 527 deaths. Can the move of isolating the potential cases and the lockdown work? If one turns to mathematics, the answer is yes. Prof Nita Shah, the head of the department of mathematics at Gujarat University and co-author of ‘Mathematical Models of Infectious Diseases and Social Issues,’ however adds a rider that it should be followed stringently. “Mathematical models show that even 80% of the exposed individuals get self-quarantined, it can reduce the new infections by 40% — which in turn can reduce hospitalization to 10% and death to 0.2% of the total positive cases,” said Prof Shah. Likewise, if isolation of infected individuals is done at an early stage, infected individuals will reduce to 12% of the original number, which reduces seriality (contact spread) of the patients by 8%, she said, adding that mathematical models can compute the intensity of the spread and help form controls to slow down the transmission. Another factor which needs attention is timely identification and hospitalization. If critically infected individuals are hospitalized in time, the mortality rate can be reduced from 20% to 3% in the first week. In seven weeks, it can reduce by 20 to 30%, mentioned Prof Shah. She along with her students Ankush Suthar and Ekta Jayswal has authored ‘Control Strategies to Curtail Transmission of COVID-19’ which recently got published in the journal MedRxiv. The team proposed a generalized SEIR model of epidemiology — taking into consideration the transition of four classes of individuals into Susceptible (S), Exposed (E), Infected (I) and Resistant (R) — based on the World Health Organization (WHO) data on COVID-19. “Optimal control theory is applied in the model to project the impact of various intervention strategies, including voluntary quarantine, isolation of infected individuals, improving an individual’s immunity and hospitalisation,” mentioned the paper. The paper concluded that distinctive and combined effects of the control variables can reduce the critically infected cases which can further reduce transmission risk and demise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/isolation-can-cut-infections-by-40/articleshow/75240146.cms||Parth Shastri
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||21-month-old tests Covid-19 positive in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 21-month-old boy, who was getting treated at the Institute of Child Health (ICH), has tested positive for Covid-19. The child is now being treated at Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital. Doctors at the Beliaghata hospital said the boy’s condition is stable. The boy from Uttar Panchannagram off EM Bypass was taken to a Park Circus Hospital on Thursday with complaints of cough and fever. Unable to bear the complication, the child had been crying incessantly. Doctors immediately admitted the child to the hospital’s isolation ward. An X-ray procedure of his chest carried out the next day revealed mild pneumonia, after which doctors decided on a swab test that confirmed he was Covid-19 positive. On getting the confirmatory report, the child was shifted to ID&BG Hospital for treatment. Sources at ICH said that all the doctors and nurses involved in treating the child in the isolation ward had enough protection and, hence, none of them has been put in quarantine. The X-ray technician, however, has been advised home isolation for now. The father of the boy, too, has been put under quarantine. Doctors said that though children are vulnerable to Covid-19, the virus is known to throw up milder symptoms in them than adults. “Many children can even be asymptomatic to the infection and, thus, they can be potential silent carriers posing a threat to elders in the family,” a city doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/21-month-old-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75240142.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||Smack worth Rs 2 crore seized from truck; being smuggled in guise of essential goods||DEHRADUN: Dehradun police on Sunday seized 500gram smack in Vikasnagar area of Dehradun district when the contraband was being smuggled in a truck in the name of supplying essential goods during the ongoing lockdown. Acting on a tip-off, police team intercepted a truck near Modi Ground in Herbertpur. Seeing police approaching, both persons sitting inside the truck tried to run but were rounded up by the cops. On checking, police found that in the name of supplying vegetables, both peddlers were smuggling smack, which has an estimated value of Rs 2crore in international market. The arrested accused have been identified as Ashfaq Ahmed and Sherdeen, both residents of Sahaspur area of Dehradun. According to Parmendra Dobhal, superintendent of police (SP) Rural, "During questioning, Sherdeen confessed before police that he has a criminal past and had been arrested thrice on charges of peddling. Both have said that they were brining the contraband from Bareilly in UP." Both accused have told police that to take advantage of the lockdown, they were smuggling the contraband to sell it to the laborers and college students at higher prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smack-worth-rs-2-crore-seized-from-truck-being-smuggled-in-guise-of-essential-goods/articleshow/75239496.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 20, 2020||Goa||Mobile apps to help astronomy fans partake of celestial treats||Panaji: From the Lyrid meteor shower to Jupiter, Saturn and Mars lining up on the eastern sky, and more, the month of April is lined with back-to-back astronomical events. The good news for astronomy enthusiasts is that all of these can be witnessed during lockdown with the help of basic sky pointing apps that can be downloaded onto smartphones. The apps enable the phone to be used as a telescope. All the user has to do is point it at the sky and the app’s GPS will put out information. “The most important thing for Astronomy enthusiasts is not just observation, but also knowing what they have observed,” president of the Association of Friends of Astronomy (AFA) Satish Nayak said. Of the numerous sky gazing softwares, Stellarium is popular among amateur astronomers, Nayak said. The Lyrid meteor shower should normally be visible from the Northern sky past midnight on April 21. The pre-dawn skies post 4am have the rare celestial spectacle of the kings of the night sky, Jupiter, Saturn and Mars, all marching one by one up from the Eastern sky and going into the southeastern direction by sunrise. The highlight will be the presence of the Moon very close to the alignment. Another treat for planet lovers recently was the presence of elusive Mercury just touching the horizon around April 15 by 5.30am, that was briefly visible. The AFA has also started online activities wherein students below 15 years can download ‘Google classroom’ and join the class named ‘Science of Everything’ using the code icasgxz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mobile-apps-to-help-astronomy-fans-partake-of-celestial-treats/articleshow/75240558.cms||Nida Sayed
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||Sample of calf sent for Covid-19 test, four other jumbos isolated in Rajaji||Dehradun: Following an illness prolonging for nearly a month now, sample of “Sultan”, a 3.5-year-old captive baby elephant in Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR), was sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly for Covid-19 test. The move comes after the condition of the calf, reportedly suffering from elephant pox, worsened in a past few days. “Sultan is suffering from elephant pox but as a precautionary measure, we have sent its sample for Covid-19 test. We are confident that the baby jumbo isn’t infected with novel coronavirus,” said Amit Verma, the newly-appointed RTR director. Sultan first showed symptoms of an illness on March 22. A TOI source disclosed that there are ulcers in Sultan’s mouth and its eyelids have swollen while adding that these symptoms are not usual. Meanwhile, another 5-year-old captive elephant Rani, who was earlier kept with Sultan, also started showing symptoms of an illness on March 23. However, Rani’s condition is told to be stable now. As a precautionary measure, Sultan and Rani have been kept intact at Chila but to ensure distancing they are now placed in enclosure 1 and 6 of the facility. The health of both young elephants is being constantly monitored. The reserve presently has six captive elephants, including Sultan and Rani. The other four captive elephants, which were also kept with Sultan in March, have now been kept in isolation in distant forests. Two among them have been shifted to Mithiberi and the other two have been sent to Mundhawal. This has been done to ensure that they don’t catch any infection from Sultan or Rani. Notably, this is the first case of elephant pox in RTR's recent history and this is also the first case in Uttarakhand in which animals have been isolated for fear of spread of infection. “Elephant pox is basically a virus strain which is found in cows. Elephants catch this ailment mostly due to rodents. Besides Sultan, Rani was also showing similar symptoms in March. Thankfully, after being given medicines, Rani’s condition is fine now,” said Dr Aditi Sharma, RTR's veterinarian who is closely monitoring Sultan’s health since the day it first showed symptoms. On Saturday, a health team of Haridwar district rushed to RTR after getting information about the sickness of Sultan and sanitised the entire area according to the health protocols for areas with suspected Covid-19 cases. A health inspection of all RTR staff members, who work in areas where six captive elephants were kept, was also conducted by the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sample-of-calf-sent-for-covid-19-test-four-other-jumbos-isolated-in-rajaji/articleshow/75239482.cms||Shivani Azad
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘Covid-19 victim was dargah’s khadim’||Nagpur: Even as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is working to trace the source of infection among Satranjipura residents, a close associate of city’s first Covid-19 deceased told TOI that his late friend would spend most of his time at the dargah inside the Badi Masjid. “Many people from different places, and even outside the city, visit the tomb of Baba Baghdadi inside the masjid. He (Covid-19 victim) was khadim of the dargah in the absence of his brother. As he was financially weak, he would quietly seek charity from Baba’s followers coming daily at the dargah,” said the associate, who worked as property broker with him. NMC had also picked up some office bearers of the masjid but they tested negative. NMC containment team members said they didn’t pursue the dargah trail as the Badi Masjid was already shut after announcement of nationwide lockdown and not many people could have visited it. So far, NMC has recorded that the deceased never travelled outside. “But people with travel history came in his contact at least till April 24,” the man said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-victim-was-dargahs-khadim/articleshow/75240559.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Friends assault man in Mansa for denying entry||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Mansa village in Gandhinagar district was badly beaten and attacked with a spade on Saturday evening by two men who felt insulted when the victim refused them entry to his house during lockdown. In the FIR filed on Sunday with Mansa police, Bhikha Parmar, 30, a farm labourer stated that he had been attacked by two of his friends, Dilip and Suresh Parmar, who were residents of a nearby village, Badpura. Bhikha stated in his FIR that he lives with his two children, wife and 65-year-old mother, and had stopped going out during lockdown fearing that he might increase the risks of his family getting infected. He stated that recently one of his relatives, Ramesh Parmar, had advised him not to allow guests entry to his home as they may carry the infection. Ramesh, who knew that the brothers Dilip and Suresh often passed time with Bhikha also warned him about them and said they should stop meeting to reduce risks of infection. Bhikha then phoned Suresh and Dilip and told them to stop meeting him for some time, but instead of cooperation they began abusing him on phone. On Saturday morning, the two brothers came to Bhikha’s house and began hurling abuses. When Bhikha went out to talk with them, they got into an altercation and asked him why he had insulted them by refusing them entry to his home. They then began beating him. Later, Dilip came with a spade and tried to injure Bhikha’s feet with it. When Bhikha began screaming for help, his family members rushed out and rescued him. Bhikha was taken to a nearby hospital where he gave his statement against the duo. Later, Mansa police registered a complaint of assault, criminal intimidation and abetment against the two men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/friends-assault-man-for-denying-entry/articleshow/75240173.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||South Kolkata fish retailers struggle to meet demand after Patipukur market closure||KOLKATA: Retailers in Lake Town, Kalindi, Bangur, Sreebhumi and Salt Lake struggled to meet the demand for fish on Saturday after the closure of the Patipukur fish market on Jessore Road because many residents of the neighbouring areas had started flocking to the wholesale market to purchase fish, leading to crowding. Due to the crowds, it had become difficult for the market committee to maintain social distancing norms. The local administration decided to shut the biggest wholesale market for fish on Friday after many people tested positive for Covid-19 in the neighbouring Belgachhia, many parts of which have been sealed by the government to stop the spread of the virus. The market will remain shut till May 3, the last day of the lockdown. The government, which accommodates more than 145 wholesalers, supplies fish to retail markets in Lake Town, Kalindi, Sreebhumi, Salt Lake, Barasat, Dum Dum and those on the northern suburbs of the city. Many fishsellers sourced their products from the Sealdah and Howrah markets, but the quantities would be far below the demand in these pockets. “I could only bring 25 kilograms of fish from Sealdah. Even that did not have any variety. I could only bring rui and katla because other varieties are expensive and the transport cost is also high,” said Pradip Ghosh, a retailer in Lake Town B Block market off VIP Road. “Patipukur is a huge market, which caters to large parts of east, north and north suburban Kolkata. Customers here look for quality and variety, which is not possible to provide if the nearest wholesale market is shut,” said Ghosh. The century-old fish market, which was earlier known as BK Paul Fish Market, is in Ward 3 of Kolkata where several Covid-19 cases have been found in the past few days. The association of traders, along with the police and Kolkata Municipal Corporation, have decided to keep the place shut till May 3, when the second phase of lockdown ends, to curb the transmission of the novel coronavirus. “Locals had started coming to the Patipukur fish market instead of going to their local bazaars. This led to crowding, which made it difficult for us to implement social distancing norms. The situation became worrisome after multiple Covid-19 patients were found in a neighbouring locality,” said Debasish Jana, secretary of the Patipukur Fish Merchants’ Association. “That was when we decided to shut the market till May 3. The traders will definitely incur losses, but we did not want to take any risk,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kolkata-fish-retailers-struggle-to-meet-demand-after-patipukur-market-closure/articleshow/75240150.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 20, 2020||Surat||Stick to one veggie vendor, grocery shop, advises SMC||SURAT: The death toll due to coronavirus in the city touched eight on Sunday after a after a 56-year-old woman from Rander died at the Seventh Day Adventist Mission Hospital. Rizwana Rafique Zaka, a resident of Sania Residency, was admitted on April 14. She was suffering from co-morbid condition including kidney problem, diabetes and high BP. Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani has urged presidents of housing societies to stick to one vegetable vendor as it will increase chances of spread of the virus. "We have seen that Covid-19 is spreading from vegetable vendors, grocery shops and other shops selling essential material. So, it is important to maintain social distancing at public places and prefer to purchase grocery at one time and avoid going out of home frequently,'' Pani said. Meanwhile, SMC has increased its testing capacity in the city, and 7,715 tests have been conducted until Sunday morning. 39 positive cases came out during community sampling drive on Sunday. Nine positive cases were reported from rural areas. “Maximum cases are from Limbayat zone (92) followed by 42 in central zone. Total 227 positive cases were reported till Sunday evening,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/stick-to-one-veggie-vendor-grocery-shop-advises-smc/articleshow/75239501.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No relaxation in 88 hotspots||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief secretary Tom Jose has made it clear that no relaxation will be allowed in the 88 hotspots identified by the state health department. This is applicable to the hotspots falling under the green zones too, he added. All the restrictions imposed by the Union home ministry will be applicable for all the hotspots across the state. “It has come to the notice of the state government that people from other states are coming to the borders with the passes issued by the authorities there. Strict instructions have been given that such passes should not be entertained,” said Jose. Meanwhile, the state health department has issued a detailed list of all the hotspots in the state. This includes corporations, municipalities and panchayats. In Thiruvananthapuram, there are three hotspots. The entire city corporation has been declared as hotspot, apart from Varakala municipality and Malayinkeezhu panchayat. The hotspots in each district are as follows: Kollam (5), Alappuzha (3), Pathanamathitta (7), Kottayam (1), Idukki (6), Ernakulam (2, including entire city corporation), Thrissur (3), Palakkad (4), Malappuram (13), Kozhikode (6), Wayanad (2), Kannur (19) and Kasaragod (14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-relaxation-in-88-hotspots/articleshow/75238415.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||8am-noon relaxation in Ahmedabad not official: DGP||AHMEDABAD: There is great confusion among Amdavadis about the relaxation they are given from 8am to noon to buy essential items. Shops selling essential items remain open during this time and people come out to shop. But DGP Shivanand Jha has said that no official permission has been given to people to come out in that period during the lockdown. “No such circular or notification has been issued by my office and if the local police are doing it, it could be on their own” said Jha. Some citizens are under the impression that the relaxation is given officially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8am-noon-relaxation-not-official-dgp/articleshow/75240153.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Indore||Family recalls Madhya Pradesh cop’s dedication to work||INDORE: The family members of inspector Devendra Chandravanshi, including his wife and daughters were in a state of shock. After the inspector was found positive a fortnight ago, his wife and daughters were also admitted to the Aurobindo hospital as they were found symptomatic. They were, however, released after a few days and had been asked to be in quarantine at their home. Inspector’s wife told TOI, “His life was sacrificed trying to save the local residents. It is time people should understand the seriousness of the situation.” While the inspector’s parents were brought to Indore from their native place, his family members and friends offered condolences over phone calls. An excellent cyber tracker, the officer used his skills to even help other police station inspectors. Palasia police station in-charge Vinod Dixit told TOI that once he had stayed all night at the police station just to track a vehicle which was stolen from Chandan Nagar. “He not just had skills, he was also dedicated towards his work,” he said. According to DSP Umakant Choudhary, the inspector, who hailed from Shajapur and had come to Indore three years ago, had specifically asked for a transfer to Indore to give good schooling to his daughters. The convent school in which his daughters studied also circulated messages about his demise and asked the family members to pray for his soul. Inspector’s batchmate Vijay Sisodiya said that he was their hero. “Starting from arresting dacoits in Panna to tackling Maoists in Balaghat, he did amazing work throughout his career. He used to tell me to keep calm as I always went to him in an angry state of mind with my problems. We had lunch together almost every third day,” he said. Vijay Nagar police station in-charge Tehzib Qazi said that he had a special bond with the inspector. “Although he was from a different batch, we shared a very good bonding. We were placed in the same area during the Vidhan Sabha elections and stayed together for almost 12 hours each day. He was an amazing human being”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/family-recalls-cops-dedication-to-work/articleshow/75240155.cms||Karishma Kotwal
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Cop by the day, saviour of strays by night||Nagpur: Head constable Ishwar Potdar could not believe that Member of Parliament Maneka Gandhi called on his personal mobile. Gandhi, also the chairperson of People For Animals (PFA), thanked Potdar for being a true civil servant. The head constable at Lakadganj police station has not just been serving citizens but also hundreds of helpless strays in the city. It has been four years since Potdar has been feeding 7-8 stray dogs in station premises. However since the lockdown, the 56-year-old cop has taken upon himself to feed street dogs of as many areas as possible. Till 9 pm, Potdar is busy performing his official duties at the checkpoint in Telephone Exchange square. He doesn’t go home after this. Till midnight, he can be seen feeding stray dogs on main roads of Nagpur. “Every day, I stuff my vehicle with different food items and feed them to stray dogs I see on my way. The dogs are in a very poor condition and they are dying of hunger. They can’t even eave their territory and go to other areas in search of food,” said Potdar. The cop is also helping out other animal welfare activists in feeding the strays. “He distributes chapatis made from over 25 kilograms of wheat flour every night. We are lucky to have support from people like him,” said animal activist Karishma Galani. Recalling another praiseworthy incident, lawyer and animal activist Ankita Shah said, “A few days back, Potdar sir helped us in rescuing an injured dog. He literally went into the nullah where the dog was hiding. Seeing a cop do all this was very motivating for us.” Potdar, however, feels a lot more needs to be done for the speechless four-legged. “There are over 80,000 strays in the city. Right now, I am able to feed hardly 10-20% of them. We need more volunteers to spread out in other localities. We can’t leave the animals to die,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-by-the-day-saviour-of-strays-by-night/articleshow/75240570.cms||Manka Behl
April 20, 2020||Trichy||18 new Covid cases in central TN||Trichy: Eighteen new cases reported from Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts on Sunday have taken the number of people with Covid-19 in the central districts to 209. No cases were reported in Trichy, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. Of the 18, 10 patients including six women were from Thanjavur taking the count in the district to 46. Six patients are from Athirampattinam and one each from Orathanadu, Vallam, Papanasam and Kumbakonam. Tiruvarur reported five new cases including two people from Myanmar who were planning to go to Delhi for the Tablighi Jamaat meet. The others were natives of Thiruthuraipoondi, Tiruvarur and Koothanallur. The three positive cases recorded in Nagapattinam district were natives of Nagore, Nagapattinam and Poraiyar. All the 18 positive cases had contact history with Tablighi Jamaat delegates, hospital sources said. Meanwhile, four people from Trichy government medical college hospital and seven others, including five women, from Karur medical college hospital were discharged on Sunday. Two women were admitted to the isolation ward in Pudukottai after developing Covid-19-like symptoms, sources from the health department said. Their swab samples have been sent for lab test. Meanwhile, police booked five people including a person who recovered from the disease at Sirkazhi in Nagapattinam district on charges of violating section 144. Police said the 65-year-old native of Sabanayagar Street was received by a group from the same area who draped a shawl on him and accompanied him home in a procession. As the video footage of the proceedings went viral, village administrative officer G Pabitha lodged a complaint with Sirkazhi police and subsequently, police booked him and a few others under various sections of IPC, CrPC and epidemic disease Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/18-new-covid-cases-in-central-tn/articleshow/75240564.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Bigger carnivore killed Pench tiger cub: Officials||Nagpur: Officials the 4-month-old tiger cub, found dead in Salama area of Pench Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra on Saturday, died in an attack by a big carnivore. The post-mortem of the cub was conducted on Sunday by veterinarians Dr Chetan Patond and Dr Sayyed Bilal from Nagpur and Dr Dipika Mankar from Deolapar in presence of Pench CCF & field director Ravikiran Govekar. Govekar said, “The doctors found puncture wounds on neck and head portion. Skull along with cervical vertebrae were found fractured.” From the injuries the vets concluded some larger carnivore had killed the cub by attacking its neck. Initially, it was thought to be a case of road hit as vehicles of power plant move inside the core area. Govekar said, “Presence of leopard and three male tigers —T-25, T-33 and T-72 — has been noticed in the area. Further monitoring is being carried out through camera traps and pug impression pads (PIPs). We are trying to identify mother of the cub. This is the fourth tiger death in Maharashtra and 11th in the last 18 days in the country. Since January 1, 2020, as per National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) official website, 27 tigers have died. Of the 27 deaths, 14 have been reported inside the tiger reserves while 13 were outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bigger-carnivore-killed-pench-tiger-cub-officials/articleshow/75240563.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Surat||Surat jail inmates give Rs 1.11 lakh for coronavirus||SURAT: Prisoners from Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) in Surat donated Rs 1.11 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund on Sunday to fight spread of coronavirus. The prisoners donated the money from their earnings in jail. Out of 670 men and women convicts lodged in LCJ, 212 have contributed to the donation. Majority of the contributors are those lodged since last many years and have earned money throughout their stay. The long term prisoners are employed as warden, watchman, gardener and in workshop as well. “It is an inspirational initiative by the prisoners and they are showing their responsibility towards the society,” said Manoj Ninama, superintendent, LCJ. Jail Kedi Panchayat took the initiative to collect donation from prisoners for the CM relief fund. “The prisoners wanted to contribute for the relief fund and we accepted it since it is for a good cause. Individually, the prisoners have donated from Rs 100 to Rs 5,000,” he added. Mahin Talapada, is about to complete his 10 years jail term, donated Rs 5,000. Similarly, Ilaben Shah, a murder convict from Surat donated Rs 3,000 from her savings. She has been sentenced life imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-jail-inmates-give-rs-1-11l-for-ncov/articleshow/75239548.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Brewing of hooch on the rise in Dakshina Kannada||Mangaluru: The non-availability of liquor due to the lockdown has forced tipplers to brew alcohol on their own. To keep them in check, excise officials are on a drive — since March 17 till date, the department has raided 306 places, seized 100 litres of IMFL (Indian-made foreign liquor) and hooch. Shailaja Kote, deputy commissioner (excise), Dakshina Kannada, told TOI that officials, working in all ranges, have been conducting raids everyday. “After the stoppage of liquor sales and supply, areas notorious for brewing illicit alcohol are under our radar. Acting on credible information about such illegal activities, our officers have raided those places, seized materials and also destroyed the wash,” Kote said, adding raids will continue in the coming days. Most of the raids and seizures were conducted at kurdus (islands) in and around Mangaluru. Similar seizures have also happened at Bantwal, Sullia and Puttur taluks. On condition of anonymity, an excise official explained that areas raided are those known for making illegal liquor in the past — Adam Kudru, Onti Kudru, Kuloor, Bangra Kuloor, Kavoor, Balkunje, Belthangady and others. “A majority of these places are situated in the interiors. Bootleggers here brew illegal liquor in a small quantities for personal consumption. But they have now upgraded to sell commercially,” the officer added. According to sources, majority of the accused are repeat offenders, who had been booked for similar activities in the past. “However, there are new faces too, and they have taken to this activity during the lockdown period,” they added. A resident of a kudru said old-timers brewing hooch have left this profession, and have found greener pastures in energy-rich countries. “A decade ago, this illegal profession was the main source of income. But not any more,” the resident added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/brewing-of-hooch-on-the-rise-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/75236865.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Gusty winds uproot many trees, temp down||Nagpur: The city experienced sudden gusty winds accompanied by rainfall on Saturday due to wind discontinuity in lower level passing through Vidarbha. The strong winds also led to the collapse of trees in some areas. According to the data of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the city recorded a rainfall of 1.5 millimeters. Apart from this, the maximum wind speed recorded in the city was 40 kilometers per hour. The change in weather provided some relief from the scorching heat, with the city’s maximum temperature going down to 37.5 degree Celsius on Sunday. This was 3.3 degrees below normal. The minimum temperature was 23.8 degree Celsius. At 42.6 degree Celsius, Washim replaced Akola as the hottest city in the region on Sunday. As per the forecast of met department, more thundershowers are expected on Sunday and Monday. In the coming week, maximum temperatures are expected to go as high as 44 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gusty-winds-uproot-many-trees-temp-down/articleshow/75240176.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mysuru||Homestay accommodating guests in Kodagu sealed||Madikeri: A homestay in Kodagu district was sealed on Sunday after ASHA workers and law enforcement authorities found that the owners of the establishment were in violation of the provisions of the lockdown. In addition to a case being booked against the owner, five guests, among whom two are women, have been booked. Madikeri rural sub-inspector HV Chandrashekhar, along with district calamity monitoring expert RM Ananya Vasudeva and AA Abdulla, panchayat development officer for Hodduru, within the jurisdiction of which the homestay is located, raided and subsequently sealed the homestay. Vinod Chinnappa, owner River Valley Homestay in Vatekadu, had returned to Madikeri from Bengaluru on April 2 along with his friends Sandeep and Benaka Kumar. The trio was asked to stay quarantined at home for the next 15 days, while also sticking the ‘home quarantine’ seal on the establishment. When ASHA workers called on the homestay on Sunday, and inquired about the presence of three other individuals at the establishment, Chinnappa informed them that they had come to supply medicines to his sick mother. However, subsequent inquiries gave the lie to Chinnappa’s narrative, and it emerged that the three others were guests at the homestay. Two women and a man had been staying as guests at the homestay from April 16, which was in violation of the quarantine rules enforced by the government. The six individuals have been booked for jeopardising the lives of others, and causing risk of spreading the Covid-19 infection. The vehicle that was used by the guests for travelling has been impounded as well, and all the six have been placed in a mass quarantine facility. The entire operation was conducted under the supervision of Kodagu superintendent of police Suman D Pannekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/homestay-accommodating-guests-in-kodagu-sealed/articleshow/75237102.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||SRDP, road building projects on fast-track||Hyderabad: Amid the lockdown, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is executing work on Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) worth Rs 1,500 core. As on date, work on 15 projects under the SRDP are under way across various parts of the city. Biodiversity flyover-II, Shaikpet elevated corridor, Botanical Garden elevated corridor, HiTec City MMTS road-under-bridge and Bahadupura flyover are some of the major projects. The steel bridge near Nagarjuna Circle was inspected on Sunday by municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao. KTR instructed the agency to deploy more staff, use advanced technology and utilise the lockdown period to complete the bridge in a month’s time. The construction of steel bridge and road widening works on both sides is taken up with an estimated cost of Rs 23 crore. As on date, 50 % of the bridge has been completed. MA&UD principal secretary Arvind Kumar said that the lockdown period is also being used to execute road restoration works under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Plan (CRMP). “State government has decided to utilise lockdown by executing SRDP and CRMP works on priority basis,” Kumar said. The works are being executed round-the-clock unlike on regular days where SRDP and CRMP works are executed only at night due to traffic restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srdp-road-building-projects-on-fast-track/articleshow/75240302.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Closed tyre recycling unit gutted in Savli||VADODARA: A major fire broke out at a tyre recycling company on the outskirts of Pratappura village in Savli taluka of Vadodara on Sunday morning. As the unit is closed, there were no casualties. The fire that broke out around 10 am, spread in the entire unit within minutes. The unit was closed currently due to lockdown. Cops from Savli police station were the first ones to reach at the spot and they informed the fire department and district administration. Local sources said that around seven fire fighting vehicles from Savli municipality, Manjusar GIDC, Halol municipality, Emergency Response Centre (ERC) at Darjipura and a pharma company were pressed into service to control the blaze. “Due to presence of rubber sheets and old tyres, the fire had spread very quickly in the company and a thick cloud of smoke had covered the area. However, after hours of firefighting, we could contain the fire,” said a fire official from ERC. He added that the fire could have been sparked due to short-circuit or extreme heat. Sources said that around 150 people work at the unit at any given time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/closed-tyre-recycling-unit-gutted-in-savli/articleshow/75239261.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC catering to one lakh migrant workers||HYDERABAD: Admitting that NGOs and donors have played a vital role in helping the poor and needy during the lockdown, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said one lakh migrant workers are being served food across 280 labour camps in the city. In all 2,71,742 migrants were identified under the GHMC and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) limits. While most of the identified people work in construction sites, some of them were vendors and hawkers. “About 3,260 tons of rice was distributed to them in two phases and Rs 500 - totalling Rs 13,85,71,000 - was given to each person. In order to avoid hardship, two months’ ration was also distributed to white card holders,” the GHMC said in its statement. However, it was observed that social distancing is not being followed while distributing food in some labour camps. While the GHMC confirmed this, it also said that some donors and NGOs were responsible for the confusion. “While some donors and NGOs are distributing food and essentials, they are not maintaining social distancing. Cases will be booked against people who directly distribute food and essentials without contacting the GHMC,” said Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Rammohan. There are 87 lakh white ration card holders across the state and according to government records Rs 1,500 is being given to them while Rs 500 is being given to migrant workers apart from 12kg rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-catering-to-one-lakh-migrant-workers/articleshow/75240278.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast Guard DHQ 3 ramps up surveillance||Mangaluru: To boost Indian Coast Guard’s (ICG) surveillance, reconnaissance capabilities on the coast off Karnataka, the Coast Guard District Headquarters (DHQ 3), Panambur, has pressed into service its floating and aerial platforms. DHQ 3 deployed ICGS Varaha, its offshore patrol vessel from New Mangalore Port, and CG Dornier 785 from Kochi to undertake extensive surveillance, said DIG S B Venkatesh, commander, Coast Guard, Karnataka. This surveillance -- both seawards and aerial -- is an air-sea coordinated operations which kicked off on April 19, Venkatesh said, adding Coast Guard ships and aircraft maintained extensive search in the area to intercept any suspect vessel. ICG ships classified various contacts in the area and kept them under constant surveillance. Additionally, fast interceptor boats C 448, C 420 and C 155 have been deployed for near to coast patrol to monitor all fishing boats and act as deterrence to prevent any nefarious activities from Karwar up to Kasaragod in Kerala to effectively cover the 320km of coastline. Coast Guard Karnataka is also maintaining constant surveillance using the remote operation stations at Surathkal, near Mangaluru, and Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada district using electronic means, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-guard-dhq-3-ramps-up-surveillance/articleshow/75236754.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Prison food gets kick in the guts||Thiruvananthapuram: Even as they are busy manufacturing face masks and hand sanitizers to help the government fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the prison department authorities are worried as their food business has taken a hit due to the lockdown. The food and snacks produced under the label Freedom Food had been a major revenue-generating source for the department for the past eight years. According to them, though there are still people in need of their food, the community kitchens started by the police department and local bodies that have been providing free food to hospital bystanders and wayfarers, has affected the sale of prison food. As a result, the prison department has reduced production by 60%. The lockdown had affected all restaurant businesses too, but what sets apart the food business run by the prison department is that half of the profit made by the department went to the state exchequer. Prison DIG S Santhosh said that while 50% of the profit goes to the state exchequer the other half is transferred to the prison development fund. ‘’Our regular customers were mostly office-goers, students and bystanders at various government hospitals,” Santhosh said. While professionals and students were taken off the street following lockdown, the people at hospitals now prefer the free food delivered by the police department as part of their ‘Feed A Stomach’ scheme, the deputy inspector general said. He added that every year the department does a business of Rs 30 to 35 crore through the food production units at various prisons across the state. From this, they get a profit of 10 to 20%. At present, the department has stopped the sale of food through their mobile outlets and restricted its sale to their cafeterias. The prison department has five food production units – Poojapura Central Jail, Kollam district jail, Ernakulam district jail, Viyyur central jail and Kannur central jail. The department has not terminated the services of daily-wage labourers, who were hired for packing, billing, driving, and cleaning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prison-food-gets-kick-in-the-guts/articleshow/75238433.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Withdraw govt order, pay full salaries: State govt employees||Hyderabad: After facing a tough time due to salary and pension cuts, the Telangana State Employees, teachers, pensioners, public sector and contract employees Ikya Vedika demanded the government to pay full salaries and pensions for the month of April. In a letter addressed to chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, the Ikya Vedika said that the government order issued last month on deferments should be withdrawn immediately. “The families of employees and pensioners have to face severe financial stress as they received only 50% of their wages and pensions last month. The situation of pensioners is even worse as they are unable to afford medicines and essentials,” said Chava Ravi, a member of the joint action committee. Ravi said that a majority of them have EMIs and because of the salary cuts they will be forced to pay additional interest. The employees said that the state’s decision to impose salary cuts is not in accordance with the union government’s directive. The Centre asked the employers to refrain from sacking the staff and reducing their salaries during lockdown. The Ikya Vedika urged the state to pay the amount deducted from the March’s salary without any further delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/withdraw-govt-order-pay-full-salaries-state-govt-employees/articleshow/75240287.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad student tests +ve in UK, nine others in fear of eviction||HYDERABAD: A student from the city has tested positive for Covid-19 in London. Some students, who were to return to India in March, have been fearing they too would get infected with the virus and demanding that they be airlifted and brought back home. According to sources, the student, whose family resides at Narayanaguda in the city, first went to a hospital in London when he was feeling unwell and tested positive for Covid-19. He has been admitted to hospital. Following the development, nine others, who were sharing accommodation with the student , have written to the High Commission of India (HCI), London. “We are all helpless and need urgent and immediate support from the office of the High Commission of India, social activists and others for getting all of us to be tested,” the students said in a mail. Ten students, including the six from Telangana, were staying at the same accommodation. Several students had booked their flights back to India from London before flights were suspended. On March 20, they were not allowed to board the flight, citing restrictions imposed by the Indian government. The students had all vacated their hostels in various universities and headed to the airport only to be left stranded there. The HCI, London, allowed them to stay for a couple of days, but after that they were asked to vacate. A group of NGOs provided them accommodation and food later. With the student from Hyderabad testing positive for Covid-19, another situation has arisen for social workers, who had put them up in different buildings. However, the other students fear the building owner might not allow them to stay there anymore. In the letter to the High Commission, the students said their room-mate had fever, cough and breathing problem. On April 16, he suffered serious breathing problem and they called ‘111’ for medical help. Around 11.30pm, the NHS took the student to the hospital and he was returned back the following morning. However, again on April 17, he suffered serious breathing problem and was taken to hospital again. On April 18, the hospital informed them that he tested positive for Covid-19. The student along with others had reached Gatwick airport on March 20 to take a flight to India, but since the Indian government banned international flights, he, like a few hundred others, got stranded in London.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-student-tests-ve-in-uk-nine-others-in-fear-of-eviction/articleshow/75240273.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Unseasonal rains damage crops, add to farm distress||HYDERABAD: Unseasonal rains have caused severe damage to the standing crops across Telangana. Several tonnes of harvested paddy and maize, brought to government established paddy procurement centres, were also destroyed by the rains on Saturday and Sunday. A shortage of tarpaulin covers and gunny bags has only aggravated the problem. Along with the paddy crop, maize and mango orchards were also affected by the rains. Crops in Karimnagar, Asifabad, Kumaram Bheem, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Rajanna-Sircilla, Siddipet, Peddapalli and Jagtial districts have suffered damages. Adding to the farmers’ woes, procurement of paddy by the state has been delayed due to the shortage of labour owing to the lockdown. Farmers and various farmer welfare associations have demanded that the state government come to their rescue and purchase the damaged agricultural produce at minimum support price. All India Kisan Congress vice-president M Kodanda Reddy has said that the delay in procuring paddy from the farmers is worrying. “The process of setting up paddy procurement centres at every village should be fast-tracked,” said Reddy. Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Telangana BJP state president and Karimnagar MP has urged the state government to purchase the paddy at minimum support price even if they have high moisture content. “Thousands of tonnes of paddy was damaged due to rains as farmers had taken it to the procurement centres,” he said, adding that the government should take up estimation of crop loss on a warfooting and pay compensation to the farmers at the earliest. Several farmers also lost their lives in rain-related incidents while they were trying to protect their crops. A 42-year-old farmer died after being struck by lighting in Rajanna-Sircilla when he had gone out to cover his harvested paddy with tarpaulin sheets. Sanjay Kumar demanded the government grant ex gratia to those who died in rain-related incidents in the last few days. He also extended his condolences to the kin of the farmers in Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Nalgonda districts who died while trying to save their crop. Over 1.05 crore tonnes of paddy crop was expected in Telangana this season. Less than 10 days ago, hailstorm and rain had damaged crops in over 40,000 acres of land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unseasonal-rains-damage-crops-add-to-farm-distress/articleshow/75240170.cms||Roushan Ali
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||MP Congress alleges ‘atta scam’ in lockdown ration distribution||BHOPAL: State Congress on Sunday alleged a scam in the distribution of ration to the poor during the Covid-19 lockdown period. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh wrote a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and alleged that atta (whole wheat flour) packets being distributed to the poor are far short of the weight mentioned on the packets. “When the entire society is helping the poor during these crucial times, government ration shops are stealing atta from the packets,” Digvijaya alleged. Former LoP Ajay Singh also issued a statement on Sunday making the same allegations and claimed the scam is no less than Rs 60 crore. Ïn the first month of the BJP government, we have yet another scam,” Ajay Singh said. There are 70 lakh packets of flour that are being distributed. Each packet claims it contains 10 kg of flour. But, Congress issued photo evidence of how these packets contain much less than the claimed 10 kg of flour. “The state is asking industrial houses to give financial assistance. And people are generously contributing seeing the crisis situation. But is the Chouhan government getting this financial aid to perpetuate a new scam?” Ajay Singh asked. The matter came to the fore when Congress MLA from Gwalior South constituency Praveen Pathak was supervising the distribution of relief ration on Friday. When weighed, it was found that each packet had far less the amount of flour than what was claimed on the packets. “I went to supervise the distribution of rations in ten wards in Gwalior. We found that the wheat packets which were supposed to contain 10 kg of atta, either had 6 kg or 7kg or 8 kg,” Pathak said. “These packets meant for BPL card holders are being distributed through the PDS (public distribution system). Government is paying for full 10 kg of atta per packet. And when 70 lakh packets are being distributed, this is a huge scam,” he claimed.  Pathak wrote a letter to Chouhan and informed about the issue to the leaders of his party. Digvijaya also wrote to Chouhan stating, “When food is being stolen from the poor even during these emergency times, this kind of corruption is inhuman, unethical and an example of sheer bad governance. I request you to find the culprits of this scam and register FIRs against them.” Digvijaya also asked Chouhan to take necessary steps and ensure that the right amount of ration reaches the needy across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-alleges-atta-scam-in-lockdown-ration-distribution/articleshow/75240172.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hand-washing stations at sale points||AHMEDABAD: With Covid-19 cases rising in the city, marketplaces and vending points may become major sites for disease dissemination. Therefore, the civic body from Monday will install portable hand-washing stations at 10 major vegetable and milk vending points in each zone. To begin with, facility is being made available for vegetable vendors and milk parlour staff. “Right now we plan to put up 10 such stations and then scale it up,” says a senior AMC official. This is the first time that hand-washing stations will be set up across major Gujarat cities. In Kerala, many bus stations in Covid-affected areas had such facilities. “The water in hand-washing stations will be replenished by the agencies,” adds the official. The move comes after several people from residential localities suggested that the civic body ensure hygiene practices at designated marketplaces. “Our zonal officers will ensure that hand-wash stations are well utilized by the vendors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hand-washing-stations-at-sale-points/articleshow/75240190.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 doubling rate begins to flatten in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid-19 graph has flattened in the state, authorities have claimed. A week ago, cases were doubling in around four days, but now that is happening in seven days, health department data says. After lockdown 2.0 began five days ago, the rate of increase in cases has slowed down, health authorities have claimed. According to them, the increasing rate during the first phase of lockdown would have taken the number of cases to 1,679, but strict measures have kept it at 1,351 (figures till Saturday night). “We believe that by implementing an optimal mix of ruthless containment and aggressive surveillance, we have managed to flatten the curve of doubling rate of Covid-19 cases to some extent. It is just the beginning. If people cooperate with the directions of the state government and adhere to self-discipline, I am sure we shall overcome this too,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). According to health department figures, till April 11, 675 people tested positive. The cases doubled in the next seven days. Earlier, it was doubling in four. The figure shows that on April 7, there were 337 cases, which increased to 675 in next four days. Even before that, the cases doubled in four days. In first three days of April, the cases doubled from 84 to 165 cases. On March 26, when the first case was reported in Ramganj, the doubling rate case was five days. It continued to be same till March 31. However, when the health department started detecting cases in clusters from Ramganj starting March 31, the doubling rate decreased to 3 days (till April 3). In next four days, cases doubled (till April 7). The trend continued till April 11. When health authorities started detecting cases in Ramganj, the cases doubled in short period. Before Bhilwara reported its first case, the doubling rate was 18 days. But, from March 21 to 26, cases doubled in Bhilwara which reported reported 19 cases. However, health department is taking all possible measures to contain the spread in the state by making maximum utilisation of lockdown 2.0. At present, there are 49 places across the state where curfew has been imposed. All these places have reported cases in increased numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-doubling-rate-begins-to-flatten-in-raj/articleshow/75240573.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||2 more test positive, 3 districts of U’khand in ‘red zone’||Dehradun: With two new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday — both contacts of members of the Tablighi Jamaat — the tally of positive patients in Uttarakhand has now touched 44. The state government has also designated, besides Dehradun, which was put in the category of ‘red zone’ on Saturday, two other districts — Haridwar and Nainital as ‘red zones’ as the three districts have together contributed 80% of the total novel coronavirus cases in the state. Also, the only case reported from Almora, a member of Tablighi Jamaat, tested negative twice in the past 48 hours and was discharged on Sunday. Now the total active cases in Uttarakhand are 31. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that 20 cases have been reported from Dehradun, nine from Nainital and seven in Haridwar district. The state has also reported one case each from Almora and Pauri and four from Udham Singh Nagar. Udham Singh Nagar, Almora and Pauri have been kept in orange zone whereas districts such as Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, Bageshwar, Tehri Garhwal, Chamoli and Champawat which haven’t reported any cases, are in the green zone. The Union government had last week divided the country into colour-coded areas depending on the level of infection. Red zone is the area with maximum cases of Covid-19 followed by orange zone. Green zones are areas with no infection. Strict enforcement of lockdown is to be done in red zones where there is to be complete ban on any activity, barring essential services. Pant added, "The red zones will be marked as orange zones when no case is reported for 14 days. The red zone will be considered as green only when there is not a single case of Covid-19 for 28 days." Meanwhile, Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer from Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) said that the two cases found Covid-19-positive on Sunday were housed in a cty-based quarantine centre and were being shifted to Doon Hospital. Meanwhile, as many as 64,000 people have been placed under home quarantine in Uttarakhand while 2,153 are under institutional quarantine across the state. Around 516 people are in hospital isolation. Till Sunday, the health department said that it has conducted 3,344 tests of which 2,911 were negative, 44 were positive while reports of 391 samples are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-more-test-positive-3-districts-of-ukhand-in-red-zone/articleshow/75238438.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Woman killed by tiger, mahua proving to be death trap||Nagpur: In yet another incident, a woman was mauled by a tiger right in front of her husband when the duo had ventured into the forest to collect mahua flowers. This is the sixth such death in last 12 days and 15th death since January 1, 2020, in the region. The villages are losing life for petty amounts which they get from sale of mahua. The state government will have to pay Rs90 lakh towards compensation to these victims. On Saturday, two women engaged in collection of mahua flowers were killed in separate incidents near Navegaon-Nagzira and Tadoba-Andhari tiger reserves. On Sunday, woman labourer Mamta Shende (38) was mauled by a tiger early in the morning in reserve forest compartment 312 in Sawarla. The incident occurred 2.5km away from the village. The victim’s husband Naresh shouted for help but could not save his wife. He somehow managed to carry her to the road but by the time Mamta had died. The spot is near Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary. Bhandara deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Vivek Hoshing said, “We have handed over Rs25,000 as immediate help to the victim’s family. The villagers in the area have been told not to venture deep into the forest for mahua collection.” Since April 8, this is the sixth incident where a mahua collector has died. Four people have died in last four days. DEATH DANCE April 8: Yamunabai Gaikwad (Satara) April 14: Anand Uikey (Ghatpendhri) April 16: Gyaneshwar Kamble (Armori) April 18: Nivrutti Mandavgade (Borda) April 18: Anita Tumsare (Mangezari) April 19: Mamta Shende (Sawarla)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-killed-by-tiger-mahua-proving-to-be-death-trap/articleshow/75240572.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||Frontline workers to get priority test using rapid kits in Chennai||CHENNAI: A day after the first batch of rapid testing kits were allotted to the city, the city corporation started using them in its zone with highest positive cases- Royapuram, on Sunday. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash said frontline healthcare workers and police would get priority in being tested using the kits. The kits were inaugurated for testing at Bharati Women’s College in Royapuram (zone 5). The state eceived 24,000 rapid antibody testing kits from China, of which one-fourth (6,000) were given to GCC, an official said. The test uses a blood sample from the person and gives the result within 30 minutes. Priority testing would be done for people in three categories, Prakash said. “First, it would be used for frontline workers such as police and GCC staff involved in door-to-door survey. Secondly, those within containment zones would be checked. And thirdly on those who show symptoms of Covid-19 during door-to-door survey,” he said. Prakash added that journalists out on the field would also be tested using the rapid test kits. Sources said a camp is likely to be held at the Omandurar estate special Covid-19 hospital in the next few days. The anti-body test is not a confirmatory test for Covid-19, it is used to check the level of spread of the viral disease in a cluster. Those who have tested positive through the anti-body test will be subject to the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test for confirmation. GCC has also started collecting swab samples for PCR tests at 26 locations across the city. These are taken from people living inside containment zones, with priority given to those who have come in touch with a Covid-19 patient or are living in the vicinity. During the press meet at the college, Prakash that 6,300 swabs have been collected in the past 10 days, of which 50 have tested positive. “This is a very important data. 0.6% have tested positive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/frontline-workers-to-get-priority-test-using-rapid-kits/articleshow/75240178.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chaiwallah in Ahmedabad booked for lockdown norm violation||AHMEDABAD: A tea stall owner was booked on Sunday for selling tea and tobacco products in Saij village of Kalol taluka in Gandhinagar. Jaykumar Prajapati alias Bachchan, 29, a resident of Rangjyot Society on Kalol Highway, runs his stall in Saij GIDC in Kalol. On Sunday, cops of Kalol taluka police station got an input that one person was selling tea and tobacco products at his tea stall, which is locally known as kitli in Gujarat. Police kept watch over the tea stall in Saij and found that Prajapati was selling tea and tobacco products. “Prajapati only entertained his traditional customers. If some unknown person came to his shop, he would first ensure that he is a genuine customer, then only he would ask him to come inside his shop. He, then, made the person to sit inside the shop where the person could satisfy his craving for tea or tobacco and then would leave,” said a cop. Prajapati used to keep shutter of his shop half open and if he found some suspicious person or cop around, he would close it otherwise he would continue to do his business. Police caught him selling tobacco and tea red handed and booked him for violation of lockdown to prevent spread of the novel coronavirus. Police seized articles worth Rs 1,200 comprising tobacco products but did not find tea inside the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chaiwallah-booked-for-lockdown-norm-violation/articleshow/75240168.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||2 city zones have 0 cases, but corpn will not let guard down||Chennai: Two zones of Greater Chennai Corporation — Manali (zone 2) and Ambattur (zone 7) — have not recorded any positive cases of Covid-19 so far. However, this doesn’t mean that the civic vody will skip its regular screenings and check-ups, said GCC commissioner G Prakash. “We will be watching and screening everywhere. We are doing door-to-door fever survey in those two zones as well. The entire city will be considered as a containment zone,” he said. This is as part of GCC’s daily fever and flu checking that is being done across the city for 90 days. As on April 16, GCC’s field staff had surveyed 3.28 lakh households in Manali and 15.3 lakh houses in Ambattur. Of them Manali had 116 people showing Covid-19-like symptoms and 104 have recovered so far. Ambattur had 255 cases of Coivd-19 symptoms and 241 have recovered. The rest are under observation. As per official figures released by GCC on Sunday morning, Chennai has 235 positive Covid-19 cases, spread across around 90 containment zones. Royapuram has the maximum number of cases (73), while Tondiarpet has 26, Thiru-vi-ka Nagar 34, Anna Nagar 24, Teynampet 19, Kodambakkam 26, among the highest. These figures will undergo significant change as the city has recorded 50 positive cases as notified by the state health department on Sunday evening. Responding to a question about crowding at Koyambedu wholesale market, Prakash said the situation was being continuously monitored by officials and that a high level meeting with police and other enforcement officials was conducted. It was decided to not allow retail buyers there, while even wholesale buyers were asked to wrap up their purchase before 7.30am. They would also be given passes and stall owners were directed to maintain social distancing. “We are expecting improvements very soon on this front,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-city-zones-have-0-cases-but-corpn-will-not-let-guard-down/articleshow/75240194.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fireman coronavirus positive, Naroda station shut for 17 days||AHMEDABAD: After frontline health workers and police personnel tested positive for Covid-19, now it is the turn of firemen. On Sunday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) reported that a 42-year-old driver of the fire department from Naroda fire station reported positive along with a 40- year-old woman and an 18-year-old girl. The three have been admitted for treatment. Since the Naroda fire station also houses residential quarters for the firemen, the entire complex of 42 families has been put under quarantine. This also brings to standstill the disinfection routines undertaken by the department. The other fire stations of the city have been informed of the quarantine and contact tracing of the positive cases is on. But what has hit the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) more is that the entire operation of the Naroda station has been shut for 17 days. The zone also happens to be the most volatile zone for fires with industrial clusters and rising incidents of fire incidents. "This is the first time that an entire fire station has been shut. This is a new reality that we are staring at right now," says a senior AMC official. Another issue that faces the fire department is maintenance of vehicles that have been spraying corrosive disinfectant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fireman-ve-naroda-station-shut-for-17-days/articleshow/75240184.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||For 1st time in decades, tests show Ganga water in Haridwar fit to drink||With industries that discharge effluents in Ganga shut and ghats closed to public, the waters of the holy river at Rishikesh and Haridwar — twin cities that record pilgrim rush throughout the year — have seen a significant improvement in quality. In fact, for the first time in decades, the water quality at Har-ki-Pauri has been classified as “fit for drinking after chlorination”. Data accessed by TOI from the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) indicates that all parameters of water assessment at Har-ki-Pauri have significantly improved since the lockdown was put in place. “There is a 34% reduction in fecal coliform (human excreta) and 20% reduction in biochemical oxygen demand (a parameter to asses the quality of effluent or wastewater) at Har-ki-Pauri in April,” chief environment officer of UEPPCB, SS Pal, said. Pal added that due to the lockdown, water in Har-ki-Pauri has ranked in Class A for the first time in recent history. “The water has always been placed in Class B since Uttarakhand was formed in 2000,” he said. Class A water has pH balance between 6.5 to 8.5. The pH is a measure of how acidic the water is and optimum pH for river water is considered around 7.4. It also has adequate dissolved oxygen — 6mg/litre or more. Dissolved oxygen levels below 5mg/litre can cause stress to aquatic life. The water now has a low biochemical oxygen demand and a low count of total coliform. While Class A water is fit to drink after disinfection, Class B water is fit for bathing, that too after treatment. The team had also collected samples from Devprayag and water quality there has improved as well. Scientists at IIT-Roorkee said that the latest results suggest discharge of industrial effluents into the river and human activities must be checked to rejuvenate the river. M K Jain, head of the department of hydrology at the institute, said, “Pollution levels seem to have reduced due to the ongoing lockdown and its effect can be clearly seen in the river water.” The rejuvenation of Ganga has led seers in Haridwar — many of whom have fronted campaigns and fasts unto deaths — to claim that this is the course of action they have been calling for all along. “Why is the government wasting money on revival of Ganga when all it needs to do is to leave the river alone? This can be done by banning human activities like building of hydropower plants, mining and industrial waste being dumped into Ganga,” head of Matri Sadan, Swami Shivanand Saraswati, told TOI. Renowned water conservationist Rajendera Singh said Ganga is an example of how “the mad rush of development” must stop. “The main lesson here is that we must move in tandem with nature. How long will the water remain pure? The worry is that once the lockdown is lifted, things will return to what they were,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/for-1st-time-in-decades-tests-show-ganga-water-in-haridwar-fit-to-drink/articleshow/75239530.cms||Shivani Azad
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant found dead near Mettupalyam||COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old female elephant was found dead at Pethikuttai in Sirumugai forest range. The forest department said severe lesions in its intestine were the reason for the death. On April 17, around 2.30 pm, the field staff from Sirumugai forest range noticed the dead elephant in Pethikuttai but were chased away by a herd of elephants. The field staff on Saturday informed D Venkatesh, district forest officer, Coimbatore forest division, who then formed a crack team including a veterinarian, Dr Sugumar, and other staff. They reached the spot and carried out a postmortem. The veterinarian told the forest officials that the elephant had died of lesions in its intestine which led to diarrhoea. The elephant had died a week ago, officials who were part of the postmortem process said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-found-dead-near-mettupalyam/articleshow/75240191.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||We believe recovery will be fast, says TCS||BENGALURU: TCS’s Q4 revenue growth, announced on Thursday, was one of its lowest ever. It will likely get worse this quarter, given the devastating impact of Covid-19 on global business. In an exclusive interaction with TOI, CEO Rajesh Gopinathan and COO NG Subramaniam speak about how they see the impact of the pandemic, and how they are handling it. Excerpts: The pandemic has reversed the positive momentum that you had started seeing in some of your biggest verticals in the first half of the last quarter...Gopinathan: In the March quarter, retail was on a good path and travel and hospitality has always been a big driver. The big shift that we saw was retail got impacted massively by the pandemic. Travel and hospitality too had a major impact. While many of the big banks in the US have declared numbers and profits which are muted, because they have taken large provisioning charges, it’s not that demand has gone down, they are being conservative. On the other side, the central banks and governments in all these markets have moved very rapidly to inject support into the real economy to prevent them from defaulting on many of their financial liabilities. I don’t see a structural impact to the banks right now. Is this worse than the global financial crisis?Gopinathan: In 2008-09, you saw a cascading impact. First, BFSI got impacted and because they got impacted the others got impacted. This time, the actual intensity is way beyond what happened in 2008-09. But since this is not a structural collapse and the interventions have been very swift, I believe that the recovery will be fast. The unknown is how long this (lockdowns) will last. But if you were to reasonably assume that we will find solutions somewhere in the Q2 time frame, I think the total damage might be comparable but not significantly worse (than 2008-09). You have modelled how the pandemic will impact your business in the coming months. As per this model, which sectors will recover first?Gopinathan: The most dramatic recoveries will happen where the most dramatic impact has happened, like travel and hospitality, because those have come to a halt. In areas like manufacturing, you will see things coming back slowly. Are clients worried about employees handling live customer data from home?Gopinathan: Banks have a conservative approach to many things. When a new process change happens, it requires a series of approvals from overlapping authorities inside the bank and it is part and parcel of risk management and compliance frameworks. Unlike in other industries where a single line of command can take a call on moving something, in BFSI, there are multiple lines of command that need to sign off on it. As we demonstrate to our clients about our monitoring, project management systems and security systems, they are increasingly getting convinced and narrowing down the set of work that cannot happen. We can go close to 80%-90%. For those that cannot be done, we are proactively turning around the machine-first delivery model that removes the element of risk. You said you are in the middle of a storm. What specific plans do you have to come out of it and regain momentum?Subramaniam: We are looking at our existing order book to see how we can accelerate, increase market share. We are putting our services capabilities to work to rapidly come out with new services which are better tuned to customers realities. In a span of over three weeks, we have enabled 90% of our employees to work remotely. We took the open agile collaborative workspace concept to make it borderless and came up with security options which are as good as in an approved facility. The experience we have gained over the last three weeks is amazing, and when we look back, we probably need 25% of our employees to be in office to drive the productivity of the entire 100%. We are executing 26,000 projects now. Many of them are essential services, many are projects that are transformational in nature. There is no hurry for us to get our employees back to the office immediately. We are going to be doing it in a staggered manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/we-believe-recovery-will-be-fast-says-tcs/articleshow/75240206.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||3-day-old, 4 others test +ve||Coimbatore: A three-day old baby, a lactating mother and three others tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday. With this, the number of patients diagnosed with the infection has increased to 133. Meanwhile, 22 others who had tested positive were discharged from the ESI Hospital in the city after they made full recovery. Though the test results of the infant, who was born three days ago at the Pollachi Government Hospital, was positive, the result of the mother is yet to come. Another woman who gave birth to a baby recently at the hospital turned out to be positive. The 31-year-old woman had C-section a few days back. Swab samples of her baby has been sent for lab test. The third person, also from Pollachi, is a 45-year-old woman, who was attending to her daughter admitted to the GH. Health authorities said the remaining two positive cases were from Sirumugai. A 28-year-old man and a 51-year-old woman, who were in contact with attendees of Tablighi Jamaat meet, turned positive in Sirumugai. All the patients are asymptomatic, said a doctor. A health official said that all the patients, except the newborn, were shifted to the ESI hospital in the city. “As the newborn was born premature and is undergoing treatment at the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) in Pollachi, we did not shift it.” Health authorities have started tracing and testing all the contacts of a patient in Pollachi GH after she tested positive. The 20-year-old was admitted in the labour ward and delivered a baby a few days back. After she tested positive for the infection, authorities intensified testing. It is only while testing the women who had undergone C-section at the hospital that the newborns and attenders tested positive for the infection, said the official. Meanwhile, as many as 22 patients who were tested positive and admitted to the ESIC hospital earlier this month, were cured and discharged from the hospital on Sunday. While 18 of them are from Coimbatore, the rest are from Tirupur. All of them had attended the TJ meeting. “Once patients remain asymptomatic for 24 hours, they will be subjected to two continuous tests. They will be considered for discharging only if both the test results are negative and their X-rays are clear,” the doctor said. None from Salem, Erode or Tirupur were tested positive on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-day-old-4-others-test-ve/articleshow/75240202.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Sans roads, kin trek to hospital carrying woman||DHARMAPURI: Relatives of a 30-year-old tribal woman were forced to carry her on their shoulders in a punishing trek down the hill after she consumed pesticide in an alleged suicide bid on Sunday. The woman from Erimalai tribal hamlet near Pennagaram in Dharmapuri was admitted at a primary health centre (PHC) and was later referred to Dharmapuri government hospital, where her condition is said to be stable. The woman, Muthulakshmi, had a tiff with her husband six months ago and was living with her parents’s in Erimalai since then. For the past few days she was depressed. On Sunday, she consumed pesticide to kill herself, her relatives said. Her family members found her in an unconscious state. The hamlet has about 200 families but no proper roads. Even for medical emergencies, villagers say they have to trek down the hilly terrain for eight km to reach the nearest PHC. Due to the coronavirus scare and the lockdown, her father Venkatraman and other relatives decided to carry her on their shoulders to the PHC rather than seek assistance from neighbours. Pennagaram MLA P N P Inbasekaran, who was in the locality distributing food and grocery to the needy, spotted them carrying the woman and offered his vehicle. She was then taken to the PHC eight km away. “I have been demanding proper roads for these tribal hamlets for a long time in the assembly. But there is no response,’’ Inbasekaran, a DMK MLA, said. Local officials said that they need to obtain clearance from various departments for roads since it is a forest land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kin-carry-tribal-woman-on-shoulder-to-hosp/articleshow/75240214.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Railway staff work in cramped spaces to ferry parcels||CHENNAI: Under pressure to prepare and operate parcel trains to meet the need to transport essentials and medical equipment, railway employees including train controllers and staff at workshops have been working almost every day putting themselves at risk. There is very little scope to maintain social distancing at the control office where trains are monitored and at yards where unused parcel vans are gathered and spruced up. Train controllers are essential for operating trains. And many of them who stay nearby have been told to report to work because railways is running parcel trains almost every day. As more people are expected to report to work at railway offices, workshops and yards, social distancing will go for a toss because the office spaces/ shop floors are not conducive for the purpose. Train controllers have been coming in to work, though at reduced strength, to their office located in the Chennai divisional headquarters. They wear masks, but are forced to sit next to one another as they guide the train routing for station masters. The air-conditioned office space allotted to them is a warren of small cubicles cramped with machines and computers. There is hardly space for people to move around in a cubicle. “Most of the railway offices are designed like this. The false ceiling reduces the height of the room while the enclosures for staff and offices are often built in available space, they look congested. The air-conditioning makes it an added risk,” said an official. A railway official said, “Workers are not able to maintain social distancing when they work on a parcel vans to ready it for trains. This work has increased because more parcel special trains are being operated.” Sources said social distancing was the last thing in the mind of the workers as they have to race against time to complete the target of converting coaches into isolation wards. “At least five to six workers had to work inside and outside a coach in claustrophobic environment to make the changes. In addition to this, people had to drive around looking for fixtures in the crowded gullies of North Chennai. As shops were closed, they had to track down the houses of shop owners and convince them to supply material”. However, a senior railway official maintained that the staff faced no risk. “Steps are being taken to ensure social distancing. Only skeletal strength of train controllers report for work. They have their cabins. So there is no risk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rly-staff-work-in-cramped-spaces-to-ferry-parcels/articleshow/75240218.cms||V Ayyappan
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore corporation seizes 665kg meat||COIMBATORE: The city corporation on Sunday seized 665.5 kilograms of meat and sealed five meat shops that were functioning illegally. Collector K Rajamani had ordered closure of meat shops until further notice as social distancing norms were not followed at the outlets. Corporation officials have been conducting raids ever since. Officials inspected as many as 236 shops in the city and seized 500 kilograms of meat from the east zone, 50kg from the north zone and 115.5kg from in central zone. Meat was also seized from street vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-seizes-665kg-meat/articleshow/75240220.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Business||Tech Mahindra's top executives forego variable pay||BENGALURU: Tech Mahindra's top executives have set a precedent by deciding not to take their bonus/ variable payout in the June quarter – to absorb partially the financial impact of the pandemic. Harshvendra Soin, chief people officer in Tech Mahindra, said the variable payout/ bonus for the majority of employees has been protected and will be paid out as per applicable policy. He said the company's foremost priority during the pandemic is to ensure the well-being of its associates and the customer/ partner ecosystem. In an email to employees, Tech Mahindra said, “it’s a phenomenal gesture by your leaders (in the endeavour to save all jobs) to have not allowed the financial impact of the situation touch you." The company said it has reviewed its operating costs and taken multiple measures to cushion the impact based on the seniority level. Earlier, in a similar gesture, BPM company Startek's global CEO Aparup Sengupta said he would forgo his cash salary for the remainder of 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tech-mahindras-top-execs-forego-variable-pay/articleshow/75240221.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: 250 BSNL workers not paid for 2 months||PANAJI: Around 250 BSNL contract employees working at different telephone exchanges in the state have not been paid salaries for nearly two months, said All India trade union Congress (AITUC) here on Saturday. The contract workers have been deployed with a BSNL contractor, Pratap Technocrat, and AITUC has filed a complaint with the labour commissioner, said AITUC secretary Suhas Naik. BSNL officials agreed that salaries have been delayed due to financial constraints but added that the wages would be settled by April end. “It’s shocking and agonizing that around 250 BSNL contract workers working in different exchanges of BSNL in Goa have not been paid their monthly salaries by the principal employer BSNL Goa, and its contractor Pratap Technocrat” said Naik. After most of BSNL’s staff retired in January, BSNL has taken on a private agency, Pratap Technocrat, to maintain telephone exchanges and telecom infrastructure. Since BSNL has delayed payment of the contract wages, the contractor has not paid the 250 workers. “I do agree that there is an issue of payment of salaries of BSNL employees. In some places such as Vasco, Ponda, Mapusa, Curchorem and Margao, the contract labourers will get their wages in two days. For the workers in Panaji and Porvorim we are trying to release their salaries by the end of April,” said principal general manager BSNL – Goa Yogesh Mishra. AITUC said that it has filed complaints with the labour commissioner and the regional labour commissioner a month ago but no action has been taken by the government or the central labour commissioner. “The law says that under the Minimum Wages Act, salaries must be paid on every fifth day of the succeeding month but in spite of statutory law and the prime minister’s appeal, 250 BSNL workers are left to die in hunger without salaries,” said Naik. Naik said that it was the responsibility of BSNL and Pratap Technocrat to ensure that the wages are paid to the workers every month. AITUC has appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant to intervene and ensure that the workers are paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/250-bsnl-workers-not-paid-for-2-months/articleshow/75240602.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Palestine envoy thanks Indo Arab League||HYDERABAD: Palestine’s ambassador in India, Adnan Abu Alhija, expressed his gratitude to chairman of Indo Arab League Hyderabad, Syed Vicaruddin, for extending a helping hand to the Palestinian community in India amid the pandemic. Vicaruddin had released a sum of Rs 10 lakh to the Palestinian Embassy in New Delhi towards supporting the Palestinian community in India. The donation was made after a telephonic conversation between Vicaruddin and the Palestinian ambassador. The ambassador said “at a time when everyone is concerned about their people and their countrymen, Indo Arab League Hyderabad showed compassion to the Palestinians. This speaks of the compassionate character and the contribution of Indo Arab League Hyderabad.” He said the Indo Arab League has been extending a helping hand for the last 50 years, and described it as an expression of unparalleled compassion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/palestine-envoy-thanks-indo-arab-league/articleshow/75240225.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||Grocer gives away essentials on credit to needy in Chennai||CHENNAI: Thirty-seven-year-old A Saravanan, who owns a supermarket at Ayanavaram, has come as a blessing in disguise for many people in the area, especially the daily wage workers and autorickshaw drivers starved of income since the lockdown began. Saravanan allows people to buy goods for credit for up to Rs 1,000 from his shop with nothing but their word to payback as assurance. They can pay him back whenever they can after the lockdown ends. So far, 437 people have bought essentials assuring to pay later. “People such as daily wagers, autorickshaw drivers have been desperate to buy essentials to feed their families ever since the lockdown began. They often have little or no money. So I decided to give them goods on credit,” says Saravanan. Not less than ten people show up everyday at his store, Aadhavan Supermarket. “They can choose whatever they want from what’s available in my shop. I don’t mind if the bill costs a little more than Rs 1,000,” he says. Saravanan had a board displaying the offer when he launched it on March 25 and it brought in a few people. After a regional TV news channel ran a feature about his offer, many more started to show up. Some even come from far off places seeking his favour, he says. The shoppers can leave their phone numbers and addresses with him but Saravanan doesn’t take any proof from them as assurance to pay him back. “I am not able to say no to them though I know I may not get the money back,” says Saravanan. “They take home the goods happily and it brings me satisfaction to know I helped them to some extent,” says Saravanan, even as he was packing goods to distribute to transsexuals. He is also giving out masks for free when a customers shows up not wearing one and ensures that social distancing is maintained throughout. He manages the shop with 12 employees. Saravanan has extended the credit facility to people in Tiruvallur district, where he runs two shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/grocer-gives-away-essentials-on-credit-to-needy/articleshow/75240228.cms||Sindhu Kannan
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Keeping magic alive, virtually||Coimbatore: With remote work becoming commonplace in times of the lockdown, magicians in the city are moving online for their shows. A renowned magician, Yoganathan, 58, popularly known as Magician Yona, streamed a magic show virtually on Sunday. Yona conducts close to 10 shows per month and the virtual show turned out to be the first one among magicians since the lockdown was imposed. “It’s already over a month since I conducted my last show in a hall filled with hundreds of people. Since it’s not advisable to conduct openhouse shows anymore, the idea of conducting online shows struck me,” said the magician. Yona’s colleagues and friends arranged for the virtual show on Zoom, he said. Once live, he performed a series of magic tricks including blending spoons, colour-changing rabbit, voodoo dolls, sponge balls and card prediction for the audience. “Most people are frustrated during the lockdown as they are forced to stay in their house. The show is expected to be a stressbuster for them. Making them happy would in turn makes me happy,” he added. Another famed magician, Bala Nagendran, 31, said, “unlike regular shows, we are faced with the challenge to prove that no graphics or other tricks are being employed. So we have to involve the audience throughout the show and we have to choose tricks in such a way that all tricks involve volunteers.”He said that the audience could use any materials that are available at their home like currency, dice, coins and pens and get involved in the trick. “Every time we show them a trick, they become excited which in turn helps them relax,” he said. Nagendran said he has received a lot of enquiries about his upcoming shows and will conduct virtual shows on alternative Sundays. Other artists might also conduct virtual shows in the upcoming days, he added. He has been planning to virtually teach magic to the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/keeping-magic-alive-virtually/articleshow/75240226.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: PSI thrashes sanitation workers, suspended||VADODARA: A sub-inspector of Vadodara Taluka police station was suspended on Sunday for allegedly thrashing sanitation workers of Bhayli gram panchayat on Saturday. The sub-inspector N R Patel had a verbal altercation with the sanitation workers on Saturday when he was patrolling in Bhayli village. According to senior police officials of Vadodara rural police, Patel had asked all of them to disperse as they were sitting together in a group. The workers told Patel that they are sanitation workers and even showed them their identity cards. However, Patel asked them all to leave the spot which led to heated arguments and the cop then thrashed them with his baton. The workers, who were cleaning the school where all migrants are put up due to lockdown, refused to work after Patel’s action. It was only after the sarpanch and local political leaders intervened that they agreed to report to work on Sunday. “The departmental inquiry is being conducted and the concerned officer went to Bhayli and met all people involved in it. An interim report was submitted by him which said that the sub-inspector resorted to harsh action when the situation could have been resolved peacefully so he has been suspended,” said the superintendent of police, Sudhir Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/psi-thrashes-sanitation-workers-suspended/articleshow/75239271.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Authorities, biz await CM’s word on easing lockdown||Coimbatore: The district is anxiously waiting for the announcement on lockdown relaxations on Monday.With the district as a Covid-19 red zone, people are unsure how much relaxation it would be given. Police officials said as on Sunday they had not made any anticipatory preparations. They could decide on increasing the number of personnel only based on the chief minster’s announcement. Coimbatore superintendent of police Sujit Kumar said as the district was under red zone, they can’t deicide anything by themselves. “Based on the government’s announcement and instructions from higher officials, we would proceed,” he said.The health department, meanwhile might have to put in extra work to screen people, in case of a relaxation, and following which if people crowd at public spaces. “Based on the manpower, we might have to screen people’s temperature with thermal scanners at public spaces,” said a district administration official. However, the main function of health officials would remain unchanged – contact tracing, testing and treatment, the official said. Relaxation would be beneficial in one aspect, said a source, as many of the positive cases in the district were now completely asymptomatic. “If there is a relaxation in the lockdown strictures, and subsequent movement of people, we can understand whether people are resistant or what other phenomenon is under work,” said the source.Industrialists too said they would decide on starting operations only after assessing the state’s announcement on Monday. J James, district president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), said if there is a relaxation for industries, those industrial units which have raw materials stocked-up and which have existing orders, could work. “Some industries would have stopped on-going work. Such industries could finish pending jobs,” he said. Industries were also concerned about workers’ safety, said R Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia). “After the state announces the guidelines, we have to see whether the conditions are feasible to operate. If in case any worker is infected, we would inform the health department and we seek that the health department should manage the expenses and take care of the worker,” he said. “We are also not clear what should industries in containment zones do. We are waiting for the state’s announcement,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/authorities-biz-await-cms-word-on-easing-lockdown/articleshow/75240232.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||Facilities catering to disabled concerned as donations stop due to lockdown||Dehradun: Officials of several charitable facilities in the city which house disabled and mentally-ill people fear running out of funds as their institutes are largely dependent on voluntary donations which have become negligible since the lockdown began. Most of these facilities provide services for free or for a very nominal charge and are almost entirely dependent on donations. Cheshire Home, a facility which caters to people with special needs, situated in the Dalanwala area, is one such institution that is encountering issues due to finances since the imposition of lockdown. “At present, we have more than 60 people living full-time in our campus. As we were largely dependent on voluntary donations from outsiders, we are now facing issues. Earlier, good samaritans used to come and distribute clothes among inmates or organise meals. Many people used to come and donate some money as well. However, much of it has stopped because of the lockdown,” said Brigadier KG Behl (retired), vice-chairman of the Dehradun unit of Cheshire Home. Officials of another similar facility, Raphael Centre, which caters to children with disabilities as well as TB patients, are facing similar issues. “Currently, we have many people with special needs and leprosy patients in our campus. We have so far not encountered any major problem as our staff is residing in the campus and has been very active. However, voluntary donations have stopped since the lockdown started. If the lockdown period continues for a long time, it will have an adverse impact on our budget,” said Priyo Lall, CEO of Raphael Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/facilities-catering-to-disabled-concerned-as-donations-stop-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75238484.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||152 test -ve in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: At least 152 people from the four containment zones in the district have been tested negative for the novel coronavirus. Earlier, Kandal area in Ooty, Rajajai Nagar in Coonoor, Lower Bazar and Kaikatty in Kotagiri were sealed to contain local transmission of the virus after seven people from these areas tested positive for Covid-19. All of them were attendees of Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi. Later, two primary contacts of the patients were tested positive. While all the nine were admitted to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore, four of them were discharged on Saturday. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said the remaining five were showing good improvement. “We will continue to screen the residents of containment area and other people with fever and cold for Covid-19,” the collector said. The number of people (with travel history) in home quarantine has also come down to around 200 from 1,300, she said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/152-test-ve-in-nilgiris/articleshow/75240234.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Kalvi TV shows dubbed in English due to high demand||COIMBATORE: Officials of Kalvi Tholaikatchi, the education channel of the state school education department, are in the process of recording and producing fresh content for Class X students, who are awaiting announcement of board exams. The new content focusses on English medium students of Class X as of now. Kalvi TV is being currently telecast as a part of Arasu cable TV corporation, apart from Doordarshan and a few other private channels, officials said. “For Class X, we had shot 150 lessons in total, of which we have telecast around 120. We are in the process of editing and telecasting the remaining 30 lessons,” said an official from the State Council of Education Research and Training, who is in-charge of Kalvi TV. “The sessions were in Tamil and were 25 minutes to 30 minutes long,” he added. The programmes focusses mainly on important portions of the syllabus, such as ‘quote from memory’, poems and crucial topics in science and mathematics. The channel now has around 17,300 subscribers and some videos have crossed 10,000 views, with total views of 2.3 lakh. Following this, as all the videos were in Tamil, Class X students from English schools started requesting for videos in English, in the comments section. “That’s when the department decided to make fresh videos in English,” said a teacher in-charge of shooting the videos. The department plans to produce these videos in Chennai, Coimbatore, and Theni. Among these places, in Coimbatore, work on the first session started on Sunday. Teachers said it is scheduled to go on till April 25. In Coimbatore, the shoot is underway at the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) campus on Raja Street, where a temporary set-up has been made with an ad-hoc green mat and focus lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/high-demand-pushes-state-educational-tv-channel-to-record-programmes-in-english/articleshow/75247809.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
April 20, 2020||Surat||Diamond City’s blood banks face shortage||SURAT: Blood banks in the city are facing severe shortage of blood due to the lockdown. Though there is almost 50% drop in demand of blood, the voluntary blood donation has fallen to almost nil. The blood banks are now contacting donors and calling them for donation to meet their daily requirements. Surat Raktadan Kendra and Research Centre (SRKRC), the biggest blood bank of city that used to supply 150 units daily before lockdown, are supplying only 75 units per day now. “As against the requirement, we are receiving donation of only 35 units since the lockdown started. The stock of blood is drying up and within a week, we will not be able to meet the daily demand," said Dr Narendra Vasavda, CEO, SRKRC. The bank has been collecting blood through a van that visits donors ever since the lockdown started as donation camps cannot be organized. "Patients of blood-related illnesses like thalassemia need transfusion regularly," Dr Vasavada added. Another leading blood bank, Lok Samarpan Raktadan Kendra, is working on daily basis to collect donation for its daily requirement. "We have enough stock since the first day of the lockdown and have collected blood by brining donors to the bank. Due to shortage of blood, we are under pressure but we are putting extra efforts to meet the demand," said Subhash Kheni, administrator of LSRK. Red Cross Blood Bank is also organising small blood camps by visiting residential societies to meet its requirement. "We are contacting major blood donation camp organisers and requesting them to get few donors ready. We visit their society and call one or two people at a time for donation in the camp," said Praful Shiroya, an official of RBB. City doctors have also started campaign to encourage people to come forward individually and donate blood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-citys-blood-banks-face-shortage/articleshow/75239570.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||19 pvt Covid-19 testing labs in Maha, not a single in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Nagpur has the highest 73 confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Vidarbha as on Sunday and is among the top five cities having patients in Maharashtra. Yet, unlike Mumbai and Pune where Covid-19 tests are being done at 19 private laboratories, no private laboratory is conducting it in Nagpur. As per ICMR data released on Sunday, Maharashtra has 22 government and 19 private facilities where Covid-19 tests can be conducted. Out of the 22 government facilities, six are in Vidarbha. These include labs at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Veterinary College of Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (Mafsu), National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and GMCH, Akola. All the 19 private facilities are in Mumbai, Pune and Thane. “Maharashtra has the highest government viral testing labs in India. We’ll attempt to increase this further,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Department of Medical Education and Research. Private Covid-19 laboratory in Nagpur still appears to be a distant dream. According to officials, at least two applications from private labs in Nagpur are pending with the DMER and ICMR. One of them is Dhruva Pathology Lab. “Our NABL audit got over today. We should be able to get NABL certification for molecular lab in the next four days and subsequently permission from ICMR immediately. If everything goes well, we will be able to start testing by next week,” Dr Shailesh Mundhada, director of this lab, said. According to experts, testing capacity increases significantly with private labs joining in. “Currently, we are conducting tests of symptomatic suspects, high risk contacts of positive patients, and their relatives. But, with private labs, random testing also gets promoted which is very important,” physician Dr Rajesh Agrawal said. The Supreme Court has ordered private laboratories to conduct free tests of poor people under Ayushman Bharat scheme. Labs can charge fees from others. These labs have been told to charge standard Rs4,500 per test, but they can give further discounts too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-pvt-covid-19-testing-labs-in-maha-not-a-single-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75240581.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||New Headmaster appointed at The Doon School||Dehradun: The board of governors of The Doon School on Sunday announced the appointment of Jagpreet Singh as the 11th Headmaster of The Doon School. Singh, a veteran educationist who has had a long career spanning three decades in the field of academics, is currently the Headmaster of the Punjab Public School, Nabha. Prior to that, he was at Mayo College, Ajmer for over two decades. The announcement of the appointment was made by Sunil Kant Munjal, chairman of the school’s board of governors. A communique from The Doon School said that Singh holds a Master’s degree in History, and is a B Ed and M Phil in Education. He was conferred the Jury of Derozio award for Education and Human Enrichment by the Council of Indian School Certificate Examination in 2014. He is also a recipient of the best teacher award from the Chief Justice of Rajasthan in 2003. In 2014, he was conferred the ‘Best Principal Performance’ award by Global Achievers Foundation. He is a keen sportsman and has played cricket and squash with school teams for many international events. He will join the school on July 5, the communique added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-headmaster-appointed-at-the-doon-school/articleshow/75238490.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Kalvi TV shows dubbed in English due to high demand||COIMBATORE: Officials of Kalvi Tholaikatchi, the education channel of the state school education department, are in the process of recording and producing fresh content for Class X students, who are awaiting announcement of board exams. The new content focusses on English medium students of Class X as of now. Kalvi TV is being currently telecast as a part of Arasu cable TV corporation, apart from Doordarshan and a few other private channels, officials said. “For Class X, we had shot 150 lessons in total, of which we have telecast around 120. We are in the process of editing and telecasting the remaining 30 lessons,” said an official from the State Council of Education Research and Training, who is in-charge of Kalvi TV. “The sessions were in Tamil and were 25 minutes to 30 minutes long,” he added. The programmes focusses mainly on important portions of the syllabus, such as ‘quote from memory’, poems and crucial topics in science and mathematics. The channel now has around 17,300 subscribers and some videos have crossed 10,000 views, with total views of 2.3 lakh. Following this, as all the videos were in Tamil, Class X students from English schools started requesting for videos in English, in the comments section. “That’s when the department decided to make fresh videos in English,” said a teacher in-charge of shooting the videos. The department plans to produce these videos in Chennai, Coimbatore, and Theni. Among these places, in Coimbatore, work on the first session started on Sunday. Teachers said it is scheduled to go on till April 25. In Coimbatore, the shoot is underway at the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) campus on Raja Street, where a temporary set-up has been made with an ad-hoc green mat and focus lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/high-demand-pushes-state-educational-tv-channel-to-record-programmes-in-english/articleshow/75240237.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
April 20, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Kalvi TV shows dubbed in English due to high demand||COIMBATORE: Officials of Kalvi Tholaikatchi, the education channel of the state school education department, are in the process of recording and producing fresh content for Class X students, who are awaiting announcement of board exams. The new content focusses on English medium students of Class X as of now. Kalvi TV is being currently telecast as a part of Arasu cable TV corporation, apart from Doordarshan and a few other private channels, officials said. “For Class X, we had shot 150 lessons in total, of which we have telecast around 120. We are in the process of editing and telecasting the remaining 30 lessons,” said an official from the State Council of Education Research and Training, who is in-charge of Kalvi TV. “The sessions were in Tamil and were 25 minutes to 30 minutes long,” he added. The programmes focusses mainly on important portions of the syllabus, such as ‘quote from memory’, poems and crucial topics in science and mathematics. The channel now has around 17,300 subscribers and some videos have crossed 10,000 views, with total views of 2.3 lakh. Following this, as all the videos were in Tamil, Class X students from English schools started requesting for videos in English, in the comments section. “That’s when the department decided to make fresh videos in English,” said a teacher in-charge of shooting the videos. The department plans to produce these videos in Chennai, Coimbatore, and Theni. Among these places, in Coimbatore, work on the first session started on Sunday. Teachers said it is scheduled to go on till April 25. In Coimbatore, the shoot is underway at the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) campus on Raja Street, where a temporary set-up has been made with an ad-hoc green mat and focus lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/high-demand-pushes-state-educational-tv-channel-to-record-programmes-in-english/articleshow/75247805.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Rowdy-sheeter found murdered||Kalaburagi : A 30-year-old rowdy-sheeter was found murdered in an under-construction house at Arif colony, late in the evening on Saturday. Mohammad Zakir alias Mohammad Salim, was found lying in a pool of blood. His body was found a day after he was murdered. He had left his house on Friday, and was murdered in the evening on the same day, said sources. The deceased’s wife, Asma Begum, has filed a complaint against Bombay Aslam and his brother, at the Raghavendra police station, in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rowdy-sheeter-found-murdered/articleshow/75237700.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai civic body staff surprise stranded 12-year-old on birthday||CHENNAI: In a warm gesture, Greater Chennai Corporation staff celebrated the birthdays of two young girls from Patna, who are stranded in the city along with their extended family due to the lockdown. The 30-member group from Bihar, on a pilgrimage to Tamil Nadu, had visited Madurai, Rameswaram and Kanyakumari. They had come back to the city to leave to Tirupati, when the government announced national lockdown. Until March 25, the group was housed in a shelter in zone 5 (Royapuram). Subsequently, they were shifted to a community hall on Chakrapani Road in Maduvankarai near Race Course. “Our staff were continuously attending to all those in the hall. When one of our staff went to enquire about need of essential items and medical needs, we learned from a family member that the birthdays of the two young girls were on Saturday and Sunday. We decided to surprise them,” said N Thirumurugan, zonal officer, Adyar (zone 13). On Saturday, assistant revenue officer P Thamizh arranged for a birthday cake for Shrishti Kumari, who turned 12. It was not a surprise anymore when the staff repeated the gesture for Divya Kumari, who turned 12 on Sunday. IAS officials Alby John and Meghanath Reddy too joined in the celebrations personally on Sunday and gifted sweet boxes to the kids. In a tweet, deputy commissioner (revenue), Meghanath Reddy said, “They are not just stranded people. They are not just inmates at our relief centres. They are one among us.” Regional deputy commissioner (south) Alby John appreciated the efforts of zone 13 (Adyar) staff in making the days special for the young girls. The family members were very happy. “The girls are travelling with their extended family and their parents are in Patna. It was a small gesture on our part to make them feel home,” said P Thamizh. Speaking to TOI over phone, Srishti Kumari and Divya Kumari expressed joy and said it was an unforgettable experience. The girls, however, said they missed the usual bash they had back home every year. “Usually, for my birthday, we make special food and lots of sweets like kheer and I celebrate it with my parents. This birthday, I did not get special food,” said Srishti with childlike innocence. The Class VI girl said the phone numbers of her friends are saved in her mother’s mobile phone and hence, she could not share her unique birthday experience with her friends back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporation-staff-surprise-stranded-12-year-old-on-birthday/articleshow/75240236.cms||Srikkanth D
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hours after mother’s demise, fireman in Gandhinagar resumes duty||AHMEDABAD: Gautam Patel, a fireman with Gandhinagar Fire and Emergency Services (GFES), was on duty in the state capital – disinfecting parts of the city – on Saturday when he got news that his 77-year-old mother was critical. “I rushed home and could talk to her for a few minutes from a safe distance before she breathed her last. She had trouble in breathing for past few days due to age-related complications and I was keeping an eye on her health. There’s only one solace that I could see her before her demise,” recounts Patel. “We took the body to our native Koba and cremated her. As the final rites were over, I informed my supervisor that I was ready to join again.” Mahesh Mod, fire officer, GFES, said that Patel could have taken leave of a day on account of his mother’s death. “But he decided to join as soon as possible. Disinfection of the state capital is taking place daily and majority of our staff is associated with the work including Patel. It’s our way to ensure that the COVID-19 spread could be contained,” he said. CM Vijay Rupani also praised Patel’s dedication on his social media page on Sunday evening. “I operate the disinfectant vehicle and also keep track of the medicines received and dispatched for the disinfection. These are difficult times and service of all is needed to ensure that we defeat COVID-19. I terribly miss my mother and am mourning her death but I am focused on work at hand as I see my equally determined fellow firemen,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hours-after-mothers-demise-fireman-resumes-duty/articleshow/75240242.cms||Parth Shastri
April 20, 2020||Chennai||King Institute takes the lead in TN’s fight against Covid-19||CHENNAI: The state has so far tested around 40,000 samples for coronavirus, more than one-fourth at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Chennai. The 122-year-old institute in Guindy, which played a key role in controlling small-pox, cholera and even the devastating Spanish flu of 1918, is again spearheading the fight against a disease outbreak. Begun as a public health laboratory in 1897, it soon became a full-fledged vaccine manufacturing and testing unit and helped officials of Madras Presidency perform a staggering 12 lakh vaccinations in the early 20th century. After Independence, it played a key role in almost all major disease outbreaks including of dengue, encephalitis or H1N1. "The institute is yet again playing a key role and staff have again risen to the challenge by working round the clock," said P Gunasekaran, former director who headed the state’s fight against H1N1 in 2009. "It (work) never ends", said a current employee, requesting anonymity. "Just when we think the day’s work is nearing completion, we get calls saying more samples have arrived. Once technicians get inside labs, we can’t step out for the next 6-8 hours and don’t get enough time to even have food properly." A recent visit showed dedicated rooms to collect samples in thermocol boxes, sort them out and conduct tests. In the labs, samples are tested using Real Time - Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method. Though rapid testing kits have arrived, their results are only indicative. They can confirm presence of antibodies. Standard RT-PCR continues to be the primary diagnostic tool. "On an average it takes 2-3 hours to test one round of samples, said Ram Rajasekaran, head of TN Central University’s Microbiolody department. Technicians require higher concentration levels and can’t tend to get diverted, particularly while placing samples in well plates. Else the results will become inaccurate and the entire process has to be restarted, he added. Health secretary Beela Rajesh said senior virologists at the institute were facing tough challengers as the virus was tricky. "Test results too are not always consistent. Sometimes, a patient, who tests negative in the first test, turns positive the second time round," she added. Despite the odds, the institute has successfully tested thousands of samples and continues to act as a mentor and reference lab for many other labs in the state, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. It is, however, facing several serious problems. There is no proper compound wall to stop entry of outsiders rusted pipelines can be spotted all over and bins near labs overflow.A sum of Rs 2.07 crore was allocated in 2019 but little has changed. When contacted, K Kauveri, director, refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/king-institute-takes-the-lead-in-tns-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75240248.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||275 people undergo rapid anti-body testing, all -ve||Coimbatore: As many as 275 people had undergone rapid anti-body testing in the district as on Sunday and all of them had turned negative. Most of them were from Pollachi region. The rapid test kits have come as a relief not just to health workers who could cover more people in a shorter duration, but also for the public who undergo testing. The rapid test kits eliminate the anxiety and stress the public undergo waiting for up to 24 hours in the usual lab test results to come. With 1,700 more test kits remaining with Coimbatore district health officials, they have decided to intensify testing using these rapid test kits in the coming days. “The district received 2,000 rapid test kits as first instalment. We are using the kits in containment areas. As on Sunday, we had tested about 275 people and it would be intensified from Monday” collector K Rajamani said. In the coming days, health officials expect more rapid test kits to be given. “On an average, 100 kits would be used for each containment area,' Rajamani said. Ten areas in the city and eight areas in the suburbs were declared as containment zones. The collector said that they would be covering all other containment zones right from Anaimalai to Mettupalayam, police personnel and health workers from Pollachi government hospital.The officials have already tested about 2,075 people from the containment zones, including from RS Puram, Madukkarai, Kinathukedavu and Vettaikaranpudur, in the last few days using Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). In total, over 3,000 people were tested across the district. An official from health department said, “It is a blood test which checks for the level of anti-bodies against the virus in the blood of an individual. The test would be done almost seven days after a person develops Influenza Like Illness (ILI) – the average time taken for the anti-bodies to develop.” If a person tests positive, then he/she would be directed to be in home quarantine for a week and if many people from an area, then measures would be intensified, the official said, pointing out that the rapid anti-body test is a surveillance test. “Until recently, we have been collecting nasal and throat swabs of the persons suspected to have symptoms and it takes hours to know the results. So, we could do the test only to limited number of persons. As results of the rapid test would be known within 15 minutes, we could do numerous tests a day and both the patients and doctors need not wait for long time to know the results,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/275-people-undergo-rapid-anti-body-testing-all-ve/articleshow/75240245.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Plans afoot get over 1k stranded migrants working||Nagpur: Over 1000 migrants in Nagpur division, currently stuck in shelter homes, will soon find themselves working on various road construction and irrigation projects with the authorities moving ahead with plans to provide employment. Union minister Nitin Gadkari was one of the earliest proponents of the idea of allowing migrants to get back to their livelihoods, in a bid to kickstart the economy. “The government is doing its best to open up the economy and I am confident that in the coming days things will get better,” said Gadkari. Now keeping in mind the ban on inter-state travel, state government is charting the course for providing employment to stranded migrants. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said, “For last three days we have been working on this list. We have connected contractors with labourers. A majority of the work is related to irrigation, road construction. We have also tried to match the skill set of available manpower with that of work available.” Kumar added that the over thousand workers are from ‘two to three’ districts. “The labourers will be transported to the site and the contractor will be responsible for paying them the wages. Food and lodging arrangements will be based on mutual terms between them,” said Kumar. This plan is likely to be rolled out within a few days. Gadkari said now focus should be on getting migrants back to work to their original place of employment. “Areas like Butibori, Hingna and Kalmeshwar have a lot of industries and outside of Nagpur. Industries and workers can strictly adhere to safety guidelines and social distancing and start work. Once this happens, a big part of the problem related to economy will be solved. Whoever (migrants) is still left after this, can then be employed in public work projects,” said Gadkari. Shelters located within city limits currently house 1370 migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plans-afoot-get-over-1k-stranded-migrants-working/articleshow/75240582.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 20, 2020||Surat||Shrimps seen near Dumas after 20 years||SURAT: Marine life along one of country’s most polluted coastlines along Surat in south Gujarat, has some positive effect of the nation-wide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic. For the first time in nearly two decades, shoals of sea-water shrimps have been seen close to Dumas shore near the Diamond City. Marine experts attribute this phenomenon to nearly zero dumping of industrial waste and other toxic pollutants from units along the coast from Dumas to Mumbai in Maharashtra. “For the first time in nearly two decades we have sea water shrimps visible right up to the shore at Dumas. We usually have to go deep into the sea to fish for them,” said Atul Khalasi, one of the fishermen from Dumas. Marine biologist Dr. Dishant Parasharya, who works with Bombay Natural History Society ( BNHS) said, “While the coastal belt along South Gujarat is otherwise heavily polluted, there has been a significant change in the marine eco-system due to lockdown.” “With accumulated waste, toxic elements, pollutant and micro-plastics on a complete hold, and people remaining absent from the shores, marine organisms that swim against the current are showing up on the pollution free shores,” he added. An expert in shrimp farming and marine life, Dr Manoj Sharma said that the phenomenon has been observed across he globe. “The coast at Dumas is actually an estuary where the Mindhola River meets the Arabian Sea. Mindhola is one of the most polluted rivers of Gujarat. However, these days, due to the complete lockdown and the tidal influence over past fortnight, fresh unpolluted water has enter the creek. The topography along the coast has helped organic nutrients and minerals travel 25km inside the creek,” Sharma told TOI.  “With plenty of food available and next to nil disturbance in terms of boats and trawlers, it has been possible to observe sea water shrimps, fresh water eels and several other breed so close to the shore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nil-dumping-brings-seawater-shrimps-closer-to-dumas-shore/articleshow/75239580.cms||Ashleshaa Khurana
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Houseowner, tenant clash over rent, booked||COIMBATORE: A 75-year-old house owner and his 40-year-old tenant were booked for assaulting each other during a quarrel over payment of rent. According to police, A Arul Dhass, of Balusamy Nagar at Rathinapuri, had rented out four of his row houses in the same locality to as many daily wage labourers. “He made a living out of the rental amount. However, his earnings stopped as the tenants, who were out work due to the lockdown, didn’t pay him rent,” a police officer said. It is to be noted that there was a state government diktat asking landlords not to coerce the tenants to pay the rent, which could be collected after the lockdown period is over. “When Arul asked his tenant V Ravichandran to pay rent, he refused. They subsequently entered into a heated argument and in a fit of rage Arul attacked his tenant with a brick, injuring him. Ravichandran also retaliated by thrashing up the house owner severely,” the officer said. Both of them then lodged a complaint with the Rathinapuri police against each other. Police have registered cases against both of them and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/houseowner-tenant-clash-over-rent-booked/articleshow/75240244.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Coimbatore||AIADMK to bear cost of food||Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has said that the AIADMK would bear the cost of the food served in Amma canteens in Salem corporation. A statement from the party on Sunday said there are 11 Amma canteens functioning in Salem corporation where food is being served at a subsidised cost for scores of poor people every day. This apart four more canteens are functioning in municipalities. Due to Covid-19 lockdown, the people who depend on Amma canteens for their daily meal have been affected. Hence, from April 20, the cost of breakfast and lunch served in these canteens would be borne by Salem urban and rural unit of AIADMK, EPS announced. He said that the 2112 sanitary workers in Salem corporation, 356 in government hospital and 25 in collectorate would be given 10kg rice and face masks by AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-to-bear-cost-of-food/articleshow/75240252.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||No Covid-19 death in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad in 24 hours||PUNE: No death of Covid- 19 was reported in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Sunday after a gap of five days, the district health administration said. However, the number of cases of positive for the virus is continuous on rise in the region. On Sunday, the authorities reported 45 new cases in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), five in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), three in the rural areas of the Pune district and four cases in the Pune cantonment area, the administration said. A woman and a male patient from the Sassoon hospital were discharged after they recovered from the contagion. District health officer Bhagwan Pawar told TOI, “This is the second time in the last fortnight that the city or the district has not recorded a single death. This is a positive sign for us.” The maximum cases in the PMC limits were being reported from the peths where people live in the congested areas. “The increasing number of cases in two digit is a major worry for us at this juncture. Although the civic administration has been taking counter measures, the cases are not declining because of multiple reasons. People should come forward and report if they having any Covid morbid symptoms. Besides, adhering to government instructions at this juncture is the need of the hour in the city, Pawar added. As far as rural areas are concerned, Pawar said, most of the cases were reported from Haveli tehsil that was considered a semi- urban zone. Proactive approach helps woman overcome Covid-19 A proactive approach by a woman, already suffering from diabetes and hypertension, enabled her to successfully recover from the Covid-19 infection, said doctors at the Sassoon General Hospital after she was discharged from the facility on Sunday. “The patient was in a positive frame of mind throughout the two weeks of treatment. She was suffering from breathlessness, cough and running nose at the time of admission. But she did hide any of her underlying health condition or symptoms. She herself got admitted to the hospital on April 3. The woman’s family members supported her equally. Today (Sunday), her condition is normal and she returned to her home happily," said a doctor at the hospital. “Throughout her treatment, the woman showed no signs of panic and followed our instructions sincerely. This ensured helped her speedy recovery. A patient’s willpower and positive thinking are the key in such cases. It only shows that the diabetics need not fear as they can be cured of Covid-19,” he said. “In the woman’s case, we could maintain her sugar level and hence did not face problem during treatment. Many experts and senior doctors have been saying that if diabetes is kept under control, a Covid-19 patient with diabetes can be treated like any other non- diabetic patient.” A 40-year-old male patient from Mangalwar Peth was also discharged from the hospital on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-covid-19-death-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-in-24-hours/articleshow/75240584.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Newborn tests negative; seven-year-old girl recovers||AURANGABAD: The baby girl born to a confirmed Covid-19 patient in the city on Saturday has tested negative for coronavirus, the district civil hospital said. Moreover, on Saturday, a 7-year-old girl, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, was discharged after she was declared recovered from the virus according to the protocol. Apart from her, five other confirmed patients were discharged from the district civil hospital after consecutively testing negative twice for Covid-19. A 38-year-old Covid-19 patient had delivered a girl through C-section on Saturday at the district civil hospital. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that three throat swab samples of the newborn were collected and sent for testing. All three samples tested negative on Sunday, he said. “The newborn, however, cannot be taken to the mother. The mother’s milk is being pumped artificially and is being fed to the baby with a spoon. The baby is healthy. Currently, the mother has mild Covid-19 symptoms. We are closely monitoring her as the immunity reduces after delivery,” Padmaja Saraf, a physician at the civil hospital, said. In another comforting report, a private hospital that was treating a 7-year-old Covid-19 patient has discharged her after she tested negative twice for the virus after waiting 14 days. The girl is the granddaughter of a 58-year-old Covid-19 patient from Cidco N-4. The girl walked out of the hospital with her family late on Saturday. On Sunday afternoon, the district civil hospital discharged five other cured Covid-19 patients, Saraf said on behalf of district civil surgeon. “All five individuals tested negative twice for coronavirus after the mandatory testing period stipulated under government guidelines. Their treatment has been completed, but they have been counselled to follow a proper diet and remain in 14-day home quarantine,” Saraf added. The five people who were discharged include a 38-year-old man and his domestic help (a 43-year-old woman). Both are from Aref Colony. Moreover, a 38-year-old male nurse from the Government Medical College and Hospital, a 40-year-old man from Roshan Gate and a 42-year-old private hospital doctor have been discharged. The hospital stated that a few more patients are expected to be discharged on Monday. The decision will be taken depending on their test results. 38-year-old man tests +ve A 38-year-old man from Samta Nagar had tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. “Just before the lockdown was announced, he had travelled to Nagpur. He had stayed at home and had developed some respiratory trouble on April 15 for which he had gone to a private doctor on April 17 where his chest X-ray scan was done,” health officer said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/newborn-tests-negative-7-year-old-girl-recovers/articleshow/75239587.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||1,817 motorbikes seized for violating lockdown||Dharwad: The Dharwad Rural police have intensified their drive of seizing motorbikes of those who are wandering around unnecessarily, during the lockdown. Superintendent of police Vartika Katiyar, said on Sunday, that even after repeated appeals being made to not venture out without any valid reason, many youths have been violating the lockdown orders, and are moving around on motorbikes. The district police have set up 16 checkposts, and have intensified patrolling. The police have seized 1,817 motorbikes so far, and have collected fines to the tune of Rs 4.9 lakh. The motorbikes seized have been parked at the respective police stations, and they will be released after the lockdown is lifted. 8 held for gamblingThis apart, the police, based on a tip-off, that some people were involved in gambling at Kavalgeri farmhouse on Saturday night, conducted a raid and arrested eight accused. A total Rs 7,000, one autorickshaw, seven mobile phones and three motorbikes have been seized from them, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/1817-motorbikes-seized-for-violating-lockdown/articleshow/75237735.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Private hospitals told not to treat patients with any Covid-19 symptom, alert CMO||LUCKNOW: District administration on Sunday directed all private hospitals in the city not to treat any patient with Covid-19 symptoms like cough, fever or breathing trouble but alert the chief medical officer and refer them to government hospitals immediately.  The administration also asked the CMO to conduct rapid antibody test of entire staff posted to supervise quarantine facility in Bakshi-Ka-Talab. All government employees in essential services, including police, LMC staff and doctors, having flu-like symptoms will also be tested as they are exposed to risk of catching infection. Police and LMC have been asked to slap fine of Rs 5,000 on those found spitting in public place, lodge FIR against those found moving around unnecessarily and fine people without mask. All passes issued to people in hotspot areas have been cancelled and CCTVs have been installed for 24X7 monitoring through Smart City Command Centre. LMC has been directed to sanitise area falling in the radius of 5 km around hotspots. All offices that are open have been told to remove door mats as its sanitisation is difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pvt-hospitals-told-not-to-treat-patientswith-any-covid-symptom-alert-cmo/articleshow/75240591.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Walked 800km from Panvel to reach home, claims jobless man||Chandrapur: Stranded, starved and startled by the lockdown, jobless labourers and people across the country are attempting the impossible to return to their homeland. Once such desperate person is Ajay Satorkar (32), who travelled around 900km over 15 days, mostly on foot, from Panvel to reach his home in Chandrapur. He, however, was booked for violation of lockdown and sent to institutional quarantine facility. Satorkar hails from Pathanpura ward in Chandrapur city and had joined as data operator in Panvel on March 13, just 11 days before curfew was imposed in the state. As soon as the lockdown was announced, he was forced to retreat to his room in Panvel. He had just Rs5,000 which he had brought from home. Being a new joinee, Satorkar reportedly did not get any help from his employer when the lockdown happened. By the end of March, he was left with only Rs350. With no means of survival in a new city and rising threat of coronavirus infection, he decided to return to Chandrapur. “I started early morning on April 2, and took the Mumbai-Pune highway on foot. My clothes and mobile charger are still in my room at Panvel,” he told TOI on phone from a quarantine facility. Walking along the highway, he first reached Pune from where he took Ahmednagar road, again on foot. “I ate the meals provided for free at various places. I slept near temples, under shades of closed down highway dhabas and roadside shops. I ate only biscuits when no food was available,” he said. According to Satorkar, being on foot he was never stopped or questioned by police at the check posts. After Ahmednagar, he reached Bhima Koregaon, then Aurangabad, Jalna and Shendurna Ghat. “I had mapped my route. On some occasions I got lift in trucks, bikes, ambulances etc, but for short distance,” he said and claimed that he walked around 800km. “I reached Washim on March 11 evening, and walked eight hours straight the next day till Pusad. The journey to Digras was again on foot,” he said. By taking Ghatanji route he reached Umri in Yavatmal district on March 14. “After an overnight stay, I walked up to Wani and on March 16, took the Ghugus route. Near Ghugus, I called a friend who in turn informed police and then they took care of me,” Satorkar said. PSO, Ghugus, Rahul Gangurde claimed that they rescued the person on the town’s border and he was taken to local hospital for check-up. He said they have recorded detailed statement of Satorkar with travel routes and stoppages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/walked-800km-from-panvel-to-reach-home-claims-jobless-man/articleshow/75240596.cms||Mazhar Ali
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Hingoli, Latur become Covid-19 free, Osmanabad on its way to green zone||AURANGABAD: The first and only Covid-19 case in Hingoli has been discharged from the Hingoli district civil hospital after the patient registered recovery. Meanwhile, the Latur and Osmanabad districts which are being counted in orange zones are starting to register recoveries of existing cases. With no new cases, the districts may soon enter green zone category. According to Hingoli district civil surgeon Kishorprasad Shrivas, the district saw its first and only Covid-19 case after a 49-year-old man was detected with novel coronavirus infection on April 2. “Over the course of time, the case remained stable with no severe symptoms. Based on the government of India guidelines following the 14-day treatment, two throat swabs of the man were taken in gap of 24 hours which tested negative. Subsequently, he was discharged on April 17,” Shrivas said. In a heartfelt gesture, the doctors at district civil hospital gave a applauding farewell as the man walked out of the hospital. In Latur, eight men from Andhra Pradesh who had travelled to district’s Nilanga from Delhi had tested positive on April 4. All were admitted to the Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Medical Science Institute (VDGMSI). Three of them men had tested negative for Covid-19 on April 9. In a report that came in late on Saturday night, the remaining five too tested negative twice. However, as they are away from their home, the district administration decided to keep them in 14-day institutional quarantine. Currently, there are no confirmed Covid-19 cases in district, VDGMSI dean Girish Thakur said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hingoli-latur-become-covid-19-free-osmanabad-on-its-way-to-green-zone/articleshow/75239600.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||Home evaluation of MP board exams from April 22||BHOPAL: During the time of home-isolation, the MP Board of Secondary Education (MPBSE) has decided to go for home evaluation. The answer sheets of board exams, which were conducted in the state before March 19, will be evaluated with utmost secrecy and the MPBSE has laid out guidelines for the same. District education officer under the district collectors have been apprised on the guidelines to be followed while distributing the answer booklets to the registered evaluators. In the first phase of home evaluation, the DEOs will distribute the answers booklets of the exams held between March 2 to March 17, to the registered evaluators from April 22 to April 25. The answer booklets will be distributed to the evaluators at the evaluation centre or at block-level centres or nodal centres, at a fixed date and time, depending upon the circumstances, and according to the district collectors’ decision. If the evaluators are inside containment zones, the copies will be provided to them outside their residential colonies, with the distributor and the evaluator taking all necessary precautions against coronavirus like wearing masks, gloves etc. “We will ensure all necessary precautions for all the employees engaged in the home evaluation duty. We will screen them to check if they are fit and fine before beginning with the task,” said DEO Bhopal, Nitin Saxena. The evaluation officer will be able to rent a closed vehicle by MP tourism or from the office of the district collector to distribute and collect the answer booklets after correction to take back to the evaluation centres. The sealed bundle of answer booklets will be distributed and collected by the assistant evaluation officer or another employee working in the strong room to maintain secrecy. “During the home evaluation, the evaluators will only do the marking and all other formalities, like entering the marks on OMR sheets. Work such as removing the stickers will be held under the supervision of the deputy evaluation officers to maintain secrecy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/home-evaluation-of-mp-board-exams-from-apr-22/articleshow/75240263.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Brit Sikhs fear they could be disproportionately hit||London: UK Sikh community leaders are calling on their government to consult them as part of its review into BAME deaths from Covid-19 owing to anecdotal evidence that a disproportionate number of British Sikhs have died. When doctors fill in death certificates in the UK, there is no place to record ethnicity and the NHS does not record the ethnicity of Covid-19 patients in hospitals. Concerned Covid-19 cases may be high among British Sikhs, the Sikh Network, Sikh Council UK and Sikh Federation UK (SFUK) collected data from funeral directors which shows that nearly half (47%) of all British Sikhs that have died in the two weeks up to 10 April, in the West Midlands, were victims of Covid-19. That is a significantly higher percentage than the 21.2 per cent of all deaths nationally which mentioned novel coronavirus or the 22.1% of deaths registered in West Midlands which mentioned Covid-19. Community leaders are desperate to establish whether specific health vulnerabilities or lifestyle factors common to Sikhs make them more prone to the disease. Downing Street has announced it is launching a review, led by Public Health England (PHE) and the NHS, looking at whether and why Covid-19 disease is having a disproportionate impact on ethnic minority groups. At least four India-born doctors working in the NHS have succumbed to the virus. Bhai Amrik Singh, chair of the SFUK, said those leading the review should reach out to ethnic minority groups who best understand the medical conditions, social habits, religious practices and extended families set-ups. He added he hoped the review would look at whether public bodies and decision makers gave the correct advice to those most at risk. England's chief medical officer Professor Chris Whitty said: “The three things that are clear are age, people who’ve got more than one other disease and male sex is a clear risk factor. Being a member of an ethnic minority group is less clear. We’ve asked PHE to look at this in some detail and then, if we see any signal at all, we want to know what next to do about it to minimise risk.” PHE medical director Yvonne Doyle told TOI: “There is limited recording of ethnicity across almost all data sets so we must be very careful in making any assumptions. Careful work needs to be done before we draw any conclusions.” MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi said there could be several reasons for the disproportionately large number of BAME deaths, such as the fact they form a very high percentage of key workers, namely doctors, nurses and others in public services. “Many have underlying health conditions such as diabetes and heart conditions. That is why it is imperative that a full enquiry is quickly undertaken to ascertain the full facts,” he said. When MP Preet Gill inquired with UK health secretary Matt Hancock how many Sikhs had been diagnosed with Covid-19 and died, the response she got was: “We do not collect data on cases or deaths by ethnicity or religion.” “Seventy per cent of health and social care workers who have lost their lives to Covid-19 are from BAME backgrounds, as were the first 10 NHS doctors to have passed away. We need to understand why it is that the BAME community is disproportionately been affected. I welcome the government is undertaking a review but it needs to independent and robust and include community groups,” she said. India-born Sikh GP working in Durham Dr Kamal Sidhu said: “We have seen hotspots emerge in areas with higher cluster of BAME and Sikh population. It is very difficult to ascertain the true scale of this problem at this stage as the ethnicity data around Covid related deaths is simply not there. We already know that some lifestyle-related health conditions such as diabetes affect the ability to successfully recover from Covid and people from ethnic minorities, especially Sikhs, have higher prevalence of diabetes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/brit-sikhs-fear-they-could-be-disproportionately-hit/articleshow/75233990.cms||NAOMI CANTON
April 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra BJP chief praises government for steps to contain Covid-19||PUNE: State BJP chief and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil on Sunday praised the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for its efforts to control the spread of Covid-19 in Maharashtra. Early on Sunday, Patil visited the weekly market, ration shops and grocery stores in Kothrud to know the ground situation. He made an appeal to people to remain at home. Patil said the nationwide lockdown enforced by the BJP-led government at the Centre helped contain the spread of coronavirus and keep it below other countries. “In the state too, the government has taken efforts to control the spread of Covid-19,” Patil said. Patil however criticised the government for its resolution to provide foodgrain on ration after April 30. “People need it right now. I do not know why they are waiting till the month-end,” Patil said. Patil said there was only one positive case so far in Kothrud. “From Day One of the lockdown, we made an effort to ensure that people did not step out of their houses unnecessarily. We people who were unable to cook and provided them lunch and dinner for just Rs5,” Patil said. Patil said he and his team have distributed 37,000 dry ration packets to people. “We have also identified about 4,500 ration card holders and will distribute wheat and rice to them from tomorrow,” Patil said Patil pointed out that people continued to come out of their homes despite appeals by police and said they must be getting bored at home. “To keep them engaged, we have decided to provide 100 books to each colony. People can come down and take any book and return it the next day. We have collected 3,000 books so far and plan to collect 10,000 books in total to cover all major areas,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-bjp-chief-praises-govt-for-steps-to-contain-covid-19/articleshow/75240593.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why numbers at hospitals are so low||NEW DELHI: The mystery behind the low turnout in hospitals despite the spread of Covid-19 to many parts of the country may have been solved. It has emerged that a majority of Covid-19 cases in India are asymptomatic or have mild illness. For example, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that all the 186 novel coronavirus cases found positive in the capital on Saturday were asymptomatic and the patients did not know that they were infected. “I had a word with a Covid-19-positive person and he told me that he was volunteering at a government food distribution centre. I have ordered to hold rapid testing of people who came to that food centre, along with others working elsewhere,” Kejriwal said. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has also said more than 70% Covid-19 cases in the state are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. When TOI spoke to doctors manning Covid-19 units in Delhi, even they confirmed the trend. A senior doctor at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital (RGSSH), one of the hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment in Delhi, said they currently have 166 patients in the isolation wards. “Most of them are asymptomatic or have mild illness. They do not require admission. We are considering to shift some of them to Covid-19 care centres being run in DDA flats and DUSIB flats in different parts of the city so that those with severe symptoms can be accommodated in the hospital,” the doctor added. An official involved in Covid-19 management at the state level said even among Tablighi Jamaat members, the symptoms weren’t severe. “Only the older ones and those with pre-existing illnesses require medical management. The rest are stable and waiting to complete the 14-day quarantine,” she added. According to WHO, globally the trend has been that 40% Covid-19 patients have mild symptoms like fever and dry cough, 40% moderate symptoms like pneumonia that can be managed at home, and 20% patients develop critical or severe symptoms that requires admission, sometimes even ICU care. However, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria confirmed that the trend in India has been very different. “The majority of patients don’t have severe symptoms. There are many, ranging from 20% to much higher, who are asymptomatic. Our population is younger compared to that of the US and Italy, where more people have developed severe symptoms. It is a known fact that younger people are less likely to develop severe symptoms even if they get Covid-19. Also, we are exposed to a range of bacterial and other infections since birth, which may be helping our immune system fight the virus,” he added. On the flip side, asymptomatic patients can act as silent spreaders. They can unknowingly spread the disease to more vulnerable population, mainly the elderly, thus increasing mortality rates. Epidemiologists suggest stricter implementation of the lockdown in places where positive cases have been found and universal screening of all patients, regardless of their symptoms, so that no positive case is missed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-numbers-at-hospitals-are-so-low/articleshow/75240298.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Amid lockdown, puppets turn teachers for children||RAJKOT: Bhavnagar couple’s puppets are being a great source of stress-buster for the children during the lockdown. While the puppet videos entertain the kids, they also teach them about many a thing. Piyush Vyas and his wife Rekha have been into puppetry for the past two decades or more, supplying the string dolls all over the state and outside too. Their puppets are based on children stories and are sold in various schools. During the lockdown the puppeteers couple decided to contribute something to the society their way. “The importance of puppets in children education is well proven. But this time we decided to do something more that will help our puppets spread awareness too. Hence, we prepared a script taking content from government guidelines and did a voice over,” said Piyush. So, puppets in the form of Gandhiji, and even Lord Ganesha are teaching kids how to deal with adversaries and overcome crisis with bravery. “An epidemic like this broke out in the Satyug too. We are describing how the people had then faced it with courage. When people are watching Ramayana and Mahabharat on the television, we wanted Ganesha too to give people the message,” said Rekha, adding that she had been suffering from bronchitis for the past decade. “However, I did not stop making puppets because it’s my passion. This work requires manual stitching of cotton which I do by wearing a mask. Now, I have almost forgot about my illness,” she added. The couple has put nearly three video messages on various social media platform and have got very good response. They are now in the process of making a puppet of PM Narendra Modi who will give the message of how to stay safe and how to be helpful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amid-lockdown-puppets-turn-teachers-for-children/articleshow/75239594.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||Lawyers move U’khand HC, want Bar Councils to pay Rs 10,000 to each lawyer and Rs 5,000 to their clerks during lockdown||Nainital: A group of lawyers have approached the Uttarakhand high court (HC) demanding that Bar Council of Uttarkhand and the Bar Council of India should pay Rs 10,000 to each lawyer and Rs 5,000 to their clerks as a relief measure during the ongoing lockdown. A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the HC that states that the lawyers are facing an unprecedented situation since most of the courts are only hearing matters of extreme urgency and they have almost no income. "The lockdown has deprived the lawyers from having any income from court work or client counseling… Extreme measures of social distancing and lockdown have left them without any source of income and opportunity of livelihood," read the PIL. Speaking to TOI, Kartikey Hari Gupta, the counsel appearing for the petitioners said that the advocates pay a share to the Bar Councils each time they file a case. The Bars also maintain the advocates’ welfare funds which are to be used in cases of emergencies. "There are around 16,000 lawyers in the state that are registered with the Bar. The threat of the Covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing lockdown are the biggest challenges before all these lawyers at the moment. Therefore, we have argued that it is the duty of the Bar Council of Uttarakhand and Bar Council of India to release the funds," Gupta said. The petition, which is likely to be heard by the court on Monday, also demands that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) should form separate guidelines for lawyers now that both the HC and its subordinate courts have begun hearing urgent cases through video conferencing. "Many of the lawyers do not have high speed 2 mbps internet connections at their homes. Therefore, it is necessary that they travel either to their offices or the court premises to take part in the hearing. However, as the lockdown has restricted the movement of people, guidelines should be changed so that lawyers can travel without restriction to take part in the court proceedings," Gupta said. Apart from seeking the release of funds, the PIL also demands waiver of rents for advocates, free medical aid, waiver of electricity and water bills for March, April and May, as well as waiver of school fee for their children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lawyers-move-ukhand-hc-want-bar-councils-to-pay-rs-10000-to-each-lawyer-and-rs-5000-to-their-clerks-during-lockdown/articleshow/75238540.cms||Prashant Jha
April 20, 2020||Pune||Metro project on hold, stranded workers in Pune count days until they can go back home||PUNE: Only a month ago, these workers were toiling away on the ambitious Pune Metro Project. Now, with the city coming to a standstill, the workers from various parts of the state as well as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar see no reason in staying back in shanties constructed on the Agriculture College campus at Shivajinagar. The workers have been living with their families in tin sheet shanties near a metro construction site inside the college campus. For the initial two weeks of the lockdown, they did not even receive food or essential supplies since the entrance to the college was closed. Eventually, a few staff members from the agriculture college alerted the authorities at Shivajinagar police station. The officers rushed to the site and offered food to the workers. “We are tracing needy persons and supplying food to them. However, despite being in the heart of the city, these workers remained neglected,” said senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of Shivajinagar police station. Chamru Paswan, a native of Begusarai in Bihar, said, “I work as a labourer at the Agriculture College site of the Pune Metro project. I have been staying here with my father Chandarik Paswan. For the first two weeks, we did not receive any ration or food. We exhausted our food and then requested the staff of agriculture college staying nearby to give us some food. The policemen also gave us some food. Later, our contractor provided us the ration.” While Paswan agreed there was enough food to keep the workers going, he added that they are now getting restless and would like to return back home. “We are trying to contact our contractor but he is not answering the phone. We want to go home,” he said. Madhukar Anandrao Chavan (40), who moved from Nagpur to the city to work on the metro project, said that he did not want to beg for food but he was left with no option in the current situation. “I work as a mistri at the site and I stay here with my family. We had some dry ration initially but now we have exhausted every grain. The police officers are supplying us food but how long they will serve us. Our contractor must provide us some food or allow us to travel back to our home,” he stated. When contacted, MahaMetro public relation officer Hemant Sonawane said “The metro project employs about 2,800 workers and they live in the labour camps. We are providing necessary attention and food to them. Many workers want to return to their native places but this is not possible in the view of the lockdown and we have conveyed this to them.” Sonawane added that the workers living at the Agriculture College site have been employed by a sub-contractor. “When the lockdown was declared, the sub-contractor gave every labourer Rs1,000 to buy groceries and other articles. However, they had to go out of the college campus to buy groceries and cops caught some workers while doing so. It has been now decided that the workers will be provided ration for a fortnight at their doorstep,” he said. Meanwhile, the workers have also undergone a medical examination. “We are monitoring their health condition regularly,” Sonawane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-project-on-hold-stranded-workers-count-days-until-they-can-go-back-home/articleshow/75240603.cms||Gitesh Shelke
April 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Covid-19 positive woman delivers boy in hospital||PUNE: A 25-year-old coronavirus-positive woman gave birth to a healthy baby boy at the Sassoon General Hospital here on Saturday, the first instance of its kind since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city. “The swab samples of the baby boy tested negative,” said the doctor who led the team of medical professionals who performed a C-section on the woman for the baby’s delivery. “The baby, weighing 3.5kg, is healthy and doing well in an isolation chamber,” he said. On Saturday, doctors at the Aurangabad’s district civil hospital performed a similar surgery on a woman who gave birth to a baby girl. The baby too tested negative for Covid-19. The Sassoon doctor said, “The woman, a resident of old Khadki area, was in her ninth month of pregnancy when admitted to the hospital on April 16 with throat irritation, fever and other symptoms. We kept her under medical care and observation. The results of her swab samples came positive for Covid-19 the following day. Her condition is fine after delivery.” He said, “With proper care, our nurses will take the mother’s milk for feeding the baby separately. Breastfeeding is not advisable under present condition. There is no proof that the virus can be transmitted through breastfeeding. But we do not wish to take any chance.” The Sassoon hospital authorities said they have prepared a dedicated protocol for taking care of Covid-19 infected pregnant women. “We have a separate strategy for treating such patient and have doctors and nurses capable of handling such cases,” said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-ve-woman-delivers-boy-in-hosp/articleshow/75240601.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||NGO donates 40,000 kg sweet lime||AURANGABAD: After serving over three-and-a-half lakh meals to needy and frontline workers in Aurangabad in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, NGO Annamrita Foundation has now stepped up its Annamrita Karuna campaign by serving sweet lime to its beneficiaries along with a hot meal. Citing state health minister Rajesh Tope, Annamrita Foundation Aurangabad branch manager Sudarshan Potbhare said that being a good source of vitamin C, people should consume sweet lime to boost their immunity. “Keeping this in mind and the woes of farmers who are unable to find buyers for their sweet lime produce, we have decided to procure 40,000 kg sweet lime and give it to the needy along with meal boxes,” Potbhare said. Uday Devlankar, deputy director of agriculture sector of Marathwada region, appreciated the move of the NGO calling it a relief to fruit farmers as they fetched a good price. The NGO delivers 20,000 to 25,000 meals a day to needy families and those providing essential services in the city. The campaign Annamrita Karuna is supported by Bajaj Auto, Skoda Auto and Ajeet Seeds. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh visited Annamrita’s meal preparation plant on Sunday and said that such a model should be replicated across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngo-donates-40000-kg-sweet-lime/articleshow/75239606.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Eight Ahmednagar patients recover, 14 more under treatment||NASHIK: A total of eight male patients of Ahmednagar district have recovered from the Covid-19 infection, as their swab tests were reported negative. All of them were discharged from the Evangeline Booth hospital on Sunday evening. Ahmednagar civil surgeon Pradip Murambikar said that none of these patients required any ventilator support during their stay in the hospital. “We were given hydroxychloroquine and Tamiflu initially. Later they were given multivitamins,” Murambikar told TOI. All the recovered male patients hailed from Jamkhed and Sangamner talukas of the district. “As a precautionary measure all these discharged patients would be kept in an institutional quarantine of the talukas for two weeks, before they can go home,” added Ahmednagar district officials. They said that these eight patients got the infection after coming into contact with the Tablighi Jammat attendees, who were staying in mosques in those talukas. Six of the Jammat participants were infected with the novel coronavirus. With the discharge of these eight patients, the total number of cured patients in Ahmednagar district has now gone up to 12. There are 14 more patients, who are still under treatment. Two patients, including a female, have succumbed to the infection so far in the district.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-ahmednagar-patients-recover-14-more-under-treatment/articleshow/75240268.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||GRP constable second cop to get infected in Vadodara||VADODARA: A constable of government railway police (GRP) tested positive for coronavirus in Vadodara on Sunday. The 49-year-old cop Sanjay Parekh is a resident of Aamli Falia which is located in the red zone area of Nagarwada. “We had asked him not to come to work since Nagarwada was declared a red zone area around 10 days back,” said the superintendent of Western Railway (Vadodara) police, Nilesh Jajadia. Jajadia further said that as Parekh had contracted the virus in his residential area, the other staffers of the department are safe. “His house is located near a fair price shop from where many people have been affected and so, there is a suspicion that he too may have been infected there,” Jajadia said. Another cop of the department who lives in Nagarwada area have also been asked to stay back at home. “The area was declared as a red zone on April 8 and immediately we asked them not to report for duty as the red zone rules apply to them as well,” Jajadia added. Police sources said that Parekh was working at the headquarters of Western Railway (Vadodara) police near the collectorate. Parekh is the second cop to be infected of coronavirus in Vadodara district. Earlier last week, a head constable of Dabhoi police station had tested positive due to which four other cops were also home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/grp-constable-second-cop-to-get-infected-in-district/articleshow/75239283.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 50 Niloufer Hospital staff quarantined||HYDERABAD: After a two-month-old baby tested positive for Covid-19 at Niloufer Hospital, 50 medical staff were asked to go into quarantine. The superintendent of the hospital has issued a circular asking the medical staff who were on duty on April 16 and 17 to quarantine themselves. However, a few hours after the circular, hospital authorities issued a second circular stating that the hospital staff has been asked to stay in quarantine as part of the regular roster system. The circular also stated there were no cases of Covid-19 in the hospital. Currently all hospitals in the state have been asked to follow a system, wherein medical staff have to quarantine themselves for five days after 10-day working period. The two-month-old baby from Mahbubnagar had tested positive for coronavirus on April 17. The baby was admitted to Niloufer hospital with respiratory issues. The infant’s parents were daily-wage workers. Sources at the hospital said that nearly 50 medical personnel, including doctors, have been placed under quarantine. However, the hospital management stated in its second circular that the staff was being quarantined as part of routine orders and that all members worked with masks as well as personal protection equipment. In the current scenario, doctors at the hospital said that it was important to limit the number of family members accompanying pregnant women. “There has to be some restriction on the number as we would not know who the silent carriers of the virus could be,” a doctor said. A debate regarding number of quarantine days for medical staff has gained traction among members of the health community. Many want a 14-day quarantine and a 7-day work system followed in states like Uttar Pradesh, compared to the 5-day quarantine practised here. In another instance, a nurse was admitted to King Koti hospital after her test results came up positive for Covid-19 at Nims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-niloufer-staff-quarantined/articleshow/75240281.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Conduct entrance tests through NTA, say UoH students||Hyderabad: Questioning the University of Hyderabad’s proposal to look at private players to conduct its entrance test, students of the varsity approached Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and demanded that the ministry bring entrance examinations of all central universities under National Testing Agency (NTA) At a time when other universities like Delhi University are conducting their entrance examinations through NTA, which has the required expertise in conducting online tests, UoH students said that universities should not be encouraged to conduct entrance exams through private platforms. “When there is a government agency available to conduct online entrance examination what is the need to look at private players. As NTA has been successfully conducting entrance tests such as Joint Entrance Examination and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for which lakhs of students appear every year, MHRD should direct all central universities to use their services,” said Gowd Kiran Kumar, coordinator, Youth for Inclusive and Sustainable Society (YISS), UoH. YISS has sent a mail on this issue along with others related to online classes to MHRD. They said that a government agency would be more secure and could handle the test better without any glitches. Students said that the varsity, which has released exam notification in the first week of March, should postpone the entrance test until normalcy returns in the country. The varsity officials, meanwhile, said that they haven’t zeroed in on any firm yet and added that a committee has been constituted to look into the issue. “This is the first time UoH will be conducting its entrance test online. So, the varsity formed a committee and is looking at all available options, both government and private. Based on the committee’s recommendations and approval of the vice-chancellor, a firm will be selected to conduct the online test,” said Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson, UoH adding that the committee has to first satisfy itself that the online computer-based examination is fully secure. The varsity was scheduled to conduct the entrance test on June 1. However, due to the prevailing situation in the country due to spread of coronavirus, varsity postponed the exam indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/conduct-entrance-tests-through-nta-say-uoh-students/articleshow/75240271.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Pune construction site supervisor feeds 2,000 workers everyday||PUNE: Mukesh Waghmare was concerned about the plight of construction workers, who were left with limited supplies, when the lockdown began in March. Being a man of action, he decided to procure food from a local gurdwara and bring it to the labourers living in camps in Kharadi. Waghmare, who used to work as a site supervisor with a private construction company, asked a friend to lend him his tempo traveller to carry the food. The serpentine queue before the vehicle made him realize that the food he brought would not be enough. From helping feed 200 people initially, Waghmare now carries food for 2,000 people in three tempos. “Yet, it is not enough,” said Waghmare. “They already live in cramped tin sheds. The lockdown has left them without food or money. I wanted to do something but cooking food for so many people was not possible at home. So we sought help from the local gurdwara and made some food at home. When we reached Kharadi with the food, the container was empty within minutes,” said Waghmare. Veenni Kaur (37), who works with a travel company, soon pitched in to bolster the meagre food supply. Juggling housework and her job, Kaur also found time to cook 10kg food every day. “I used to help out through the gurdwara but since that stopped I started helping out on my own. I cook either dal-rice, or khichdi or pulav. I was paying through my own pocket for all supplies and LPG but now some of my friends have promised to help buy groceries,” said Kaur. Waghmare’s extended family is not quite keen on him continuing the social work. “They say I must first save myself, then save the world. They worry that I will get infected if I keep stepping out of the house but I cannot stop now,” he explained. “All the help pouring in is just not enough. Wherever we go, there are needy people. The people living in slums, who are daily wage labourers, are fighting hard to survive. Then there are homeless people, people living in cramped rented spaces, all of them require money. Hence if we can provide even one meal a day, then they have one less thing to worry about,” added Waghmare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-site-supervisor-feeds-2k-workers-everyday/articleshow/75240605.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Farmers hope to resume work from Tuesday in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The easing of select economic activities post April 20 is likely provide some much-needed breather to farmers in Visakhapatnam district. The growing demand for fresh vegetables and non-availability of local stock due to various reasons have forced authorities to import stocks from other districts of the state and other states. However, sources in the horticulture department said that plans are afoot to help local farmers grow fresh vegetables in the upland orchard zone of the district. “The upland area of the district is a horticulture zone. Much of the losses due to coronavirus were registered in these areas. Much of it is under orchards and a majority of the farmers suffered losses due to the virus threat,” K Sailaja, assistant director of horticulture, stated. Officials said many small farmers are keen to cultivate quick-growing vegetables such as gourd to meet the demand in local markets. They see the relaxation as an opportunity to make up for their main crop losses. P Kami Raju, a farmer from Kondalgraharam in Narsipatnam division, said they need to save some money for kharif season. “Vegetables grow quickly and can be sold in local markets. We need to make up for the losses and make some money for the kharif season. We have approached the authorities and they are keen on helping us,” he said. Though this might benefit a lot of small farmers, particularly those who work on their own fields, for the big farmers the big hurdle remains unaddressed — how to get labour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/farmers-hope-to-resume-work-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75239614.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 20, 2020||Kozhikode||Track biodiversity from home, bond with nature||Kozhikode: The Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSSB) has rolled out biodiversity inventorying programme by inviting photo inventory from people on floral and faunal biodiversity in their homesteads. The collected entries along with traditional knowledge associated with them will be included in the People’s Biodiversity Register (PBRs) prepared by the three tier local bodies.KSBB chairman S C Joshi said studies on homestead biodiversity are scarce in the state and the idea of the programme was for people to establish meaningful connections with nature in their immediate surrounding and help document biodiversity in their homesteads.“We hope people will use this time to explore biodiversity within their houses and in their homesteads. We will be giving away prizes to three entries from each district based on their biodiversity value,” he said, adding that it will also be a learning experience for students and the entries of students would be included in the Children’s Biodiversity Register, apart from PBRs.Environmentalists say that there are more chances for sighting of various animals, birds and insects in the homesteads during lockdown as it has brought down the habitat level disturbance like sound and human presence.“Homesteads harbour amazing biodiversity including various trees, shrubs, herbs, climbers, ferns and algae. Also, there are many forms of insects, bees, butterflies, odonates, insects and small mammals. We expect people, including students, to take photographs of biodiversity in the homesteads and send the entries to the board,” V Balakrishnan, member secretary of KSBB, said.The last date of receipt of the photo inventories is May 15. The entries along with brief description of the species should be sent to: ksbbentries2020@gmail.com. Balakrishnan said that photo inventory should be made within the homestead only, adhering to the directives issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/track-biodiversity-from-home-bond-with-nature/articleshow/75238544.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Three deaths, eight more cases in Malegaon, district tally 101||NASHIK: As many as three deaths and eight new positive cases were reported from Malegaon in the past 24 hours — between Saturday and Sunday — taking the total number of positive cases in the district beyond the 100-mark and the death tally to six. According to sources, “The throat swab samples of the eight patients were sent to the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in Dhule and the reports came out as positive on Sunday evening. With this the total number of positive cases in Malegaon has reached to 85. All these patients have now been moved to the isolation ward of the Malegaon sub-civil hospital.” Despite the number of Covid-19 patients in Nashik district touching 101, around 80% of the district is still corona-free, district collector Suraj Mandhare informed on Sunday. “While the number of positive cases are very high, most of these cases are in Malegaon town, which is very congested and has a population of around 7 lakh. There are few cases in other talukas, but even today 11 out of 15 talukas are free from Covid-19," he said. “The lockdown and institutional quarantine facilities in Malegaon have done the trick and the district was able to control the rampant growth of people affected by Covid-19, especially the carriers,” he added. Being asked about the limited opening up of economic activities in the district, the collector has appealed to the people to ensure that they stick to the rules of lockdown and social distancing. "Industries, only with prior permission and adhering to sanitization norm, will be allowed to function. They will also have to take care of the transportation of the employees and the vehicle used for transportation will have to be sanitised after every trip,”Mandhare said. The collector has also warned that ease on lockdown does not mean that people can now freely move across the city and travel restrictions are still in place. "All factory owners will also have to ensure the workforce remains safe as any detection of Covid-19 case would result in sealing of around 3-sqkm radius area with the factory at the centre. This could bring in more trouble as all the permissions granted would be withdrawn," he said. It should be noted that the second throat swab sample of a Covid-19 positive patient in Nashik city also came out as negative. Following this the patient will be discharged soon. One patient has already recovered and discharged from the hospital in Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-deaths-8-more-cases-in-malegaon-district-tally-101/articleshow/75240274.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 20, 2020||Surat||Surat’s man-made fabric sector to open after May 3||SURAT: While some industries in south Gujarat may resume manufacturing activities with the Central government giving partial relaxation starting April 20, the units in country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) centre in Surat will continue to remain under lockodown till May 3. The powerloom weaving and textile processing units located outside the city limits have unanimously decided to continue with the shutdown till May 3. Reason: the textile markets, key component in the entire value chain, are located in the coronavirus hotspot areas including Ring Road, Salabatpura, Saroli and Sahara Darwaja, and won’t get permission to start operations soon. Out of the total 6.5 lakh powerloom machines in the city, about 3.5 lakh are installed outside the city limits at Palsana, Kadodara, Sachin, Kim-Pipodara, Sayan, Laskana etc. Even majority of the textile processing units are in the outskirts like Palsana, Sachin and Jolva. None of the weaving or textile processing units have come forward with the application to the district administration to resume manufacturing activity from April 20. “We have about 2,000 powerloom units at the Anjani industrial estate on Sayan-Hazira road and not a single weaver has sent us the application for resuming operations,” said Vijay Mangukiya, president of Anjani Industrial Estate. “The weaving sector will remain shut until the textile markets, which are in the coronavirus hotspots, are not made operational.” President of South Gujarat Textile Processors Association (SGTPA), Jitendra Vakharia said, “Even if the textile processors wish to start their units, they can’t do it. Processors get their job work from the textile traders. On the other hand, the migrant workers want to go back to their native and they are not in the mood to work.” “The sanitisation, insurance and other guidelines issued by the government are stringent and can’t be followed in the unorganised textile sector. Without the textile markets, powerloom units can’t operate. However, the powerloom weavers in Sachin GIDC decided unanimously to start operations after May 3,” said Mahendra Ramoliya, chairman of Sachin GIDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-man-made-fabric-sector-to-open-after-may-3/articleshow/75239631.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Rowdy-sheeter assaulted||Mangaluru: A rowdy-sheeter was allegedly assaulted by five people near Thannirbavi on Friday. Dheeraj Poojary, who is a prime accused in the murder of Shivaraj, got injured in the attack. Police said that he was assaulted at his home. However, he has not sustained any major injuries. All the five attackers fled from the spot. A case has been registered at the Mangaluru North police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rowdy-sheeter-assaulted/articleshow/75237768.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||75 lakh masks to be distributed in Vizianagaram||VIZIANAGARAM: A day after the district administration announced its target to produce three lakh cloth masks with the help of self-help groups, officials are gearing up to distribute 75 lakh masks across Vizianagaram. The masks will be distributed for free with coordination of MEPMA and District Rural Development Agencies (DRDAs). Officials pointed out that these masks can be used multiple times and washed in hot water. “We are involving all people who can help us in this cause and people who already have sewing machines are being approached to help us in meeting the target,” said district collector M Hari Jawhar Lal. The collector said that district sainik welfare officer M Krishna Rao had been appointed as the nodal officer to supervise the production and distribution of masks. He further added that Krishna Rao has been empowered to make sure that the manufactured masks meet the prescribed medical standards apart from ensuring that they reach all people in need. Regarding the distribution of masks, the Jawhar Lal noted that it will be done through the secretariat staff both in villages and urban areas and added that priority will be given to hotspots. He pointed out that free distribution is being taken up to ensure that all people have access to protective gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/75-lakh-masks-to-be-distributed-in-vzm/articleshow/75239623.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Wildlife photographer in Aurangabad feeds and provides water to animals||AURANGABAD: City-based wildlife photographer Baiju Patil has emerged as a good samaritan for birds and animals in city by providing food and water to them. Patil says that he has observed that birds and animals in the city are greatly dependant on humans for food. However, the lockdown has deprived them of it. Therefore, the photographer decided to jump in to the aid of these creatures by providing them with food. International and national award winning photographer Patil has been engaged in wildlife photography for the last 15-20 years and has been studying animal behaviour. “During my photography endeavours, I had to wait for hours to get the right shot and in that process I learnt the behavioural patterns of the animals and birds,” Patil said. As schools and colleges were declared shut as a Covid-19 preventive measure in March, Patil noticed an unusual behaviour of birds at the SB College and SB School ground in front of his house in Aurangpura. “The birds would start making loud chirping noise at around noon at the campus. On closely observing them, I realised that started chirping at the time when the students would break for lunch. On regular school days, these birds would feed on the food dropping from their tiffin boxes like roti, rice or pickle. However, as the schools were suddenly shut they were deprived of their bread. So, I decided to feed the birds and animals like squirrels and dogs, who depend on humans for their food, during the lockdown,” Patil said. Patil now packs five to six fruits, peanuts, rice and sugar daily and gives it to birds at the empty school ground in front of his house. He has also taken up initiative to tend to birds and animals at Siddharth Garden, Himayat Bagh and Salim Ali Sarovar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/wildlife-photographer-feeds-and-provides-water-to-animals/articleshow/75239641.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Hosp accountant held for stealing, Rs 3.5L recovered||Hubballi: The Sub-Urban police have arrested a man for stealing money, and recovered Rs 3.5 lakh from the accused. The accused is Shivangouda Ishwargouda Balappagoudar of Noolvi village. The accused used to work as junior accountant at Radon Cancer Centre. According to the police, the accused had told them that he was on his way to deposit the money collected by the hospital, on Thursday afternoon, and that while he was on his motorbike, a few miscreants who were wearing masks, waylaid him near the KIMS hospital back gate, and made him unconscious by throwing a liquid at him. The police began their investigation after registering the case, but were not convinced by his story, and summoned him to the station. While being interrogated, he confessed that he had stolen the money, and admitted that he lied to the police, and tried to mislead the investigation. The police said that they have recovered all the money intact, which he hid in house in Noolvi. Sub Urban Inspector S K Holeyannavar and his team solved the case within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hosp-accountant-held-for-stealing-rs-3-5l-recovered/articleshow/75238564.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tribals use time in lockdown to stock up on forest produce||AMRABAD: While the lockdown has adversely impacted jobs and businesses of many, the tribals have found a way out to keep themselves engaged even during this period of distress. The tribal population of Amrabad in Nallamala forest is utilising the excess time to collect forest produce such as Mahua (ippa) flowers, Tendu (beedi), Madipi ginjalu (seeds of Sal tree), Nannari root etc. They plan is to sell these popular products once the lockdown ends in May. Speaking to TOI, Chigurla Mallikarjun, a resident of Sarlapally hamlet said, “Even though we cannot go out of the forest until the lockdown is lifted, the tribal communities here are keeping themselves busy by collecting Mahua, Nannari and other forest produce every day. These products can be sold either to the Gramina Co-operative Corporation (GCC) or in the open market once normalcy returns”. Another resident of the tribal community, Chenchu Lingaiah, said they are not affected much by the lockdown. “Even otherwise we do not have much to do after the lockdown. Every year during this period we usually collect minor forest produce. Even now we are are doing the same, collecting Mahua, Nannari and other products,” Lingaiah said. When asked about social distancing, Lingaiah said, “Each hamlet is located at a distance of two kilometers from each other, so people cannot comein contact with each other. Also, there are no weekly gatherings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribals-use-time-in-lockdown-to-stock-up-on-forest-produce/articleshow/75240275.cms||Moulika.KV
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Industries set to open today, may take time to regularise production||NASHIK: With the government providing some relaxation for the industrial sector, many establishments in the rural areas are set to begin operations from Monday. However, it may take a few days or even weeks for the industries to start full-fledged operations. Some industries are yet to complete formal procedures like taking permission from different authorities. An official from one of the largest companies in Sinnar said, “We are yet to complete procedures like taking permission from MIDC, police, RTO, etc. It might take a day or two to complete the formalities.” “MIDC has started a web portal where in industries wanting to start operations can upload a self-declaration form. The industries will have to make transport and accommodation arrangements for the workers. Around 1,500 industrial units may start operations. The picture will get clearer by Monday,” said Nitin Gavli, MIDC regional officer, Nashik region. A senior official of a company based out of Igatpuri said, “We have no issue in arranging the transport for our workers as 90% of them stay in colonies adjacent to our plant. However, it is the furnace that will take two to three days to get fully ignited. Our operations will begin only after the furnace is fully ignited.” “Our pharma division has already started operating following permission from the district collector. Now, we are planning to start operations at our polyester & polypropylene film manufacturing unit,” added the official. Many industries in the rural areas are involved in the supply of spare parts to automobile industries. “The district is the base for auto and electric ancillary units. The automobile industry is already going through a bad phase and the situation is likely to get worse due to the lockdown. Hence, many ancillary units have adopted a wait-and-watch policy,” said an industrialist who runs a unit of spare parts 20km from Nashik city. Some industries are planning to dispatch their finished products—an activity that was put on hold due to the imposition of the lockdown. A few others involved in the production of travel-related products have decided to wait as there might not be enough takers for their goods. “We manufacture various types of luggage bags for tourists. We have no plans of starting manufacturing right now as the tourism sector is badly affected and even flights are grounded. We have decided to wait for a few weeks before starting operations,” said the chief of a plant who runs a luggage production unit 25km from Nashik city. “We had also started expanding the production capacity of our existing plant with a fresh investment of Rs 50 crore. We had also constructed the building but the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 has put a stop on our expansion plans,” said the plant head. “Half of the units in the district are located out of municipal limits. Hence, there is scope for many industrial units in the rural areas to start operations. These units are following the procedure of taking permission from various authorities before starting operations,” said Shashikant Jadhav, president of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industries-set-to-open-today-may-take-time-to-regularise-production/articleshow/75240279.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 20, 2020||Goa||At Rs 125/kg, cashew farmers in Sattari say govt can do better||VALPOI: Spread across the hills of each village in this taluka, Sattari is famous for its cashew plantations. Sattari’s reliance on cashews and nuts is best displayed by the statue of three cashew seeds at the main Hath-wada junction here. This year, cashews are unlikely to bring any joy to Sattari. With the national lockdown extended till May 3 and the state government offering little for produce, villagers are now staring at a bleak summer. Starting Monday, the cooperative societies will open and purchase nuts from farmers. Currently, only Bagayatdar buy the raw nuts for Rs 105 per kg. The government announced on Sunday that they will increase the support price of cashew nuts to Rs 125. That, however, doesn’t please the farmers with other states offering a much higher price, they say. “A few days ago, we met agriculture minister and deputy chief minister Babu (Chandrakant) Kavlekar and explained our problems. We told the minister to increase the price of raw cashew nuts from Rs 105 to Rs 170 or Rs 200,” said Shivaji Desai, who has cashew plantations. Desai also demanded a ban on import of cashew nuts from other countries this season so that local farmers can sell their produce for a good price. This is peak harvesting season for the cashew nut industry, but the lockdown means farmers are unable to carry out operations due to shortage of farm labour. “You cannot imagine our life without cashew business since 90% of us (in Sattari) depend on this. The situation will worsen if farmers don’t get proper rate,” said farmer Ranjit Rane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-rs-125/kg-cashew-farmers-in-sattari-say-govt-can-do-better/articleshow/75240609.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kozhikode||Tata hospital to be ready soon||Kannur: Covid-19, which shattered the world in every respect, was a blessing in disguise for Kasaragod, which first made news for being the worst affected ‘hotspot’ and then as the first district in the country to have over 100 patients discharged in a few days. Now, the healthcare sector in the district has considerably improved and the district is set to have one of the biggest hospitals in the region, as Tata Group has come forward to set up a hospital there using its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund. Though the hospital project was announced in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, the hospital has more to do with the overall healthcare sector of the district, which was one of the most backward ones in healthcare till a few weeks back. The hospital coming up at Thekkil in Chemmanad will have 540 beds, isolations wards, ICU and other facilities, and the building would be constructed using pre-fabricated construction technology. Though the project was announced in the wake of the Covid-19 scenario, it is not a Covid hospital, and the hospital would be a permanent one, said the officials. The prefab technology has a guaranteed life of 30 years, they said. “We are sure this hospital would change the healthcare scenario in the district, because this would be the biggest hospital here, and we would be able to address the problems associated with the dependence on Mangaluru hospitals,” he said. Though the government gave two months’ time when the hospital project was announced in the first week of April, the plan is to complete it before that, said the collector. Once the earth work is completed the land would be handed over to Tata, which would start the construction work, said the officials. After the lockdown was announced, Karnataka had blocked entry for the patients from Kasaragod to Mangaluru, the city they depend on for healthcare needs. Though Karnataka later opened the border conditionally, after a few deaths were reported and the Supreme Court intervened, the issues still persist and the improved hospital facility is expected to address them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tata-hospital-to-be-ready-soon/articleshow/75238563.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 20, 2020||Pune||Grounded at Sarasbaug for more than three weeks||PUNE: Shivappa Gaud moved to Pune from his village in Gadag district, Karnataka, five years ago in search of a livelihood. For over three weeks, however, he has had no option but to beg for survival due to the lockdown imposed to deal with the spread of coronavirus. Gaud has been living on the footpath at Sarasbaug and surviving on food packets donated by good Samaritans. “The people here are very kind,” he said, expressing a deep sense of gratitude. The 57-year-old was left jobless when the construction site, where he worked, closed down. Gaud says he was worried about his family’s safety after the number of Covid-19 cases increased so he decided to head back to his village to be with his two sons and a daughter. He tucked all his belongings in a tarpaulin bag and reached Swargate bus station. “When I decided to return to my village, I vacated my hut and reached Swargate from where buses to my village depart. However, I could not board any bus and found myself stranded here without a shelter after the shutdown was imposed.” To add to his woes, Gaud lost contact with his children because he could not recharge his mobile plan once the shops shut too. “My wife has passed away. I have no education and we do not own any land in the village. I moved to Pune because I would be able to find some job here,” Gaud shared. Earlier, he would find odd jobs as a construction labourer in Katraj and earn about Rs500, per day. “I also found a hut in a slum in the area and bought a mobile phone so that I could stay in touch with my children back home,” Gaud said. He has been living on the footpath in Sarasbaug and is now entirely out of funds. “Thankfully, people here offer me food. The police too do not object to me living at the bus stop. But I have not been able to take a bath for over three weeks. I came here to work and got reduced to being a beggar. I wish God shows some mercy so that I can return home and reunite with my children,” Gaud said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/labourer-from-ktaka-stranded-on-pavement-near-sarasbaug-for-more-than-three-weeks/articleshow/75240607.cms||Shyam Sonar
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||Warm welcome for some, social stigma for others: Covid-19 survivors||BHOPAL: They have emerged triumphant after defeating Covid-19, but the battle is far from over for them. The patients who have recovered from the infection, are now battling social fears. One of the 30 people who recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from hospital on April 18, said, “There were mix reactions when I went to hospital after testing. Even when I recovered and returned home, some people were and are helpful. However, some are and were too scared. When I went to the hospital, the availability of newspaper to milk, became an issue. This thing needs to be addressed. Corona is an infection, anyone can get infected like me. In such a scenario we humans should help each other. I want to urge people that co-operation should be ensured under all circumstances, if nothing then moral support is also a great help”. “I live with my wife and a seven months old child on seventh floor of an apartment. Now, even if my wife used to go downstairs for picking up milk packets or newspaper, people used to get scared and start calling on helpline numbers saying that my family members are roaming, it was not roaming, however there are few who were too helpful,” he said. “During the entire period at hospital, I used to think about my toddler, and it gave me courage that I have to get well soon and return home to play with the kid,” he added. Another public health professional who was also among those discharged on Saturday, said, “I was a bit tensed in the beginning but slowly and steadily when treatment started things started becoming better. There is nothing except courage. I felt that either the disease will take over me or let me take over it, so I thought of giving it a fight. There is nothing to be scared of.” Similar sentiments were expressed by another patient. Talking to TOI, he said, “Doctors took very good care, they served us a lot. My wife had gone to her mother’s house, daughter is here, but we are taking precaution in home too. I got my daughter also tested for corona. Neighbours are keeping distance. Take precautions and pray to god that our country gets rid of this disease. A lot of people are trapped, troubled, especially daily wagers who used to earn their bread daily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-recovered-patients-of-bhopal/articleshow/75240284.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Delhi||Docs write to Harsh Vardhan after AIIMS colleague attempts suicide||New Delhi: The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) wrote to union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday about the administration’s “inaction” on the alleged harassment of a resident doctor on the basis of caste and gender by the faculty at the premier hospital. The female doctor attempted suicide on Friday, one of her colleagues at AIIMS claimed. “We would like to bring to your kind notice a serious event of caste and gender based discrimination of a senior resident of CDER, AIIMS. The Resident has made repeated appeals to the Department, the Director and also has been represented through RDA, AIIMS to the administration. Despite multiple letters (on three different dates), there has been no adequate action to address this issue of grave concern and eventually, leading the Resident to the edge, making her take the drastic step to end her life after losing the hope of justice in this prestigious institute,” the RDA’s letter stated. It added that the doctor had written to the Women’s Grievance Cell and SC-ST Welfare Cell of AIIMS as well as the National SC-ST Commission, but no appropriate action was taken. “The reluctant behaviour of the administration and the institute committee led her to take such an extreme step. We appeal to the administration and the ministries concerned to expedite the process and address this injustice at the earliest,” the letter added. According to a senior resident doctor, she tried to kill herself by taking some pills, but within hours, some of her colleagues found out about it and rushed her to the emergency department of the hospital. “The resident doctor is admitted and her condition is stable. There is no threat to her life,” said an official. She added that the hospital has set up an inquiry to look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-write-to-harsh-vardhan-after-aiims-colleague-attempts-suicide/articleshow/75240613.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Govt lecturer couple says going online is a learning experience||Bengaluru: At a flat in Vijayanagar, Bengaluru, a lecturer couple is busy at work. While Bharathi A is conducting a commerce class for her students of Government RC College, her husband, Arun Mathais, is preparing for his microbiology class for his students of Maharani’s Science College. Arun waits for Bharathi to finish her session so that he can use the laptop – it has a better camera – for his online classes. While online learning is routine for students in private colleges, their counterparts in government colleges are fast catching up. This lecturer couple can vouch for students’ enthusiasm. “Many of our students are from economically weaker families,” Arun says. “Their parents work as auto drivers or housemaids. With the lockdown, they’re left with no livelihood. Yet, they’re willing to pay for the internet and attend classes. Since many of them cannot afford more than 1GB data, they switch off the video in the app and just listen. Their enthusiasm is motivation for us.” Many lecturers in government colleges waited for the lockdown to end to resume classes, but when Arun and Bharathi realized the lockdown could get extended, they resorted to online classes. They began their classes on April 10 and 12 respectively. “Arun has an all-girl class so there is pin-drop silence during his class as students eagerly listen to him. Mine, on the other hand, is a cacophony. I have to mute the class or else I will not be able to hear myself!” says Bharathi, who uses their daughter’s white board to explain concepts. “There are connectivity issues and technical problems, yet students themselves schedule the classes, give us time slots and help me with the apps if I face difficulty. This is very encouraging for us as teachers,” she added. Arun says, “I once noticed a student sitting under a tree. When I asked her why, she said there is no network inside house and has to sit under the tree to get coverage.” Online classes register better attendance than that of physical classes, Arun admits. “Many students leave early and do not sit for the last hour. Here, the attendance is as high as 98%-100%. We would not have ventured into online learning had Covid-19 not happened and its an exprience for us too. We are now geared up for what tomorrow brings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-lecturer-couple-says-going-online-is-a-learning-experience/articleshow/75239939.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Food delivery staffer tests +ve in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 30-year-old food delivery executive from Nampally and five of his family members have tested positive for Covid-19. The authorities are now tracing the customers who received food from the executive. The delivery executive’s elder brother (36) had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz in March. The family has been put under quarantine. “Of the eight members quarantined from the family, test result for food delivery executive’s 36-year-old elder brother came positive on April 5. Later on April 7, five other family members, including the delivery executive, his mother, his two sisters-in-law and two of his nephews tested positive,” said a city police official. Two other children from the family who tested negative were recently handed over to a relative after being quarantined for 14 days. During the initial enquiry, police found out that the 36-year-old man returned from Delhi by train on March 18. While tracing the primary contacts, police identified three persons whom he had met and placed them under quarantine as well. “The contacts have not yet shown any symptoms. Their quarantine period is also over,” said a Nampally police official.  The food delivery executive told police that he has not attended his work from March 19. “As lockdown was implemented after Janata Curfew on March 22, the food delivery executive has not returned to work. We suspect that he might have delivered food to some people a day after his brother returned on March 18,” said a police officer. “Though it has been over a month since he delivered food, we are trying to trace all of his contacts, including restaurants he visited and customers he contacted, with the help of the food delivery company,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/food-delivery-staffer-tests-ve/articleshow/75240290.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown to get stricter, say Nashik police||NASHIK: With many of the industries in the rural areas opening on Monday, police said that the employees working in these establishments would have to seek police permission for travelling to their workplace. With cases of Covid-19 on the rise, barricades have been put up at most places in the city. Roads which are open for vehicular traffic are manned by the city police personnel. Only those who have the necessary permission or belong to essential services are allowed to pass. However, their identity cards are checked before the pass the check-posts. Over 90 spots across the city have been secured by police. They have also deployed volunteers at the checkposts to assist them in allowing only people falling in the essential services category to move. Commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil said, “The bandobast would continue and be tightened even further to prevent people from moving around on the pretext of work. All the subordinating officers would be briefed about the same.” Police officers said that people need not be under the impression that the rules of the lockdown have been relaxed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-to-get-stricter-say-police/articleshow/75240286.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two sarpanches booked in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Medchal police booked cases against two sarpanches on Sunday for violating lockdown norms. One of the offenders was bound over. Gowdavelli village sarpanch, K Surender, was booked along with his associates for attending a puja organised at Mysamma temple in the village.  A case was registered under sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and IPC. In another incident, Muneerabad sarpanch Ch Ganesh was booked for obstructing labourers of his village from attending work at seeds firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-sarpanches-booked-in-t/articleshow/75240289.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Chasing away bats more harmful, say wildlife scientists||Thrissur: Wild life scientists have warned against the growing tendency among people in different parts of the state to drive away bats in a misplaced attempt to stop the spread of Covid-19.They pointed out that more evidences are needed to fully establish that coronavirus was transmitted from the bats. P O Nameer of College of Forestry of Kerala Agricultural University said bats host about 50 varieties of viruses and that they would shed excessive viruses through their saliva and excreta when they are driven out from their habitat and put under stress.The press reports based on a recent paper issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research had aggravated the fears of bats, he said, adding that People from different parts of the country have been seeking assistance to drive away bats from their premises.A forest department official also conceded that individuals, groups and institutions have been approaching the department seeking steps to get rid of bats.For instance, Venginissery panchayat president had approached the forest office requesting help to drive bats away from the compound of a house at Palissery, the official said.Bat biologist Sreehari Raman said there are about 50 species of bats in Kerala, six surviving on fruits and 44 primarily feeding on insects, and that they play important role in ecological cycle.While the fruit eating bats act as seed dispersers and pollinators, the other group contribute significantly as destroyers of mosquitoes, insects and vectors. So, dislocation and destruction of bats by cutting down roosting trees, poisoning, or by other means will have far reaching consequence, said Sreehari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chasing-away-bats-more-harmful-say-wildlife-scientists/articleshow/75238587.cms||T Ramavarman
April 20, 2020||Pune||Body lies on footpath in Vishrantwadi for hours over coronavirus fears||PUNE: The body of an unidentified man lies on a footpath of Alandi Road in Vishrantwadi on late Sunday afternoon for three to four hours as people and police were fearful of Covid-19 having caused his death. Senior inspector Arun Avhad of the Vishrantwadi police told TOI, “The reason for the man’s death is yet to be ascertained. Residents in the vicinity found the body on the footpath.” “Police rushed to the spot on being informed but they didn’t have personal protection equipment (PPE), thus they stood at a distance from the body. They also called up the ambulance but it took some time for it to reach the spot,” he said. “However, the ambulance driver and other person came to the spot without PPE. We had to then call for PPE and only by the evening could we shift the body to Sassoon hospital,” he said. “The identity of the man is not known but we have taken his photographs for further probe,” he said. On Friday afternoon, the body of another unidentified man was found lying near the Maharshinagar police chowky in Gultekdi. The area is a Covid-19 hotspot and none of the policemen were willing to take the risk of touching the man. The body thus lay on the footpath for almost four hours before it was shifted to Sassoon General Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dead-body-lies-at-vishrantwadi-for-hours/articleshow/75240610.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Health department steps up vigil on vector-borne diseases||KOCHI: In an effort to check the spread of communicable diseases, the health department in the district has initiated a slew of measures for vector control. Number of fever cases reported in the district has come down to 3,081 as on April 18 from 13,500 and 12,900 in January and February, respectively. But, the number of suspected and confirmed cases of dengue has been almost the same for the past three to four months. According to health department officials, there aren’t many cases of other communicable diseases in the district. Though the number of communicable diseases reported from Kochi city is less as of now, health department is adopting stringent measures to ensure that cases don’t increase during monsoon. “We have instructed the officials to ensure fogging in areas where chances of vector borne diseases are high. In places like Varappetty where a few cases of dengue have already been reported, we have started the activities. In other areas including Kochi city, we will soon start fogging as well as awareness programmes,” said Dr Sreedevi, additional district medical officer, Ernakulam. “We will soon conduct a meeting to design a detailed plan for vector control activities in the city on Monday,” she added. Authorities will be focusing on areas where more dengue cases were reported last year. “We will be focusing on areas like Pottakkuzhi, Karukappilly, Kaloor and Gandhi Nagar where dengue cases were reported last year. We had conducted house visits to create awareness on vector control among the residents. Money plants are the common sources of vectors in more than 50% households in the city,” an official with health department said. “Cases of dengue have already been reported from Karukappilly. So, we have intensified the vector control activities in the city. The issue can be solved only if the residents keep vigil and avoid waterlogging on their premises. Stagnant water in and around the premises is breeding ground of mosquitoes,” the official said. The vector control activities will have to be carried out considering the regulations in place due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Mass programmes would be avoided as people cannot assemble in large numbers. We are exploring possibilities of using mobile apps for creating awareness. Awareness messages will be sent to WhatsApp groups in each area. On the basis of the messages, each resident should clean their premises,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-dept-steps-up-vigil-on-vector-borne-diseases/articleshow/75238602.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot units not to resume operations today||RAJKOT: The most of the industrial units on the outskirts of Rajkot city are not likely to resume operations on Monday under the relaxed lockdown norms of the central government. This is mainly because of the stringent rules laid down by the central government. As a result several issues of the industry players remained unresolved on Sunday. The industry players will be meeting district authorities on Monday to finalise the issues. Vice president of Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) Parth Ganatra said, “The representatives of all the industries and trade associations including GIDC, Rajkot Builder Association will meet collector tomorrow (Monday) to finalize the plan. There are many hurdles that need to be resolved so that factories can resume work.” The industrial estates outside Rajkot like Metoda, Shapar, Kuvadva, Jetpur sari industry and Dhoraji’s waste paper industry, are waiting approval on their applications from district committee. Paresh Vasani, president of Rajkot Engineering Association said, “The various associations will be helping the district administration to finalize the modality to start operations.” The other problem faced by the manufacturing units is that of labour. Many of the migrant labourers have left the city while others are waiting for lockdown to get over so that they can return to their native. President of Rajkot Builders Association Paresh Gajera said, “There is no clarity about the construction industry in the guidelines. We are also facing shortage of labour besides raw material like cement, sand and other building materials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-units-not-to-resume-ops-today/articleshow/75239666.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||At 76%, Visakhapatnam tops rate of recovery among districts||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district has registered 76% recovery rate from Covid-19, the highest in AP, with 16 out of 21 patients already discharged. A few cases were confirmed on Sunday and some patients are likely to be discharged by next week. Most other districts, including those which had positive cases by March, have low recovery and discharge rate ranging between zero and 15%. Patients who have recovered so far belong to various age brackets ranging from 20 years to 75 years with co-morbidities. Nellore has just one discharge out of 67 cases, while Guntur is yet to see a discharge among its 129 cases. Kurnool too has just one discharge out of 158 cases. Other districts which have recorded higher recovery rate are Kadapa (51%) and East Godavari (33%). Doctors attribute Vizag’s success to a number of factors including early quarantine measures, proper isolation, timely detection and treatment. Speaking to TOI, AMC principal Dr P V Sudhakar said, “Though we had patients with other complexities, they were well-isolated and kept under observation in quarantine quite early. Those who tested positive were given immunity-boosting food, fluids, vitamin B and C complex apart from paracetamol in case of fever. Patients are also given counselling so that they don’t feel depressed and stop eating.” With 65 discharges out of 647 cases, AP has a recovery rate of 10% while the country has a recovery rate of 14.1% as on April 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-76-vizag-tops-rate-of-recovery-among-districts/articleshow/75239639.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Kin create ruckus in Malegaon after Covid-19 suspect dies||NASHIK: The relatives of a suspected Covid-19 patient created ruckus at the sub-civil hospital in Malegaon after the 42-year-old man died within hours of getting admitted. During the ruckus the relatives entered the quarantine facility and started banging the oxygen cylinder. They also broke the air-cooler meant for the patients. “A suspected patient was admitted to the quarantine facility on Sunday afternoon. The man died of complication while being treated. When the family was informed about the death, they went berserk,” Pankaj Ashiya, deputy collector and coordinating chief of the Emergency Operating Centre (EOC), said. The relatives also got into an altercation with the staff following which the staff threatened to go on strike. However, timely intervention of police helped in easing the tension. “There was no manhandling of the staff, but property was damaged. A case has been registered against two people, but they not been arrested yet,” additional superintendent of police Sandeep Ghuge said. Policemen have already been deployed at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kin-create-ruckus-after-covid-19-suspect-dies/articleshow/75240291.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Muslims told to stay at home during Ramzan||AURANGABAD: Religious leaders, clerics and intellectuals heading different schools of religious thoughts at the national level have come forward and unanimously asked Muslims to strictly follow social distancing norms during the upcoming holy month of Ramzan. State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday, citing that the religious clerics have already appealed to the community members to implement lockdown and social distancing orders in letter and spirit during Ramzan, said that he is hopeful of the same. Prior to the state issuing directives, religious scholars have appealed to the believers to not only offer prayers at home, but also to avoid going to markets, gathering for Iftaar parties or for prayers at home or at rooftops during the holy month of Ramzan starting in a week’s period. The religious leaders have appealed to the community members to economise their expenses and use the saved money for helping the needy and the less privileged. All India Muslim Majlis Mushaverat’s general secretary Mujtaba Farooq co-ordinated with over two dozen religious scholars from the community and issued a joint statement. He told TOI, “Islam is meant for the entire humanity and is not rigid as it gets falsely portrayed due to acts of a few people. As per Islamic law, in emergency situation like the current one, people are not only exempted from gathering for prayers but also duty -bound to prevent the spread of this disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/muslims-told-to-stay-at-home-during-ramzan/articleshow/75239685.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman in her 50s, who ‘underwent hysterectomy’, delivers baby girl||HYDERABAD: A woman in her 50s, who was not aware that she was pregnant, delivered a baby girl in the bathroom of her house in Telangana’s Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Friday. Kode Ramulamma had undergone hysterectomy and reached menopause a few years ago. Kode Ramulamma and her husband Ramulu of Anantharam village in Aswaraopet mandal are labourers. After the birth of their two girls, the woman reportedly underwent hysterectomy. Medical and health personnel at the Aswaraopet’s primary health centre (PHC) are baffled that the woman did not even know she was pregnant. Also, there was nothing indicating any changes in her appearance. An Asha worker said Ramulamma came to her on Friday morning, saying that she was having pain in the stomach. Assuming it to be a gas problem, she gave a tablet to Ramulamma. “Within sometime, I came to know that she had delivered a baby at home,” the Asha worker said. However, an auxiliary nurse midwife is surprised that Ramulamma had got pregnant again. She claimed she herself was present when Ramulamma had the hysterectomy done on her. However, doctors were unwilling to comment without knowing the full facts of the case. “The first thing that has to be done is an ultrasound and check if the woman has a uterus,” gynaecologist Dr S Shantha Kumari said. She, however, said there are very rare cases of a woman having an abdominal pregnancy where the baby grows outside the uterus. Ramulamma had gone into the bathroom and felt something moving and saw the baby coming out. A 108 ambulance was called by the health worker in the village and the mother and baby were shifted to the PHC. The baby girl weighed only 800 gm. Ideally, a newborn baby weighs around 2-2.5 kg.A staffer at the PHC said the mother was also anaemic. Her haemoglobin level was only 5.8 gm while the minimum should be 12 gm. “The baby’s weight was less because the mother did not take the necessary food and medication,” Neelima, a PHC staffer, said. The baby and the mother have been shifted to the Bhadradri area hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-in-her-50s-who-underwent-hysterectomy-delivers-baby-girl/articleshow/75240293.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh: 44 tests coronavirus positive, tally reaches 647||Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh surged to 647 after 44 persons tested positive on Sunday. Eight government employees too tested positive in Chittoor district. The state reported one more death on Sunday taking the Covid-19 toll to 17. Though Chittoor district collector announced that 11 persons including eight government staff had tested positive for the virus, the government has not yet announced it officially. There are currently 565 active cases in the state after 65 people were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-44-positive-tally-reaches-647/articleshow/75240303.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 20, 2020||Goa||DHS asks pvt clinics to start practice||Panaji: The directorate of health services (DHS) on Sunday ordered private medical practitioners and consultants to reopen their clinics with immediate effect particularly in rural areas. The order signed by director of DHS, Dr Jose D’Sa, warned that any violation of his order will be taken seriously. Most private medical practitioners in the state as well out patient departments (OPDs) of private hospitals had closed their operations after the lockdown. The closure of regular OPDs, both in the private as well as government sector, inconvenienced citizens. Government and private hospitals attended to only emergency cases. However, earlier this week, the government had ordered opening of OPDs in district hospitals and health centres. Only, regular OPDs at Goa Medical College are yet to be re-opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhs-asks-pvt-clinics-to-start-practice/articleshow/75240612.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||Modified lockdown in Rajasthan from today, follow protocol strictly, says Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday appealed to the people to “follow lockdown protocol strictly” even as limited relaxations kick in from Monday. While asking people to stay indoors, he requested religious leaders to ensure that Ramzan and Akshaya Tritiya be observed within their homes later this month. He said the “earlier decision to call 33 per cent staff on rotational basis to government offices has been kept in abeyance”. The CM also stated ‘modified lockdown’ doesn’t mean people should come out of their houses. He said only those government officials up to the level of deputy secretaries, secretaries, heads of departments and their personal staff would report for duty in the districts and at the secretariat. “Everybody knows about the significance of Ramzan and Akshaya Tritiya. It is the responsibilty of religious leaders to appeal to their communities and people to pray at home during Akshaya Tritiya and not gather at a place in large numbers during Ramzaan. Their responsibility increases in this regard. Earlier too, they supported us in all possible ways to execute the lockdown during the recently-concluded religious festivals. We will request them again. I hope the entire society will act responsibly in fighting the disease,” Gehlot said. “Self-discipline is the need of the hour and people should not give police the opportunity to take action against them. There will be no relaxations in curfew zones and hotspots,” he added. “I want to remind people that modified lockdown is by no means a relaxation. They should not have any misunderstanding about it and must follow the protocol of a lockdown. I hope by now people have understood the importance of lockdown and severity of infectious diseases and will adhere to it in future. The current rules will remain in force with limited relaxations and various conditions till May 3. Nobody should have any confusion on this. Barring people from sectors/activities which have been allowed to function, others are advised not to come out of their houses,” he said. “The earlier decision to call one-third of the officials to office has been kept in abeyance for now. We will think about that later. Until May 3, we will take decisions (to withdraw) on restrictions in a phased manner. Industrial work can resume outside Nagar Palika areas. In rural areas, construction works, industrial works and mining can start. Within the cities, only those industries will be allowed where the workers will be restricted within their premises/boundaries. If they don’t follow these norms, their permission will be withdrawn,” he added. He said that people should ensure maintaining social distancing and wear masks in ‘mandis’, shops, mining sites, industries, real estate, construction and business sites. Gehlot further said, “One doesn’t need to apply for new passes for three months. For new ones, one can apply for e-passes online. The guidelines issued by the home department on April 15 will apply during the modified lockdown.” The chief minister also said laboratories for sample collections under cooperatives departments will start to function from Monday and the sale of mustard and ‘chana’ on MSP rates would begin on May 1 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modified-lockdown-in-raj-from-today-follow-protocol-strictly-says-gehlot/articleshow/75240614.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Cybercrime: Kochi cops to raise awareness||KOCHI: With over half a dozen cybercrime cases getting reported in about a week’s time, city police are planning to strengthen awareness campaigns among people so that those staying home won’t fall for cyberfraud or fake news. According to police, two instances have been reported in the city in which fraudsters bogusly offered to deliver liquor through online delivery. In another instance, a city-based woman lost around Rs10 lakh through online fraud when she tried to place an order for grocery through a phone number found online. Earlier, a case was registered after Cyberdome traced a fake account in the name of IG and commissioner Vijay Sakhare. Deputy commissioner G Poonguzhali said that residents need to be highly cautious as there is a chance of cyber criminals taking advantage of the lockdown. “We had issued an advisory prior to the lockdown warning residents to be cautious and we are planning to give out further warning through the media and our social media handles. No bank or bureaucrat would ask for money from you. For donation, there is distress relief fund. Fraudsters may approach you and they may even tell you about your loan from a particular bank which actually exists, but never give out CVV number or PIN number or any such confidential information, no bank would ask you for that. If people notice any such activity, they can approach the commissionerate,” said DCP Poonguzhali. Officers said that they have information that the fraudster who created the account in the name of the IG was demanding money through the account. “We are tracking the fraudster’s IP address. The account has been deleted for now,” said an officer. On Saturday, city police registered an FIR after a fake Facebook account in the name of ‘Consumer Fed Foreign Liquor Shop Kochi’ was created, in an apparent bid to dupe people. A picture of the Kadavanthra Consumerfed outlet was used by the suspects on the FB page. The FB page offered round-the-clock home delivery of liquor. Police have started an investigation to find the perpetrators behind the FB page. “We tracked down a number posted by the fraudsters to dupe gullible tipplers and it seems like that number was Rajasthan based. In another instance, a case was registered by Central police after a duping occurred using the name of beverages corporation and the culprits were tracked to Uttar Pradesh. We have limitations in going to other states to track down the accused right now due to the lockdown. So it is all the more essential to be cautious,” said a senior officer, adding that there is no such facility for online delivery of liquor now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cybercrime-cops-to-raise-awareness/articleshow/75238616.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||No change, offices to open partially in Bhopal||BHOPAL: The state capital Bhopal will continue to be under complete lockdown and will have no relaxation along with Indore and Ujjain districts that have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots in the state. At a time when getting a biscuit pack to partially subside the pangs of hunger is difficult for those in office or living alone, people in Bhopal were expecting some relaxations. However , the chief minister in his address made it categorically clear that any relaxation for Bhopal could only be considered once situation is under complete control. “It was expected. In Bhopal, there doesn’t seem to be any relaxation possible. According to my information, there have been 27 Coronavirus positive patients identified in Bhopal on Sunday till afternoon. Prime minister and chief minister have been categorical in saying that there would be relaxations only at places where the situation improves,” said an official of the district administration. The district administration has already allowed the grocery shops to operate and vegetables & fruits vendors, who had “disappeared” after the complete lockdown was enforced in Bhopal are also back onto the streets, though their numbers are less. “Apki Sabji, Apke Dwar” (Your vegetables at your doorstep) scheme of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also contributed in easing the availability of vegetables in the city. “One Coronavirus patient in a colony and the whole colony is barricaded. We don’t mind sticking to restrictions but I can’t help saying, we are suffering for “deliberate” lapses on the part of people, who should have acted more responsibly”, said a resident of Kanha Kunj locality in Kolar. Tipplers should gear up for some more ‘dry days’ as the excise department decided to extend the closure of liquor and bhang vends till the lockdown period i. e. May 3. Salons, tea shops, paan shops will all be closed till May 3. The state government has not yet decided on allowing operation of industrial units in Govindpura and Mandideep but even if they are allowed to operate “Workers living in the “containment” areas won’t be allowed to go for work”, said the spokesperson for district administration, Arun Rathore. Confusion prevailed whether offices of the state government and the Central government would open or not and if they do, how much of staff would be allowed to work in a day.  “As far as Mantralaya staff is concerned, we are hearing that the principal secretary of each department, his PA, a deputy secretary, and peons would be allowed in a day”, said an undersecretary of the state government. The office of Lok Aykta has also asked for all its staff to be present. Central government offices like the income tax department, LIC and CBI would open on Monday with limited staff and conforming to Union government’s guidelines. Only one-third staff would be present on rotation on any day in these offices. A general manager-level officer of BHEL said that the BHEL management has asked for collector’s permission to start operation of the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-change-offices-to-open-partially/articleshow/75240292.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||South Korean testing kits to reach north Andhra Pradesh soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts will receive around 15,000 rapid testing kits from South Korea in the next couple of days, said minister of roads and buildings Dharmana Krishna Das. The minister said he would hold talks with concerned departments about the allocation of rapid testing kits to north-coastal AP. The state government recently received one out of 10 lakh rapid testing kits ordered from South Korea. “The government has so far decided to send around 5,000 rapid testing kits each to Srikakulam and neighbouring districts in the first stage. Later, the government would send more rapid testing kits depending on the demand,” Krishna Das said. Though Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts have not registered any Covid-19 cases so far, the government intends to cover all suspected areas and persons using rapid testing kits that give results within 10 minutes, the minister added. The minister further said Andhra Pradesh stands second in the country in successfully conducting tests. “Earlier, Andhra Pradesh was in fourth place in screening the suspected cases, now it is in second place. We will make the state top in the country in successfully screening cases and covering all areas across the 13 districts,” Krishna Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/s-korean-testing-kits-to-reach-north-ap-soon/articleshow/75239658.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||Factory owner booked for running units in Sambhal during lockdown||Bareilly: Police have registered a case against an umbrella factory owner, Amit Arora, after they found at least 45 people working in his two units amid lockdown at Chandausi in Sambhal district. Police said that acting on a tipoff, they raided the factory on Saturday.Area circle officer Ashok Kumar said that they learnt about a factory running in the area following which they reached the spot to find the information to be true.“At the warehouse of Santa mill, we found 25 people working there. From them we came to know that there was one more unit running in Kagaji locality. When we reached there, we found 20 more workers,” the CO said.Police said that all workers were examined and underwent thermal screening and all were found normal.“All workers were migrants. We instructed the owner to arrange food for them and ensure nobody could leave the area. Besides, an FIR has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC against the owner of the units,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/factory-owner-booked-for-running-units-in-sambhal-during-lockdown/articleshow/75238626.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: For this cop, it’s work first, wedding later||MANDYA/BENGALURU: The call of duty in times of Covid-19 and the consequent lockdown prompted a woman Karnataka police officer and an Indian Revenue Service officer to postpone their marriage. MJ Pruthvi, posted as a deputy superintendent of police in Mandya district and Dyamappa Airani, who works as an IRS officer in Bengaluru, were to tie the knot on April 5 in Dharwad and head out for their honeymoon by now. But once the lockdown kicked in, the duo decided to postpone their wedding. While Pruthvi hails from Mysuru, Dyamappa is from Dharwad. The two had also scheduled their wedding reception on April 10 in Mysuru. “We both had applied for 25 days of leave and it was approved too. We had paid advance for the marriage hall and invitations were sent out. However, after the lockdown was announced we decided to postpone our marriage as our presence at work was more necessary,” Pruthvi told TOI. “Once the lockdown is eased, we will reschedule our marriage,” Pruthvi, who was on duty on Sunday, added. Appreciating Pruthvi’s decision, Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh said: “She was supposed to get married on April 5 but postponed it indefinitely due to the Covid-19 outbreak and has been on active duty at Malavalli, where most infections in the district have been reported. I salute this true Corona Warrior, these are our true heroes.” Among the 12 Covid-19 positive cases reported in Mandya district, 11 are from Malavalli which has been declared a hotspot. Pruthvi said, being the DySP of Mandya, her presence on the ground is very important and she has no time to focus on other things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dysp-of-mandya-dist-puts-off-her-wedding-returns-to-work/articleshow/75240551.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||This shantytown in the heart of Bengaluru faces hunger in lockdown||BENGALURU: Around noon on Saturday, Netravathi, 33, and her dog Putta step out of their tin-shed home adjoining Thimmaiah Road in Vasanthnagar and desperately wait to spot someone bringing food. Her job is to shout aloud at any vehicle carrying rations and stop it. Hoping to hear her call behind a brown door is her entire colony of over 300 people, including children and the aged, wracked by hunger. In this shantytown located in the heart of the city, 49 families of construction workers from Raichur and Kalaburagi districts have been struggling to get a decent meal for days together during the lockdown. The 12-year-old settlement is hardly a kilometre from the state Congress headquarters on Queen’s Road. “We are all construction workers from parts of Raichur and Kalaburagi districts. The lockdown has left us with no money or ration and we have been reduced to beggars seeking food,” laments Basavaraj, a mason from Manvi taluk. A few days after the lockdown was enforced, most of these hunger-struck residents tried to head back to their hometowns and villages in tractors. “We managed to go only till Nelamangala where police stopped us midnight and forced us to turn back,” Amera Gowda, who drove one of the tractors, recalls. The food spotter A dark brown main door on Thimmaiah Road opens into a dingy line of single-room tenements made of rusting tin sheets and pinned to each other, where workers live in pathetic conditions. Not too long ago, they earned a living from construction work across Bengaluru. But the lockdown has confined them to their colony with the only hope to fill their stomachs being some social organisations or state workers, which is a rarity, turning up at their doorstep with food or rations. It was Netravathi’s turn on Saturday afternoon to spot someone coming with food and the nearly three hours that the TOI team was in the shantytown she was unable to see any vehicle. “We can’t even come out in twos and threes as police will chase us. So we take turns to stand outside and call any vehicle carrying food. A few BBMP staffers came and took our details, including Aadhaar, a few days ago. But nothing has happened. If someone can arrange rations for us, we will be grateful,” a teary-eyed Netravathi says. Only pulav on their platesSome local politicians have put in a word for food with the nearby Indira Canteen which, however, serves only pulao. Some workers manage to get palao once in a day or two and that too not for all. “Our children and the elderly are forced to eat the pulao despite the heavy masala in it. We are not in a position to complain lest we die of hunger,” says Basavamma, 66, from Chittapur. Some residents like Mallaiah, 72, who are diabetic, have no means to buy medicines. But pitiable of them all is Mehaboob, 65, from Maski taluk, who is immobile following a stroke and has gone without medicine and enough food for days. “Some ration is all we ask for,”says his wife. Ironically, these labourers are all Kannada-speaking. Their woes seem to have been compounded by the fact that they reside in the heart of the city, while most of the food distribution for migrant labourers is happening in the outer areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-shantytown-in-the-heart-of-the-city-faces-hunger/articleshow/75240545.cms||Petlee Peter
April 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Most educational institutes to remain closed||PANAJI: With no clear instructions from the directorate of education for school staff to report to work, only a handful of institutes asked its teachers and other staffers to attend work from Monday. Schools are expecting new instructions to come from DoE on Monday. The directorate of higher education, on the other hand, asked only non-teaching staff and principals of colleges to report to work from April 21. “As Goa University has already announced that exams for colleges will be scheduled in June and the vacation period for teaching staff has technically started, only non-teaching staff and principals will start coming to work from April 21,” director of higher education Prasad Lolyekar said. Goa University officials said that exams will begin only from June 1, for which the varsity is yet to draw up the schedule. But in the case of school teachers there was some confusion after few aided institutes in Vasco, Cortalim, Verna etc asked teachers to report to work from Monday. This led school heads to seek clear instructions from the DoE and a circular in this regard is expected by institutes on Monday. “The school academic year ends on April 30 so schools need to begin work at the earliest to be able to complete declaration of results and other such procedures,” said a teacher. However, many teachers, who are otherwise dependent on public transport, were worried about the practical difficulties they may encounter in reporting to work. They were of the opinion that a decision about making schools operational should come only after the lockdown period ends on May 3. “The ministry of home affairs has already said that schools need not open till May 4,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-edu-institutes-to-remain-closed/articleshow/75240634.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Private hospital occupancies shrink to 25% in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The 40-day nationwide lockdown imposed over two phases has severely shrunk the footfalls at private hospitals in Gujarat, leaving hospital managements grappling with piling overheads and little income. With negligible numbers at outside patient departments (OPDs), cancellation of elective surgeries, only emergency and trauma care services remaining operational, occupancies have drastically fallen across private hospitals, and consequently, revenues have taken a hard hit. Estimates by Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing-homes Association (AHNA) suggest that hospital occupancies have fallen to 25% across most city hospitals. As a result, handling fixed overhead costs is a major concern. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president, AHNA, said, “The occupancy at hospitals has reduced by 75%, which mainly comprise emergency patients and those critically ill. Besides, with restricted vehicular movement due to the lockdown, trauma cases have gone down too. Many a time, patients willing to come for check-up are unable to reach hospitals and thus, footfalls for OPDs also reduce. This is a major financial loss to private hospitals because their overhead costs remain the same.” “With dwindling revenues, hospitals are mulling over cost-cutting because the outlook for the year ahead does not look too bright,” said Gadhvi who is also the regional director for Gujarat at HCG Hospitals. Citing a report by FICCI, industry sources revealed that overall revenues of private hospitals will be dented because of a decline in average occupancies by 65-70%. “Operating losses for hospitals will be fairly high and since the healthcare industry operates on thin margins, we’re looking at negative or single-digit earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBIDTA) across the sector,” said a source. In fact, some believe that overhead costs will further increase with the risk of Covid transmission. “Despite limited income, hospitals will have to bear overhead costs. Even though the lockdown is lifted, the situation is not expected to improve overnight with the current trend of spike in cases. Therefore, private hospitals will have to take additional precautions and impose strictest hygiene and safety standards, by making hand sanitizers, masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) available to the staff. All this will come at added costs to the hospital management,” said Dr Vikram Shah, chairman and managing director, Shalby Hospitals. Industry players have also raised concerns over the loss in revenues that may be triggered in case there is temporary shutting down of most hospital operations in case any staffer tests Covid-positive. With looming uncertainty over the return of normalcy in public life and curbs on international travel expected to remain longer, sustaining revenues will be a challenge across private hospitals. “60-70% patients at our hospital come from outside Gujarat because access to healthcare infrastructure and high-end treatments are not easily available in every town and city of the country. With lockdown likely to be lifted in a staggered manner, inflow of patients from outside the state will reduce,” said Shah. Private hospitals are mulling over measures for cost-cutting and reducing overheads amid the impact. “Most elective surgeries have been postponed and there is little likelihood of many of them being taken up, especially from patients who are visiting from outside Ahmedabad or even Gujarat. Overheads for hospitals remain the same and as a result, cost-cutting measures are being mulled over,” said Nimisha Gandhi, chief executive officer, Sterling Hospital in Ahmedabad. Box: India’s medical tourism hub to bear the brunt of Covid pandemic Various countries across the world are battling the Covid-19 pandemic and therefore curbs on international travel are expected to remain not just in India but in other countries too. Consequently, Gujarat, which is considered to be a hub for medical tourism, is expected to see a major downfall in inflow of foreign patients. Explaining the impact, Dr Vishwadeep Goyal, COO, Apollo Hospitals , Ahmedabad, said, “The curbs on international travel are expected to remain and this will affect the hospital’s revenues in a big way. At our hospitals, at least 10% patients are foreign nationals and this source of revenue is surely taking a hit for the year.” “Behavioural changes will also impact this further because very few people will prefer to travel unless there is an acute emergency and this will only add to the impact on bigger medical centres like Ahmedabad,” he added. Box: Private hospitals anticipate decline in footfall of patients from outside Gujarat With a widespread hospital infrastructure offering high-end treatments, Gujarat happens to be a preferred centre for treatments for a large section of people from neighbouring states of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. “At least 60% of patients at our hospital come from outside the city and the state. We have also catered to patients from other Indian states. Even with district and state borders gradually opening up, the footfall from patients outside the state or even the city, will remain fairly low,” said Dr Adit Desai, managing director, KD Hospital – Ahmedabad. Industry sources revealed that most hospitals see at least 30-40% of their patient footfalls for surgeries and high-end treatments from outside Gujarat and this is likely to remain near-zero at least over the next three-four months, till the situation normalizes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-effect-private-hospital-occupancies-shrink-to-25/articleshow/75234205.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru lab develops easy-to-make, reusable ‘power’ masks||BENGALURU: A team of researchers at the Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences (CeNS) has come up with a technique for making face masks, termed Tribo E Mask, that can hold electric charges to restrict the entry of infections without any external power. The innovation by Pralay Santra, Ashutosh Singh and Prof Giridhar U Kulkarni relies on electrostatics. When two non-conducting layers are rubbed against each other, the layers develop positive and negative charges instantly and continue to hold them for some time. They have used this electric field, quite strong at proximity, to deactivate germs. “We’ve borrowed ideas from physics textbooks on triboelectricity; something kids enjoy playing with. When used in the context of a face mask, the idea can translate into a product, realisable by the end-user without the need of industry developing or manufacturing it. The mask is inexpensive and doable by anyone,” Prof. Kulkarni said. He said tests on these masks are being performed, particularly in the context of Covid-19. CeNS is funded by the department of science and technology (DST). DST secretary Prof Ashutosh Sharma said it’s interesting that several useful Covid-19 solutions have emerged by creative applications of basic principles of chemistry, physics, materials and bio-sciences, often by stitching together simple insights to provide an interdisciplinary solution. “The mask proposed here is a good example of such a creative process that adds huge value by a simple design,” he said. The mask has three layers: A layer of nylon cloth sandwiched between polypropylene layers, the latter sourced from commonly used non-woven grocery bags. In place of nylon, silk fabric from an old sari or shawl may also be cut and used. When layers are rubbed against each other, the outer layers develop negative charges, while nylon will hold positive charges. “This will act as double electric wall protection against infectious entities crossing. As the mask is made out of commonly available fabrics, it can be washed just like any other cloth and can be reused. At this stage, the mask is, however, not recommended to healthcare professionals and patients,” DST said. Face masks used by frontline healthcare professionals, which are of high technical quality, need special expertise for production, while a simple face mask that can contain the spread of the virus is advised for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-lab-develops-easy-to-make-reusable-power-masks/articleshow/75239913.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Cusat to upgrade biosafety lab for testing viruses||Kochi: Even as the government medical college has set up a biosafety lab level-II for testing swab samples for coronavirus, Cochin university of science and technology (Cusat) is exploring options to upgrade its already existing biosafety lab level-2 following a call by the department of science and technology. The biosafety laboratory under the department of biotechnology has this facility which is used by research scholars for isolating proteins and biomolecules among others. As of now, they do not work on viruses. “Dealing with live viruses means biocontrol mechanisms should be put in place. Since this is a university campus and our entire biosafety equipment have been placed on different floors, we cannot think of using this facility for virology tests,” said V Mohanan, virologist and DBT faculty, Cusat. He said the facility was incorporated for research but some infrastructural and logistic changes can be made to mould this into a biosafety laboratory level -3 or 4. “As of now, we do have a two-door entry with biosafety specifications to access the biosafety cabinet which can be used for testing viruses. However, our real-time PCR is in the upstairs and it access is through an open stairs,” he said stating the reason for Cusat not applying for a BSL testing facility licence. “In case of diagnostic facility, all these should come on the same floor. As we will be dealing with viruses, we can’t have it in open area on the campus. The entire area should come under a restricted zone where only the researchers should be allowed to enter,” he added. According to experts, BSL level-2 is sufficient for testing SARS viruses, BSL-3 for testing Nipah in bats and BSL-4 which is the highest level among testing labs can test for Nipah in humans. Cochin university vice-chancellor K N Madhusoodanan said the authorities will look at all the options for upgradation so that at least it could be readied in the near future. “Since we are a research-oriented university, it will be good to have a facility that will be one of the best in Kerala.” The biotechnology department of GoI had called for projects for developing diagnostics, vaccines, novel therapeutics, repurposing of drugs and any other intervention for control of Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-to-upgrade-biosafety-lab-for-testing-viruses/articleshow/75238636.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AMC seeks integration of telemedicine prog||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra Medical College has urged the state government to integrate the state’s telemedicine services with their system in an attempt to reach out to more people seeking medical advice. The state government had launched the YSR Telemedicine programme last week to provide out-patient services during the lockdown by making doctors available online. The programme aimed at identifying and isolating positive coronavirus (Covid-19) patients. Persons with symptoms need to give a missed call on the toll-free number 14410 following which an executive will call back and collect details of the person and a doctor will respond through video conference and prescribe medicines or tests required through SMS. Symptomatic patients will be sent to public health centres (PHCs) or hospitals for treatment. Speaking to TOI, principal of AMC Dr P V Sudhakar said, “Telemedicine services have been operational for the past four months under Ayushman Bharat. Since the number of cases is on the rise, we have requested for an integrated system so that calls from people in and around Vizag can be directed to our system.” “AMC has a team of six medical professionals for the services including a physician, paediatrician, gynaecologist and three other general medicine doctors. For Covid-19 assistance, we have made available a pulmonologist. The services are available from 8 am to 6 pm daily,” He added. This facility will help elderly people or people who are alone, Dr Sudhakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/amc-seeks-integration-of-telemedicine-prog/articleshow/75239672.cms||Reshma Jain
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 4,500 visit fever clinics, but none found Covid-19 positive||BENGALURU: Health officials on Saturday ruled out any possibility of community spread of Covid-19 in the city. Their argument: over 4,500 persons have been examined at the designated fever clinics for the related symptoms and not one has tested positive so far. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) set up fever clinic at 31 locations across the city, which were meant to be the screening points for Covid-19. Anyone with travel history or symptoms like fever, cough, sore throat and breathlessness can report to these clinics and get diagnosed. While those who don’t show any Covid-19 symptoms are sent back home with a prescription for their illness, those suspected to have contracted the infection are sent to a swab collection centre where samples are taken for testing. Since March 29, a total of 4,557 persons have been screened at the clinics. Of these, only 56 showed Covid-19 symptoms and were referred to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Victoria Hospital, Bowring Hospital and other isolation hospitals for further examination. Throat and blood samples of 15 were sent for testing. But none has tested positive. According to earlier guidelines, people visiting fever clinics were referred for further screening only if they had a travel history to any affected countries, were contacts of the infected or had symptoms of Covid-19. However, the guidelines have changed since diabetics, blood pressure patients and those with respiratory issues and senior citizens are also being referred for further tests. A fresh directive mandates health workers also be referred. Dr Nirmala Buggi, chief health officer (clinical), BBMP, said since people are panicking because of lockdown, they visit fever clinics to get themselves checked even for symptoms like cold, cough and fever. This apart, those living in areas marked as hotspots or those who have come in contact with foreign returnees have also been queuing up at such clinics. On reports that many people don’t visit fever clinics fearing they will be quarantined, Dr Buggi stated: “Doctors, nurses and other health officials are working at these fever clinics to help people. Only if a person shows symptoms will s/he be sent to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4500-visit-fever-clinics-but-none-found-positive/articleshow/75240560.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Dhule admin seeks infomation on people who crossed border||NASHIK: The Dhule district administration is taking several measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the region, one of them being seeking details of those who have crossed the borders or entered the district after April 1. The administration said that patients from Sendhawa in Madhya Pradesh come to the Shree Bhausaheb Hiray Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for treatment. The move is to ensure that there is no further rise in the number of novel coronavirus cases in the region. Dhule district has registered two Covid-19 positive cases so far. Both the patients — one from Sakri and the other from Malegaon city, have succumbed to the infection. As of now, there is no active Covid-19 case since April 11. The relatives of the deceased were also screened and their throat swab samples were also tested, the results of which turned out negative. However, the areas around the houses of the deceased are under ‘containment’ and the daily exercise of screening the health of the people, sanitising the area, barring the movement of any person in or out of the buffer areas is in force. Collector of Dhule Sanjay Yadav said that all those who have entered Dhule since April 1 must register themselves online so that all the medical attention can be focused on them to ensure early detection of the infection (if any) and thus contain the spread of the same. “It is imperative that the detection of the disease be done in the early stage to reduce the spread of the disease and to treat the patient at the earliest so that further spread can be contained,” the collector said. Yadav has, therefore, appealed to all the people coming in from Nashik, Jalgaon, Nandubar, Sendhwa in Madhya Pradesh as far as adjacent districts is concerned, any of the coronavirus-affected districts including Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai to fill in the forms. The district administration has prepared different forms for every taluka. People can simply call up the tahsildar offices of the respective areas to access the forms. Once a person fills the form, he/she will be registered in the database which will then be forwarded to the health teams which would take into account the need to conduct health screening, tests, home or institutional quarantine or even throat swab test of the person. “The data will help us to closely monitor the health of the people which will help us in early detection of the patients if any,” a senior officer from the administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-admin-seeks-info-on-people-who-crossed-border/articleshow/75240304.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Four hunt wild hare, fire at foresters while fleeing; booked||RAJKOT: Four hunters were booked on Saturday for shooting a wild hare and allegedly opening fire at forest officials too in the Bhuj range of forests near Abaya village of Bhuj taluka in Kutch district on Friday night. A team of four forest officers were patrolling on the outskirts of Abaya village led by Bhuj range forest officer, Vanransinh Bihol. “Suddenly we saw a beam from a torch light at a distant. Then we heard a gun shot, which confirmed the fact that there were hunters inside the forest area,” said Bihol. When the forest officials got near the spot, they silhouettes of four men in the dark, but before they could talk, the accused started pelting stones at the team. When the officials identified themselves to be from the forest department, the accused allegedly fired two rounds in the air before fleeing the spot. “We recovered the carcass of a wild hare, a bag containing bullet shrapnels and gun powder. We have booked the accused for alleged hunting of wild hare on the complaints of forester Mahesh Makwana,” said Bihoi, adding that the accused were yet to be identified. The police, are trying to trace the accused and have launched a manhunt for them, while booking them under Arms Act. “We have charged them under the Arms Act and intensified our search,” said Y P Jadeja, sub-inspector with Padhar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-hunt-wild-hare-fire-at-foresters-while-fleeing-booked/articleshow/75239689.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Waive bills of the poor: VHR||Hyderabad: All India Congress Committee secretary V Hanumanth Rao on Sunday demanded CM K Chandrasekhar Rao waive electricity and drinking water bills of the poor in view of extension of lockdown up to May 3 on humanitarian grounds. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-bills-of-the-poor-vhr/articleshow/75240305.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Shut to the world, KIA gets a spring cleaning||BENGALURU: Kempegowda International Airport’s terminal, airside and landside areas — spread over 155,000 sqm — is undergoing multiple rounds of deep cleaning and disinfection, thanks to the ban on flying of commercial passenger aircraft. Engineering and maintenance teams are utilising the lockdown period to polish floors and attend to various requirements of infrastructure upkeep. High-grade disinfectant is being sprayed every two hours across the terminal and on equipment used frequently. “This is to safeguard the health of passengers and employees as well as to ensure the highest standards of hygiene, cleanliness and sanitation are maintained before operations resume,” a spokesperson of Bangalore International Airport Limited said. On resumption of services at the airport, passengers will have access to sanitisers, placed at 500 locations at the terminal. “We will increase the frequency of misting, sanitising and deep cleaning once the airport resumes operations,” said Hari Marar, managing director and CEO of BIAL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shut-to-the-world-kia-gets-a-spring-cleaning/articleshow/75240565.cms||Swathyr Iyer
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||GMERS Hospital asked to put its house in order||VADODARA: Taking a serious note of the lapses at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri, senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao on Sunday issued a stern warning to its management and asked them put the house in order. Rao has asked the hospital management to file FIR against contractors or agencies if necessary. The hospital has been declared as Vadodara’s dedicated COVID-19 hospital. In a written directive to medical superintendent of the hospital, Rao, who has been appointed as officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in Vadodaram took note of the complaints that patients have made in the last couple of days. In his letter, Rao has stated that patients have regularly complained of hygiene and cleanliness issues, housekeeping problems apart from shortage of water at the hospital premises. “If the agencies and/ or contractors do not follow orders, action against them should be taken initiated under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act-1897 and the Indian Penal Code,” the letter states, asking the medical superintendent to present action-taken report on Monday. Rao said that the hospital’s medical superintendent was time and again asked to resolve the problems faced by patients. TOI on Sunday had reported that patients have shared plethora of problems that they have been facing at the hospital by recording videos of the condition inside the hospital premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gmers-hospital-asked-to-put-its-house-in-order/articleshow/75239305.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman kills son before hanging self in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old woman hanged herself after throttling her 11-month-old son at Kudurumalla village in Doulatabad of Vikarabad district on Saturday. The police filed a case of dowry death and abetment to suicide against her husband and in-laws. The deceased, Neeli Mallika, got married to Srinivas in Yadadrigutta against the wishes of parents. The duo were employed at Central Mall in Panjagutta here but shifted to Doulatabad after lockdown was announced. According to police, the in-laws used to harass the deceased for dowry and her husband, who is addicted to alcohol, used to abuse her. On Saturday, when her husband and father-in-law had gone out and mother-in-law was asleep, Mallika killed her son Sathvik and later hanged herself. “The incident must have occurred between 3pm and 5pm. No suicide note was found,” the police official said. Parents of the victim lodged an FIR with the police on Sunday alleging harassment from in-laws and husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-son-before-hanging-self/articleshow/75240306.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Surat||‘Give place to stay to frontline SMC workers’||SURAT: Mohan Dodhia, BJP MLA from Mahuva assembly constituency in Surat, has urged the state government to provide accommodation to frontline staff employed with Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) at their headquarters to curb spread of coronavirus in rural areas. He wrote to chief minister Vijay Rupani after a SMC safai worker from Mahuva taluka tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Vishal Patel, 25, a resident of Anaval village in Mahuva, tested positive during community sampling drive. He was travelling from his village to Surat on daily basis. Dodhia in his letter stated that people travel from Mahuva to Surat for work on daily basis as they are employed with SMC, state government departments and New Civil Hospital. For the safety of villagers and families of these workers, they should be given accommodation in the city where they work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/give-place-to-stay-to-frontline-smc-workers/articleshow/75239712.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||18 fresh Covid positive cases take Moradabad dist tally to 55||Bareilly: With 18 fresh positive cases, including six children under six years of age and four women, the Covid-19 tally in Moradabad district rose to 55 on Sunday. All the 18 people were quarantined after they came in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members a few days ago. According to district administration sources, all fresh cases were reported from hotspot areas. Expressing concern over a steep rise in the number of positive cases, the district health department warned that “the tally is set to rise in coming days if people in hotspot localities continue to defy the lockdown rules”.Among the 18 new cases, 10 are from Barvalan, three each from Mugalpura and Azadnagar, while two are from Tambakuvalan locality in Moradabad city. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said, “After the fresh list of positive cases arrived, five members of a family were tested in Barvalan and they were found to be positive. One of the family members had got infected when he came in contact with a Jammati staying at Hijra mosque in the locality and later he infected all four members of his family.” The first infected man was quarantined a week ago and after his report confirmed him to be positive for the deadly virus three days ago, following which the four members of his family were also shifted to a quarantine centre. On Sunday, they, too, tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/18-fresh-covid-positive-cases-take-moradabad-dist-tally-to-55/articleshow/75238642.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents start ‘snap’ awareness campaign||Hyderabad: Residents of Sainikpuri on Sunday launched a campaign wherein they started posting photographs with a pledge to wear a mask while going out, washing hands and legs, maintaining social distance and no morning/evening walks. Residents started posting their pictures on social media in order to create awareness among people. Wearing a mask, hand gloves and holding a poster, residents joined a larger movement of supporting coronavirus warriors. “We can contribute to the efforts of our frontline COVID warriors by just staying indoors. @greensainikpuri joining the campaign to post a snap with the pledge,” tweeted Deepa Shailender, a key member of the Green Sainikpuri group. Many residents of HMT BO Colony, SBO Colony, Vayupuri, Yapral among others joined the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-start-snap-awareness-campaign/articleshow/75240312.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Now, Aurangabad central prison opts for full lockdown||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad central prison has joined the league of jails opting for a complete lockdown to shield the inmates from getting infected with Covid-19. About 10 days back, the state prison department unanimously imposed lockdown in major prisons of Yerwada in Pune, Arthur Road and Byculla in Mumbai, apart from those situated in Thane and Kalyan. As per the latest move, the inmates and the prison authorities would compulsorily camp at the prison premises till lockdown rules are relaxed. DIG (prison) Dilip Zalke said that so far none of the prisons in the state have reported any Covid-19 positive cases. “To ensure that the infection does not penetrate our prisons, the decision has been taken.” Highly placed authorities said that the central prisons in Nashik and Aurangabad were on the watch list as both the districts housing these prisons have been marked in the red zone due to high number of Covid-19 positive cases. Starting from Sunday, a team of prison staff led by superintendent Hiralal Jadhav along with seven jailers, one senior jailer, one doctor, one compounder, four clerical staff, 45 constables and six women constables would camp within the prison premises till the relaxation of lockdown. Prison administration has stocked considerable amount of essentials including milk, vegetables, cereals and grains to sustain a fortnight. “We have even sealed the entry and exit gate so that no one enters or exits from the prisons,” said Hiralal Jadhav. Home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was in the city on Sunday, said that lockdown is being imposed all the overcrowded prisons in the state. Sources in the prison department said that of the total staff of 300, only 67 have been camped within the prison. For the remaining staff, staying at home has been made mandatory and their attendance would be recorded at least thrice a day. However, a handful prison staff will get duty at the barrack outside the main prison. This barrack has been reserved for housing those are being sentenced to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-aurangabad-central-prison-opts-for-full-lockdown/articleshow/75239708.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Five more high-risk contacts found||NASHIK: Five more high-risk contacts have been traced in the Sanjeev Nagar containment area on the Satpur-Ambad link road during the survey on Sunday. A 63-year-old woman from the area had been tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. The NMC had sealed the containment area in Sanjeev Nagar the same night. This is the fifth containment area in the city that the NMC has sealed in the past 13 days. Earlier, Govind Nagar, Rajlaxmi Lawns in Nashik Road, Anandvalli along Gangapur Road and the Nasardi bridge area on Nashik-Pune road were sealed. The civic body had been able to track down 32 high-risk contacts from the Sanjeev Nagar containment area on Thursday and Friday, including six family members of the Covid-19 patient. On Saturday, the NMC traced 15 more high-risk contacts and found five others on Sunday. They have been isolated in NMC’s Dr Zakir Hussain hospital. The total number of high-risk contacts in Sanjeev Nagar area now stands at 52, said the civic officials. Of the patient’s six family members, the throat swab samples of four had tested positive and one negative. Report of one of the six family member is awaited. NMC has started a door-to-door survey in Sanjeev Nagar containment areas. The survey is being conducted by 15 teams of health staff, said NMC officials. Apart from Sanjeev Nagar, NMC teams also conducted door-to-door surveys in other four containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/five-more-high-risk-contacts-found/articleshow/75240314.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Man held for assaulting cop, not wearing mask||NASHIK: A 22-year-old man has been arrested by Upnagar police for allegedly assaulting an on-duty policeman after he was questioned for flouting the lockdown norm and not wearing a face mask. The suspect, Amol Kohle, is a resident of Shivram Nagar in Nashik Road area. "On Saturday evening, the Nirbhaya team was patrolling the Narayan Bapu Nagar area when they found Kohle on the road without a mask. The squad members tried to explain about the importance of wearing a mask along with the police order, but the suspect started arguing and abusing them," a police officer said. "When the driver of the Nirbhaya mobile van intervened, Kohle abused and heckled him. Eventually, we arrested hime under sections 353 (assault on government servant to deter him from discharging his duty) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code," he added, The officer added that since the lockdown has been imposed they are taking strict action against those not wearing masks and moving around without any valid reason. "We have so far taken action against 147 people who were found moving around without wearing the mask," the officer said. "During the lockdown, people should refrain from venturing out of their houses unnecessarily and if all they had to go out to buy essentials or visit the hospital, then they should wear a face mask," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-assaulting-cop-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/75240307.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||Doctors await Delhi test reports as cases rise||BHOPAL: A total of 27 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal on Sunday. The number is likely to increase further as test report for 1,335 samples which were airlifted to Delhi for testing on Friday are also awaited. Sources said that the reports are likely to be received on Monday. The state health bulletin issued by directorate of health Madhya Pradesh said that 214 patients have been tested positive in Bhopal. Those who tested positive on Sunday includes a a girl born nine days ago in Sultania hospital of the city. As she was suffering from symptoms, her samples were sent for laboratory tests, which confirmed her to be Covid-19 positive. Sources said that the girl along with her mother were admitted at a private hospital which has been designated as the corona treatment hospital in the city. Samples of the mother as well her father have also been sent for tests and reports are awaited. District collector Tarun Pithode talked with the doctors and instructed that appropriate treatment should be provided to the infant as well as her mother, said sources. Besides it, a total of 26 other patients were also tested positive in the city. Chief medical and health officer Bhopal Dr Prabhakar Tiwari said that the contact history of all these patients is being traced and they would be home quarantined and samples of those people who are having symptoms would be sent for tests. So far total of 213 people have tested positive for covid-19 in the state capital, said Dr Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/docs-await-delhi-test-reports-as-cases-rise/articleshow/75240311.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Excise department seizes liquor worth Rs 9 lakh||PANAJI: The excise department seized 319 cases of liquor worth Rs 9 lakh in a raid conducted in Mormugao on Sunday. Excise Commissioner Amit Satija said the raid was conducted following a tip-off about illegal sale of liquor by a packed bottle licencee from his residence in the port town. On Sunday, the excise superintendents and inspectors have been ordered to seal all premises, bonds, and godowns of wholesalers and manufacturing units till the end of lockdown to prevent any attempt to sell liquor in a clandestine manner. The order has been issued following complaints by people as well as intimation received from some government departments about illegal sale of alcohol by wholesale units, stated the order by Satija. Similar action will be taken against retail operators as well if complaints are received against them, Satija said. Since lockdown, Satija said they have booked 11 cases and suspended licences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/excise-dept-seizes-liquor-worth-rs-9l/articleshow/75240628.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||90% Covid-19 patients in Lucknow hospitals asymptomatic||LUCKNOW: About 90% of Covid-19 patients admitted in isolation wards of various hospitals in the city are asymptomatic, a TOI reality check has revealed. From March 10, when the first Covid-19 case was reported, till Sunday evening, 177 people (including 106 city residents and 71 outsiders staying in Lucknow) have tested positive for novel coronavirus infection. Of these, 10 have been discharged after recovery while one patient has died. The remaining 166 are under treatment. According to chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal, though no database has been maintained on the basis of symptoms but as per feedback from various hospitals, most patients are asymptomatic. To assess the situation, TOI spoke to officials of eight hospitals where 166 patients are undergoing treatment and found that eight patients had mild symptoms and one was critical, while remaining 157 were asymptomatic. Major symptoms of Covid-19 are dry cough, high fever and respiratory problem. Chief medical superintendent of RSM hospital, Bakshi-Ka-Talab, Dr VK Singh said: “Of 62 patients in the hospital, only one has mild flu-like symptoms.” Similarly, Era’s Medical College principal Dr MM Faridi said all 26 patients at his hospital were asymptomatic. Director, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Prof AK Tripathi said all 12 patients at the institute were asymptomatic. Doctors at Integral Institute of Medical Science also said that all 56 patients had no symptoms as of now. “Two patients admitted to Lok Bandhu Hospital after testing positive on Sunday evening are asymptomatic,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesman at CMO office. Dr D Himanshu, in charge of KGMU’s isolation unit, said all five patients at present had mild symptoms, including one having asthma. SGPGIMS has cases from various districts and the one belonging to Lucknow is critical. Two patients at Central Command’s Base Hospital also have mild symptoms. Virologist and former head of microbiology department, SGPGIMS, Prof TN Dhol said it was good that most cases were asymptomatic, but it increased the responsibility of health authorities. “They should go for aggressive pool testing in other parts of the city because asymptomatic patients are likely to infect others without knowing about it,” he said. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agarwal said: “Sealing of hotspots has prevented asymptomatic patients from spreading infection in other parts of the city. Further, putting suspected patients under quarantine has also decreased infection rate within the hotspots.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/90-covid-patients-in-lucknow-hosps-asymptomatic/articleshow/75240620.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||74 students return home in Pilibhit from Kota||Pilibhit: As many as 74 students, stranded in Kota in Rajasthan, returned home here on Sunday. On their arrival, they underwent a medical check-up by a team of the health department. They will be sent home to stay in self-quarantine. On Friday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had sent 250 buses to Kota, a coaching hub for students preparing for competitive examinations, to bring back home around 7,500 students of Uttar Pradesh. Both district magistrate Viabhav Shrivastav and additional chief medical officer, Dr CM Chaturvedi, were present when the students arrived in Pilibhit by three buses, escorted by a police team for their security. As the students were tired from their over 700-km journey, director of Sharda Hospital, Dr Rajiv Agrawal, provided them free stay and food at his hotel, Grand Sharda. “It was a courtesy offered to the students with the district administration's approval in these difficult times of novel coronavirus outbreak," Agrawal told TOI. Shrivastav, DM, said the arrangements for the students’ medical screening had been made at Sharda Hospital but the medical check-up was carried out by a team of doctors from the health and medical department. The students' buses reached Sharda Hospital in in three buses in intervals of over one-and-a-half hours between them. This scheduling was aimed at preventing the students from crowding the spot. “We tried to complete the screening of the first batch before the arrival of the second one," said Dr Chatuvedi. He said, “None of the students showed any preliminary symptoms of Cpvid-19. But for the sake of safety, we collected their samples and sent them for testing to Lucknow's King George’s Medical University." The students were advised to remain confined at home quarantines. The health department, said Chaturvedi, would provide the students immediate medical consultation or assistance if needed by any of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/74-students-return-home-in-pilibhit-from-kota/articleshow/75238649.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: One held for attempting to sell unborn baby||AURANGABAD: The Kranti Chowk police have arrested a man for allegedly attempting to sell an unborn baby. A woman, who is seven-month pregnant, has also been booked as a co-accused in the case. Police said that they only booked the woman and did not arrest her due to medical conditions and advanced stage of pregnancy. The arrested suspect has been identified as Shivshankar Premanand Tangade (30), a security guard by profession. He is a native of a village in Buldhana district and resides at Ranjangaon in Gangapur tehsil falling under the limits of MIDC Waluj police station. Police said that the woman suspect is the sister-in-law of the main suspect. Her husband deserted her recently, following which she could not even opt for medical termination of pregnancy due to the advanced stage. Some of her relatives brought her the proposal of a second marriage, but her pregnancy and future of unborn child turned to be an obstacle in solemnizing of her marriage. In a bid to get rid off the unborn child, she planned to sell off the baby. As a step in this direction, she along with Tangade, started looking for a childless couple ready to adopt the child on the very day of its birth. Senior inspector Nirmala Pardeshi said that the suspects looked for some couples and even sent them personal messages through their social media account on Facebook. A Bengali couple interested in adopting a child,too received a message. The alert couple apprised the central adoption resource authority (CARA) online of the matter. Taking cognizance of the complaint, the CARA authorities referred the matter to the city police and the Kranti Chowk police did the further job. They apprised the officials of the women and children welfare committee and obtained a complaint from its chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-held-for-attempting-to-sell-unborn-baby/articleshow/75239728.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Plan to ease lockdown brings worry to working women||Kochi: Even as discussions are going on to restart partial functioning of various government offices by relaxing restrictions, many working women are worried about the non-availability of housemaids. With no public transport available, employees as well as those who work as domestic helps and ayahs at day care centres will not be able to reach their workplaces. As children and other family members are at home, working women will have a tough time ensuring safety and well-being of their children as well as elderly parents. Though people are eager to get back to work, the non-availability of buses and Metro trains will make commuting a difficult task. Kochi corporation councillor Gracy Babu Jacob said that many women employees who work with the local body have shared the problems they face. “The househelps mostly come from suburbs or neighbouring districts. They stopped coming ever since the lockdown was imposed. Like many government offices, even the local body’s office is operating with minimal staff. However, its mostly male employees who report at workplace. Not all women employees have their own vehicles. It will be difficult for them to reach office in the absence of public transport system,” she said. Many working women, employed both in public and private sector, say that they are dependent on domestic workers, who belong to the unorganized sector. While some of the domestic workers say that their employers have agreed to pay a month’s salary even though they have not reported to work, there are others who say that employers have refused to pay for the period they could not work. “Not all are registered domestic workers. They work at various houses for three to five hours a day, and their daily wages depend on the kind of tasks that are assigned as well as the hours spent working. There is this informal agreement between the employer and the domestic worker. The payments for the lockdown period largely depend on the kind of the bond between them,” said Shyama P V, a domestic worker from Ezhupunna. She also said that in the absence of buses it will not be possible for her to reach the city where she works. The city is also dependent on the domestic workers who come from the islands in its suburbs. Househelps from Vypeen depend on the boat or Ro-Ro service to reach their workplaces at Fort Kochi and neighbouring areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/plan-to-ease-lockdown-brings-worry-to-working-women/articleshow/75238663.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: IT sector expects gradual back-to-work post May 11||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government’s decision to not offer any relaxations may not have come as a surprise to the IT/ITeS sector, which was prepared for complete work from home (WFH) till May 3, but any extension of lockdown beyond May 7 may have an adverse impact, particularly on small and medium enterprises, IT industry top guns told TOI. The city’s IT sector employs over 5.5 lakh techies. As IT companies would not begin functioning from mid-week, most companies now have fingers crossed that they will allowed a staggered return to the workplace from May 11, a Monday. “Most companies were prepared for this decision and were geared up for WFH till May 3 as it would not have been possible without public transport and most employees too were not comfortable getting back to office over safety concerns. With the lockdown being extended to May 7, we expect to see a staggered return to the workplace after that, as any further lockdown extension may cause sustainability issues for SMEs,” said HYSEA president Murali Bollu. Agreeing, the head of a mid-sized IT firm said: “SMEs don’t have deep pockets. Some may even face difficulties due to SLAs as they have only one or two clients and hence don’t have risk mitigation. They also have other pressures like holding on to employees or supporting extended WFH due to steep rentals.” Former Nasscom chairman and Cyient Ltd chairman BVR Mohan Reddy pointed out that most companies had settled down with the WFH protocol after large investments on procuring / installing thousands of laptops and dongles at employee homes and any movement back to office at this stage could have been chaotic. Pointing out that employee safety is of utmost importance, Vipul Singh, VP and head of HR and Communications, ADP Pvt Ltd said: “We are in preliminary stages of discussions on reintegrating workforce to office space and have begun discussing the criteria for a safe return across all locations. We are closely monitoring the situation...Our plan depends upon external conditions: lifting of government lockdowns, no associates travelling from containment/red zone, no new cases of coronavirus for a period of time in a location, etc.” SYKES India country head Dishant Bhojwani said: “The safety and well-being of employees at this critical phase is of utmost importance. We are fully committed with the Telangana government’s drive to curb the virus spread by continuing to maintain 95% of our employees on WFH and 5% on-site.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-sector-expects-gradual-back-to-work-post-may-11/articleshow/75240631.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman kills daughter, ends life in Mukundwadi||AURANGABAD: The bodies of a 35-year-old nurse and her 13-year-old daughter were found their rented apartment in Mukundwadi area of the city late on Saturday. According to police, the woman might have first killed her daughter by injecting some substance and later did the same to herself. The incident came to light Saturday night, following which they were rushed to hospital where they were declared brought dead. The deceased have been identified as Asha Deepak Gaikwad and Rutuja (daughter), both residents of Tornagad Nagar in N-2, Cidco.”The woman, who had been serving as nurse at a private hospital, probably used her knowledge of medicines to kill her daughter and then end her own life,” a police officer, privy to the investigation, said. The woman, who reportedly had differences with her husband, had been living separately with her daughter. The domestic issues, started taking a toll on her health owing to which she was under tremendous stress. An officer from Mukundwadi police station informed that Asha’s parents live in the same locality. On Saturday morning, Asha’s mother went to the apartment, but returned after she did not get any response. She again went in the afternoon to check on Asha, but again nobody responded from inside. Later, when both Asha and her daughter failed to respond to the call, the mother got suspicious and informed her family. Soon Asha’s brother rushed to the apartment and broke the door. After finding that both Asha and her daughter were lying motionless, police was informed. The apartment was sanitised before the bodies were touched. The bodies were sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital where they were declared brought dead. An autopsy was performed on both the bodies on Sunday before handing them to the family for performing last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-kills-daughter-ends-life-in-mukundwadi/articleshow/75239716.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Gurdwara in Manmad feeds 15,000 every day||NASHIK: The 400-year-old gurdwara in Manmad of Nashik district is preparing and distributing meals for nearly 15,000 people everyday. The meals are being distributed to homeless, daily wagers, slum dwellers, migrants, workers and people in hospitals. Ranjit Singh, the manager of gurdwara, told TOI “There are thousands of people who are not able to earn their daily livelihood due to the lockdown situation in our area. These people used to earn their food daily and feed their families but are facing tremendous difficulties in this time of crisis. We are preparing food for them for three times a day.” The gurdwara has been doing the service since March 23 which was the second day of the janata curvew. They provide morning tea and breakfast, lunch and dinner including water pouches and prasad. The distribution of food takes place using four cars and 20 bikes which the local Sikh men carry out with the permission of city police and district administration. According to Singh, 150 people had come to Manmad’s gurdwara in a sangat (a group of religious tourists from Sikh community) before lockdown was imposed. They had informed the district administration about it who told them to stay put until the lockdown is lifted. “The district administration said that those who have arrived before the lockdown should stay where they are. These people had made their arrangements in the guest houses in the city but could not sustain there for long. They approached the administration again who allowed them to stay at the gurdwara,” added Singh. These people who had come from Punjab, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other parts of North India are now staying at the gurdwara. They help in cooking the food. The city people from the community help them out in the preparation and distribution of food. They all take the precautionary measures while staying and cooking at gurdwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gurdwara-in-manmad-feeds-15000-every-day/articleshow/75240316.cms||pragya jain
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||BMC forms team to ensure lockdown enforcement at five key marketplaces||Bareilly: In an effort to make Covid-19 lockdown successful in the city’s major marketplaces and ensure only permitted shops are open and follow guidelines, Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) has deputed a team to keep a tab on activities in the areas that have been granted permission by the local administration to function during the closure.The Corporation team will be making random inspections in the areas — Shyamganj, Allen club, Qutubkhana, City Station, Quila - where grocery stores and vegetable markets are open. Officials said that the move is aimed at easing burden of police personnel. The team will be keeping a check on unnecessary movement of people and remain in contact with police of the respective areas. Prompt action will be taken up in case of any lockdown violation.Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand told TOI, “The move comes after Shyamganj area of the city saw significant footfall despite lockdown, when the district administration gave a couple of hours relief to ease burden from grocery stores and other shops. Besides, there have been reports of a number of people thronging roads in areas where such shops and vegetable markets are located. People forget that they are supposed to follow social distancing. To ensure proper implementation of lockdown and see that social distancing is being maintained at the time when people come out to purchase essential items, a team has been deputed.”The municipal commissioner added, “Besides the police personnel, Corporation team will ensure that people do not assemble at one place while those caught venturing out unnecessarily will also be intercepted. The team will primarily be making regular random inspections at City vegetable market (City Station), Allen Club, Shyamganj, Quila vegetable market and Qutubkhana vegetable market.”Notably, after vyapar mandal members requested local administration to extend relief period in Shyamgamj market from 4am-10am to 10am-6 pm, hundreds thronged roads of Shyamganj. As people violated the social distancing practice, the members later requested district magistrate Nitish Kumar to withdraw the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-forms-team-to-ensure-lockdown-enforcement-at-five-key-marketplaces/articleshow/75238664.cms||Maria Khan
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Patient goes missing from hospital, traced||LUCKNOW: A 65-year-old mentally unsound Covid-19 patient hailing from Rajasthan went missing from the isolation ward at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Gomtinagar on Saturday night, leaving officials and police in a tizzy. The hospital staff found the patient missing when it went to give him medicine in the isolation ward. The hospital authorities informed SHO Vibhutikhand, Shyam Babu Shukla who informed the police control room and sounded an alert to all police stations. All police personnel and patrol vehicles were pressed into service to scan the city. The task of police was even more difficult because the hospital did not have a photograph of the patient. However, the practice of police to click photographs of all footpath dwellers saved the day. Police had found the man on roadside in Sector D Indiranagar on Friday night and got him admitted to the hospital as he was unwell. His test report revealed that he had Covid-19 infection. Deputy commissioner of police, North zone, Shalini directed officers to fetch photographs of footpath dwellers clicked in Indiranagar on Friday night and show them to hospital staff which identified the man’s photograph. The photograph was shared with all cops on patrol and the patient was traced by PRV bike 4576 near Lekhraj market, about 6km from the hospital,. The patient was taken back to the hospital. Commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey said co-ordination between police units helped in tracing the patient in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patient-goes-missing-from-hosp-traced/articleshow/75240636.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Ranas’ samples rejected, fresh ones taken||Amravati: Amravati MP Navneet Rana on Sunday came down heavily on district civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam after discovering that swab samples of her husband MLA Ravi Rana and herself have been rejected by AIIMS, Nagpur. “AIIMS rejected the samples citing they were not properly collected,” the MP told TOI. “The doctor who called us asked for fresh samples,” she said.Navneet also threatened to lodge complaint against Dr Nikam with the higher authorities if he fails to take any action. Dr Nikam, who arranged for taking fresh samples of the Ranas on Sunday, said that sometimes swabs need to be retaken due to technical issues. Ravi Rana has been hospitalized at a private hospital for high fever since Saturday. The MP said that she was expecting their reports to be negative and the MLA would be discharged as he has no fever now. “Both collector Shailesh Naval and Dr Nikam are hiding facts from people. Covid-19 positive cases are being disclosed only after the suspects die,” she alleged.It is learnt, 20 samples were rejected on April 13, 14 and 15, and 39 on April 16 and 17. In the last two days, the number was 44. The number of pending reports came down to 57 on April 18 from 113 on April 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ranas-samples-rejected-fresh-ones-taken/articleshow/75239732.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jaipur||2 deaths in city taketoll to 23; 127 more test positive in state||Jaipur: Two people died of Covid-19 in Jaipur on Sunday, taking the death toll to 13 in the Pink City and 23 in the state. With 127 new cases, the number of infected persons have increased to 1,478 in Rajasthan. A 70-year-old person, resident of Nahri Ka Naka, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 13 and tested positive on April 14, died on Sunday while undergoing treatment. Health department officials said he was suffering from diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Jaipur’s Raja Park, which has reported four cases so far, also recorded a Covid-19 death on Sunday. A 62-year-old person, who was admitted to a private hospital on April 16 with complaints of fever and breathlessness and diagnosed positive on Saturday, died on the same day evening at a private hospital. The health department confirmed the death on Sunday morning. According to officials, the person was admitted to a private hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment. Following the death in Raja Park, screening has intensified in the affected area. On Sunday, 127 persons, including 48 from Jodhpur, 17 from Bharatpur, 27 from Nagaur and 16 from Jaipur, were found infected with the virus. The other districts which reported Covid-19 cases are Sawai Madhopur (5), Ajmer (5), Bikaner (2), Kota (2), Jhalawar (2), Jaisalmer (1), Jhunjhunu (1), and Hanumagarh (1), which took the total to 1,478 infected in the state. The afternoon report of the health department showed that Bhilwara, which reported its 28th case on April 9, had one person infected with the virus after 10 days of reporting the last one on Sunday. However, in the evening report, the health department clarified that in Bhilwara, no one tested positive on Sunday. “In the afternoon report, there was a typographical error by the SMS Hospital staff. It has been confirmed with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme cell and the collector that no such case has been reported in Bhilwara on Sunday,” the department clarified. According to the health department report, 16 persons have been found infected with the virus in Jaipur, including 13 from Ramganj area, one each from Raja Park, RD Hostel and Kagzi Colony in Sanganer. The situation has worsened in Bharatpur where 59 persons were found infected over the past two days. Out of the 59 cases, 17 tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The health department has put 1,510 persons in quarantine facilities in Bharatpur’s Bayana area, where the total number of infected persons surged to 102. In the area, 4,705 persons have been kept in home quarantine. Besides, over 33 lakh people have been screened in the area. Among the 33 lakh, there are also those who have been screened twice. The number of such patients who have been tested twice is over six lakh. The health department teams are camping in the area and working hard to prevent the spread of virus further. For the purpose, they have kept almost each and every person either in home quarantine or at quarantine facilities of the department. With 26 districts of the state reporting Covid-19 cases, the health department has planned to introduce Covid-19 testing facilities in all districts. Sawai Madhopur became the 26th district to report coronavirus cases on Sunday with five found infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-deaths-in-city-taketoll-to-23-127-more-test-positive-in-state/articleshow/75240632.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||Civic body health clerk booked for burning 34 green trees||Pilibhit: A health department clerk of Pilibhit Municipal Council, Amar Kishor, has been booked for allegedly destroying 34 green trees of the Pilibhit forest department,A complaint to the effect was filed by deputy ranger of forest and wildlife division Devendra Pal Singh with the police on Sunday afternoon.In his complaint, Singh alleged that Kishor destroyed the green Gutel trees, grown for timber, by dumping municipal waste in the area adjacent to the Pilibhit-Basti national highway 730 and setting it on fire. As a result, 34 valuable green trees of the department were destroyed.The deputy ranger claimed that accused Kishor had also taken illegal possession over a 200-metre area of official land.Singh said burning of municipal waste also caused air pollution, posing a threat to human health.Despite several warnings, Kishor continued burning waste in the area, Singh added.The forest official alleged that Kishor threatened forest department staff when they tried to stop him from burning trash.Mani Ram, SHO of Jahanabad police station, said the named accused has been booked under IPC sections 285 (doing an act rashly or negligently with fire or any combustible matter to endanger human life), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over), 447 (criminal trespass) and provisions of the Indian Forest Act,1927.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/civic-body-health-clerk-booked-for-burning-34-green-trees/articleshow/75238687.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mining firm cheats bank of Rs 43 crore, booked||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Hyderabad has booked a case against a Madhapur-based mining firm and its directors for cheating Bank of Maharashtra of Rs 43 crore. CBI has alleged that Kyori Oremin Limited and its directors Ishoo Narang, Chandulal Patel and Rudra Raju Srinivas Shah secured loans from BOM’s Khairatabad branch and diverted the amount The forensic audit of accounts revealed that funds were diverted between 2013 and 2016. The bank alleged that the cash credit liability has gone beyond the limits due to the debit of devolved Letters of Credit to the account of the accused company. Citing losses, the company failed on the repayment obligations from May 2015. In August 2015 it was declared as Non-Performing Asset (NPA). The forensic audit found that the company had written off Rs 115 crore worth of receivables. Purchase transactions and sale transactions of the company were not genuine as there was no physical movement of goods. The audit revealed that the company has resorted to several frauds regarding share allotments and inflated advances from customers and writing off of the claims without proper justification. CBI alleged that the directorscriminally conspired to defraud the bank and diverted the loan. It may be mentioned here that CBI Bangalore Banking Fraud cell in 2018 had also registered a fraud case against the company for defrauding the Central Bank of India of Rs 60 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mining-firm-cheats-bank-of-rs-43-crore-booked/articleshow/75240324.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra issues special pass to 1,341 people to go back to Pune||AURANGABAD: The state government, on the request of Latur district administration, issued a special permission to 1,341 people to travel in private buses from Rathoda in Nilanga tehsil of Latur to Shri Devdutt asharam in Jadhavwadi-Manjwadi at Junnar in Pune district. Kishor Nimbalkar, the secretary to the state government, issued the communication to the Latur district collector on Friday, following which scores of private buses from Latur carrying the people, left on Saturday midnight for Pune. A group of people getting special permission from the state government, at a time, when at least five lakh people are residing in camps set-up across the state, has raised several questions. The state government also marked a copy of the communication to the superintendents of police at Latur and Pune (rural), the divisional commissioners of Aurangabad and Pune and Latur and Pune district collectors. Despite repeated attempts, Latur district authorities could not be reached for their comment on the issue. A total of 1,341 people from Mahanubhav Panth went to Rathoda on February 26 for a month but had to stay back due to lockdown coming into force from March 22. The communication issued by Nimbhalkar also cited the letter sent to him by the Latur district collector. The communication cites that on April 13, the untimely rain and strong winds damaged the place where these people were residing, hence there were questions about safety and proper accommodation. The communication also stated that the district collector through health department officials had carried out tests on the people, and no one has shown any symptoms of Covid-19. The district collector in his communication to the state has also cited scarcity of water in the district and difficulty in making other arrangements for such a large group. The state granted special permission but asked them to follow social distancing norm by allowing only 50% occupancy in a bus. Apart from carrying out health screening, the commuters have also been asked to wear masks and sanitizers are provided in every bus. The expenses for the travel was taken care by the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-issues-special-pass-to-1341-people-to-go-back-to-pune/articleshow/75239733.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Gang of oil thieves booked||Rajkot: A gang of of oil thieves were booked on Saturday on charges of attempting to pilfer oil from an Indian Oil Corporation’s pipeline in Khari Rohar village near Gandhidham in Kutch district. The theft was detected after a fire erupted due to the friction of a drilling machine used by the accused on Friday night. However, the number of thieves or their identities are yet to be ascertained. “Seeing the fire when security guards rushed to the spot, the accused vanished into the cover of darkness. The fire that could have turned into an inferno was doused by throwing sand on it,” said B J Joshi, sub-inspector with Gandhidham B division police station. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gang-of-oil-thieves-booked/articleshow/75239729.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam: A ‘motto challenge’ with a message||KOCHI: The St Teresa’s College (STC) in Ernakulam has launched a campaign with the aim of sharing positive anecdotes on lockdown. Through its campaign ‘covid-kurippukal’, the college has come up with a unique challenge to honour the health workers who are in the frontline of Covid-19 fight. Titled ‘motto challenge’, the college has shared a Malayalam sentence on Instagram that says: “Salute the health workers who are risking their lives and staying away from their beloveds to fight for us and the state”. Each word in the sentence has been assigned to each districts in Kerala and natives from each district have been asked to write the words assigned to them on a paper and send the photos of them holding it. Later, it would be put together to symbolically thank the frontline-fighters in the state. Around 500 plus photos and videos have been received so far and STC will select a few among them to create the final collage every day. This will be showcased through various social media platforms. STC had launched its social media campaign ‘covid-kurippukal’ on April 14 to spread positivity and cheer during these troubled times. “The idea behind the initiative was to unite the Malayali community in expressing their gratitude towards the first responders, medical professionals and all those who have worked tirelessly for the welfare of our people. The challenge was well-received by the youth who took it up in all its vigour,” said Poornendu J, project coordinator-R&D department, STC. The campaign will continue till April 25 and interested people can send their entries to the Whatsapp no. +91 96338 61035 and on Instagram using hashtag #CovidKurippukal or by tagging @Under25stc or @stcunion2019 pages. The campaign is being organised by the college student union comprising 13 members and the college under 25 team which includes 151 student members. It is held in association with Unnat Bharath Abhiyan, the flagship programme of ministry of human resource development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-motto-challenge-with-a-message/articleshow/75238713.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts push for dialysis at home for city kidney patients||Hyderabad: The lockdown has been tough for dialysis patients in the city as reaching health care centres has proved to be challenge. In such a scenario, experts say peritoneal dialysis, which can be given at home, is the best solution. Apart from doing away with the challenge of restricted mobility, it also reduces the risk of Covid-19 infection. Over 90% of dialysis procedures done are haemodialysis (done at hospitals).Peritoneal dialysis, can be done at home, thereby reducing the demand on the healthcare system as well as expenditure. Therefore, experts and patients stress on the need for improving the ecosystem for peritoneal dialysis in the city. “While government run dialysis centres have a never-ending queue, private centres are either under-staffed or are doing dialysis for shorter span, meaning that we have to go back every two-three days instead of a week. Under these circumstances, having the option of peritoneal dialysis could have been much easier,” said P Srikanth, a patient from Begumpet. “While haemodialysis is more popular as it is done under supervision in a hospital, peritoneal dialysis can be self-administered at home after the initial procedure. It is the feasible option,” said Dr Deepthi Ayanavelli, nephrologist, ESI Superspeciality Hospital,.  “Kidney patients are extremely vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. In such circumstances, presenting the patients with the option of peritoneal dialysis has become a necessity,” said Dr Sreebhushan Raju, professor, Department of Nephrology, Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-push-for-dialysis-at-home-for-city-kidney-patients/articleshow/75240334.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||Eight more test Covid-19 positive in Budaun, taking tally to 13||Bareilly: Eight more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Budaun — three on late on Saturday night and five on Sunday night — taking the total number of cases in the district to 13. One of the patients is a Nepalese citizen, who was quarantined after being caught by police while on his way home in Nepal on the foot. The other two are members of a family, resident of Sadar area in Budaun city, who came in contact with a Kasganj resident who was recently tested positive for the deadly virus. District administration officials said they were trying to identify all those who came in contact with the positive cases. The family members include a woman and her nine-year-old son. After they tested positive, district magistrate Kumar Prashant ordered complete sealing of the Sadar area and cancellation of all passes issued to residents for getting essential services. “It is suspected that the family had come in contact with many residents. That is the reason why the area has been sealed. Health department officials are screening residents,” said sources with the district administration. CMO Dr Yashpal Singh said, “Three patients have already been shifted to Bareilly for treatmnet, while the remaining five would also be shifted there soon. Meanwhile, we are trying to find the details of those who came in contact with the patients. As of now, we have quarantined a few people and their samples have been sent for the Covid-19 test. The entire locality is on alert and we are screening every house looking for suspects.” Three more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Budaun late on Saturday night, taking the total number of cases in the district to eight. One of the patients is a Nepalese citizen, who was quarantined after being caught by police while on his way home in Nepal on the foot. The other two are members of a family, resident of Sadar area in Budaun city, who came in contact with a Kasganj resident who was recently tested positive for the deadly virus. District administration officials said they were trying to identify all those who came in contact with the positive cases. The family members include a woman and her nine-year-old son. After they tested positive, district magistrate Kumar Prashant ordered complete sealing of the Sadar area and cancellation of all passes issued to residents for getting essential services. “It is suspected that the family had come in contact with many residents. That is the reason why the area has been sealed. Health department officials are screening residents,” said sources with the district administration. CMO Dr Yashpal Singh said, “All the three patients have been shifted to Bareilly for treatment. Meanwhile, we are trying to find the details of those who came in contact with the patients. As of now, we have quarantined a few people and their samples have been sent for the Covid-19 test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-budaun-taking-tally-to-13/articleshow/75238761.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Satranjipura clinic patients to be screened at their homes||Nagpur: With an attendant of a clinic at Satranjipura where city’s first corona victim had taken treatment testing positive, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) now plans to conduct doorstep examination of all those who had visited the clinic. This is being done so a large number of persons can be examined quickly as already 14 days have passed since death of 68-year-old person from Satranjipura.Among the ten who tested positive on Sunday is a 35-year-old woman. A resident of Patwapura, she is one of the two attendants at the clinic. NMC sources told TOI around 100 patients used to visit the clinic daily.The person died in IGGMCH on April 5. His reports came positive on April 6. Next day, the doctor and two attendants were quarantined. All three had tested negative at that time. As they completed 14 days, their samples were taken for the second time. Reports of doctor and another attendant are awaited.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “The deceased had visited the clinic on April 2. We have the names of persons who visited the clinic from April 2 to 6. Our doctors will now visit homes of all and conduct clinical examination. We will ask all those who have no symptoms to home quarantine. The doctors will take a call in case of those showing any symptom, high-risk cases or those suffering from various ailments. Either their samples will be collected or they will be taken under institutional quarantine,” he said.Till now, the NMC traces and quarantines all family members and close contacts of positive person. In case any positive case is found among patients who visited the clinic, the same will be followed. Mundhe added, “Five persons on their own contacted NMC team saying they had been in contact with couple of positive persons. All those who visited the clinic between April 2 and 6 or came in contact with any existing positive persons should get tested on their own. Positive persons will get discharge if they avail treatment in time,” he said.-----------------------IAN* An attendant of clinic where Satranjipura victim availed treatment has tested positive* Around 100 people used to visit this clinic daily* NMC to conduct door-to-door clinical examination of all those who visited the clinic between April 2 and 6* People with no symptoms will be asked for home quarantine* Doctors will decide on what to do with patients with symptoms or those with co-morbidities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/satranjipura-clinic-patients-to-be-screened-at-their-homes/articleshow/75239736.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 20, 2020||Goa||Narvem locals send back MLA’s supplies||BICHOLIM: Making their displeasure apparent, locals from Deulwada, Narvem, Bicholim on Friday refused to accept groceries distributed in the village, after realising they were sponsored by Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye. On Friday night, volunteers distributed packets of groceries among the residents of Deulwada, Narvem. Initially, all of them accepted the groceries, assuming they were supplied by the local administration. A while later, Zantye arrived in the village and announced that the groceries were supplied by him, personally. On hearing this, tempers flared and the villagers told him that they do not want any help from him, as he failed to provide them groceries in the first few days of the lockdown, for which they had been unprepared, and when essential commodities were inaccessible. The villagers returned all their packets of groceries to the MLA’s office. “We did not accept help from him as he refused to help us when we were in major crisis,” said Satyawan Chodankar. “We have told him not to come to our area asking for votes during election time in the future”, said another villager Premanand Gawade. Another villager, Dinesh Vengurlekar said that they had struggled to buy essential commodities after collecting money from the locals when the curfew was extended unexpectedly, and the MLA failed to make arrangements for basic supplies. Nitin Chodankar, Pralhad Pethkar and others also expressed similar views.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/narvem-locals-send-back-mlas-supplies/articleshow/75240646.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Farmer from Odedar donates 36 tonnes of tomatoes||RAJKOT: Instead of selling them off in the marketing yard and making money, a farmer from Porbandar’s Odedar village has donated 36 tonnes of tomatoes to the poor and needy. Hamir Odedara from Odedar village said, “At a time when the entire country is fighting Covid-19 spread, I felt an urgent sense of duty towards my country. Hence, I decided to donate 36 tonnes of tomatoes grown in my three bigha farm to the poor.” The tomatoes were distributed for free among the poor living in Navibandar locality of Porbandar. “The gesture shown by Hamirbhai is commendable. Taking a cue from him, more such farmers should come forward and make donation of vegetables and food grains among the poor,” said Bheem Odedara, former sarpanch of Ratanpar village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-donates-36-tonnes-of-tomatoes/articleshow/75239740.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Cops join boy’s birthday party||NASHIK: Nine-year-old Ranveer Gulati was not expecting anyone other than his immediate family members on his birthday on Saturday, given the country-wide lockdown. But he was in for a sweet surprise: A group of police personnel arrived at his house with a cake to celebrate his special day. Curious on spotting the police personnel at the boy’s residence at Vinay Nagar, Ranveer’s neighbours came to their windows and balconies to find out what was happening. When they realised that the men in uniform were there to celebrate the boy’s birthday, the neighbours also clapped and cheered for Ranveer and and Mumbai Naka cops. Ranveer’s parents also wrote to the Mumbai Naka police a letter of appreciation for the pleasant surprise. Ranveer’s mother Reema Gulati said, “The Mumbai Naka police, including senior officials, took out time for our child, especially when he had lost all hopes of celebrating his birthday during the lockdown.” She said that Ranveer and their family would remember the birthday all their lives. Speaking to TOI, Reema said her son is fond of the men in uniform. Every time, the patrolling police teams pass by their bungalow, Ranveer’s ensures that he salutes them. He had managed to befriend the cops with his unusual greetings. Senior PI of the Mumbai Naka police station Vijay Dhamal said, “A couple of days ago, the boy had told some of the cops that his birthday was on Saturday. The policemen passed on the message to us and we decided to celebrate Ranveer’s birthday.” On Saturday evening, when Ranveer was expecting only a small celebration, it became grand affair with two to three police officers and another 10 constables joining the celebration. The cake was cut in the garden in by maintaining proper social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-join-boys-birthday-party/articleshow/75240329.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 20, 2020||Delhi||Staff, volunteers at all hunger relief centres to be tested||New Delhi: Delhi government has decided to collect samples of all the staff and volunteers deployed at its 1,500-odd hunger relief centres for Covid-19 testing. The decision was taken a day after one of the volunteers engaged in distribution of food to the poor at one such feeding centre was found to be positive for novel coronavirus. The government has also decided to screen every single person who has frequented the particular hunger relief centre or eaten there in the past few days. They will be sent into quarantine, said an official. Addressing a digital press conference on Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said 186 people found positive on Sunday were asymptomatic, which means they did not have any symptom associated with Covid-19. Among them was a volunteer at one of the hunger relief centres where Delhi government was providing free meals to the poor twice a day. Refusing to share the details of the centre where the volunteer offered his services, the government said that every single person coming to that centre will be screened. Each centre provides food to about 500 people. “We assume that the same set of people come to that particular centre to eat every day. We are tracking them and their samples will be taken,” the official said. Since most of these people live in densely populated areas, officials fear that the infection may have spread to many others. Meanwhile, samples of seven family members and two neighbours of a food and supply inspector, whose father died of Covid-19 on Friday, were tested negative on Sunday. Officials, however, said they would continue to remain in quarantine. The Hari Nagar area has already been declared a containment zone. More than 700 people working at the schools and shops where dry ration is being distributed have been isolated too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/staff-volunteers-at-all-hunger-relief-centres-to-be-tested/articleshow/75240645.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||Freight traffic on rly routes picks up pace||Margao: Though the state has geared up to open economic activities, passenger trains will remain suspended until May 3. Freight traffic by railways, sources said, has been picking up gradually on the Konkan Railway and South Western Railway (SWR) route. While the Konkan Railway has opened up freight traffic to all types of goods, the movement of goods along the SWR route is restricted to cargo classified as essential commodities like petrol, diesel, coal and foodgrains. SWR has however introduced parcel express special trains along various routes with varying frequencies to cater to the demand for parcel services. Official sources said that a Bangalore-Delhi-Bangalore parcel express train consisting of 20 coaches will be introduced shortly. “There’s a huge demand for parcel service as road transport is closed. Transport of medical equipment is one area where the railway’s parcel service is in huge demand,” an official source said. Sources in the SWR said that over 400 coaches have been converted into quarantine/isolation wards at Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/freight-traffic-on-rly-routes-picks-up-pace/articleshow/75240637.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||Nine-day baby is Madhya Pradesh’s youngest Covid-19 patient||BHOPAL: A nine-day-old newborn became Madhya Pradesh’s youngest Covid-19 patient on Sunday. The infant was among 27 corona-positive cases reported in the administration’s bulletin on Sunday, taking Bhopal’s count to 213. The state bulletin, however, showed an increase of one for the day and put the tally at 214. The infant was born nine days ago in Bhopal’s Sultania Hospital. Doctors noticed symptoms of Covid-19 and had her tested. The report came positive on Sunday. Sources said that the child and her mother have been admitted to a private hospital designated as a corona treatment facility. Samples of the parents have been sent for tests. District collector Tarun Pithode spoke with doctors and instructed that appropriate treatment should be provided to the mother and child, said sources. CMHO Dr Prabhakar Tiwari said the contact history of the other 26 patients is being traced and they will be home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nine-day-baby-is-states-youngest-covid-19-patient/articleshow/75240325.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||Rough streak continues for real estate sector as lockdown poses shortage of building material||Panaji: Even though the Union ministry of home affairs has allowed construction activity to resume, Goa’s realty sector is staring at a six-month recovery period. The beleaguered industry’s stakeholders expect financial liquidity and availability of raw material to dictate the pace of construction activity. CREDAI-Goa has already written to the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Authority (RERA) asking for leniency over delays and delivery of residential projects. “The challenge is the supply of raw materials, like sand, which comes from other states. Almost all the raw material comes from outside Goa and only once the construction sites open up and builders take an inventory, will they know what needs to be done,” said CREDAI-Goa president Nilesh Salkar. After being abruptly thrust into an overnight halt, the industry now needs to come to terms with the month-long inactivity. Goa’s realty slowdown has now been prolonged for over five years, beginning with the closure of mining. Just as the sector was finding its feet, demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax pulled the rug out from under its feet. Since then, the introduction of RERA and an economic slowdown have hampered recovery. “A lot of turmoil came into the real estate business after demonetisation,” said former CREDAI Goa president Jagannath Desh Prabhudessai. Industry stakeholders expect full fledged construction activity to commence only after the monsoon. “Most likely from tomorrow, people might start applying for permissions and this may take two days at least. I don’t know if the local governing bodies have received instructions on how to process permissions. For industries, it has been streamlined but these type of things are not available for the construction industry,” said a builder. Real estate firms pointed out that the ministry of home affair’s guidelines for construction activity lacked clarity. The guidelines do not allow hardware stores to remain open but permit electricians, plumbers, carpenters and other skilled workers to do business. “It will take a week’s time for construction activity to resume and I think it will be five to six months till everything comes back to normal. Right from availability of labour and material to financial restructuring, a lot needs to happen,” said Salkar.  “Wherever the labour is on site, construction can restart. In Goa we are a bit better off, and the labourers are still on the site and many builders could hold them. After the lockdown is lifted, the workers may try to go home, and that is a worry for us,” said Prabhudessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rough-streak-continues-for-real-estate-sector-as-lockdown-poses-shortage-of-building-material/articleshow/75240647.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||Industries, agriculture to resume in Madhya Pradesh, barring red zones: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: In a morale-boosting move amid the coronavirus crisis, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced that industrial activities would be allowed in all the districts -- but for worst-hit Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain -- and limited economic activities would resume in districts that are in orange and green zones from April 20. Apart from Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain, the rest of the state is in these two zones. Complete lockdown will continue in the red three. Addressing the people of MP on Sunday evening, the CM said that construction activities, work under MNREGA and industrial activities would be allowed in all the other districts, subject to their conformation with central government guidelines. Shops will also be allowed to open but norms of social distancing will have to be followed by all. Procurement of Rabi crops is also being carried out and the government is “committed to procure every grain of farmers’ produce”, the CM said. If traders give farmers proper rate of their produce, they can sell it to them as well, he added. The compulsion of buying crops from mandis is being relaxed and traders can buy wheat and other produce from farmers’ homes or set up their own procurement centres, Chouhan announced. The CM alleged that the previous government had not paid the premium for crop insurance scheme but now a premium of Rs 2200 crore has been paid. Soon, he said, Rs 3,000 crore would be deposited in the accounts of lakhs of farmers of the state. He urged the farmers to come to mandis only when called for procurement and use scarves as mask. The situation in Indore and Bhopal -- the epicentres of Coronavirus pandemic in MP – is coming under control, the CM said. “And as the situation improves, I will consider relaxing the complete lockdown in these places too,” he assured. “As of now, I have decided not to open Vallabh Bhawan (state secretariat) either. Life is more important than anything else,” he said. Other offices will also not open as crowds would gather, he pointed out. Liquor shops to remain shutSpitting and gutka are banned, and liquor shops will remain closed, he added. The chief minister advised that in areas where relaxation is being given, elderly people, children and those with illnesses, especially lung disorders, should avoid coming out of their houses. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan appealed to people to fight the coronavirus unitedly. “I am sure this challenge can be turned into an opportunity for a better Madhya Pradesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/industries-agri-to-resume-in-mp-barring-red-zones-cm/articleshow/75240338.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||20 doctors in Nashik come forward to provide online consultation||NASHIK: A group of city doctors have started providing online consultation to people, who are not able to step out of their homes, due to the lockdown . The 20 doctors have published their names and numbers on social media. Rajendra Nehte, plastic surgeon said, “Considering the current situation, different doctors are providing consultation online. People who are experiencing any illness, distress, injury or other physical disorders can contact them.” Even pregnant women can consult the doctors online. The concerned people can type their problem or write to the concerned doctor on Whatsapp. In case of an injury, the patient can click a picture of the injured area and send it to the concerned doctor on whatsapp. In case of emergency, the doctors should be called only between the time given by them. Prashant Patil, principal, Sandeep Foundation and Nehte took the initiative to form the group for online consultation. He said that some doctors were taking time from their busy schedules, so it is requested to only contact them during the allotted hours. A plastic surgeon, physiotherapist, orthopedic surgeon, cardiologist, gynecologist, ENT specialist, physician, eye specialist, are among the doctors available on the online platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20-doctors-come-forward-to-provide-online-consultation/articleshow/75240331.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Homesick UP man ends life in Dahod||VADODARA: A man working at a toll booth in Dahod ended his life by jumping into a dam as he was disturbed over not being able to go home. He jumped into a dam after sending messages about his intentions on WhatsApp. The man identified as Niteshkumar Radheshyam Prasad from Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur Buzurg village had sent a message stating that he was going to end his life. The message stated, “Man nahi lagne ke karan ja rahe hain atmahatya karne (I am going to commit suicide as I am not liking it)”. The message was left by Nitesh on Thursday afternoon after which he did not go to work. On Saturday, a body surfaced in the Machhan dam near Limdi. It was fished out with the help of firemen and it transpired that the body was of Nitesh. Officials in the Limdi police station said that the victim was depressed since a few days as he was not able to go home. It is believed that he killed himself soon after leaving the message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/homesick-up-man-ends-life-in-dahod/articleshow/75239347.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Indore||Industries, agriculture to resume in Madhya Pradesh, barring red zones: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: In a morale-boosting move amid the coronavirus crisis, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced that industrial activities would be allowed in all the districts -- but for worst-hit Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain -- and limited economic activities would resume in districts that are in orange and green zones from April 20. Apart from Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain, the rest of the state is in these two zones. Complete lockdown will continue in the red three. Addressing the people of MP on Sunday evening, the CM said that construction activities, work under MNREGA and industrial activities would be allowed in all the other districts, subject to their conformation with central government guidelines. Shops will also be allowed to open but norms of social distancing will have to be followed by all. Procurement of Rabi crops is also being carried out and the government is “committed to procure every grain of farmers’ produce”, the CM said. If traders give farmers proper rate of their produce, they can sell it to them as well, he added. The compulsion of buying crops from mandis is being relaxed and traders can buy wheat and other produce from farmers’ homes or set up their own procurement centres, Chouhan announced. The CM alleged that the previous government had not paid the premium for crop insurance scheme but now a premium of Rs 2200 crore has been paid. Soon, he said, Rs 3,000 crore would be deposited in the accounts of lakhs of farmers of the state. He urged the farmers to come to mandis only when called for procurement and use scarves as mask. The situation in Indore and Bhopal -- the epicentres of Coronavirus pandemic in MP – is coming under control, the CM said. “And as the situation improves, I will consider relaxing the complete lockdown in these places too,” he assured. “As of now, I have decided not to open Vallabh Bhawan (state secretariat) either. Life is more important than anything else,” he said. Other offices will also not open as crowds would gather, he pointed out. Liquor shops to remain shutSpitting and gutka are banned, and liquor shops will remain closed, he added. The chief minister advised that in areas where relaxation is being given, elderly people, children and those with illnesses, especially lung disorders, should avoid coming out of their houses. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan appealed to people to fight the coronavirus unitedly. “I am sure this challenge can be turned into an opportunity for a better Madhya Pradesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/industries-agri-to-resume-in-mp-barring-red-zones-cm/articleshow/75241233.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Three scientific institutes to start Covid-19 testing soon in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Three prominent scientific institutes in the city will soon start Covid-19 testing facility in their labs. The three institutes — Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP), Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI) — have been paired with private and government hospitals which do not have testing facility or where labs are overburdened. Once functional, these three labs will together test 300 samples daily. BSIP, which comes under the department of science and technology (DST), has completed all formalities and is waiting for supply of samples. IITR and NBRI will also start testing soon. On April 2, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had given a go ahead to DST and CSIR to allow their labs to start testing at their responsibility, provided they follow all guidelines. All labs will have to upload testing data in real time on ICMR and government of India websites. BSIP director Vandana Prasad said the institute had advanced bio-safety lab (BSL2A) and procured diagnostic and PPE kits for the six-member expert team – three each from BSIP and a private lab – to conduct the tests. “We are uploading documents on ICMR website to get login and password for uploading of test results,” she added. IITR director Alok Dhawan said “The RNA extraction machine needed for tests will arrive in a week. The nodal agency has paired us with Hind Institute of Medical Sciences, Barabanki.” NBRI director Prof SK Barik said the institute’s lab was being readied and training of scientists would start soon. “Order for RNA extraction machine has been placed. We will be fully ready in 3-4 weeks. KGMU has paired us with Era’s Medical College and hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-scientific-institutes-to-start-covid-testing-soon/articleshow/75240643.cms||Mohita Tewari
April 20, 2020||Kochi||Tiny tot takes baby steps into vlogging||Kochi: Be it a sweet voice or a talent to dance, YouTube has become a platform for many to exhibit their skills. Though many try their luck with this social media outlet, only a few get successful. UKG student Anora Therese Jinto, fondly called as Manikutty, from Aluva is proving that there are no age barriers online, as she is on the path to become a YouTube celebrity, with her channel Manikutty’s world becoming a hit. Her short hair neatly combed and a pretty little bow affixed on to the side, when Manikutty launches into her monologue in the video, a smile would sprout on the face of anyone who watch. The little girl, a student of Naipunya Public School, Kakkanad, decided to start a YouTube channel on her own after seeing similar contents online and on television. She told her uncle, a blogger, about her desire and he was more than willing to help her with the production. At a time when kids are glued to their TV screens, Anora says that the hobby that she is most interested in is cooking. “I like the food that my mother makes. So, I asked mom to teach me cooking and she taught me how to make a sandwich. It was quite easy and I explained it as a video, so that kids like me too could make my mom’s sandwich at their homes,” says Manikutty. Manikutty gives a task every day for kids who are sitting at home due to the lockdown. She has already done videos on microgreens, painting with earbuds, action songs, cooking, learning public speaking and crafts that could be useful even at school. “The other day I did a video on making geometry shapes using pulses available at home. It is very easy and it will prepare you for school as well,” says Manikutty. The girl has already completed over 19 challenges, by uploading one video every day during the lockdown. Her parents are now encouraging her to continue vlogging even after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tiny-tot-takes-baby-steps-into-vlogging/articleshow/75238744.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Safety measures at Nethravathi bridge still a distant dream||Mangaluru: Ever since Cafe Coffee Day founder V G Siddhartha’s death in 2019, people have been demanding for safety measures to be put in place on the bridge across the Nethravathi River. Nearly a dozen suicides were reported at the same spot, thereafter, and people’s representatives’ assurances to introduce safety measures at the bridge still remain only on paper. A 35-year-old man from Konaje went missing after abandoning his car on the Nethravathi bridge on Wednesday night, and his body was found on Friday. Following this, MLAs of Mangaluru and Mangaluru City South reiterated that measures will be taken to prevent suicides on the bridge, immediately. Mangaluru MLA U T Khader said he will sanction money from his local are development fund, to construct a wall to prevent suicides, for the two bridges on the national highway across the Nethravathi bridge. “I have already spoken to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials about a suicide prevention wall for the bridges. The work will begin soon after the lockdown is lifted,” said Khader. Meanwhile, Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said CCTV cameras and grills will be installed on the bridges to prevent suicides. “We have already decided to install CCTV cameras, and also to fix grills on both sides of the bridges, through the Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA). CCTV cameras will be installed at an estimated cost of Rs 5 lakh. Meanwhile, it may cost Rs 58 lakh to install metal mesh on both sides of the bridge, to prevent suicides. Tenders will be invited within a week, and the work will be started soon,” Kamath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/safety-measures-at-nethravathi-bridge-still-a-distant-dream/articleshow/75237890.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||After last case tests -ve, Goa is free of Covid-19 for now||Panaji: Goa on Sunday became the first state to be free of Covid-19 patients for the moment as the seventh patient recovered from the virus. The tiniest state has not reported a single Covid-19 case since April 3 and all seven patients—six had a travel history, while one was the brother of one of the patients—have now recovered. “It is a moment of satisfaction and relief for Goa, but we can’t relax. The state will continue to be on a high alert since cases have risen in Belagavi. The borders will remain sealed and those coming into Goa will be put under quarantine,” CM Pramod Sawant said. Belagavi is an important link for Goa as it is from here that the state procures most of its vegetable and fruit supply. “Zero indeed has great value! Immensely happy to announce that all the Covid-19 positive cases in the state are now negative,” health minister Vishwajit Rane tweeted. Two cured patients have been sent home after seven days in quarantine. They have been asked to remain in home quarantine, while five others are under facility quarantine. Sawant said it was the efforts of doctors and medics, who worked hard despite the risk, along with various administrative measures to implement the lockdown, and cooperation of the people that helped contain the spread of the virus. As of Sunday, approximately 800 tests have been conducted in the state, and more tests will be conducted after the door-to-door survey reports are screened, he said. “We will know how many more tests have to be conducted on Monday,” he said. Sawant added that all 88 tests conducted on Saturday were negative for Covid-19. Sixty-four tests conducted on Sunday were also negative. “We will not have positive cases if people continue to cooperate,” Sawant said. The state has procured 1,000 thermal guns and the order for procuring ventilators has been placed as a precautionary measure. Over 200 public places were sanitised in past few days, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-last-case-tests-ve-goa-is-free-of-covid-19-for-now/articleshow/75240650.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||Contest to help Goa cope post Covid-19||Panaji: The challenge for the world is not limited to overcoming the current pandemic, but also to cope from the socio-economic fallouts post Covid-19. To help address this issue for Goa, the organization GDP Foundation has initiated a contest-cum-internship called ‘Parivartan Karo Na’ The project is open to institutes, colleges, professionals, NGOs, self-help groups, civil societies and cooperative societies. There are five challenges or categories to choose from. The contest has already opened for entries on April 14 and closes for submissions on May 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/contest-to-help-goa-cope-post-covid-19/articleshow/75240652.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Well-to-do families seek share in aid meant for needy people in Nashik||NASHIK: This district administration’s efforts to facilitate the supply of food and dry ration to the needy people in the city are also being misused by some well-to-do individuals who are in no need of any government aid. The district administration has started a helpline to deliver food to the needy people at the various centres with the help of non-government organisations (NGOs). “So far, the administration, with the help of NGOs, has made cooked food available to more than 3 lakh people across Nashik city. The administration is also providing dry ration to households that cannot afford to buy food. However, we have found that several people, who have the means to buy things from the market, still expect the government to help them,” Nashik additional collector Nilesh Sagar said. The officer said that the administration has converted the four-digit 1077 telephone number managed by district disaster management authority into the helpline for people. “There are calls from the people for food and grains. We arrange for the provisions with the help of the individuals and institutions who have registered with us. However, often, when our teams get to the destination, they realise that the caller has the means to afford to buy things from the market. We have such experiences on almost a daily basis,” the officer said. A senior officer from the administration gave an example of one such recent call. “The team attending to the call was stunned to find that the demand for grains was made by a family that owned a bungalow and an automobile. After enquiry, the team learnt that there was no real emergency. The family just wanted to claim the benefits of the PM’s foodgrain scheme,” the officer said. In another case, a person employed in Dubai — now residing with his parents in the city — placed a request for foodgrain. “When details were sought, the person presented his old saffron card. The person is not a priority family beneficiary. Further enquiry revealed that he earns about Rs 70,000 per month. But he still wanted benefits for his parents from the government quota,” the officer added. In yet another case, an eatery owner, who earns about Rs 50,000 per month, sought grains from the administration. When he was told that only those with an income of less than Rs 20,000 are eligible, he quickly claimed that he fell in the same bracket. But when warned that an enquiry would be conducted later, the person withdrew his request. All the above requests were turned down by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/well-to-do-families-seek-share-in-aid-meant-for-needy-people/articleshow/75240341.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Nashik gets 12 tonne rice under PM scheme||NASHIK: The Nashik district has received 11,894 tonne of rice under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for the 7.65 lakh ‘priority’ and ‘Antyoday’ cardholders, said Arvind Narsikar, the district supply officer. The officer said that the rice, which is to be distributed at the rate of 5 kg per person, would be given to the respective ration card holders through the Fair Price Shop (FPS). The rice has been made available at 1,575 shops across the Nashik city and even parts of Malegaon city. The distribution is taking time because of the lack of storage facility at the respective shops and hence the distribution will be carried out accordingly. “The 11,894 MT of rice under the PMGKAY is being lifted from the Food Corporation of India godowns and made available at Manmad and Nashik Road stations from where it is being transported under the Public Distribution System (PDS),” Arvind Narsikar, the DSO said. Meanwhile, 19,059 MT of food grains are to be distributed regularly to the beneficiaries in 2,609 shops across the district. So far, 88 percent of the stock has been distributed to the beneficiaries. “Earlier, the government decided to give food grains for all three months at one go, but then it was decided to give the food grains through the regular month-wise system. This decision was revised because of lack of storage facilities at local levels,” said a officer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-gets-12-tonne-rice-under-pm-scheme/articleshow/75240344.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||15-member panel to facilitate burials in Covid-19 death cases||LUCKNOW: The Islamic Centre of India on Sunday formed a 15-member ‘Qabristan Sewa Samiti’ (Committee to help in burials) to facilitate last rites of persons dying of Covid-19 in Lucknow district, both as per the health department protocol and in the Islamic light. Till date, the city has reported one death due to the coronavirus infection and that is of a 64-year-old patient who died here on Wednesday. The 15-member committee comprises private doctors, clerics and social workers. When the committee members would be contacted by a family seeking burial of someone who has died of Covid-19 they would extend full help to them by facilitating the burial without any untoward incident. The burial will be done as per WHO protocols. Head of the Islamic Centre of India and Imam of the Aishbagh Eidgah Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali said that the need for formation of such a committee arose after locals did not allow burial of an elderly patient in the public graveyard of Aishbagh. This, he said, was due to misconceptions about performing last rites of a person died of Covid-19 though there were definitive guidelines for the same. “The Aishbagh incident is highly condemnable. After it a fatwa was issued by Darul Uloom Farangi Mahal based Darul Ifta for the burial of Muslims, who have died of Covid-19, as per Islamic and WHO protocols. Following the 'fatwa', we started receiving hundreds of phone calls from people who were not clear about the proper method for last rites in such cases,” Maulana Khalid Rasheed said. It was then that the cleric formed the committee and also requested clerics in other districts to come up with the same. Panel convener is Maulana Mohammad Mushtaq who can be contacted on 9415102947. Haji Mohammad Kaleem Khan is the co-convener: 6392207341 and 9648442910.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15-member-panel-to-facilitate-burials-in-covid-death-cases/articleshow/75240648.cms||Yusra Husain
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||97 mandals marked as hotspots in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has identified 97 mandals as red zones or hotspots in Andhra Pradesh, after 11 of the 13 districts in the state were categorised as ‘hotspot districts with large outbreaks’ by the Union government. The delineation of the red zone mandals was made on the basis of Covid-19 cases reported till Saturday. According to state authorities, all cities, towns and municipalities other than red zones should also continue with lockdown from April 20 and keep restrictions in place till May 3, in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the urban parts of the state. As of Saturday, there were 158 containment clusters within these affected mandals and cities, which may increase with the detection of new cases outside existing clusters. The curbs, which will be conditionally eased from April 20, will only be applicable to green zone mandals. The state registered 603 Covid-19 cases as of Saturday. The doubling rate in Kurnool (2.5 days), Guntur (3.3), Chittoor (3.7) and Anantapur (3.9) districts is less than four days, while Prakasam and Nellore districts have a doubling rate of four days. The overall doubling rate of the state is 3.4 days. According to special chief secretary, health, medical, and family welfare department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, the state government considered the mandal as an administrative unit for the purpose of containment and phased withdrawal of the lockdown. “The red zones or the red mandals will be converted to orange zone if no new cases are registered in 14 days from April 20. If the trend continues for the next 14 days, the orange mandals will be declared as green zone,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/97-mandals-marked-as-hotspots-in-ap/articleshow/75238731.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||50k industrial staff set to return to work today||Panaji: After a month-long unplanned closure, Goa’s industrial sector will shake off the dust and get back to work, albeit with several restrictions. Face masks, staggered shifts and periodic sanitation will become the order of the day for the 4500-odd industrial units registered in Goa. Unsure of the way forward, the sector will take stock of the situation on Monday, check on their inventory of raw material and spend the next two days cleaning up, said industry representatives. “The next two days will be spent just cleaning. This is not like a regular opening after a weekend,” said Confederation of Indian Industry Goa chapter chairman Blaise Costabir. The state government has allowed all the industrial units outside municipal limits to restart operations and Goa Industrial Development Corporation has already begun issuing colour-coded travel stickers to employees based on the requests of individual establishments. While pharmaceutical firms have been operational since the first week of the lockdown, other industrial units engaged in manufacturing essential goods were granted permission to operate on a case-by-case basis. Now, the government has allowed all manufacturing activity along with the entire industrial supply chain to become operational. The government has also permitted interstate and intrastate movement of goods to commence. Distilleries involved in alcohol production and automotive showrooms will not be allowed to commence operations. “All the units in industrial estates and those located in rural areas but outside industrial estates can start from Monday. It is as per the MHA guidelines. As of now, our requirement is for 50,000 travel stickers,” said president of the Goa State Industries Association Damodar Kochkar. While the relaxation in the lockdown is aimed at reviving the economic cycle, the government has made individual proprietors responsible for the safety of the workers. Hence wearing of face masks at the workplace, sanitisation and staggered shifts have to be followed. “Around 13,000 colour coded travel stickers with a hologram have been issued, with the total demand from employees pegged at 50,000,” said Kochkar. The state has prohibited the entry of workers from outside its borders. While private firms situated in towns and urban areas will not be allowed to restart operations, IT companies can remain operational with 50% of their staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50k-industrial-staff-set-to-return-to-work-today/articleshow/75240649.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||HIV+ man’s body shifted to hospital on bicycle||HYDERABAD: The body of a 44-year-old HIV positive person was shifted to a hospital on a bicycle for postmortem by a few social workers on Sunday. The deceased, who was suffering from HIV for the last two years, died on Saturday night at a local market where some homeless people were taking shelter amid the lockdown. Police arrived at the shelter after locals alerted them that a few people were gathered there and social distancing was not being maintained. As no one was willing to touch the body or lend their vehicle, police sought the help of social workers, who shifted the body on a cycle. The postmortem report said that the patient died of natural causes and ruled out foul play. The body was handed over to family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hiv-mans-body-shifted-to-hosp-on-bicycle/articleshow/75240347.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||‘40% of agri area already harvested’||Panaji/Margao: The agricultural sector is fully prepared for the marketing of their produce. Days before the government decided to give certain sectors the green signal to open from April 20, farm operations had resumed with necessary permits obtained from the district collectors. Presently, harvesting of paddy is being carried out using 12 mechanised harvesters of the agriculture department. About 40% of the area has already been harvested, sources from the agriculture department said. Coconut, mango and cashew harvest is also being carried out along with other horticulture crops. The only roadblock which was being faced with regards to marketing, and open sale of the fresh produce, will now be eased out following the relaxation, as procurement and wholesale agencies would purchase the vegetables from the farmers. “Some of the vegetables are already being procured by the horticulture corporation. We have already eased the process for farmers so that everything produced in Goa is marketed within the state,” agriculture director Nevil Alfonso said. Zonal agricultural offices are making seeds available at their offices which farmers can procure for the cultivation of kharif crop, he said. The current month usually witnesses a flurry of farming activities – while this is the peak season for harvesting of the rabi crop of paddy, it is also the period for farmers to begin the process of preparing the fields for the kharif crop. However, with the acute shortage of labour and skilled manpower for operating combined harvester machines , farmers are likely to be affected despite the relaxations granted to farming operations, sources in the agriculture field said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/40-of-agri-area-already-harvested/articleshow/75240654.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government bars schools from increasing fee||HYDERABAD: The state government on Sunday issued orders directing the managements of all the private recognized schools not to increase the fee by even a single paisa in the ensuing 2020-21 academic year. Orders were also issued by the government directing the owners of residential properties to defer the rent for the months of March, April and May. It should be collected in instalments later. These crucial decisions. which provide relief to 30 lakh students and their parents and lakhs of individual and family-tenants, were taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led state cabinet after a marathon 6-hour meeting on Sunday. Mincing no words, the chief minister said the school managements and owners of residential properties have to follow these directions. “These are orders under Epidemic Act and not requests. If any owner or management gives trouble, people can call dial 100. The police will take care of them,” the chief minister said. The chief minister said the school managements should not collect any other fee other than tuition fee, and this too should be collected on monthly basis and not in lump sum. “People have gone without income for half a month in March and no income at all in April. They are not in a position to pay increased fee and rentals now,” he said. The CM made it clear that the government will cancel the recognition of the schools which fail to implement the government order on not increasing the fee in 2020-21 academic year. Parents said that this comes as a major relief for them as many schools in the city and elsewhere in Telangana have already hiked fees by more than 30%. “We are extremely grateful that the state has made this decision. However, we are a little worried about the implementation part as private schools are known to defy government orders. At the ground level, education department officials should ensure that all schools, including those affiliated to CBSE, ICSE, among other boards, strictly follow these orders,” said Venkata Sainath, joint secretary, Hyderabad Schools Parents Association. They also welcomed the direction of the state on collecting monthly fees instead of once in a quarter. Parents said that many schools have set April-end as the deadline to clear the fee of April, May, and June and added this will provide them much-needed relief. The CM also made it clear that schools can only collect tuition fees for this quarter and cannot demand any additional fees in the name of activities such as library, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-bars-schools-from-increasing-fee/articleshow/75240662.cms||Roushan Ali
April 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Couple buys groceries for 140 families, connects them to stores||HYDERABAD: Keeping in mind social distancing, a couple in Jeedimetla has come up with a way to supply grocery and vegetables to 140 underprivileged families, especially those without ration cards. The couple contacts the families to take down the list of requirements and then locate a shop in the vicinity of the family. They then pay for the essentials through online portals, following which the family can collect the goods from the shop. Sundeep K, a private employee who works with an NGO, and with his wife Preeti K, a boutique owner, have spent close to one lakh rupees to distribute essential groceries to underprivileged families Kalavathi Nagar, Sai Baba Nagar, Gajularamaram and other areas in Quthbullapur. “ We make online payment to the grocery and kirana shops in various areas, based on the location of the family. We contacted 80 families and directed them to the shops to pick up the essential commodities. We have recently started helping 60 more families,” said Sundeep. “We had got in touch with some of the non-ration cardholders (families) through our driver and domestic help. Soon, others contacted us. Each family of four was provided grocery and food items to last 25 days,” said Preeti. The couple have assigned a fixed budget per kit to reach out to maximum people. According to Sundeep, each kit comprises rice/ wheat, dal, oil, onion and other essentials. Inspired by the couple, a few shopkeepers have started giving goods at prices lower than the MRP. The couple also shared the idea with relatives and friends, four of whom have started helping out families in their respective localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-buys-groceries-for-140-families-connects-them-to-stores/articleshow/75240380.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Nadwa issues social distancing advisory for Ramzan month||LUCKNOW: With few days left for Ramzan, Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulama issued an advisory to maintain social distancing during the holy month. The Islamic seminary’s principal, Maulana Saeed-ur-Rahman, advised Muslims not to hold congregational iftars at mosques, but break their fast at home. The 10-point advisory also asks Muslims not to offer ‘taraweeh’ (elaborate namaz offered by Sunni Muslims) at mosques, but at home. Muslims should also maintain social distancing at mosques and not more than five people should be present at a time, the advisory said. Also, people have been asked not hold Iftar parties, but instead give money in charity. Special prayers should be held for end of coronavirus pandemic, both during ‘sehri’ and ‘iftar’. Public relations officer, Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulama, Faizan Nagrami, also said since those studying at madrasas have been unable to go home because of the lockdown, people can provide aid through online or cheque transaction. A similar advisory was issued by the Islamic Centre of India, which asked Muslims to stay indoors and maintain social distancing during Ramzan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nadwa-issues-social-distancing-advisory-for-ramzan-month/articleshow/75240653.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 NSA detainee breaks out of isolation in Jabalpur||JABALPUR: A Covid-19 NSA detainee, who has been booked for attacking police in Indore during lockdown, broke out of an isolation ward in Jabalpur on Sunday afternoon, triggering a frantic search for him. Jabalpur SP Amit Singh announced a cash reward of Rs 10,000 for his capture, which was later hiked to Rs 50,000. Four policemen who were guarding the detainee have been suspended. The runaway’s father is also coronavirus patient and is currently locked up in Indore central jail. Jabalpur police have set up checkpoints on all roads leading out of the city. Collector Bharat Yadav has instructed police to intensify the search and appealed to residents to alert police immediately if any of them sees the suspect. “People should not be scared. We are looking for him and are hopeful that he will be caught soon. This patient didn’t have severe symptoms,” said the collector. Jabalpur fugitive’s dad is corona patient tooThe fugitive, a 28-yearold, was among four suspects arrested on April 7 for allegedly attacking a police team in Indore’s Chandan Nagar area. The next day, four of them were booked under NSA. Two were sent to Jabalpur jail and the other two to Satna. The jail superintendent in Jabalpur realized that one of the NSA detainees had Covid-19 symptoms so he sent both of them to a hospital isolation ward and had them tested. One tested positive on April 11. The two sent to Satna tested positive the next day. He was in the isolation ward of Netaji Subhash Bose Medical College and Hospital in Jabalpur along with the other Covid-19 patients. On Sunday, they were being shifted to the superspeciality ward, when the NSA detainee seized his chance and escaped. The entire police escort party that took him and the other two to Satna, jail officials who came in contact with them, and the guards deployed to guard him initially – some 27 in all – are in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-nsa-detainee-breaks-out-of-isolation/articleshow/75240351.cms||Amarjeet Singh
April 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cancer hospital to restart OPD from Tuesday||NEW DELHI: The Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI), which was shut down about a fortnight ago when 27 of its staff members and four patients tested positive for Covid-19, has decided to resume OPD services from Tuesday. The hospital said this was being done to ensure that the patients registered with it and others didn’t have to suffer due to lack of treatment. “We have been getting many calls from patients enquiring about the OPD services and for admissions. Therefore, a decision has been taken to resume services in a phased manner,” said a senior doctor. Confirming it, Dr B L Sherwal, medical director of the hospital, said, “We plan to start the OPD services in a limited capacity from Tuesday. Indoor admissions may also start over the next five to six days.” A senior resident doctor working in preventive oncology division at DSCI was the first to be detected with Covid-19. Later, 26 other staff members, including doctors and nurses, also tested positive while the rest of the hospital staff, who tested negative for the novel coronavirus infection, were advised self-quarantine. Four patients admitted to the hospital also tested positive, out of whom two have died, a source said. To reduce the risk of infection spread in future, the hospital is setting up a flu clinic at its entrance. Anyone entering the hospital will have to undergo screening for Covid-19 symptoms and a person with any sign will be referred to a facility designated for Covid-19 treatment. The OPD service is also being moved out from rooms to the waiting area, which is open, the source said. “A public works department team will visit the hospital on Monday to see if DSCI can be run without a centralised airconditioning system and other changes needed for re-starting the services without endangering the life of anyone in the hospital,” said a senior doctor, adding that all OPD appointments would have to be pre-booked. In the meantime, AIIMS is starting a tele-medicine facility for OPD consultation from Monday to help its existing non-Covid-19 patients and others who may require urgent attendance to disease symptoms. During a recent video conference with Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, health minister Satyendar Jain and medical superintendents of major central and state government hospitals, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan urged hospitals to attend to critical non-Covid-19 patients with equal compassion. Vardhan said he had been receiving a lot of complaints regarding denial of treatment to non-Covid patients suffering from critical ailments other than Covid-19 such as patients requiring dialysis and blood transfusion or suffering from respiratory or heart diseases, and pregnant mothers. “We need to take a serious view against this denial of treatment to patients who have been visiting hospitals in case of an emergency and are being forced to visit a number of hospitals, one after another, resulting in denial of immediate medical attention, which may result in loss of their lives,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cancer-hospital-to-restart-opd-tomorrow/articleshow/75240658.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||11 test positive for Covid-19 in Srikalahasti||TIRUPATI: Eleven people, including eight government staff, were tested positive in Srikalahasti on Sunday, taking the overall number of Covid-19 cases in Chittoor district to 35. In Anantapur district, three new cases were reported. “The new cases were detected through random sampling carried out in red zone. The families of the government employees were put under quarantine,” said Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta. The collector said inter-mandal and inter-district movement will be curtailed from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/11-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-srikalahasti/articleshow/75238751.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||With 26 new cases, Covid-19 tally goes up to 153 in Kurnool||TIRUPATI: The overall tally of corona positive cases in Kurnool crossed the 150 mark on Sunday after 26 fresh cases were reported in 24 hours. Meanwhile, the death toll in the district went up to five, after a 78-year-old Covid-19 patient died on Sunday. Officials of the district administration said, out of the 26 new positive cases reported on Sunday, 16 were Delhi returnees who were in isolation at the state government’s quarantine facilities. One of the patients is being treated at the district Covid-19 hospital is from Gadwal, Telangana. The district administration is looking into the details of the remaining nine patients. With the 26 new coronavirus cases, the overall number of active Covid-19 patients has gone up to 153 in the district. District collector G Veerapandian directed officials to designate Rampuram Kottala village as a red zone after one positive case was reported from there on Sunday. On the other hand, district administration officials said the 78-year-old Covid patient who died while undergoing treatment at the government general hospital in Kurnool, was a resident of Medari street. Meanwhile, tension prevailed at Budhavaripeta on Sunday after locals blocked the way to the colony after learning that officials and family members were making preparations for the final rites of a 60-year-old Covid-19 patient who passed away on April 18. The locals told the officials that they will neither allow the body to be brought into the village nor will his final rites be allowed to be performed anywhere near the colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-26-new-cases-covid-tally-goes-up-to-153-in-kurnool/articleshow/75238738.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Month after HC order, Covid-19 labs yet to start at Yavatmal, Chandrapur||Nagpur: Nearly a month after the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s order of starting Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) at Chandrapur and Yavatmal, hardly anything has progressed, government officials said. On March 23, the HC had directed to set up these labs at Government Medical College and Hospitals (GMCHs) for testing Covid-19 patients at both places. Since HC’s directives, the Mumbai-based Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) only granted its administrative approval, but failed to provide equipment and other facilities required to establish VRDL till date. It also granted same approval for VRDL at Gondia GMCH through a government resolution. But there too, the condition is same. The DMER had applied for Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) approval. The ICMR has appointed AIIMS in city as nodal agency for granting such approvals in Vidarbha for Covid-19 testing, where the DMER proposals are pending. Chandrapur GMCH dean Dr SS More confirmed that it would take 8-10 days to set up VRDL as they had given orders to purchase equipment required for it. “We’ve started renovation of the place where this lab would come up on our premises,” he said, while denying any delay. Similar conditions are prevailing in Yavatmal GMCH. “We’ve sent orders for procuring equipment from Haffkine Institute and readying infrastructure, which would take a minimum of 10 days,” Dr Kamble, a professor of paediatrics, said. Nodal officer at AIIMS for VRDL, Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, who’s working under director Dr Vibha Dutta, told TOI that both GMCHs had just applied for purchase of equipment from Haffkine Institute and approval would be granted only after entire infrastructure is in place as per rules and regulations. The HC would hear the case on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/month-after-hc-order-covid-19-labs-yet-to-start-at-yavatmal-chandrapur/articleshow/75240355.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 20, 2020||Goa||Fish, poultry sectors begin regular ops||Panaji: With fishermen having returned to the sea and the supply of chicken being strictly monitored after the bird flu outbreak in Karnataka and Maharashtra, the fish and poultry sectors have begun to function seamlessly, even before the lockdown relaxations on April 20. “We have opened up fisheries since April 11. Retail sale of fish at jetties is not being permitted. The government will have to take a call on the open sale of fish since markets don’t come under our purview,” said fisheries director, Shamila Monteiro. The fisheries department is currently engaged in carrying out awareness drives on sanitation and social distancing at the jetties and fishing spots across the state. The transportation of chicken is also ongoing, provided traders carry the necessary documents for transportation of the birds. Besides the supply of these essential commodities being continued, the department of animal husbandry has issued 492 passes with validity upto May 3, to people to feed stray animals ensuring that they don't starve during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-poultry-sectors-begin-regular-ops/articleshow/75240657.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||Petrol dealers give groceries to 200 families in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik district petrol dealer welfare association has donated grocery packets to over 200 families where one of the family members are disabled. Secretary of the association Sudarshan Patil said, "Many people are going through financial crisis due to the lockdown. On behalf of our association, we have donated grocery packets to 200 families that will easily last them for the next 15 days." The grocery packets distributed to these families contained wheat, rice, two types of pulses, edible oil, salt, tea and sugar. The association came forward to help after Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) asked for voluntary contribution from the association members. "Archana Tambe, deputy commissioner of NMC, had asked us if we would like to extend help to those who are in distress. We immediately agreed and spoke with the grocery dealers to get the food packets ready," Patils said. The grocery packets were handed over to Tambe by the association members on Saturday. The association is an organisation of 350 petrol pump distributors of three government companies — IOCL, HPCL and BPCL — based in Nashik district. The Nashik Municipal Corporation is continuously assisting the poor and needy as well as the families of people with disability by providing them with groceries and other essential items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/petrol-dealers-give-groceries-to-200-families/articleshow/75240348.cms||pragya jain
April 20, 2020||Goa||After last case tests positive, Goa is free of Covid-19 for now||PANAJI: Goa on Sunday became the first state to be free of Covid-19 patients for the moment as the seventh patient recovered from the virus. The tiniest state has not reported a single Covid-19 case since April 3 and all seven patients—six had a travel history, while one was the brother of one of the patients—have now recovered. “It is a moment of satisfaction and relief for Goa, but we can’t relax. The state will continue to be on a high alert since cases have risen in Belagavi. The borders will remain sealed and those coming into Goa will be put under quarantine,” CM Pramod Sawant said. Belagavi is an important link for Goa as it is from here that the state procures most of its vegetable and fruit supply. Zero indeed has great value! Immensely happy to announce that all the COVID-19 positive cases in the state are now… https://t.co/zkvcQqtjbI— VishwajitRane (@visrane) 1587293215000“Zero indeed has great value! Immensely happy to announce that all the Covid-19 positive cases in the state are now negative,” health minister Vishwajit Rane tweeted. Two cured patients have been sent home after seven days in quarantine. They have been asked to remain in home quarantine, while five others are under facility quarantine. Sawant said it was the efforts of doctors and medics, who worked hard despite the risk, along with various administrative measures to implement the lockdown, and cooperation of the people that helped contain the spread of the virus. As of Sunday, approximately 800 tests have been conducted in the state, and more tests will be conducted after the door-to-door survey reports are screened, he said. “We will know how many more tests have to be conducted on Monday,” he said. If people cooperate, we won’t have +ve cases, says SawantSawant added that all 88 tests conducted on Saturday were negative for Covid-19. Sixty-four tests conducted on Sunday were also negative. “We will not have positive cases if people continue to cooperate,” Sawant said. The state has procured 1,000 thermal guns and the order for procuring ventilators has been placed as a precautionary measure. Over 200 public places were sanitised in past few days, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-last-case-tests-ve-goa-is-free-of-covid-19-for-now/articleshow/75240651.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||13 morning walkers arrested in Junagadh||RAJKOT: A total of 13 morning walkers were arrested for the alleged violation of the lockdown order in Jungadh on Sunday morning. So far, a total of 179 morning walkers have been arrested in Junagadh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/13-morning-walkers-arrested/articleshow/75239775.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Amnesty granted by Kuwait to benefit 25k undocumented Indian workers: Embassy||Mangaluru: As many as 25,000 undocumented Indian expatriates living in Kuwait are expected to benefit from the general amnesty, which commenced on April 16, according to Indian Embassy officials in Kuwait. A majority of these expatriates are blue collar workers, and had been staying in the energy-rich country, without valid documents. The general amnesty allows expatriates from India to leave the country without paying a fine, and they also get a free air ticket back home. The MEA has also approved waiver of fee for emergency certificates. Sibi U S, second secretary (labour), Indian Embassy, Kuwait, said that the last time such amnesty was granted was in 2018. During this time, about 15,000 Indians returned to India, and another 5,000 regularised or adjusted their status of residency in Kuwait. In total, 20,000 people from India benefited from the amnesty granted by the Kuwait government in 2018. “This year, the estimated number of residency violators is around 25,000, and most of whom are blue collar workers. The process started on April 16, and will end on April 20.” Explaining as to how thousands of expatriates from India are living in Kuwait by violating the laws of the land, Sibi said all these blue collar workers come to Kuwait to find better opportunities, through the system of sponsorship. However, due to various issues, they lose their visa and documents. Some of their documents are seized by their employers. Hence, they get jeopardised. These expatriates work mostly as labourers and domestic workers. Sibi mentioned that flight services have been stopped to India due to the lockdown to contain Covid-19. “We hope that flights will resume by the time these expatriates complete their documentation.” Another source said that most of the expatriates, who are men, come from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The women expatriates, who are mostly domestic workers, hail from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan tweeted from his handle V Muraleedharan @MOS_MEA tweets: “Happy to share MEA has approved waiver of fee for Emergency Certificates to our nationals covered under amnesty declared by Kuwait Govt in view of difficulties caused by #COVID19. This will benefit around 25,000 Indian nationals in Kuwait.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/amnesty-granted-by-kuwait-to-benefit-25k-undocumented-indian-workers-embassy/articleshow/75237921.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 20, 2020||Bareilly||Man forced to drink sanitizer, dies in Rampur||Rampur: A 22-year-old man died allegedly after a group of five men forced him to drink sanitizer after a minor dispute in UP’s Rampur district. The alleged incident took place on April 14 at district’s Motipur village when Kunwarpal and his partner were sanitising the village. He died on April 17. An FIR has been registered against the five accused and police have launched a investigation into the matter. Additional superintendent of police of Rampur Arun Kumar Singh, said, “The brother of Kunwarpal informed us about the incident. He alleged that when Kunwarpal went to the village for sanitation on April 14, he was beaten up by some anti-social elements. The youth was admitted to a private hospital in Rampur. He was later admitted to TMU Hospital at Moradabad at where he was died on April 17.” The ASP added, “On April 14, Kunwarpal along with his partner was doing sanitation work in Prempur village. During the spraying, a few drops of sanitizer fell on Indrapal. He got angry and started fighting with Kunwarpal. A few others joined him and they forcibly fed sanitizer to Kunwarpal. “But, post mortem report revealed no sign of injuries on the body of Kunwarpal. His viscera has been preserved and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). Only after the FSL report, it will be clear that whether he had consumed sanitizer or not.” The ASP said, “During the preliminary investigation and after speaking with the doctors and the experts it was found that sanitizer cannot cause death. The investigation is going on into matter.” Police have registered an FIR into the matter under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) 147 (rioting), 323(voluntarily causing hurt) against Inderpal and four other unidentified assailants. Divinder Singh, SHO of Bhot police station said, “The investigation is going on into the matter and further action will be taken after the FSL report of the deceased is here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-forced-to-drink-sanitizer-dies-in-rampur/articleshow/75238756.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||2 from Yavatmal, 1 from Akola test positive: Vidarbha at 132||Nagpur: Two from Yavatmal and one from Akola tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday taking total number of confirmed positive cases in Vidarbha to 132. Including these three and ten from Nagpur, total 13 suspects were tested positive on Sunday from Vidarbha. Nagpur is highest in Vidarbha with 73 cases followed by Buldhana (21), Yavatmal (15) and Akola (14). Total 23 patients have recovered and discharged till date from the region. These include 12 from Nagpur, 7 from Yavatmal, 3 from Buldhana and 1 from Gondia. Four patients out of 10 admitted in Yavatmal had recovered and were discharged on Saturday which brought the active Covid-19 cases in Yavatmal Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) to 6. But on Sunday, two persons who were already admitted in the isolation ward of the GMCH tested positive. These include a 26-year-old man and a 42-year-old man – both residents of the same area where earlier positive patients used to stay. In Akola, a 14-year-old boy, son of a deceased patient, who had died on April 14, tested positive. Earlier, daughter of the deceased had already tested positive. Now, the entire family and close contacts of the patient are quarantined in institutional facilities. Meanwhile, 11 patients, including 7 who had stayed in Badnera mosque, have tested negative in their 7th day reports. Doctors will now take their 14th day samples for tests. Similar developments are in Amravati too. The first test reports of the four Covid-19 positive cases after taking treatment have come negative. All four are the relatives of the Covid-19 positive person of Hathipura locality, who died on April 2. The family quartet had tested positive after the death of the man in the family. They were admitted to a Covid hospital. Their health improved during the treatment following which their swabs were again sent for testing. The reports came on Sunday and they all tested negative in the first test after treatment. As a precaution, their second swab test has been done and the report is awaited. “If these reports too are negative, the four will be given discharged from the hospital,” said district collector Shailesh Naval.It also means that the coming week might bring several good news of patients recovering and going home from Vidarbha. Four from Amravati, 3 from Buldhana, and at least 9 patients from Nagpur are on road to recovery and their set of tests is scheduled from Monday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-from-yavatmal-1-from-akola-test-positive-vidarbha-at-132/articleshow/75239796.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||Less than 1% checked with rapid test kits positive: Minister||CHENNAI: Less than one percent of people tested using the rapid antibody testing kits the state had procured from China have so far tested positive for the viral infection, health minister C Vijayabaskar said. The directorate of public health distributed 36,000 testing kits across districts for random testing for epidemiological studies and surveillance, particularly at hotspots in Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Madurai and Dindigul. "These kits will not be used for diagnosis," he said. The rapid antibody kits give the results in 30 minutes against the five hours taken by RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) test. One has to clean a finger with an alcohol swab and use the lancet provided for finger-pricks. "If the test turns out to be positive, we still have to send nasal and throat swabs for a PCR test for confirmation," Vijayabaskar said. The samples of people who tested positive today were sent to lab for confirmation, he said. The state has more than 32 labs, including 22 in the government sector. "We are ramping up RT-PCR tests so we can screen and detect more people. On Sunday, samples from 5,744 were processed," he said. While teams of health workers from the National Institute of Epidemiology are taking random samples, health workers in the districts are drawing blood samples of people with influenza like illness in containment zones. In the west, Coimbatore, which has the second largest number of cases, has received 2,000 rapid test kits as first instalment and on Sunday 275 people were tested, said collector K Rajamani. "On an average, 100 kits will be used for each containment area," he said. Officials have already tested 2,075 people from the containment zones using RT-PCR. The central districts, Trichy and Karur, received around 1,000 kits each. While Trichy officials tested 150 people, 10 were tested in Karur. In southern regions, Madurai and Dindigul districts have received 1,000 kits each. Till Sunday, 61 people from Madurai, 20 from Dindigul and 275 from Coimbatore were tested — all of them turned negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/less-than-1-checked-with-rapid-test-kits-positive-minister/articleshow/75240358.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||Eleven industries to start operations from Monday in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Eleven industries have been given permission to start operations in UP from Monday, subject to conditions. These include steel, refineries, cement, chemicals, fertilisers, garments (excluding apparel), foundries, paper, tyre, common effluent treatment plants and sugar mills. However, only the manufacturing and industrial units will be permitted to function and not their headquarters or administrative offices. Chief Secretary RK Tiwari has issued a detailed advisory for these industries, asking them to take adequate precautions to ensure that their staff is kept safe. In case an industry or unit fails to adhere to the government’s rules as may be updated from time to time, its licence to operate can be cancelled. “In the first phase, the units should work with a minimum number of staff and in no case can they be more than 50% of the total staff. The permission to operate is being granted only to the units and not to their administrative offices. The permission will also not be applicable to units located within hotpots,” the directions state. In preparation for commencement of operations, owners will have to ensure that there are sufficient masks, sanitizers, soap and water available for the entire staff. Once the staff reports for duty, the owner or manager will have to carry out a random test of a minimum of five and a maximum 10 workers. All workers will need to be screened thermally while infrared thermometers should also be available on site. Social distancing has to be practised strictly. The CS said that the implementation of the rules will be ensured by the district administration and health department. “In case there is a suspected case of COVID-19 within the premises, he or she will have to be reported to the district administration,” the CS said. Under the rules, no passes will be required by workers and officials if they are living within the premises of the factory with the objective of working there. In fact, owners are being encouraged to make arrangements for workers to stay within the premises itself. However, if that is not possible, the workers will be issued passes to travel between their residence and place of work. The factory owner will also be to ensure that workers are picked up and brought to the factory while following strict social distancing norms. No vehicle can be filled to more than 50% of its capacity. The government has offered the use of UPSRTC buses to industrialists at a cost to bring their staff to the work place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/11-industries-to-start-ops-from-today/articleshow/75240669.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Batu forms special committee for exams||AURANGABAD: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (Batu) has formed a special committee to decide the future course of action with regards to conducting exams. Led by the vice-chancellor, the multi-member panel will chart out the policy regarding examinations in keeping with the directives from the government. While the university earlier had postponed the examinations from May 26 to June 16, now the special committee will chart out the schedule ahead as per the official policies. Ulhas Shiurkar, principal of city-based Deogiri Institute of Engineering and Management, who is also the co-coordinator for Batu regional centre, said the special panel was waiting for further directives from the state and Union governments. “One of the widely discussed proposals is to conduct the examination through online. It may happen either during the lockdown or after the restrictions related to the lockdown are lifted, as per the directives from the government. The other proposal is conducting the examination in a traditional manner after lockdown in minimum possible days. The special committee is expected to prepare an action plan for both these scenarios,” he said. Shiurkar said directives from the apex bodies such as All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), University Grants Commission (UGC) and those from the higher and technical education department of Maharashtra government are awaited . State higher education minister Uday Samant said that the government has no plans to cancel the university-level examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/batu-forms-special-committee-for-exams/articleshow/75239789.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||We’ll have a clearer picture in a month: Docs||Panaji: Goa will continue to be on its guard for at least a month, despite being a Covid-19 free state at the moment. Authorities including health minister Vishwajit Rane and GMC dean Dr SM Bandekar said there were no reasons to celebrate yet and that the focus will continue to be on testing. Fewer than 800 samples have been tested till now. “We can take pride in the fact that no new cases have been reported,” said Bandekar. “We have flattened the curve, but it will be premature to celebrate. We need to wait for a month to see how the situation unravels,” said Bandekar. The state has not reported a single Covid-19 case since April 3, while the seventh patient was declared cured on Sunday. Goa’s cautious approach stems from reports that neighbouring states like Maharashtra and Karnataka both have high number of cases. Worryingly, Belagavi has been listed as Covid-19 hotpot with 44 cases till Saturday evening. Belagavi is an important link for Goa as it is from here that the state procures most of its vegetable and fruit supply. There are also fears that Goa could find itself on the back foot again with almost 8,000 seafarers now preparing to return to the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has been in regular touch with the ministry of shipping and indicated that the process of bringing seafarers home will commence soon. “Seafarers must be quarantined for 28 days. People having viral diseases should be screened. If we follow social distancing and wear masks in public spaces, it will help contain the spread of other viruses as well, not just Covid-19,” said Dr Anil Mehndiratta, TB and test physician. Goa has already made wearing a mask in public mandatory as 33 percent of its 60,000 odd government workforce starts to go to office from Monday. “First and foremost, the borders should continue to be closed, except for essential goods. Goa did well by closing its borders early,” said Dr Virendra Gaonkar, chairperson of the Healthway hospital. The veteran doctor has suggested that reopening of schools be deferred by three to four months. “It is tough to expect young children to maintain physical distancing and adhere to guidelines. They are safer if they are home under the watchful eyes of family members,” he said. Dr S Samuel Arawattigi, president Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Goa, said the only way forward for Goa “is test, test and test”. “People must follow social distancing and take care to keep themselves safe,” he said. Meanwhile, TrueNat machines have been installed at ward 148 of GMC to conduct screening tests of patients admitted with respiratory illnesses and other suspects. TrueNat, a small battery-operated machine, can provide test results under an hour and can run up to 32-48 samples of multiple diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/well-have-a-clearer-picture-in-a-month-docs/articleshow/75240667.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Stern action against those spreading rumours: Maharashtra HM||AURANGABAD: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday warned of stern action against those spreading communal hatred and rumours at a time when the country is fighting a battle against Covid-19. Addressing a news conference, he said that those misusing social media to create a rift between communities, politicising issues and spreading rumours will face strict action. Deshmukh was in the city for a two-day official tour starting from Saturday. During his review meeting on Sunday at the revenue divisional commissioner office, Aurangabad, he said that the state is taking all efforts for maximum testing. “In Aurangabad 1,300 tests for Covid-19 have been conducted and around 1.90 lakh people have been screened for symptoms.” A total of 102 people associated with Tabligh Jamaat have been quarantined in the district. All those who have violated travel visas will face an inquiry followed by an action, said Deshmukh. As per the latest figures, Aurangabad has reported 30 Covid-19 cases, of which three have succumbed to the ailment. Deshmukh citing the instructions from PMO, said that it is not possible to bring back all those who are currently stranded in other states. Sources informed that during the closed-door meeting with the people’s representatives and authorities from police, revenue, civic body and health departments, several issues were discussed. After the issue of ZP district health officer Dr Amol Gite getting caught with Rs 6.70 lakh cash and costly liquor bottles came up during the meeting, Deshmukh ordered strict action against him. MP Imtiaz Jaleel demanded to establish mini-markets for each of the areas so that people do not gather in large numbers in the major markets to buy essentials. He also demanded travel pass for 16 temple priests so they can return to Vidhisha in Madhya Pradesh. The other issues of poor people not getting foodgrains due to lack of ration cards and hundreds of students from the region stranded in different places in the country were unanimously raised by MLC Satish Chavan and MLC Vikram Kale along with Jaleel. MLA Atul Save raised the issues of industries and the difficulties being faced by them, while former assembly speaker Haribhau Bagde raised the issues faced by the farmers. MLC Ambadas Danve raised the issue of illegal liquor being rampantly sold and demanded auditing of grain distribution through the public distribution system (PDS). MLC Satish Chavan alleged that the police’s failure to impose proper lockdown has resulted in the free entry of outsiders in the district. Mayor Nandkumar Ghodele along with others demanded restrictions on the passes being issued for people coming from Mumbai and Pune, and strict imposition of lockdown in the city. Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad demanded all the essential services except pharmacy should be available only for two to four hours each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stern-action-against-those-spreading-rumours-hm/articleshow/75239802.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nashik||12-yr-old boy killed in leopard attack in Nashik taluka||NASHIK: A 12-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack near a sugar cane field in the Hinganvedhe village of Nashik taluka at 6 am on Sunday. The incident took place when a group of three-four boys from the village were walking near the farm. The boy was walking a few metres behind his friends when a leopard, hidden in the field, pounced on him. The animal attacked the boy on his neck and dragged him into the field, said the forest department officials and added that the boy was killed on the spot. The first attack of a leopard is very powerful and there are chances of survival only if the first attack is evaded. Moreover, the attack was on the boy’s neck which seriously injured and killed him, said the officials. When the other boys in the group started screaming, the villagers came rushing and the leopard fled. Villagers rushed the boy to the Nashik district civil hospital where doctor declared him dead. The post mortem was done and later his body was cremated. The village is located near Eklahare village on the bank of the Darna river. The forest department officials have erected a cage at the sugar cane field to trap the leopard. “Due to the ongoing lockdown, human presence in the area has reduced and several wild animals are seen moving around this area at night. We have erected cages at various locations in the district following complaints from the villagers,” the officials said. Presence of leopards in the stretch between Eklahare and Sinnar is common. Many leopard accidents take place along this stretch leading to big cat fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/12-yr-old-boy-killed-in-leopard-attack-in-nashik-taluka/articleshow/75240357.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: No entry for visitors at RTO till lockdown ends||PANAJI: Since the complete digitisation of the transport department, officials had been accepting applications for licencing, fitness certification and vehicle registration online. Despite that, people prefer to visit the department’s offices. “Now, people will have to learn how to send applications online. There will be a shift in the functioning as more applications will be sent online, we will modify ourselves accordingly,” transport director Rajan Satardekar said. There are a total of 75 documents including schemes that can be downloaded by citizens from the transport department website https://goatransport.gov.in/FormsDownload. The provision was made so that citizens and registered transport vehicle owners don’t have to stand in line or visit the office to submit forms or follow up. It was also aimed at reducing paperwork and interaction between citizens and officials. Though the offices are opening on Monday after a long hiatus, the transport and RTO staff will only be engaging in backend work. The major work is that of driving licences, vehicle registrations, fitness certificates and issuing permits. There is however a blanket extension for the documents expiring during the lockdown. Last week, the government extended the validity of documents like driving licences, permits and registrations that expired since February 1, upto June 30. Operations like installation of high security registration plates (HSRP), fitness tests and driving tests will stay suspended until the lockdown ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-entry-for-visitors-at-rto-till-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75240670.cms||Nida Sayed
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh only behind Rajasthan in Covid-19 testing||VIJAYAWADA: In its fight against Covid-19, the state is now only behind Rajasthan in screening people per million population. AP has tested 26,958 samples (539 samples per million) against the national average of 268 samples. Rajasthan averaged 685 tests per million followed by, Kerala (534), Maharashtra (528) and Tamil Nadu (516). Apart from setting up eight RT-PCR labs in various parts of the state, the stated extended its testing footprint through Truenat machines and it will be now taken forward with rapid antibody testing and chemiluminescent immunoassays IgG and IgM (CLIA) testing. The state had testing capacity of only 90 samples a day when the first lab was made functional on February 15. Special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare department, KS Jawahar Reddy, said the combined testing capacity will be increased to about 17,000 samples a day in the next few days. “Increasing the testing capacity and screening more people will help detect more positive cases,” said Jawahar Reddy. Meanwhile, the health department said that Covid patients aged above 60 years would be treated only at the four state-level Covid hospitals in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Nellore. Even asymptomatic patients, aged between 40 and 60, with comorbidities will be shifted to the state hospitals. The symptomatic patients of any age, having comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac conditions, or those who are on immunosuppressive drugs or chronic steroid therapy, or those with chronic respiratory illnesses like asthma, COPD, bronchiectasis, etc. shall also be treated at state Covid hospitals. Asymptomatic patients below 40 years, even if they have comorbidities, will be treated at district Covid hospitals. The officials have designated one hospital in each district as district Covid hospital, apart from the state-level hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-only-behind-raj-in-covid-testing/articleshow/75238757.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Rajkot||Three booked for criminal intimidation in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Three history sheeters were booked on Saturday night for allegedly threatening to kill a resident of Bhomeshwer Vadi on Jamnagar Road in Rajkot and intimidating him with a knife on Friday. Police said the accused, identified as Majid Bhanu, Abdul Khiyani alias Hakubha and Mustafa Khiyani ran after Yasin Sandhi, with Bhanu brandishing a knife. “The accused were angry with Sandhi after his father Yusuf had told them to go home and not to break the lockdown order,” said Suresh Makwana, assistant sub-inspector with Pradyumannagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-booked-for-criminal-intimidation/articleshow/75239794.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Chennai||Restart manual in hand, factories await state nod||CHENNAI: Four days after the Centre gave its nod for staggered reopening of factories, delay in getting guidelines from the state government could defer resuming of operations. The Centre had recommended reopening factories in phases from April 20. Since then, the state has convened meetings of various stakeholders on draft operational guidelines. It has received inputs from industry bodies on the nature of clearances required from the government. After receiving approvals from the state government, the companies must get a nod from local collectors to restart operations. "We are ready. The guidelines are yet to be announced. We will start as soon as we hear from the government," an official at Hyundai said. Other carmakers including Ford and Renault Nissan have said they were awaiting guidelines. EMS companies or phone makers are ready. "We are awaiting guidelines from the government and also the special committee," said Sriram Srinivasan, MD of Syrma Tech, an EMS company inside MEPZ. Most developers of Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in Tamil Nadu have decided to wait for the state government to announce guidelines on relaxing restrictions. Following the Centre’s notification, most SEZs were keen to resume operations from Monday. They reiterated their stand to the Development Commissioner for SEZs, M K Shanmuga Sundaram, who convened a review meeting on Friday. "It has been decided that it is better to wait for the state government’s decision, which will be binding on us, especially with the need to coordinate with the district administration and police for the movement of goods and employees," Sundaram told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/restart-manual-in-hand-factories-await-state-nod/articleshow/75240374.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Dehradun||Allow use of cars during daily ease in lockdown : Senior citizens||Dehradun: For many senior citizens in the city, the ban on use of four-wheelers during the lockdown is proving to be a problem, especially when they want to venture out to buy essentials during the daily six-hour relaxation in lockdown. A number of senior citizens told TOI that they are unable to ride two-wheelers at their advanced age, and therefore, special concession must be made for them so that they could use their cars. Kanhaiya Lal Pokhriyal, 71, a former mountaineer and police officer, said, “The ban on cars is worrying for senior citizens like me. I feel if I suddenly fall ill, I will have to seek someone’s help to get me to a medical facility. The administration must fairly assess the situation and verify if someone does have a valid reason to step out in a car.” Retired Colonel Arun Sareen, 70, added that it was “humiliating to be stopped by a constable after serving for nearly three decades in the Army.” “I do not own a two-wheeler. If I have to move out for buying necessary supplies, it has to be in my car. Since most stores are running out of essential items and home delivery now takes longer than expected, one has to step out once in a while. People like me, who are senior citizens, should certainly not be humiliated on the road, especially when they have a valid reason.” Shevata Rai Talwar, 58, a resident of Race Course, said that she had been unable to stock essentials for herself and the stray dogs she feeds daily because of the ban on cars. “In the absence of any other option, I am forced to carry heavy bags all the way home from the market,” said Talwar. A 87-year-old resident of Dalanwala said that she had sent her daughter-in-law to fetch some medicines for her in a four-wheeler on Friday but her car got challaned. “We do not own a two-wheeler and travelling by car is the only option for us,” said the woman, who did not wish to be named. The president of Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, Mahesh Bhandari, 73, said that these are genuine concerns of senior residents of the city and should be addressed. “I am a senior citizen myself and understand the difficulties being faced by others. I receive messages and calls from several senior citizens from all over Dehradun, who either need medical help or are finding it difficult to get supplies. The situation is worse for elderly women, most of whom are not in a condition to drive a car or a two-wheeler.” Dehradun additional district magistrate (ADM) Ramji Sharan Sharma when queried about the matter, said, “We are allowing cars in special cases through the online facility of issuing passes. Although, in the interest of all, the number of passes issued are limited and involve a verification process.” Speaking on the issue, SP City, Shweta Choubey said, “We are facilitating passes to people in cases of emergency. In some cases, the passes have also been sent on WhatsApp. In case of an urgent need, people can ask for help at the local police station or the nearest police outpost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/allow-use-of-cars-during-daily-ease-in-lockdown-senior-citizens/articleshow/75238782.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||Karnika, Marella sailors say no to quarantine in Corona-hit Mumbai||PANAJI: While the government is talking about bringing home seafarers from international waters with all its complexities, over 150 Goans on two cruise vessels in domestic waters — so close yet so far away from home — feel the government has let them down. “If the government cannot help us, when we are so close, how will they bring back those from other countries,” asks a 35-year-old on board cruise vessel Karnika. He is among 93 Goan seafarers and those from other parts of India and the world, who have been stuck in domestic waters since March 12 after the vessel disembarked all passengers in Dubai. On March 31, all crew from Maharashtra were signed off. “None of us are infected or have shown any symptoms. Our temperature is checked twice a day. The company is taking good care of us and wants us to sign off. But the government is creating hurdles. It’s better not to vote in the next election. For almost 40 days, we have been only eating and sleeping,” he told TOI. He and his colleagues don’t mind being quarantined in Goa, but are against being quarantined in Maharashtra, where Covid-19 cases are still on the rise. “It’s too risky for us. We don’t want to be quarantined in Mumbai. We are fine with being quarantined in Goa, but we are not going to pay for it,” he said, referring to the government’s plan to set up paid quarantine facilities. The same sentiments are shared by the crew on board Marella Discovery, which is anchored off Mumbai’s coast and has been in Indian waters since mid-March. Around 65 Goan sailors on board are also tired of waiting for the government’s permission to return home. The cruise ship disembarked its passengers in Thailand before they proceeded to India. There are crew from other parts of India, and also foreigners on board. They too say the company has been taking good care of them and checking their temperature twice a day with none of them showing any Covid-19 symptoms till date. “We are going crazy stuck here in the middle of the sea. It’s safer for us to be on the vessel, but the company wants to disembark all Indian crew as soon as possible. We don’t mind travelling from Mumbai to Goa but we don’t want to stay in Mumbai. We are all Covid-19 negative at the moment. If we are made to stay in Mumbai we could get infected,” a Goan crew member on his fifth contract with the company told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnika-marella-sailors-say-no-to-quarantine-in-corona-hit-mumbai/articleshow/75240676.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government allows breather to some sectors, but with caveats||VIJAYAWADA: The state government will allow some essential industries to resume operations from Monday in orange and green zones, subject to certain limits. The state department of industries and commerce has laid down detailed operational guidelines for industries that will reopen from April 20. Industries must maintain social distancing measures, health, sanitation and screening systems to protect workers. Measures such as thermal check and factory sanitisation have also been suggested. Any enterprise that does not comply with safety measures on a self-certification basis will be penalised. Speaking to TOI, joint director (HRD) of commissionerate of industries S V Giridhara Rao said there will be no relaxation of the lockdown in red zones. The managements of firms will have to register themselves and employee details to avail permission for reopening their establishments. All such units must take permission from the district collector and a team of three officers including the deputy commissioner of labour will appraise the requests. “We are expecting that tomorrow onwards some industries, including the IT and IT-enabled services will resume operations in a limited way to start financial activities. Since Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts are under green zones and many areas in Vizag city are orange zones, a majority of the business activities will commence in the three districts in a limited way,” said Giridhara Rao. Manufacturing and other industrial establishments in Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and Export Oriented Units (EOUs), industrial estates and industrial townships shall make arrangements for the stay of workers within their premises as far as possible or in adjacent buildings and implement standard operating protocols (SOPs) as per guidelines. The transportation of workers to the workplace shall be arranged by employers in dedicated vehicles and ensuring social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-allows-breather-to-some-sectors-but-with-caveats/articleshow/75238796.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC inches closer to rolling out online property tax payment||Mangaluru: The lockdown has come in handy for the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) to move forward computerisation of property tax records. The extension of deadline to avail 5% property tax rebate till May 31 is also expected to give the MCC time to push this project. Admitting that the lockdown has given the revenue department to focus on this project even with limited staff, Santosh Kumar, deputy commissioner (administration), MCC, also holding the charge of DC (revenue), said the civic body is gearing up for both manual and online modes of tax collection. “The focus with the pandemic going on is to go digital with our tax collection and MCC is striving to get the same completed at the earliest,” he said. Data entry work on past property tax paid is presently on. “We are using tax receipts to compile the same… We have already pitched the digital payment idea with taxation, finance and appeals standing committee and the mayor,” he said. Kumar said the move will require post-facto approval of the council in its maiden meeting. The proposed digital move will also come with an online tax calculator, he said. The civic body has also plans to conduct a property tax returns mela at the Town Hall. Following social distancing norms, people at the mela may can pay their taxes manually or online, as per their preference. In one such drive at the venue, MCC collected Rs 10 lakh by way of trade license, Kumar said. Asserting that a final picture will emerge once the lockdown ends on May 3, he said the MCC collected 40% of property tax during 2019-20. MCC has been toying with idea of introducing online payment of taxes since Sameer Shukla became the first IAS officer to take charge as the MCC commissioner. The civic body has made computerisation of its office operations a flagship programme under different mayors since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-inches-closer-to-rolling-out-online-property-tax-payment/articleshow/75237934.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt hospitals demand Rs100 crore pending dues from govt||Nagpur: More than 110 private hospitals in Vidarbha are facing a tough time after lockdown. On Saturday, the Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) wrote to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, requesting him to intervene and get the dues of hospital expenses under various central health schemes cleared from various central government departments.As most hospitals in Vidarbha come under small enterprises, they wanted MSME minister Gadkari to help them get their long pending dues. According to VHA, Rs100 crore of Nagpur hospitals are pending with the government.“In fact, the amount is even more and it is pending since more than two years now,” said VHA convener Dr Sameer Paltewar. VHA has already written to additional director of CGHS, CMD of WCL, commissioner of ESIC and many other organization heads, but not received any payments towards pending bills. Dr Paltewar informed that the ministry of finance has issued directives to release the pending dues to private hospitals on April 7, but nothing has happened so far.“Many hospitals will close down as we don’t have financial capacity to take care of expenses towards salaries, utilities, finances and rents. We are also waiting for income tax returns, which the finance minister had assured us. Most hospitals are providing secondary, tertiary and quaternary health care, and they can’t the run the show after April,” he added.The Covid-19 impact assessment for private health care sector done by FICCI says hospitals are witnessing a drop in both domestic and inter-state patient footfalls and elective surgeries after lockdown. Average occupancy in March was about 40% and it has reduced further in April. Private health care sector constitutes more than 60% of beds in India. More than 80% of doctors in India work in private sector. It is also among the country’s top 5 employers.While government hospitals and doctors are busy handling Covid-19 patients, general public and middle class has to rely on private hospitals. “Early and impactful measures should be taken to save hospitals or many small hospitals will close down in next one month,” Dr Paltewar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-demand-rs100-crore-pending-dues-from-govt/articleshow/75239811.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Lockdown: 14 kitchens ready 1.5 lakh meals for Bengaluru’s workforce daily||BENGALURU: Some 14 kitchens across Bengaluru, each manned on average by 55 volunteers, kitted in protective clothing, light fires to prepare 1.5 lakh meals for the city’s workforce. It’s an operation that stretches from dawn to dusk each day. They start at 3am and work until 9pm, when the last of the orders is dispatched. They’re reaching every corner of the country’s IT capital, from Electronics City to Mysuru Road and BTM to HRBR layouts. They’re sweating it out with a smile, all to feed those hungry. The Atria Foundation’s Free Meals campaign kick-started on March 28. It has served close to 2 million meals since. The kitchens are connected to a central system either by laptops or cellphones. The daily requirement, finalised by the previous evening, is conveyed to a point person by Kaushik Raju, director of the group, who personally oversees the operations. When an NGO places a request for say 1,000 or 2,000 meals, the kitchen closest to the delivery point is tipped off to prepare two meals per person — brunch and early dinner. The menu varies on a daily basis, depending also on the produce available; each packet weighs between 400 and 500 grams. The early meal is often puliyogare or khara bath and the second packet contains lemon rice or rice and sambar. Volunteers, numbering almost 800, get the show on the road each day. The costs of acquisition and production have been quite high, but they’ve been able to lower the total operating costs by small margins every day. Even so, they are expensing a little over Rs 40 lakh a day. “Our original plan was to have one or two kitchens, but that would have meant having over 300 people within a constrained area,” Kaushik said of the exercise. “The challenges of maintaining hygiene in such a situation seemed an improbable task.” Sunder Raju, founder and managing director of the group, said they were particularly encouraged by people coming forward to help. “At first we needed more kitchens, so when we reached out, outlets like Nandhana and A2B and even wedding halls offered their kitchens and staff free of charge,” he revealed. Production, however, is only half the job. The most important part of the operation is taking all that is prepared to the people who need them the most. The complexity of coordinating deliveries to the appointed locations or arriving at the closest possible point meant they needed an online system. Using technology, they linked kitchens to delivery points, totalling 250 locations. The Rajus have worked out a standard operating procedure that takes no more than four days to put in place with the help of non-government organisations in a bid to give the exercise wider reach. Anyone willing to help, people whose kitchens can prepare 3,000-5,000 meals or even those who can provide 50 a day can be of immense help to the drive that has been at the heart of Karnataka’s Covid-19 campaign. “We’ll provide the raw materials. What we are looking for is hygienic places having the manpower to join the fight,” Kaushik said, adding, “There are places that need just 10-20 meals a day and others that ask for 1,000s, so any offer helps complete the task.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/14-kitchens-ready-1-5-lakh-meals-for-citys-workforce-daily/articleshow/75239847.cms||Prajwal Hegde
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP government plans to make quarantine must for construction workers||LUCKNOW: UP government is planning to adopt stringent measures, including making 14-day quarantine mandatory for the workforce which will be engaged in construction-related activities, as it gears up to revive the state economy hit by lockdown. According to sources, the state government is planning to put in place a slew of measures to arrest the spread of contagious virus before kick-starting economic activities from Monday. “A large number of labourers are expected to reach cities and villages after April 20 when economic and construction activities, including those related to industries and agriculture, will be revived,” a senior government official said. A host of migrant workers got stuck at various points after factories closed operations due to lockdown. Left without work, they were forced to return to their homes. Principal secretary, rural development, Manoj Kumar Singh told TOI, “Things will be clear after April 20 when the department will be able to assess the actual strength of workforce.” The department has already announced that job cards would be provided to migrants under Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for construction works in rural areas. “Most migrants have undergone a 14-day quarantine period ever since lockdown was announced on March 25 but still we cannot take any chance. We will ensure that workers deployed under MNREGS have undergone quarantine to prevent spread of coronavirus infection. We will also ensure social distancing and use of masks by workers,” he said. Activities related to mining and transportation of minerals will also start from April 20. Secretary, mining, Roshan Jacob said the department would deploy minimum possible labourers while relying more on machines for mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-plans-to-make-quarantine-must-for-construction-workers/articleshow/75240680.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 20, 2020||Goa||Quarantine facilities for 8,000 seamen: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that the state government has already created the necessary coronavirus testing facility as well as identified quarantine facilities for nearly 8,000 seafarers. “We have identified around 8,000 rooms and now have to requisite the hotels,” Sawant told reporters. He said that nearly 20,000 hotel rooms are available in the state for quarantine facilities. Sawant said that he has spoken to the Union ministry of external affairs and that the decision on how to get back stranded Goan seafarers, via sea or flight, is in the final stages. “Once this decision is made, we will immediately arrange for rooms to quarantine them,” he said. As per the standard operation procedure (SOP) finalised by the ministry of shipping, Sawant said, in the first phase, seafarers whose ships are along the Indian Coast will be brought back to port via the sea route. In the second phase, those whose vessels are in deep sea will be brought to shore and in the final phase, seafarers who are already on shore abroad will be moved. The union government is also planning to get back other Indians working abroad, he said. Recently, families of seafarer had gone on a hunger strike demanding that they be brought back to the state. Also speaking on the recently concluded door-to-door community survey, to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms, Sawant said the government will on Monday decide how many tests will have to be conducted. The government has identified 30,000 persons with respiratory diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quarantine-facilities-for-8000-seamen-cm/articleshow/75240691.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Allahabad||Lockdown, strict vigil keeping crooks indoors too; city crime sees sharp fall||Prayagraj: The fear of contracting the deadly virus and the sea of khaki on roads in the wake of the lockdown is keeping crooks indoors too. Police data between April 1 and 15 indicated a fall in various crimes like murders, kidnapping and dacoity. According to the data released on Sunday, auto-theft cases registered a sharp decline of around 90%, when compared to the data from 2019 of the same period. Only seven cases of auto theft were reported in Prayagrraj during the 15-day period, against the 67 cases recorded in April 1-15, 2019. Street crimes like purse snatching and petty fights also showed a dip of 30% and 50% respectively, as compared to the corresponding figure for last year. With most residents staying indoors, crimes like burglary have come down from 87 cases in 2019 to 17 at present. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said the number of cases of crimes like loot, snatching, auto-theft, rioting and kidnapping has declined by a large scale during the lockdown. “407 cases under different sections of the Indian Pencal Code were registered at different police stations of the district from April 1-15 this year, while 643 cases were registered during the same period last year,” he added. “Police are strictly enforcing the lockdown. Moreover, round-the-clock vigil, intensified patrolling and aerial monitoring via drones have deterred criminal activities by a large extent,” said a senior police official. Other crimes like rape and cases of molestation, have dipped by nearly 50 % as people to people contact has reduced by a great extent. Police have challaned 32,942 persons between April 1 and 15 this year for violating the Motor Vehicle Act, against 4,794 last year. Police registered 61 cases under Information technology (IT) Act between April 1 and 15 this year while the figure for last year stood 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lockdown-strict-vigil-keeping-crooks-indoors-too-city-crime-sees-sharp-fall/articleshow/75238827.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Restaurant owners not much enthused||Nagpur: The restaurant owners of the city are not much enthused by the state government’s decision to start pick up facility from their establishments. Each restaurant, provided it is not in containment zones, will have to take permission from the municipal commissioner for starting this facility.Bhawani Shankar Dave, president of Nagpur Restaurant Owners Association, said that it would be up to individual owners to decide whether they want to start pick up facility.“Home delivery through food applications is already going on. Now, pick up facility has been allowed. However, this is a risky thing. Many coronavirus patients are asymptomatic. Some positive person may touch our counter or our staff and then they may get afflicted. So we will have to very careful,” said Dave.The restaurant owner further said that many people may start their establishments. “We will have to keep our kitchens open even if we don’t much business. However, we will not employ all staffers. The waiters and cleaners will not be asked to report to work. The kitchen staff should suffice,” he added.Presently, many restaurants are closed even though home delivery through mobile applications was allowed. The business generated through such applications was not enough to keep the restaurants open as many people still don’t use these applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restaurant-owners-not-much-enthused/articleshow/75239820.cms||Ashish Roy
April 20, 2020||Goa||Kids being encouraged to explore the stars while locked in||PANAJI: With the lockdown restricting movement to indoors, organisations like the Association of Friends of Astronomy (AFA) are utilising this time to encourage the study of the science among children. The organisation Abhinav Creations has also provided do-at-home basic astronomical calculation activities for parents to engage their children with. President AFA Satish Nayak said that while the subject of astronomy comprises of 60% practicals, it also involves 40% reading to gain knowledge of the subject. “Due to the lockdown, no one can move out and so star gazing is not possible. Therefore, starting from April 1, for the entire month, we have planned to utilise the time to promote among our members, especially students, reading on astronomy. This is because reading is a vanishing quality and 40% of astronomy is knowledge,” Nayak said. The AFA plans to give its members “a graded pattern for reading about astronomy”, he said. This will involve reading from a list of websites recommended by the association. “Following this, on various WhatsApp groups, a panel will then regulate a discussion and a Q&A session. Besides this, right now, our technical coordinator is also carrying out some online activities with our younger group till March 31,” Nayak said. Anwesha Singbal of Abhinav Creationz has announced its ‘science expedition’ programmes for children. “This expedition is especially curated by Rajashree Gaunekar Thakur, a science teacher at Presentation Convent Higher Secondary School, Ambaji, Fatorda. She has prepared a few lessons on elementary astronomical calculations, which will be shared with various parents through WhatsApp. They can work on them at home with their children or may be work on it themselves,” said Singbal, who will be moderating any discussion on the lesson every day between the parent and the teacher who has curated the lessons. The first lesson starts with the basics and involves learning the Greek letters used in mathematical calculations. “We will be sending one lesson per day, which will help delve into the world of science while we sit at home for the well-being of the world,” Singbal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kids-being-encouraged-to-explore-the-stars-while-locked-in/articleshow/75240678.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded admin awaits government order on stranded pilgrims||AURANGABAD: The Nanded district administration is awaiting directives from the state government regarding the 3,755 pilgrims stranded at the Gurdwara Hazur Sahib, one of the holiest places for Sikhs. The matter has reached to the state government. Nanded district collector Vipin Itankar said that the issue of the stranded pilgrims, mainly from north India, was discussed before the cabinet sub-committee of Maharashtra government and the matter has been referred to the Department of Revenue and Forest, Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation. “We are awaiting directives from the government in the matter of transportation of the pilgrims to their native places. At our end, we have been extending all possible help to them. The health of all the pilgrims is of paramount importance and regular check-ups are conducted,” he said. The cabinet sub-committee of Maharashtra government, while referring the issue of the stranded pilgrims, has mooted the proposal for using Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses for transporting the pilgrims. Mumbai-based public relation officer of MSRTC, Abhijit Bhosale said the state transportation could offer the desired relief to the stranded pilgrims, but no such official communication was received from the government. “We can provide buses on the basis of a casual contract if the need arises. Such services were already provided at few places in Maharashtra amid the current lockdown,” he said. The train transportation is the most effective mode of transport but the suspension of passenger train operations might compel the pilgrims to undertake road journeys in case government come up with any favourable solution involving buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-admin-awaits-govt-order-on-stranded-pilgrims/articleshow/75239823.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||With strict protocols in place, Goa partially reopens today||PANAJI: Government offices, industries, agriculture and other allied sectors will resume in Goa on Monday as the state relaxes the lockdown to slowly restart economic activities. While thousands of people will return to work, police are set to strictly enforce social distancing measures. Also, starting Monday, every person who leaves the house has to compulsorily wear a mask, and violators will be fined. The relaxations only apply to those going to work. The lockdown continues to operate for all others, especially senior citizens. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, speaking to TOI, said that the state would implement the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) in toto. The CM, however, stressed the need for social distancing and urged people to observe it strictly. “Even if the last Covid-19 case turns out negative, it doesn’t mean we won’t get (more) cases in Goa,” he said. “Every day, Goa’s neighbourhood is seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases, and we have to take full precautions.” Sawant said that chicken and fish will not be permitted to be sold in the state’s markets, but vendors would be allowed to offer home delivery. “Only grocery shops in the markets will be permitted to open,” he said. Meanwhile, to ensure that infections don’t enter the state along with essential commodities, the government is set to install a sanitiser tunnel at the border. Also in the pipeline is a rapid test, so that drivers of vehicles loaded with essential supplies are checked before they enter Goa. However, since the state’s usually-bustling markets will remain shut till May 3, fish-loving Goans are likely to continue to face hardships to get their daily quota of the dietary staple. Despite claims by the fisheries department that it has introduced mobile fish vehicles, fish continues to be sold at premium rates by non-traditional fly-by-night vendors at unauthorized places. State government offices will open on Monday with 33% of staff strength. Heads of departments have been asked to call employees to work on alternate days, and within three time-slots. Staffers not called in to office will work from home. This arrangement will remain in force till May 3. As private vehicles return to the roads, police will strictly implement social distancing measures. TOI reported on Sunday that no pillion riders will be permitted on two-wheelers, and in four-wheelers, no co-passenger will be allowed on the front seat. Only two persons can travel in a single car, the non-driver compulsorily occupying the rear seat. The state-run Kadamba service will start buses only to ferry employees to and from offices. While the service will run daily, individual buses will be deployed every alternate day, to facilitate sanitisation. There are 18 active industrial estates in Goa, while around 300 industrial units exist outside these areas. Most of these have been permitted to resume operations with staff restrictions. In total, around 3-3.5 lakh people are employed at these facilities. Employees of units that are permitted to function will get travel stickers issued by the government. The field manager of each industrial estate will issue a colour-coded sticker to each employee following an undertaking from the company head. “As of now, our requirement is 50,000 travel stickers,” said Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) president Damodar Kochkar. The GSIA finalised the procedure for resumption of industrial activity and travel norms for employees after talks with the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC), state executive committee (SEC), and units. As manufacturing activity picks up, interstate movement of cargo via road and rail is also expected to kickstart. Only freight trains will run — passenger rail movement remains suspended till May 3. However, South Western Railway (SWR) has introduced special trains with varying frequencies to cater to the demand for parcel services. Meanwhile, even as farming activities are permitted, the acute shortage of labour and manpower required for operating harvestor machines remains a cause of concern for farmers in the state. The workforce required for harvesting is usually sourced from across the state’s borders, and so are machine operators for combined harvesters. Co-operative societies have already started purchasing harvested paddy crop from farmers, and agriculture offices dealing in selling seeds, fertilizers and mechanized farming equipments are already open, with farmers queuing up to avail the benefits. And in the health sector, the directorate of health services (DHS) on Sunday ordered private medical practitioners and consultants to reopen their clinics with immediate effect and to render health services to people, particularly in rural areas. Even in the public health system, out-patient departments (OPDs) have started in all 30 rural medical dispensaries and 229 sub-health centres. A government official said only emergency and flu-related OPDs have started in primary health centres, community health centres and district hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-strict-protocols-in-place-goa-partially-reopens-today/articleshow/75240681.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Shops sealed to enforce meat ban in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: All poultry and meat shops and markets in the city remained closed on Sunday on the directions of district collector A Mohammed Intiaz. The ban on sale of meat was implemented by authorities of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the city police. Municipal authorities conducted surprise checks and sealed some meat shops. The decision to close all meat shops comes after the city registered 59 Covid-19 positive cases and officials declared 18 containment zones. Large crowds at Sunday markets over the last two weeks also prompted authorities to close meat shops. In spite of the ban, some persons ventured out to buy meat on Sunday. The civic body and city police deployed special teams to implement the ban. “Our lives are more important than food. Despite our requests, the public was ignoring social distancing at meat markets. Huge crowds were seen at meat stores and chicken shops in the city. As number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise in city, we have decided to prevent the gathering of the crowd to prevent community spread,” said VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh. “We have ensured that no meat shop is open in city and also sealed shops which encouraged the sale of chicken,” the commissioner said. Meanwhile, the demand for eggs, mushroom and cottage cheese increased. Officials took steps to ensure the supply of eggs at makeshift markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shops-sealed-to-enforce-meat-ban-in-city/articleshow/75238818.cms||Venu Lanka
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Work on Kochchhi barrage may be delayed||Nagpur: The lockdown is expected to hit irrigation projects, especially work on the Kochchhi barrage on Kanhan river. The project is being undertaken with a view to deal with the city’s future water shortage problems.The Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) has undertaken the project to link the right bank canal of the dam on Pench river with the water from Kanhan. This would give extra 3 TMC water creating enough supply for irrigation and drinking water needs. Last year, the city had faced a major drinking water problem.Given the closure due to the lockdown, sources say it may not be possible to finish the work in targeted time. There are chances that the VIDC may not be able to complete the work during this summer. Work on sites stops even otherwise during monsoon.The VIDC had also planned to increase the area under irrigation by other 1 lakh hectares, which may be difficult to achieve, said a source. The projects which may be affected include Gosikhurd, Lower Pedi, Ner Dhamna and Ghungshi among the major ones.Non-availability of pipes to lay the distribution network is also a factor. The canals are being laid in the form of piped distribution network (PDN). The pipes which are sourced from different parts of the country are not reaching the sites due to lockdown.A source in the state’s water resources department (WRD) said that there are 4,500 workers at the camps along the sites. Even as work is being carried out slowly, the contractors are being harassed by the respective gram panchayat members in the name of corona lockdown. The vigilantism needs to be addressed, the source said.It is being planned to bring out an order to allow infrastructure work in areas that have not been affected by the pandemic. “This would help in meeting part of the target at least,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-on-kochchhi-barrage-may-be-delayed/articleshow/75239854.cms||Shishir Arya
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 30-year-old man drinks hand sanitiser-petrol cocktail, dies||VIJAYAWADA: A 30-year-old man, an alcoholic, died on Sunday after consuming hand sanitiser mixed with petrol as an alternative to alcohol, at DC Palli, Nellore district. The deceased, identified as Nalipogu Naresh, used to stay alone in SC Colony for the past few years after separating from his wife. Naresh suffered withdrawal symptoms since the Andhra Pradesh government shut down liquor outlets and bar two weeks ago as part of the nationwide lockdown. Sub-inspector of Marripadu police station P Veeranarayana, said, it seems Naresh was told that sanitiser mixed with petrol had an alcohol content equivalent to liquor. So he bought both petrol and hand sanitiser on Saturday. Locals found the bottles near his body on Sunday and informed the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-yr-old-man-drinks-hand-sanitiser-petrol-cocktail-dies/articleshow/75238831.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Truckers uncertain about norms, labour availability||Nagpur: Even though new guidelines allow opening of the transport sector from April 20, trucks may not be rolling on highways immediately.For one, transporters’ union and fleet owners are not sure whether these guidelines will be applicable in hotspots and containment zones. JP Sharma, one of the fleet owners, said, “For full-fledged services the district collector needs to issue a separate letter because Nagpur is one of the hotspots.”The government guidelines clearly state these relaxations will not be permitted in Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Nagpur where Covid-19 cases are higher.However, district collector Ravindra Thakare said, “Under NMC jurisdiction municipal commissioner will issue orders. As far as district is concerned, I have issued orders to start entire transport activity.”“We are ready to follow social distancing and have also given masks to our drivers and cleaners. Some medicines to increase immunity have also been distributed. But I’m not sure whether the guidelines will be applicable in hotspot cities like Nagpur. I feel the district collector has to issue a separate letter in this regard,” Sharma added.Sharma said one of his trucks carrying material to a factory was stopped on Sunday by police near Karanja (Lad). It was released only when cops were told by Satara collector that the raw material was for railway supply. Nagpur Truckers Unity (NTU) president Kukku Marwah said, “Even if orders are issued by the collector, getting labourers for loading and unloading will be difficult. Besides, most clerical staff, drivers, cleaners and helpers have left for their native places ahead of lockdown. How will the sector function? Over 500 trucks are stranded at various godowns in the city for want of labour.”Marwah said, “We will open our offices from tomorrow but don’t expect bookings as barring essential commodities other major businesses are closed. It will take at least a year or two to revive the transport sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/truckers-uncertain-about-norms-labour-availability/articleshow/75239830.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 20, 2020||Pune||Wristbands, ID cards with GPS mark tech ideas to watch 3 lakh in quarantine||PUNE: A selfie every hour or have the police at your door, except if you are resting, is how apps monitoring those in home quarantine work. Truants can be ready for mass quarantine at an institutional centre, reads a tweet by police personnel and district administration. After the Centre approached states for more technical solutions in the wake of the country registering over 10,000 cases on Tuesday, and over 3 lakh persons under home or institutional quarantine, state officials are pushing for wristbands and identity cards with GPS to monitor the movements of patients or persons to analyse and contain the spread of the infection and to ensure live monitoring of people in quarantine. Maharashtra and Karnataka have a home quarantine tracking system and Kerala uses GPS. The Centre has sought proposals to also track the spread of coronavirus in real time and help urban local bodies reporting high cases. State officials said digital tracking tools that help authorities in marking out zones, wristbands, I-cards with GPS to track the spread of the infection and movement of patients, payroll systems that can apply predefined fines to workers who violate the attendance norms have been listed. There is also a demand for tools that can gather historical intelligence of any area, apart from AI-based face detection tools that can assist urban local bodies assist a person needing urgent help, and also set up SOS call centres. Israel, Singapore and South Korea are using a combination of location data, video camera footage and credit card information to track Covid-19 while India is using CCTV cameras, Arogya Setu app and drone data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wristbands-id-cards-with-gps-mark-tech-ideas-to-watch-3l-in-quarantine/articleshow/75240690.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP has less cases per million, better recovery rate than several states||LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and senior government officials have been claiming on different occasions that the state was doing much better than other states in tackling the covid menace. “We are much better than many states. In fact, our situation is better than the national average,” additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi recently said. But what do the numbers say? TOI in collaboration with public health researchers Aarti Kumar and Vishwajeet Kumar analysed Union health ministry data (updated till April 18, 2020) to bring forth some key Covid facts from the state. Although the covid tests per million in UP is still lower than Maharashtra and Rajasthan, still these facts are worth a look. UP’s cases per million is 25 times less than Delhi: A crucial indicator to assess any disease situation is cases per million (CPM) population, or the number of persons suffering from a disease in a population of one million. While UP has a CPM of 41.1, Delhi has a CPM of 937.7 which is about 25 times higher. UP's CPM is also seven times lower than that of Maharashtra – which has a CPM of 284 and four times lower than MP's or Rajasthans where the CPM is 162 and 165 respectively. Fewer deaths and lower death ratio: Another important indicator is case fatality ratio or the number of deaths over total number of affected cases. While CFR for UP is 1.44, it is 3.8 nationally. It is less than many states which have a lower burden of cases. Punjab for example has a CFR of 6.4 despite having about 202 cases. In terms of sheer number, too, many states with less case burden have higher deaths. Telangana for instance has 809 cases but 18 deaths. Contained spread of infection: UP was found to be better than many states in terms of number of affected districts. In fact on an all-India scale, UP stood on the 11th position. Data showed that 63% districts in UP recorded presence of covid cases unlike Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat where 91%, 86%, 81% and 75.8% districts are affected respectively. On a micro level, about 78% of covid cases in UP are limited to just 10 districts. Also, 31 of the 49 affected districts have cases in single digits. Not to forget six districts in the state have zero active covid case. All the patients these districts have been sent home after recovery. Good recovery rate: Uttar Pradesh can also feel happy about a reasonably promising recovery rate or the number of persons discharged after recovery over the number of positive cases. Of the total number of coronavirus positive patients, 8.9% cases have recovered in the state. Though it is lower than national average of 14%, it is better than many states such as Delhi where a recovery rate of 3.8% has been recorded. In fact, less than 3% of the patients in UP needed ventilator facility. Ramped-up testing: Though the state is being criticised for not undertaking enough tests, UP has worked hard on this aspect. Measured in terms of tests per million or number of persons tested per million population, testing is the tool to predict and control the global pandemic and improvise strategies to flatten the curve. The state has doubled the number of tests in about five days – from 51 TPM on April 12 to 93 on April 16. In addition to this, UP has successfully rolled out pool testing besides launching rapid testing for better surveillance in Noida. Expert Speak: “While the numbers definitely swing the situation in UP government’s favour is that most cases in the state belong to the imported category. This means that the source in different cities was brought from outside. Over 60% cases in UP may be attributed to Tablighi Jamaatis or their contacts,” said Aarti and Vishwajeet. “The lockdown has slowed the progression of pandemic in UP. At present, it’s doubling every 10 days, a significant improvement from a time it was doubling every 3-4 days. Key factors that have contributed are citizens participation, containment strategy, managing the migrant crisis and proactive role of law enforcement. How we use our borrowed time will determine the course of the pandemic in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-has-less-cases-per-million-better-recovery-rate-than-several-states/articleshow/75240687.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 20, 2020||Goa||Fire services sanitise close to 2,000 locations across Goa||Panaji: With the relaxation of travel restrictions kicking in from today, the directorate of fire and emergency services has so far completed sanitation drive over 2,000 locations across the state. Speaking to TOI, director of fire and emergency services Ashok Menon said, “As and when a requisition is made by the directorate of panchayat and the directorate of municipal administration we will carry out sanitization drive in public places.” As a matter of precaution, the government opted to sanitise public places across the state, like markets, bus stands and servicing depots, bazaars, hospitals, roads, etc. through the fire and emergency services department. Menon added, “My department has received requisitions from government departments for sanitization, but we have told them that it should be done in a controlled manner and cleaning which is done by housekeeping staff also serves the purpose.” Local fire stations across the state have conducted sanitization drives in various locations in Pernem, Mapusa, Pilerne, Panaji, Vasco, Old Goa, Bicholim, Valpoi, Kundaim, Ponda, Verna, Margao, Curchorem and Canancona. To ensure the safety of health workers, the fire services department has also started sanitizing buses which commute nurses, doctors and other health personnel. Goa has had seven Covid-19 positive patients, of which all have now been declared recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fire-services-sanitise-close-to-2000-locations-across-goa/articleshow/75240703.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Goa||Goa to have 250-300 tests a day: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said testing at the virology laboratory of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, will now happen round the clock with plans to conduct 250-300 tests a day. “Three teams have been formed to keep the laboratory functional 24x7,” Rane said. He said even though Goa does not have a single Covid-19 positive case at the moment, the focus will be on testing. Rane said he has instructed the health secretary to draw up a protocol for testing as Goa increases its scope to conduct more tests. All tests are conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-have-250-300-tests-a-day-rane/articleshow/75240697.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Kamshet teacher creates 400 banners to spread awareness||PUNE: A fine arts teacher from Kamshet has put up over 400 banners in Kamshet, Pavana and Lonavla areas to create awareness about Covid-19. The teacher has put up hand-painted banners and slogans in various parts of the villages and towns, urging people to remain indoors and not to venture out unless absolutely necessary. “I saw everyone trying to do their bit to check the spread of coronavirus. I also thought of doing something based on my skills,” said Atish Thorat (46), who works in a government-aided school at Pavana in Maval taluka, about 50km from here. “I am adept at drawing and calligraphy. I read up a few slogans on the internet, while I made a few slogans on my own. I painted the banners in my backyard and transported them to various places in Kamshet, Pavana, and Lonavla on my motorcycle,” he said. Policemen and local residents helped him put up these banners. “I am trying to be creative as well as I want to deliver a strong message,” he said. Thorat has not used plastic or flex banners to write the messages. “I have used cloth or canvass,” he said. “The messages encourages people to stay in their homes and also urges them to follow social distancing norms. These are the only ways to keep the deadly virus from spreading,” he said. Thorat has also been providing food to the inmates of an old age home at Khandala.  The banners have helped create awareness in Kamshet and Vadgaon Maval and people have stopped venturing out, a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kamshet-teacher-creates-400-banners-to-spread-awareness/articleshow/75240693.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Guests and tea in tow, online theatre katta discussions grab eyeballs||PUNE: Since March 30, a theatre group and their associates decided that their evening ‘kattas’ that involved poetry, plays, songs, and discussions could not just hibernate due to the lockdown. So, they looked to Facebook and tapped some contacts. Five episodes in, the initiative is already grabbing thousands of eyeballs. Titled ‘5 che chaha’ or tea at 5, the half-hour sessions on Facebook Live feature personalities from the world of theatre and acting in general, including films and television, reading out poetry, or singing songs, often written by the participants themselves, as well as parts of well-known plays or texts. To adhere to the title in letter and spirit, the participants sit for the sessions with actual cups of tea as an accompaniment. “The sessions last about half-an-hour because that’s how long the tea lasts,” said Amogh Vaidya from Theatron that started the series along with Ruma Creations. For now, they have not decided on the number of episodes, with much resting on the length of the lockdown. Vaidya also hosts the sessions, livestreamed on the pages of both organizers. The format of the episodes had to be such that it didn’t ‘bore’ the viewer, said Vaidya. Instead, participants recite bits of poetry, present songs, and the interaction is generally in the form of a background to the performances. “We decided that it won’t be an interview format with the guests but an exchange of art and ideas. Our regular participants include actor Chinmay Mandlekar, among others, and guests like Kaushal Inamdar joined in too, along with Mrunal Kulkarni. When she participated, Mrunalji spoke of the work that her grandfather, Gopal Dandekar completed in his lifetime and read a part of Dandekar’s treks to the medieval forts in the Sahyadris, which he wrote about extensively,” Vaidya explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guests-tea-in-tow-online-theatre-katta-discussions-grab-eyeballs/articleshow/75240696.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP begins rapid test from Noida to step up Covid-19 vigil||LUCKNOW: UP government on Sunday launched antibody-based rapid testing for coronavirus from Gautam Budh Nagar which is home to 95 Covid-19 cases. The district accounts for about 9% cases in UP and 11.3% cases in top 10 districts. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said, “The purpose is to undertake better Covid surveillance in the district which has third largest burden of cases in the state.” Giving information that rapid kits have been provided by the Centre, Prasad said: “ICMR-approved rapid kits can help in screening coronavirus cases in 30 minutes. The outcomes from Noida will be used to develop a template for surveillance in other affected districts.” Officials, however, clarified that lab-based RT PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test would continue to be the confirmatory test. Health officials said the kits were the need of the hour. “Cluster containment plan – under which hotspots have been made — is already in action. Aggressive surveillance and testing is a part of strategy and kits will naturally be needed,” a health officer said. Experts said the use of rapid kits for purely surveillance purpose was a good move as the outcomes gathered from rapid kits came with the challenge of diagnostic accuracy. “There is a notable risk of getting false positive or negative cases with rapid kits. Limiting its use for surveillance purpose appears to be a good way to overcome the barrier,” said a veteran microbiologist at KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-begins-rapid-test-from-noida-to-step-up-covid-vigil/articleshow/75240694.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Electric, gas crematoriums fast-tracked by civic body||PUNE: New electrical and gas crematoriums have been planned by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s electrical department. The civic body has fast-tracked work on an electric crematorium at Kailash Smashan Bhumi near Sangamwadi that was under discussion for the past two years. The facility was built in 10 days. Work on another such facility on the same ground is underway and expected to finish within a fortnight. A new gas crematorium is being built in Mundhwa and at least 7-8 more will be built in the city. “At present, there are 21 cremation facilities of which nine are electrical and the rest operate on gas. About 200 bodies can be burnt in a day. Covid-19 casualties will be completely covered up and nobody will be allowed to touch the body. Only the face is kept open for a final viewing for close relatives. In all the Covid-19 deaths in the city, electrical cremation was used,” head of the electrical department, Shrinivas Kandul, said. The PMC was working on building an electrical facility in Kailash crematorium for over two years. “Now, everybody’s working for 12-14 hours to complete it. The brick lining inside these burners needs to withstand high temperature and hence skilled workforce is needed to build it,” Kandul said. The next work is in the same facility and they expect the electric burner to be up and running within 15 days if they get enough labour force. “Another gas burner has been built at the Mundhwa crematorium while another one will come up in Wadgaon,” Kandul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/electric-gas-crematoriums-fast-tracked-by-civic-body/articleshow/75240702.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP hits fresh peak of 176 cases; total 1,163||LUCKNOW: UP had another peak of 177 cases -- highest single-day tally -- on Sunday its total zoomed to 1163 by late evening. Health officials said that the total number of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamat (TJ) reached 781. While the state recorded its 17th death, 19 more persons were discharged, taking the total number of recovered patients to 127. Meanwhile, Shahjahanpur and Barabanki also entered the list of districts with zero covid cases even as Mau became the new entrant. The state’s 17th death was reported from Firozabad district. CMO SK Dixit said: “The deceased was a 66- year-old Covid positive patient diagnosed on Saturday. He was a contact a TJ attendee. The immediate cause of death was cardiac arrest but the patient had history of high blood pressure.” He also said that 10 new cases were reported in the district, taking the overall tally to 48. Among new cases, three were contacts of TJ attendees while the others were contacts of Agra’s Paras Hospital, which has emerged as an epicentre of Covid-19. Agra again recored maximum 43 cases, taking the overall district tally to 241. Out of these, 21 cases are related to Paras Hosital while five cases are contacts of people who attended the Tablighi Jammat event. Three cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj location. Three cases were contacts of class four employees of SN Medical College who tested positive. A worker at wholesale medicine shop in Fuwarra locality also tested positive. Remaining all are contacts of people tested positive earlier. CMO Mukesh Kumar Vats, said, “All the 42 new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their house and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people.” In Kanpur, 26 new cases took district tally to 57. CMO Ashok Shukla said: “The new patients comprise seven locals of Quli Bazar and seven madrassa students.” The LLRM Medical College, Meerut, confirmed new positive cases in Saharanpur taking the district total to 95. Saharanpur SMO BS Sodhi said, “As many as 23 new cases have been reported in Saharanpur on Sunday, taking the total district tally to 83. Apart from these, 12 are admitted in Lucknow. So, the final tally is 95.” As many as 18 cases were reported in Moradabad district, taking the district tally to 55. Health officials confirmed that all the patients were contacts of TJ attendees. In Ghaziabad 11 new positive cases were reported after a gap several days taking the total to 41. Covid positive cases were also reported in Badaun (8), Mathura (3), Basti (3), Lucknow (2), Etawah (1), Kannauj (1) and Mau (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-hits-fresh-peak-of-176-cases-total-1163/articleshow/75240705.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 20, 2020||Pune||Ration shops tell Maharashtra government to step up||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Fair price shops across the state have threatened to not procure foodgrains from May 1 if the government does not look into the assault and defamation of shopkeepers and provide adequate protection. There are around 52,000 ration shopkeepers in the state. In a letter addressed to the chief minister and state minister for food, civil supplies and consumer protection, president of All Maharashtra Rationing Shopkeeper Federation Gajanan Babar has complained that political interference has increased in food distribution at fair price shops in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits. “The state government must intervene and explain if challans can be issued in the name of the shopkeepers, while political leaders pay for the challans and distribute the foodgrain. The common man must not starve but at the same time we desire that government rules must also be followed,” said Babar. Owners of ration shops claimed that political interference is causing problems in food distribution. The association is asking the state government to look into the matter and explain its stand so that such incidents do not recur. Earlier, a ration shopkeeper was assaulted in Mumbai. Similar incidents were reported in Maval taluka due to which ration shopkeepers have threatened to resign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ration-shops-tell-govt-to-step-up/articleshow/75240709.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Research projects hobbled by lockdown||“Unprecedented.” This was the succinct summary by an associate professor of a Bengaluru university. As the world comes to terms with the altered reality post Covid-19, research scholars across the state are finding it hard to cope with the uncertainty. “Data collection in the field, essential to substantiate our argument, has been hit badly. For instance, a researcher cannot interact with people in villages, and this may delay submission of thesis,” said BH Harshitha, a PhD scholar in mass communication at Bangalore University. Harshitha has dispensed with dredging out scholarly articles, and compiled her literature review. “I had to speak to ASHA workers and health department personnel but that’s next to impossible now,” said Harshitha, adding that a delay of a month or two wouldn’t have too adverse an impact on research. “Everyone across sectors is in trouble. This is a medical emergency, and we have to cope with it,” said Bangalore University registrar BK Ravi, pointing out that many PhD scholars were interacting with their guides on online portals and ensuring continuity. Citing a circular issued by the University Grants Commission, he added, “If the need arises, we’ll conduct viva-voce for scholars online, and UGC has okayed it. Researchers now have more time too. Depending on the situation and her needs, we’ll take a call on holding the viva-voce and thesis defence online.” On problems in collecting field data, he said, “If people who need to be interviewed are in urban areas, this can be done online. Researchers can mail questionnaires or interact with them online and collect information. But if the researcher needs to visit a village or remote areas, that’s not possible. She’ll have to wait for the situation to normalise.” Prof Kishore Selva Babu, assistant professor and coordinator for PhD and MPhil programmes at Christ (deemed to be university), Bengaluru, echoed these views: “This break may turn out to be a blessing in disguise for researchers. They will get more time to reflect on their questions and can interact more with thesis supervisors and guides.” He added that, at Christ, MPhil scholars are allowed to take their external viva-voce online. On the delayed submission of theses affecting prospects of research scholars, he said, “No college has held semester examinations yet. Educational institutions are unlikely to start recruitment anytime soon.” Prof Babu’s PhD ward Fr Rinson had submitted his dissertation. “But for the lockdown, my viva would have been towards March-end or April, and I would have defended my thesis,” said Father Rinson. Caroline CU, a final-year MPhil scholar at Christ (deemed to be university), said the uncertainty was hard to reconcile to. This lecturer at Christ PU College, Bengaluru said there’s a silver lining. “I’ve had more time to write and finetune my thesis,” said Caroline, adding that a few acquaintances who had planned to pursue higher studies abroad had been forced to put their plans on hold since getting a visa was out of the question at the moment. On making her final presentation online, Caroline said, “I’ll definitely be a lot less nervous defending the thesis to a virtual crowd than to a packed classroom.” (With inputs from Rashmi Srikant and BV Shivashankar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/research-projects-hobbled-by-lockdown/articleshow/75239893.cms||Santhosh.R
April 20, 2020||Goa||Expert panel to study survey data||Panaji: An expert committee headed by head of department for preventive and social medicine, GMC, Dr Jagdish Kakodkar will start examining the house-to-house Covid-19 data in the coming days, health secretary Nila Mohanan informed the State Executive Committee (SEC). “Secretary health informed that the expert committee under Dr Jagdish Kakodkar would examine the data of the survey by early next week to prioritise the testing,” the SEC said in a statement. Given the rise in Covid-19 cases in Belagavi, the SEC advised authorities to keep a strict vigil on people and vehicles entering Goa and for proper screening at the border. The state has also decided to allow migrants from certain states to purchase ration using ration cards of those states, the secretary for civil supplies said. “Goa is among the 12 states which have started a national ration card portability facility. Migrants from the other 11 states can avail ration in Goa, provided the person has verified biometrics at least once in his native place and their family has not taken ration in their native place,” the SEC said. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, financial assistance will be provided to 2,061 beneficiarieson Monday through direct bank transfers. Data of the rest 21,500 beneficiaries will be ready by next weekend. Municipal bodies and panchayats have been authorised to issue permits for self-employed professionals such as electricians, IT technicians, plumbers, mechanics and carpenters. The tourism department told the SEC that around 10,000 hotels rooms, with tariffs below Rs 5,000 have been identified and inspected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/expert-panel-to-study-survey-data/articleshow/75240722.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Nagpur||Bad hair day for barbers as people take scissors in own hands||Nagpur: Even for those who keep their hair on point, the ‘don’t try this at home’ discretion for haircuts doesn’t hold true nowadays. Social distancing — necessitated by coronavirus — has kept barber shops shut, and many are forced to trim their hair at home. While some are picking up scissors for their own hair, others are donning the barber’s hat for their siblings or kids.Though the haircut-at-home episodes are making for some good social media posts, barbers are worried about how they will make a living. With the government not turning its hair to the plight of the barbers, some are forced to return to their native villages, while others are struggling to make ends meet. Given the intimate nature of their craft, people are afraid to bring barbers home for a haircut as well.“We are in dire straits. The government must do something,” says Amol Talkhande, district president of Maharashtra Nabhik Mahamangal, a state association formed by barbers. “We have written to the civic chief, divisional commissioner and even to the CM, requesting them to allow phased opening of salons,” he adds. The barbers say they only want to open shop for 3 hours in the morning.“We promise to take every necessary precaution like sanitizing our equipment, wearing gloves and masks and maintaining social distancing in our shops,” says Talkhande. The letter, in possession of TOI, also says that the salon owners will make sure that customers bring their own towels or napkins for haircuts and shaves. At the behest of barbers, former guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had written to the CM too, urging the government to pay Rs3,000 each to barbers and waive their electricity bills.“We know we are in the middle of a pandemic, but what’s happening to us is equally dangerous,” says Rupesh Umarkar, owner of a unisex salon. Umarkar was forced to return to Tumsar, his native place, before lockdown. Another salon owner Dinesh, who hails from Seoni, says his savings will last only for a week or so. “My shop is rented and so is my room. I can’t pay both the rents as my income is zero now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bad-hair-day-for-barbers-as-people-take-scissors-in-own-hands/articleshow/75246491.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||In first quarter of 2020, fatal accidents on eway down by 50%||Pune: The Maharashtra Highway Police (MHP) have reported a 50% drop in the number of fatal accidents on the high-speed Pune-Mumbai expressway — just 11 from January 1 to March 31as against 22 in the same period last year. Further, the police data show that there was a significant drop in the number of people dying in such accidents in this period. Twenty-eight people died in the first quarter of 2019, while 12 people died in the same period this year. Police attributed this sharp dip to the statewide lockdown imposed by the Maharashtra government in the second half of March. “After March 24, there was a negligible number of vehicles on the highways, which naturally precluded the possibility of a higher number of accidents,” Vijay Patil, superintendent of police (MHP), said, adding, “The accidents that occurred in March were mainly during the period before the lockdown. Once we get the accident data for April, we are likely to see a steeper drop in the number of accidents.” The report further found that the there was a 53% drop in the number of people seriously injured in expressway accidents — from last year’s 36 to 17 this year. Overall, the number of fatal accidents in highways across the state in March 2020 dipped to 871 from 1,099 last year, while accidents on all state highways dropped by 27 % (to 2,214) in the same period. The data show that the number of accidents on the highways in rural Pune for March dropped by 38%, from 154 in 2019 to 95. The number of those killed in such accidents came down to 42 from last year’s March figure of 78 deaths — a nearly 46% dip. In the city limits, there were 39 accidents in March 2020, a 49% drop from the 76 accidents recorded during the same period in 2019. There was a sharp drop in the number of fatalities too — 12 this March, down 40% from last year’s 20. “It would be difficult to attribute this to any specific intervention by the authorities (such as improved road design or enforcement), as these are typically slower to show results. Hence, it would be reasonable to believe that it is the lockdown that has caused this drop,” reasons road safety activist Ranjit Gadgil. “We hope that even during this difficult period, the police continue to enforce basic safety laws, such as the use of seat belts and staying below the speed limit. We have observed higher speeds on empty roads and also that other road users tend to be less alert, which heightens the chance of fewer, but more dangerous, accidents,” Gadgil added. The report also had figures for highways running through Mumbai. There were 94 accidents last month, down 64% from last March’s figure of 258. The number of those killed in such accidents too went down — 13 compared to 40 deaths last March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-first-quarter-of-2020-fatal-accidents-on-eway-down-by-50/articleshow/75227566.cms||Neha Madaan
April 20, 2020||Madurai||Easing of transport curbs comes in nick of time for coconut farmers||Madurai: The relaxation of conditions for transportation of agricultural produces has brought much relief to coconut farmers in the district. Since the restrictions were relaxed, nearly 30,000 to 50,000 coconuts were transported from Sholavandan to other states Bharathiya Kisan Sangh secretary T Perumal said Sholavandan in Vadipatti block is a major area where coconut is cultivated in Madurai. While only 30% of the coconuts would be sent for domestic use within the state, the remaining 70% would be sent to states such as Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Following the lockdown, the coconut farmers have been facing difficulties to market their produce. He said he had sent a representation to the state government to facilitate the transportation of coconuts to other states and protect the livelihood of the farmers. “The officials have also granted permission for functioning of coconut markets from April 20,” said Perumal. A farmer, P Irulandi, said he had cultivated coconut on nearly 10 acres in Sholavandan. Since the farmers were not able to harvest it, coconuts have started to wither. He said the relaxation for transportation would protect the farmers from facing complete loss though they would not get good price for the produce. Joint director of agriculture T Vivekanandan said farmers had started transporting coconuts to other states from Madurai after the restrictions were eased. Local traders have also started to procure coconuts and sell them in the district. After all the coconut markets in the district commence functioning, the trade would be back to normal, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/easing-of-transport-curbs-comes-in-nick-of-time-for-coconut-farmers/articleshow/75240401.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Pune||Roadside hawkers in Pune seek PMC fee waiver for two years||PUNE: The city’s hawkers union has requested the civic body to waive fees for at least two years as a relief measure to offset the impact of Covid-19. Pune Municipal Corporation charges fees to allot public spaces for vendors to do business. The charges differ from area to area. They range from Rs1,500 to Rs3,000 per month. Vendors have demanded that the civic administration not charge this rent. PMC earns around Rs60 crore annually from these fees. “Since the lockdown came into effect, roadside vendors are not able operate. Their business has suffered a lot. They are suffering financial losses. Even after the lockdown rebuilding, their business will be a tough task. The waiver is a must to help them sustain themselves in these testing times,” Balasaheb More of Pathari Panchayat, a union of traders, said. According to PMC’s data, around 20,000 hawkers operate in the city officially. They have been allotted licences to run their business by the roadside. Around 8,000 vendors operate without proper registration. As per the civic administration officials, they take action against the roadside vendors operating without proper authorization. Their material and handcarts are confiscated. They are levied a fine — Rs5,000. The fine is also levied on those vendors who do not follow the hawkers policy norms. Cooking alongside the road and using gas cylinders are prohibited. “Vendors must operate in the space given to them. Utilizing other space attracts a fine,” an official said. The vendors union has also demanded that the fine too be scrapped in the near future. “It is going to exert undue financial burden on vendors,” it said. PMC officials said waiving the charges will have to be a policy decision. “It is going to impact the revenue of the civic body. The civic administration will have to take a call after due approvals from the standing committee and the general body. The civic administration has received the request from the vendors. A decision in this regard will be taken soon,” a senior civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/roadside-hawkers-seek-pmc-fee-waiver-for-2-yrs/articleshow/75240714.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Rims starts e-OPD from today, docs from 10 depts deployed||Ranchi: In order to provide medical consultations to patients suffering from non-Covid-19 ailments, the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) will start an e-OPD service from Monday. The decision to run the OPD remotely was taken after a lot of people are being deprived of medical care due to the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, Rims director D K Singh said, “The e-OPD service will be helpful for thousands of patients who visited us from far flung areas, but can’t do so now due to the ongoing lockdown. Specialist doctors from 10 different departments and five superspecialty wings will be attending to people through voice and video calls. For patients, who do not have a smartphone, they will be assisted on call through our toll-free number.” The numbers that were launched are 18003457056 (toll-free number), 9431787461, 9431763648 and 9431534107 (for calls and WhatsApp). On being inquired about prescriptions, the director said, “We will send the prescriptions through WhatsApp to the patient and if someone doesn’t have a smartphone, he/she will be assisted by our nearest health worker who is deployed in that area.” The hospital administration also constituted a five-member special team of senior doctors of Dr Arpita Roy, Dr Lakhan Manjhi, Dr Mithilesh, Dr Anshul and Dr Nishant who will coordinate the day-to-day operations of the e-OPD. Dr Roy said, “We have divided the whole process into two stages in which the morning session will function between 10am and 1pm and in the afternoon, a team will function from 2pm to 5pm. During the morning session, in house surgeons will be catering to patient’s call and provide them consultation on real time basis based on a patient’s complaints and symptoms. Apart from that, doctors in the morning session will also take details from patients who require assistance from senior doctors which will be addressed in the afternoon session.” She further said, “Soon after a doctor receives a call on any of the toll-free numbers, it will forwarded to a specific doctor based on the symptoms of the patient. A total of 20 doctors will be available at e-OPD at all times.” She added, “A team of expert faculties and doctors will also be co-ordinating with doctors, nurses, ANMs, Asha workers and other healthcare staff at various state-run healthcare facilities to provide them diagnostic assistance in case of any emergency, so that they can stabilise the patient and then refer him or her to the better healthcare centres,” Roy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-starts-e-opd-from-today-docs-from-10-depts-deployed/articleshow/75239017.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Paresh Rawal’s tweet not genuine, probe on: Police||Ranchi: Police on Sunday said the Bollywood star Paresh Rawal’s tweet, in which he said cyber frauds are trying to dupe him through calls and a cash transfer app, was apparently not from his official account but tweeted by one of his fans. The tweet had also sought help from Ranchi Police for an investigation into the case as the call reportedly originated in Jharkhand. The cyber cell of the police department said investigations were going on to ascertain the veracity of the allegation and the whereabouts of the fraudster. Ranchi SSP Anis Gupta said, “We have started investigations to verify Twitter account which allegedly said there was a bid to cheat Rawal and the calls he reportedly received from the fraudster.” The tweet said a fraud had called up Rawal, saying that a cashback amount from Google Pay will be credited to him, but sent money requests to him. The tweet also said audio clip of the fraudster’s call will be shared with police. Cyber crime DSP Yashodhara said, “During investigations, it was found that the genuine account of Rawal has around 2.7 million followers while the particular twitter account from which the allegation came has only a few thousand followers.” Prima facie the account seems to be of one of Rawal’s fans, she added. Police sources said they have sent a message to Rawal about the incident and asked him for details. Rawal is, however, yet to contact the police. Initial investigations indicated that the location of the SIM card from which the fraudster made the call is traced to Deoghar district and was issued from North Parganas district of West Bengal. During the lockdown period, online transactions have increased and cybercriminals have also become active. Earlier, Jharkhand Police has issued an advisory to the common people to be wary of such fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paresh-rawals-tweet-not-genuine-probe-on-police/articleshow/75238952.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 20, 2020||Vadodara||Fatehgunj man arrested for selling tobacco||VADODARA: Detection of crime branch (DCB) has arrested a man who used to sell tobacco products from his provision store in Fatehgunj area. Cops had received information that Mahesh Patel, a resident of Nizampura, who runs Gurukrupa provision store in Fatehgunj, was selling other products too. The cops raided his shop and found that he was selling cigarettes, tobacco products and gutka along with groceries. Patel was arrested and tobacco products worth Rs32,500 were seized from his shop. The cops have banned sale of tobacco during lockdown and all shopkeepers warned not to sell such products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fatehgunj-man-arrested-for-selling-tobacco/articleshow/75239362.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchiites find it difficult to get defunct appliances, mobiles repaired||Ranchi: With the lockdown in place, Ranchiites are finding it difficult to get their defunct appliances and mobile phones repaired. Meanwhile, mechanics say they do not have enough spare parts and buying new ones is not an option during the lockdown. Lal Muni Devi, a housewife staying near BIT Mesra is looking for a mechanic for her refrigerator, but is unable to find one. “My refrigerator is not cooling properly, but no mechanic is available now.” She added, “I am cooking very less now, but storing vegetables has become problematic.” A businessman by profession, Prabind Kumar wanted to buy a cooler, but with all shops shut, it is not possible to get one. “We had planned to buy a cooler this summer, but as the shops are closed, we are bound to bear the heat. Government should give relaxations to these shops.” Speaking to TOI, an official of an electronic shop, Bharat Electronic, said, “We are getting around 20-25 calls per day from our customers. Some are even ready to transport their appliances on their own, but abiding by the law, we have denied all requests.” Deepak Singh, owner of Go-Cool refrigeration works, a repairing centre, said, “I have around 12 staff with me, but cannot help our customers. We get 10-12 calls per day for repairs, but we are denying as we do not have many spare parts and movement is also restricted now.” Shops that repair water purifiers are also registering 5-6 requests per day, but due to unavailability of staff and spare parts, they are unable to attend to the customers. Vimal Dutta of Sidhharth Agency said, “We are getting several calls to repair water purifiers, but we are not able to as all of my staff have gone to their home towns and we are running out of proper parts.” However, there are some who are trying to help their customers in this hard time. Shailesh Choubey, an owner of another repairing agency, said, “All of my staffs have gone home. Since drinking water is very important, I am trying to help my customers as much as I can and try to attend local calls for repairs.” Mobile repairing shops are also registering a heavy inflow of calls. Prateek Agrawal of Kunal Sales said, “We are getting calls, but I do not have enough staff to attend to all the calls. Movement is also an issue now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchiites-find-it-difficult-to-get-defunct-appliances-mobiles-repaired/articleshow/75239034.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh admin steps up vigil, doc quarantined||Ramgarh: The district administration has intensified vigil along its borders, especially for pedestrians and cyclists who are trying to enter into the district, apart from people travelling in vehicles. DC Sandeep Singh told TOI on Sunday that the move is to restrict unwanted entry of anyone into the district to prevent spread of the coronavirus infection. He, however, added that Ramgarh has no report of Covid-19 positive case, so far. Earlier, three persons, including two women, slipped into Chitarpur block on foot from Ranchi’s Hindpiri, a Covid-19 hotspot, sending everyone into tizzy. Administrative officials swung into action on time and sent them to a quarantine centre set up at an old-age home here. Meanwhile, a private doctor from Gola block in Ramgarh was put under a 21-day home quarantine on Sunday after a patient he came in contact with died of Covid-19 in Gurgaon on Saturday. The doctor, who divides his time between Ranchi and Ramgarh, had attended to the deceased in Bariatu before the latter was airlifted to Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-admin-steps-up-vigil-doc-quarantined/articleshow/75239583.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant flees isolation ward in Daltonganj||Daltonganj: A 25-year-old migrant worker escaped from the isolation ward of Palamu Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on Saturday. The authorities have started an operation to nab him but the youth was yet to be traced till the time of filing this report on Sunday. Palamu civil surgeon John F Kennedy said, “Health officials had collected his swab samples and sent them for test to Rims in Ranchi and the reports are awaited. He probably panicked and left.” SP Ajay Linda said, “As per the health officials’ report, the labourer had fever and was admitted in the isolation ward on April 17 but escaped on April 18. Three police teams are looking for him.” He added, “Health department officials told police that a repair work was on in the vicinity of the isolation ward and he managed to escape by probably mixing himself with on-duty labourers. We are probing how the lapse occurred.” SDPO Sandip Kumar Gupta said the person who escaped had a travel history to Gujarat and he came to Palamu before Holi in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-flees-isolation-ward-in-daltonganj/articleshow/75239569.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||After stir threat, ESL promises no job losses||Bokaro: Vedanta Group’s Electrosteel Steel Limited (ESL) on Sunday assured that there won’t be salary cuts and job losses and the 700 contractual workers who were removed from the company would be re-inducted in a phased manner. The move comes a day after lawmakers and functionaries of various political parties in Bokaro criticised the company’s move to remove the contractual workers. S Venkataraman, chief people officer (CPO), ESL said, “There will be no salary cuts or job losses during the lockdown.” He also advised the staff to work from home to shield themselves against Covid-19 and adhere to social distancing norms. He added, “The workforce belonging to enabling services or non-core operations or stopped units have been advised work from home or stay at home to avoid unnecessary gatherings at the plant.” The company also reiterated that this is for safety and a health advisory issued by the management in the interest of its workforce and does not tantamount to any job loss or pay cut during the lockdown. On Saturday, Chandankyari MLA Amar Bauri had threatened to launch an agitation while BJP’s Dhanbad MP P N Singh and former labour minister Umakant Rajak among others joined the protest against the removal of 700 contractual workers from ESL. Most of the workers hail from Bauri’s constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-stir-threat-esl-promises-no-job-losses/articleshow/75238937.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Milkman delivers farm produce, medicines at no extra cost||Ranchi: After he found out that his customers are facing difficulties in getting essential items during the lockdown, Binod Sahu, a milkman from Hetu village on the city outskirts, started delivering vegetables and medicines apart from milk at their doorstepa without any additional charge. Since he has a vendor pass to move around the city, he has asked all his customers to stay indoors and to tell him their requirement to get from outside. “After the lockdown was announced, I got to know that many of my customers are facing difficulties in getting vegetables. Hence, I thought of helping them and started delivering vegetables from my village. I also help a few of them with their medicines,” Sahu said. One of his customers, Rina Roy of Hinoo, says Sahu is a kind-hearted man and insists us to stay at home unless it is necessary. “When he heard that we are having problem in buying vegetables, he himself offered help and has been supplying vegetables at no extra cost since the start of the lockdown.” Sahu added, “While I have to deliver milk to my customers and already stay out for that purpose, I thought of helping my customers so that they do not come out. This is how I also started getting them medicines.” Besides helping his customers, his work has also become a boon to farmers in his village. “After the lockdown was enforced, the farmers from my village could not move out. So, I decided to carry their produce to my customers.” Sahu ferries around 10-12kg vegetables every day from his village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/milkman-delivers-farm-produce-medicines-at-no-extra-cost/articleshow/75238989.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||MGM hosp nurse accused of hurling slur, inquiry begins||Jamshedpur: The East Singhbhum district administration has initiated a probe into allegations by a pregnant Muslim woman, who accused a nurse of the state-run MGM hospital here, of thrashing her with slippers, abusing her on communal lines and forcing her to clean up her blood. She also complained that the incident led to her baby’s death in the womb. SSP Anoop Birthare said, “Following the deputy commissioner’s orders, we have constituted a three-member committee, comprising the executive magistrate, the Sakchi police station-in-charge and the deputy superintendent of the hospital, to investigate the matter.” The alleged incident took place on April 16 and the very next day, the woman, Rizwana Khatoon (30), approached chief minister Hemant Soren on Twitter, appealing for justice. She also sent a letter to the CM through the DC’s office on Saturday. On Saturday evening, the CM’s office asked the SSP to look into the matter. In her letter, the woman alleged that on April 16, she went to MGM hospital with stomach pain and bleeding, but a nurse at the hospital’s gynaecology department accused her of spreading coronavirus and asked her to wipe her blood off the floor. However, as she was unwell, she could not clean the blood which angered the nurse and she ended up abusing her and hitting her with her slippers. The woman’s brother, Munir Raza, said, “Seeing how she was being treated at MGM, we took Rizwana to T Khan nursing home (in Mango) where the doctors declared that the baby is dead in the womb.” MGM hospital superintendent Sanjay Kumar claimed that he was not aware of any such incident. He said, “If such an incident has taken place, then the woman or her family should have complained to me on the day of the incident itself. I did not receive any complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mgm-hosp-nurse-accused-of-hurling-slur-inquiry-begins/articleshow/75238976.cms||B Sridhar
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand set to offer lockdown relaxation to boost rural economy, restart govt departments from today||RANCHI: A host of industrial and non-industrial services, mainly in the rural and the semi-urban areas are set to resume across the state from Monday in sync with national advisories with a focus on providing stimulus to rural economy. While all state and central government offices will restart functioning with 33% attendance from Monday, intra and inter-state movement of vehicles carrying goods too will begin on the national highways. Roadside dhabas and garages on the highways will begin operation besides statewide restart to MGNREGA jobs across all panchayats. To bail out farmers, all kinds of agricultural works too are set to commence from today. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said, “From Monday, the focus will be to restart rural economy and rural life but in sync with all the advisories related to coronavirus and lockdown rules issued by government of India. Operation of sectors like industries, agriculture, transport (goods), shops of even non-essential items etc will slowly begin from Monday. We are now focusing mainly on rural areas and gradually as things come under control, it will be expanded in urban pockets too.” Oraon however clarified that lockdown restrictions however will continue to remain in force till May 3 across the state. Till Sunday, a total of 38 coronavirus cases have emerged in the state covering seven districts including Ranchi, Bokaro, Hazaribag. Of the total cases, two fatalities have been reported from Ranchi and Bokaro. Clarifying the ease in restrictions, Oraon said, “Specific pockets that are covid-19 hotspots will continue to observe strict lockdown norms while non infected areas will witness relaxations. For example, there will be no relaxation in Hindpiri unlike rural pockets of Ranchi.” Citing some of the to-do things, another senior official in the state government said, “Social distancing norms, mandatory use of masks, ban on spitting in public places etc will be strictly in force pan state wide. Every departmental head in government office will devise roster to regulate staffing, ban entry of visitors and ensure all hygiene norms are followed at work place.” Many districts have begun steps to implement relaxations. Talking to TOI, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla said, “We have identified few dhabas, garages along NH passing through our district to restart them. This apart, we are also giving permission for industrial activities in rural areas to begin. Both in rural and urban areas, we are also now allowing services of plumbers, electricians etc.” Deoghar DC Nancy Sahay said, “We have asked industries, warehouses and the likes to send their requisition via mail (permissioncelldgr@gmail.com) to begin operations. This apart, we have also uploaded a self declaration form on our district administration website which anyone, who qualifies for relaxation as per MHA norms, can fill and begin operations.” In Hazaribag deputy commissioner B P Singh said that except Bishnugarh block where two covid-19 cases surfaced, relaxation in lockdown will be given in all other 15 blocks. He said, “From Monday, all the shops including electrical and electronics, motor garages, offices, nursing homes, clinics, factories etc will be allowed to function. Each organization will have the onus of following prescribed norms failing which action will be taken. As far as transportation is concerned, only essentials will be permitted now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-set-to-offer-lockdown-relaxation-to-boost-rural-economy-restart-govt-departments-from-today/articleshow/75239192.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Contact tracing at Bariatu after 73-year-old’s death in Gurgaon||Ranchi: A day after a retired septuagenarian JAS officer tested positive for Covid-19 and died at a Gurgaon hospital, the district administration here launched contract tracing and screening exercises. The 73-year-old man suffered a brain stroke on April 2, following which, he was flown to Gurgaon on April 16 after initial treatment at Lake View Hospital. The man was a resident of Mandhumati Apartment in Bariatu. A team led by Ranchi DC Rai Mahipat Rai visited the apartment and the hospital where he was admitted initially to review the screening and sample collection process. Meanwhile, Lake View Hospital remained shut from Saturday after the elderly tested positive for Covid-19. Sample collection also continued in Hindpiri area on Sunday and health workers collected samples of more than 50 pregnant women who were surveyed earlier. Ranchi deputy development commissioner Ananya Mittal said, “A total of 229 samples have been collected from Bariatu and Hindpiri areas, of which, 131 are from Madhumati Apartment and Lake View Hospital and 96 from Hindpiri area, including 56 of pregnant women of the area.” Executive magistrate deployed at Bariatu, Ghasi Ram Pingua, said, “A total of 72 people were identified at Madhumati apartment for samples collection and 59 at Lake View Hospital. which include doctors, nurses and other patients and their attendants. We have collected samples of all those who have been traced for contact.” A senior official said, “The patient had visited Advanced Diagnostic Care on March 31 for a CT scan, Maa Ram Pyari Superspeciality Hospital for a CT and MRI on April 2 and Roy Neuro Care for OPD consultation on April 10.” Contact tracing operations have been initiated in all these facilities too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/contact-tracing-at-bariatu-after-73-year-olds-death-in-gurgaon/articleshow/75239540.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Over 30 men from Bengal travelled to J’khand on spl train||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government has asked the railways to specify its standard operating procedures (SOP) after it found that a “special train” from Howrah (Kolkata) carried more than 30 men — including retired railway employees and some persons stranded after their treatment at various railway hospitals for different ailments — to many parts of Jharkhand on Friday. Sources said the train had an engine and just three sleeper coaches. The “special medical train”, which departed from Shalimar station in Howrah on Thursday evening, was meant to ferry a consignment of medicines, personal protective equipment and other material. However, it also carried over 30 men. The train reached Ranchi — after dropping people off at Bondamunda, Tatanagar, and Chakradharpur stations — on Friday evening. The last batch of passengers alighted at Ranchi station. While officials at Ranchi and South Eastern Railways’ (SER) headquarters in Kolkata said the passengers were railways personnel, sources said most of them were retired employees stranded after they were discharged from different railway hospitals in Kolkata following their treatment for various ailments. These men allegedly alighted at various stations, dodging screening and quarantine protocols, the sources added. A senior official at the SER headquarters in Kolkata said, “The railways is working as per instructions and guidelines from the Centre. We are not aware that we have to take any clearance from the state government to start any special train.” However, a senior official of the transport department responded to the claim saying, “Who knows whether these passengers are infected with the novel coronavirus? The railways cannot have such a lax attitude.” In a letter to the divisional railway managers (DRMs) on Saturday, the state transport department asked the officials for detailed information on their SOP on movement of freight, parcel, special trains and personnel during the nationwide lockdown. The letter, written by transport secretary K Ravikumar to DRMs of Ranchi, Chakradharpur, Adra, Asansol, Dhanbad, Bhagalpur and Malda divisions, has sought a response by Monday evening. Ravikumar asked the divisions to provide the names, phone numbers and addresses of those who travelled on the train and alighted at various stations, including Bondamunda, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur and Ranchi. He also asked if these men were quarantined after they reached their destination as per protocol. Neeraj Kumar, the chief public relations officer of Ranchi railway division, said, “We have received a letter from the state transport department. We will reply to it soon.” In the letter, a copy of which is marked to the Railway Board chairperson, Ravikumar asked if the railways had sought permission from the local authorities and informed those concerned about the movement of men in the train. With the lockdown in effect, inter- and intra-state movement of trains are prohibited without prior approval. Ravikumar said, “We have sought answers from those concerned. Further course of action will be decided once we get a response from the divisions.” A week ago, the Ranchi division landed in a spot after seven RPF jawans reached Ranchi from New Delhi on board a parcel train without any approval. Questions are being raised on the practice of social distancing protocol within the railways after a 35-year-old railway employee tested positive in Dhanbad on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-30-men-from-bengal-travelled-to-jkhand-on-spl-train/articleshow/75238911.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Show cause notice to 58 magistrates||Jamshedpur: East Singhbhum district administration has show caused 58 magistrates for negligence of duty during the ongoing lockdown. Sources said all the 58 special magistrates appointed to oversee the proper implementation of lockdown at various parts of the district were found absent or not doing their duty properly. Sources added that as many as 22 magistrates heading special squads to enforce lockdown in the city area have been shifted, after complaints were received against them for not discharging their duties properly. Notably, 62 magistrates have been given the task to keep a close vigil on the naka bandhis (check points) at various parts of the city and entire district. Teams have been formed to keep a check on the markets in urban and rural areas, where there are regular complaints of violation of social distancing rules. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum district deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla has instructed the special surveillance teams constituted to keep a close watch on those who were caught crossing the inter-state borders in the last seven days and sent to isolation camps. The DC also instructed the teams to visit those people, who have been kept on home quarantine, on daily basis so that there are no lapses. Shukla also instructed the teams to be extra vigilant on those who have the travel history of visiting the corona hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/show-cause-notice-to-58-magistrates/articleshow/75239063.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi doctors see surge in eye ailments among kids||RANCHI: With kids spending long hours glued to their smartphones and television sets during the ongoing lockdown, city-based ophthalmologists are witnessing a surge in the number of young patients with eye ailments. Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist at Medica Hospital, said, “We have received cases where kids are suffering from refractive error inducement, headaches, swelling in the eyes and stress due to the long hours spent watching TV or on smartphones.” He added, “With the lockdown now extended, I would suggest them to get back to playing old games like ludo and carrom which will not harm their eyesight.” Dr Bharti Kashyap, president of Women’s Indian Medical Association (Jharkhand wing), advised those with a history of eye ailments to be more careful and refrain from spending long hours on mobile phones. “People with myopic vision have a risk of deteriorating their eyesight further as minus power increases if the eyes are put under strain beyond capacity,” she said. Meanwhile, 10-year-old Shivam Kumar, a resident of Mahuadanr in Latehar district, recently hurt his eye while trying to imitate Ramayana characters with a home-made bow and arrow after watching the series on TV. Dr Nidhi Gadkar Kashyap, who operated on him after he was referred to Kashyap Eye Memorial Hospital (KEMH) from Latehar, said, “The cornea and retina were damaged, but we repaired it through surgery to save his vision.” Dr B P Kashyap, a senior eye specialist at KEMH, said that he once used to attend to many patients who hurt themselves while trying to mimic characters from serials like ‘The Ramayana’ back in the 1980s and 1990s. He added, “Soon after the government’s decision to air these shows on TV, I wrote to the senior government officials, requesting them to run a disclaimer, along with the serial, advising people not to imitate what they see on TV.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/city-docs-see-surge-in-eye-ailments-among-kids/articleshow/75239077.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand set to offer lockdown relaxation to boost rural economy, restart govt departments from today||RANCHI: A host of industrial and non-industrial services, mainly in the rural and the semi-urban areas are set to resume across the state from Monday in sync with national advisories with a focus on providing stimulus to rural economy. While all state and central government offices will restart functioning with 33% attendance from Monday, intra and inter-state movement of vehicles carrying goods too will begin on the national highways. Roadside dhabas and garages on the highways will begin operation besides statewide restart to MGNREGA jobs across all panchayats. To bail out farmers, all kinds of agricultural works too are set to commence from today. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said, “From Monday, the focus will be to restart rural economy and rural life but in sync with all the advisories related to coronavirus and lockdown rules issued by government of India. Operation of sectors like industries, agriculture, transport (goods), shops of even non-essential items etc will slowly begin from Monday. We are now focusing mainly on rural areas and gradually as things come under control, it will be expanded in urban pockets too.” Oraon however clarified that lockdown restrictions however will continue to remain in force till May 3 across the state. Till Sunday, a total of 38 coronavirus cases have emerged in the state covering seven districts including Ranchi, Bokaro, Hazaribag. Of the total cases, two fatalities have been reported from Ranchi and Bokaro. Clarifying the ease in restrictions, Oraon said, “Specific pockets that are covid-19 hotspots will continue to observe strict lockdown norms while non infected areas will witness relaxations. For example, there will be no relaxation in Hindpiri unlike rural pockets of Ranchi.” Citing some of the to-do things, another senior official in the state government said, “Social distancing norms, mandatory use of masks, ban on spitting in public places etc will be strictly in force pan state wide. Every departmental head in government office will devise roster to regulate staffing, ban entry of visitors and ensure all hygiene norms are followed at work place.” Many districts have begun steps to implement relaxations. Talking to TOI, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla said, “We have identified few dhabas, garages along NH passing through our district to restart them. This apart, we are also giving permission for industrial activities in rural areas to begin. Both in rural and urban areas, we are also now allowing services of plumbers, electricians etc.” Deoghar DC Nancy Sahay said, “We have asked industries, warehouses and the likes to send their requisition via mail (permissioncelldgr@gmail.com) to begin operations. This apart, we have also uploaded a self declaration form on our district administration website which anyone, who qualifies for relaxation as per MHA norms, can fill and begin operations.” In Hazaribag deputy commissioner B P Singh said that except Bishnugarh block where two covid-19 cases surfaced, relaxation in lockdown will be given in all other 15 blocks. He said, “From Monday, all the shops including electrical and electronics, motor garages, offices, nursing homes, clinics, factories etc will be allowed to function. Each organization will have the onus of following prescribed norms failing which action will be taken. As far as transportation is concerned, only essentials will be permitted now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/state-set-to-offer-lockdown-relaxation-to-boost-rural-economy-restart-govt-departments-from-today/articleshow/75248017.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 20, 2020||India||Goa Covid-free, but risks loom as 7,000 seamen set to return||PANAJI: Goa on Sunday became the first state to be free of Covid-19 patients for the moment as the seventh patient recovered from the virus. The tiniest state has not reported a single Covid-19 case since April 3 and all seven patients — six with travel history, and the seventh the brother of one of the patients — have now recovered. “It is a moment of satisfaction and relief for Goa, but we can’t relax. The state will continue to be on a high alert since cases have risen in Belagavi. The borders will remain sealed and all those coming into Goa will be put under quarantine,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Belagavi is an important link for Goa as it is from here that the state procures most of its vegetable and fruit supply. There are also fears that Goa could find itself on the back foot again with almost 7,000 seafarers now preparing to return to the state. “Seafarers must be quarantined for 28 days. People having viral diseases should be screened,” said Dr Anil Mehndiratta, TB and chest physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goa-covid-free-but-risks-loom-as-7000-seamen-set-to-return/articleshow/75240938.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 20, 2020||India||At 75%, share of elderly in Covid fatalities rises in 2 weeks||NEW DELHI: The elderly, many of whom are also suffering from co-morbidities, now account for a larger share of deaths due to Covid-19. Around 75.3% of total fatalities are among people more than 60 years of age, whereas 83% deaths were in people with co-morbidities, government’s latest analysis shows. The data shared by the government on April 6 (around two weeks ago) said 63% of 109 deaths were among those above 60 years age, whereas 86% of fatalities had conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease. On Saturday, the health ministry said 75.3% of 480 deaths were among those above 60. Among deceased, 14.4% of people are in the 0-45 years age group, 10.3% in the 45 -60 years age group, 33.1% in the 60-75 years age group and 42.2% were above 75 years old, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. “This brings to the fore the earlier highlighted facts that elderly people and people with co-morbidities are at higher risk,” he said. The health ministry also said that there are a total of 755 dedicated hospitals and 1,389 dedicated healthcare centres in the country, taking the total dedicated facilities where severe or critical patients can be treated to 2,144. Around 14.19% of total 15,712 confirmed positive Covid-19 cases had recovered by Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-75-share-of-elderly-in-covid-fatalities-rises-in-2-weeks/articleshow/75240974.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Amaravati||Government to bolster Covid-19 containment in Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the administration to focus on Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore districts which have reported a high number of Covid-19 positive cases. The CM asked the officials to take effective containment measures to bring down the positive cases. He also instructed the officials to bring all the frontline services including village and ward secretariat employees and volunteers into Covid life insurance scheme. The chief minister took stock of the Covid-19 situation with the senior officials at the camp office on Sunday. He asked the officials to conduct more tests on the suspected cases to determine the spread of Covid-19 and take measures to contain the disease. He said that rapid tests should be conducted in four districts which continue to report high number of positive cases. “Focus on four districts including Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore as these areas are reporting high number of positive cases. Going for aggressive testing in these districts on a war-footing basis will help contain the spread,” said the chief minister. He directed the officials to take up special drive of sanitation operations in the hospitals which were housing Covid-19 positive cases. He said that keeping the hospitals clean is very important to contain the disease. The CM asked the officials to immediately include the staff from frontline services including village and ward secretariat staffers, volunteers, sanitation workers, Asha workers in the corona health insurance scheme. He asked them to identify if more services were needed to be brought into this category. Already, doctors, paramedical staff and police were covered under the newly announced health insurance scheme. Special chief secretary (health) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy explained that AP stood second in conducting more tests in the country after Rajasthan and they would surpass all the states once the rapid tests were launched. He said that AP was conducting 539 tests per each 10 lakh population while Rajasthan was conducting 685 tests per each ten lakh population. He said that the state screened 5,400 suspected cases on Saturday and the numbers would go up to 17,500 in a few days. He said all the 32,000 suspected cases identified under the family survey would be screened in the first phase. The CM released face masks stitched by women members of self-help groups in urban areas. He asked the officials to distribute 3 masks to each person in the family in the red zones in the first phase. Mempa mission director GS Navin Kumar said that they were readying at least 1 lakh masks per day and hand over to the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-to-bolster-covid-containment-in-kurnool-guntur-krishna-and-nellore/articleshow/75243687.cms||Samdani MN
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Government to bolster Covid-19 containment in Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the administration to focus on Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore districts which have reported a high number of Covid-19 positive cases. The CM asked the officials to take effective containment measures to bring down the positive cases. He also instructed the officials to bring all the frontline services including village and ward secretariat employees and volunteers into Covid life insurance scheme. The chief minister took stock of the Covid-19 situation with the senior officials at the camp office on Sunday. He asked the officials to conduct more tests on the suspected cases to determine the spread of Covid-19 and take measures to contain the disease. He said that rapid tests should be conducted in four districts which continue to report high number of positive cases. “Focus on four districts including Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore as these areas are reporting high number of positive cases. Going for aggressive testing in these districts on a war-footing basis will help contain the spread,” said the chief minister. He directed the officials to take up special drive of sanitation operations in the hospitals which were housing Covid-19 positive cases. He said that keeping the hospitals clean is very important to contain the disease. The CM asked the officials to immediately include the staff from frontline services including village and ward secretariat staffers, volunteers, sanitation workers, Asha workers in the corona health insurance scheme. He asked them to identify if more services were needed to be brought into this category. Already, doctors, paramedical staff and police were covered under the newly announced health insurance scheme. Special chief secretary (health) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy explained that AP stood second in conducting more tests in the country after Rajasthan and they would surpass all the states once the rapid tests were launched. He said that AP was conducting 539 tests per each 10 lakh population while Rajasthan was conducting 685 tests per each ten lakh population. He said that the state screened 5,400 suspected cases on Saturday and the numbers would go up to 17,500 in a few days. He said all the 32,000 suspected cases identified under the family survey would be screened in the first phase. The CM released face masks stitched by women members of self-help groups in urban areas. He asked the officials to distribute 3 masks to each person in the family in the red zones in the first phase. Mempa mission director GS Navin Kumar said that they were readying at least 1 lakh masks per day and hand over to the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-bolster-covid-containment-in-kurnool-guntur-krishna-and-nellore/articleshow/75239106.cms||Samdani MN
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: In 30 days of lockdown, TTD loses nearly Rs 125 crore revenue||TIRUPATI: The Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala in Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, the richest Hindu temple in the country, completed 30 days lockdown on Sunday. The temple had closed down on March 20, five days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed to stem the spread of Covid-19. Following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) announced the closure of the Tirumala temple as well as the nearly 50 temples under its purview for an indefinite period. This is the first time in history that the Tirumala temple has been closed for pilgrim entry for so long. The last time the Tirumala temple was closed was in 1892 for two days during the Mahant’s rule for reasons unknown. The lockdown however has had an impact on the TTD’s finances. The temple’s average hundi collection would be between Rs 2.5crore to Rs 5crore making it the richest Hindu temple in the country. TTD has lost between Rs 125crore to Rs 150crore due to the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy said, “The lockdown has definitely impacted the TTD’s revenues like never before. But right now all our efforts are focussed on extending support to the state and central governments. Once the temple reopens, the TTD trust board will curtail unwarranted expenditure and find newer avenues to increase the temple’s revenue.” “Even when the crisis ends, we will strictly enforce social distancing procedure in the best interests of devotees and the nation,” the TTD chairman added. The daily rituals and annual festivals of the temple however continue to be performed as per prescribed agamas but in the absence of devotees. Further, since the lockdown, the TTD has been trying to help those stranded in the city as well as the homeless and the poor. The TTD began distributing food to the needy in Tirupati on March 28. The temple administration is distributing nearly 1.4lakh food packets every day and has spent around Rs 10 crore in the pursuit yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-30-days-of-lockdown-ttd-loses-nearly-rs-125-crore-revenue/articleshow/75239148.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Indian workers in Dubai need food, shelter||VIJAYAWADA: Expressing concern over the plight of migrant workers in Dubai and other parts of UAE, the Andhra Pradesh Non-Resident Telugu Society (APNRTS) wrote to the consulate-general of India in Dubai to provide food and shelter to migrant workers who have lost their livelihood and are stranded because of the lockdown. In a letter to the consulate-general of India Harjeet Singh, president of APNRT, Venkat S Medapati stated that many migrant workers from AP are finding it difficult to meet their daily needs. Media reports suggest that some of them do not have shelter and are living on the streets in remote areas. Telugu volunteers from Andhra Pradesh and elsewhere are trying to help these migrant workers by providing them with food and water. The letter adds that there may be hunger deaths if migrant workers are not taken care of and which will create panic among other workers. Since international travel to and from India has not resumed, Medapati requested the consulate-general to arrange food and accommodation for migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/indian-workers-in-dubai-need-food-shelter/articleshow/75239180.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fishermen seek sea route home, caught||Visakhapatnam: Srikakulam police on Sunday registered cases for for violating lockdown orders against 56 fishermen who set sail from Tamil Nadu on mechanised boats and reached their hometowns under Sompeta and Kaviti mandals in Srikakulam district. District collector J Nivas alerted officials of the police and revenue departments based on information about fishermen arriving in the district through the sea route. Locals in the district have decided to not allow outsiders, including relatives and family, enter villages to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and informed officials upon learning that the fishermen were returning to the district. Soon after the fishermen landed on the Srikakulam coast, officials arranged special vehicles and sent them to quarantine for 14 days at Rajampuram and Sompeta in the district. The collector said cases against the fishermen were registered under Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Officials appealed to people to inform them about the entry of outsiders into the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishermen-seek-sea-route-home-caught/articleshow/75239191.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||MP Vijayasai slams Naidu||Visakhapatnam: TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu is criticising the government instead of helping in the fight against coronavirus (Covid-19), said YSRC MP V Vijayasai Reddy on Sunday. Addressing the media here, Reddy said, “The entire Opposition backed the government when India fought Pakistan and China, but here the Opposition led by Naidu is criticising the government for no reason.” Minister of state for tourism M Srinivas Rao said, “As of now, the situation in Vizag is stable. We have only five people undergoing treatment.” He lashed out at the TDP chief for alleging that the state government was hiding numbers and said, “ If that is the case we will resign from political life.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mp-vijayasai-slams-naidu/articleshow/75239199.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Amaravati||Covid-19 lockdown takes the shine out of goldsmiths’ lives||AMARAVATI: Jewellery shops in cities such as Bhimavaram, known for their goldsmiths and gold market, wear a deserted look. Not surprisingly, given the ongoing Covid crisis and people shelving their celebration plans. A few jewellers complained that some of their customers have cancelled orders given the continued uncertainty in the state. The nationwide lockdown began just ahead of the wedding season, dashing hopes of profits of about two lakh people belonging to the goldsmith community who already live in poverty. A majority of the traditional goldsmiths, who lost their wages following the arrival of big jewellery malls, were managing with small orders from loyal customers from rural areas and old families. Although, highly skilled in making ornaments, they were collecting nominal charges for fear of losing business. “The Covid-19 pandemic has come as a jolt to our people as we were forced to close all shops across the state. We are not even sure how long it would take to revive the market,” rued a goldsmiths’ association leader Kotcherla Srirama Murthy of Bhimavaram, one of the big jewellery towns of the state. A goldsmith, Veerachary, from Guntur alleged that since the goldsmiths are not an influential vote bank, the state government has not announced relief packages, like the ones granted for fishermen and weavers, for them. He said even tailors, barbers and autorickshaw drivers have got financial assistance from the government but not the goldsmiths. In a few towns, associations of goldsmiths have pooled in money from merchants and started distributing essential commodities to the struggling goldsmiths. “Working on gold just doesn’t make us richer. We need some support from the government to survive,” said Sarampati Jagadeesh, a goldsmith from Gudiwada of Krishna district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-19-lockdown-takes-the-shine-out-of-goldsmiths-lives/articleshow/75239226.cms||Samdani MN
April 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Former SEC requests high court to set aside ordinance||Vijayawada: Refuting the arguments submitted by the state government justifying the promulgation of ordinance 5, which resulted in his termination as the state election commissioner (SEC), Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar submitted a detailed reply to the high court on Sunday. He stated that the government has misconceived the facts and averments made in the counter affidavit which shows the intent of the government to remove him from office. Ramesh Kumar argued in his counter affidavit that the state government brought in the ordinance overnight and there is no justification to its argument of electoral reform. He said any reform would be made based on a study or the recommendations of an experts’ committee but in this case there was no such exercise conducted that indicates that it was brought in with a sole purpose of removing him from office. Arguing that the ordinance was illegal and arbitrary, Ramesh Kumar said the Constitution provides protection to the SEC under Article 243 (K) and hence the government cannot remove him from office. On the issue of his letter to the Union home ministry, Ramesh Kumar said that he wrote the letter as he was criticised by the ruling dispensation, including the chief minister and his council of ministers, immediately after he took the decision to postpone the elections. He said said the communication made with the Union government over the electoral reforms after the third week of, as argued by the state government, is not tenable and does not justify the ordinance as it clearly establishes that the said communication was made after the fallout with him. The sequence of events, which took place after the decision was taken to defer the elections in view of Covid-19 pandemic, clearly establishes the intent of the state government. It wanted to remove him from office on the pretext of electoral reforms, he said. He requested the high court to set aside the ordinance as it is illegal, arbitrary and colourable exercise of power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/former-sec-requests-high-court-to-set-aside-ordinance/articleshow/75239253.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi man among two dead at Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital||GURUGRAM: Two persons who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Medanta Hospital have died in the past 24 hours. One of them was a Delhi resident while the other patient was a 70-year-old man from Ranchi. Both had tested positive after being admitted to Medanta, officials said. Officials said the 70-year-old Ranchi resident had to be airlifted to Medanta on April 16 as his condition had deteriorated. A former deputy development commissioner, he was being earlier treated at a private hospital in Ranchi after he suffered a brain haemorrhage in the last week of March. The other patient — a 55-year-old man from Sadar Bazar in Delhi — passed away on Sunday morning. “The Covid-19 death cases are from outside GURUGRAM and so we won’t add them to the Haryana tally. We are aware that a Delhi resident and a patient from Ranchi died because of underlying heath conditions. The Delhi resident had both diabetes and hypertension, and that made it a more complicated case. The patients from Ranchi died of brain haemorrhage during treatment,” said JS Puniya, the CMO. So far, five persons who were found to have Covid have died during treatment in Haryana. This includes the 79-year-old woman from Italy who was admitted to Medanta on March 4. She died on April 9 after a sudden deterioration of her condition. On April 5, a 58-year-old man from a village in Karnal district had died during treatment at PGIMER, Rohtak. Haryana had reported its first Covid death on April 1, when a 67-year-old man from Ambala had passed away at the Rohtak facility. Meanwhile, GURUGRAM reported one more positive case on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 37. The latest case of Covid is a warden of Bhondsi jail. This count, however, does not include the 14 Italians who were undergoing treatment at Medanta. “He came back to join work in Gurugram on Friday and was told to get a Covid test done. Since he tested positive, he is being treated at a Sector 10 hospital in Gurugram,” Puniya said. Neighbouring Faridabad reported nine cases on Sunday, taking the total to 42. Dr Ram Bhagat, deputy civil surgeon, said, “Of the nine cases, six are members of the Tablighi Jamaat. One person is from Indonesia, one from Nepal, one is a Delhi resident and three are from Bihar. The remaining are Faridabad residents, who had come in contact with other people who had tested positive earlier. We are tracing their contacts and screening people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/two-die-during-covid-19-treatment-at-medanta/articleshow/75240087.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 20, 2020||India||Nisha Jindal, with 10k FB fans, turns out to be a man||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh police went looking for a ‘Nisha Jindal’, who posted ‘inflammatory comments’ on her Facebook page, only to find out that she was a ‘he’. And one who has been failing his undergrad engineering exams for 11 years. Police say the accused, 31-year-old Ravi Pujar, used to post communal messages under fake IDs. Since 2012, he had allegedly been operating fake FB IDs in the name of ‘Nisha Jindal’ and Pakistani actress Miraha Pasha. ‘Nisha’ had over 10,000 followers, who are doubtless shell-shocked today. Police took his photograph in custody and posted it on social media along with the fake ID of ‘Nisha Jindal’ with the message: ‘I am Nisha Jindal and I am in police custody’. It went viral. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel applauded police on Twitter. “No fraud will be spared. Let us reveal all those elements who wish to mislead.# Good job @RaipurPoliceCG,” he tweeted. Ravi is a student of IT engineering since 2009 but has not managed to get pass marks yet, said Raipur SSP Arif H Sheikh. On social media, the accused posed as a member of organizations like International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Health Organisation (WHO) and World Trade Organization (WTO), said the SSP. Police got on his trail after getting complaints that someone was posting inflammatory, communal comments on Facebook. A cyber cell team was tasked with identifying and arresting the suspect. The cops tracked down his cyber footprints and zeroed in on Ravi, a resident of Kabir Nagar locality in Raipur. He was taken by surprise when a police team arrived to arrest him on Saturday. Since 2012,the was operating fake social media IDs and posting inflammatory and controversial posts on communal issues, say police. He had 10,000 followers on the ‘Nisha’ page and more than 4,000 friends in the page he ran as Pakistani actress Miraha Pasha, said the SSP. Police have seized a laptop and mobile phone. He has been booked under IPC 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) and section 67 of IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nisha-jindal-with-10k-fb-fans-turns-out-to-be-a-man/articleshow/75240983.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No mask, no petrol, warn pump dealers||MUMBAI: Fuel will not be given to anyone at more than 200 petrol pumps across Mumbai if the customer is not wearing a mask, said Petrol Dealers’ Association president M Venkat Rao on Sunday. Rao said several customers take their masks off after arriving at pumps, which will not be allowed either. “Everybody will have to wear the mask properly—covering the mouth and nose—and follow social distancing norms at the pump. If they don’t, we will not give them petrol, diesel or CNG,” he said. A few pumps have kept masks that customers will be given before they enter the pump. On Sunday, president of All India Petroleum Dealers Association Ajay Bansal, also issued a directive that to ensure the safety of petrol pump staffers. He said fuel should not be sold to those not wearing face masks across India. Rao added that the number of vehicles arriving at pumps in the city have dropped by nearly 85%, causing huge losses to owners. Pumps are running on skeletal staff, as many are unable to travel for work. Rao has petitioned the city collector to allow only selected pumps to remain open at strategic locations in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-mask-no-petrol-warn-pump-dealers/articleshow/75240995.cms||Somit Sen
April 20, 2020||India||Asymptomatic cases testing positive not very high: Govt||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Sunday said the percentage of asymptomatic people testing positive for Covid-19 was not very high as per the global historical data even though there was need to be “aware of this challenge” and ensure that high risk contacts of positive cases were quarantined or monitored in healthcare facilities in accordance to existing government guidelines. “Asymptomatic people actually coming out positive is not a very big percentage, that is what the historical data from across the world has shown us, said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry. “So what is important for us is to be aware of this challenge and ensure that even asymptomatic people, if they are high risk people, (and) that is part of our sampling criteria. We need to monitor them, do tests for them and quarantine them,” he said. The observations comes in the wake of some states reporting that significant percentage of positive cases were asymptomatic, leading to concerns that asymptomatic cases, unless tested and quarantined in time, can cause wider spread. The view of government experts is that the possibility of a large number of asymptomatic persons remaining undetected and not requiring medical attention is slim and point out that government continues to monitor several parameters to check for spread of Covid-19. The Indian Council of Medical Research has also recommended pooling of samples for RT-PCR screening in areas with low prevalence of Covid-19 cases for community survey and surveillance among asymptomatic individuals who have not even come in direct contact with confirmed positive cases. Till Sunday, over 3.86 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19. Of this, 37,173 were tested on Saturday alone, according to ICMR. The health ministry also advised that if asymptomatic patients were cases of contact-history, then they should remain in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/asymptomatic-cases-testing-positive-not-very-high-govt/articleshow/75241013.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 20, 2020||Noida||Noida and Ghaziabad pulled up over coronavirus fight||NOIDA: The performance of the Noida and Ghaziabad administrations in enforcing the lockdown has been found “unsatisfactory” in a review by the UP government. The two districts are among 45 in the state whose authorities have been pulled up by the government over their performance. Apart from Noida and Ghaziabad, the list — prepared by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi — includes Lucknow, Meerut, Baghpat, Shamli, Hapur and Bulandshahr in the “unsatisfactory” category. They have been asked to enforce health department’s guidelines and improve law and order situation. The observations made about Noida in the report include the alleged suicide of a man at a quarantine centre and reported lack of coordination between police and the district administration. The report also mentions the rising number of Covid cases in Noida — 97 on Sunday. Ghaziabad’s performance and the observations made about it in the report were not too different from Noida’s. For Ghaziabad, too, the report mentioned lack of coordination and failure to arrest the number of Covid cases. Sources said the report was being viewed as a major reason for the recent transfer of Noida’s chief medical officer, Dr RK Chaturvedi. “The government took a grim view of the situation, especially the suicide at a quarantine centre. The transfer is being seen as a fallout of that,” a senior official said. The report has also asked the districts to improve their law and order situation. “Taking note of the situation of the respective districts, law and order situation be strengthened and steps be taken for curbing spread of Covid-19 epidemic,” read a letter sent to all district police chiefs and district magistrates. Told about the report, Noida DM Suhas LY said the fight against the novel coronavirus was a coordinated effort. “We are trying to work with utmost sincerity. We would like to urge the people to be a part of this team and think that we are fighting this battle together,” he said. Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said the police were doing a “good job” and he had not come across any case where there was lack of coordination between the authorities. “I will send my reply to the government if that is required,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-and-ghaziabad-pulled-up-over-corona-fight/articleshow/75240264.cms||Shikha Salaria
April 20, 2020||India||‘Bizarre’, says India on Imran Khan’s claims of bias against Muslims||NEW DELHI: Simmering tensions between India and Pakistan flared up on Sunday as New Delhi lashed out at Islamabad after PM Imran Khan made provocative comments against the Modi government accusing it of targeting Muslims. “The deliberate and violent targeting of Muslims in India by Modi government to divert the backlash over its Covid 19 policy which has left thousands stranded and hungry, is akin to what Nazis did to Jews in Germany. Yet more proof of the racist Hindutva Supremacist ideology of Modi government,” Khan said. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava denounced the statement as “bizarre and baseless” and questioned Pakistan’s track record in taking care of its minorities. He said, “The bizarre comments by Pakistani leadership are an attempt to shift focus from the abysmal handling of their internal affairs. Instead of concentrating on fighting Covid 19, they are making baseless allegations against neighbours.” The government did not react to reports about the unhappiness expressed by Organization of Islamic Cooperation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bizarre-says-india-on-imran-khans-claims-of-bias-against-muslims/articleshow/75241017.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mumbai||Disabled beggar who gives food to the poor in Mumbai||MUMBAI: This polio-stricken man on a wheelchair is a familiar face in Balaji Nagar naka, Bhayander (west). Mangru Rajput (36) is often seen begging here. During the lockdown though, he’s turning out to be a shining example of how even those who have very little can set an example for charity. Rajput, who lives on a pavement, and gets food from locals, moves around on his wheelchair, sharing extra food packets with the homeless on the same street. “Many give me food, but how much can I eat? I share the extra food with others, especially those who have kids,” he says. His family lives in Uttar Pradesh, but he does not like to talk about them. “I was a burden to them; they wanted to get rid of me...” He has an Aadhaar card and is trying to get a ration card so he can find work. A local, Shailesh Goyal, said, “ I appreciate the fact that this man shares what he has. ” Social activist Dhiraj Parab said, “While many are||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/disabled-beggar-who-gives-food-to-the-poor-in-mumbai/articleshow/75241021.cms||Sandhya Nair
April 20, 2020||India||Telangana first state to extend lockdown, puts curbs till May 7||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday became the first state in India to extend the lockdown beyond May 3 with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao making a declaration to this effect at a press conference even as three Covid-19 deaths were reported from the state in the last 24 hours. The chief minister also appealed to passengers not to plan air travel to Telangana till May 7. “They may plan to come from May 4. There will be no taxi or hotel open in Telangana. We will also tell GMR Airport authorities not to allow any passenger flights to Hyderabad up to May 7,” he said. Ruling out any partial relaxation from April 20 which was announced by the Centre for areas which are not severely affected by coronavirus in a state, KCR said the state cabinet will meet again on May 5 to review the situation and take a decision whether another extension of lockdown beyond May 7 is required. He said the decision to extend the curbs was taken in the larger interests of the health and lives of people. The state government also issued orders banning food delivery by Swiggy and Zomato till May 7, citing a case in Delhi where 72 families were quarantined after a pizza delivery boy tested positive for the virus. However, e-commerce stores can deliver groceries, including vegetables and fruits. KCR said no congregational prayers or celebrations will be allowed for Muslims, Hindus, Christians, Sikhs or any other community. Even prayers during the month of Ramzan have to be offered at home. No permissions would be given for marriages and functions for one more month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/telangana-first-state-to-extend-lockdown-puts-curbs-till-may-7/articleshow/75241034.cms||Roushan Ali
April 20, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa govt may ease lockdown norms from April 22||BENGALURU: Signalling the possibility of chief minister BS Yediyurappa relaxing the lockdown, the Karnataka government on Sunday extended the strict curbs till the midnight of April 21 instead of May 3 — the original date to end the lockdown. Senior government officials confirmed to TOI that a decision has been taken to relax the norms of the lockdown, marking a second Uturn on the move in less than 24 hours. Relaxation of lockdown was first announced and later retracted by the CM within hours on Saturday. The cabinet, at its meeting on Monday, is expected to decide on relaxation of the lockdown norms. “There is no specific reason why the stringent lockdown was extended till April 21. There may be a need to review containment zones and safe zones at the cabinet meeting. An order will be issued to relax the lockdown on Monday or Tuesday,” said the official, adding the government wanted to assess the 24-hour impact of withdrawing the lockdown in other states starting from Monday. ‘Economy will collapse if norms not eased’With two groups in the cabinet making conflicting suggestions, it is said the CM is reportedly in favour of partial lifting of the lockdown at it tries to mitigate economic losses. “You cannot function in an atmosphere of a lockdown longer than this. Our economy could collapse if the norms are not relaxed,” said a minister. The order issued on Sunday asks deputy commissioners, municipal commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and senior bureaucrats to continue the strict conditions till the midnight of April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-bs-yediyurappa-govt-may-ease-lockdown-norms-from-april-22/articleshow/75241044.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa govt may ease lockdown norms from April 22||BENGALURU: Signalling the possibility of chief minister BS Yediyurappa relaxing the lockdown, the Karnataka government on Sunday extended the strict curbs till the midnight of April 21 instead of May 3 — the original date to end the lockdown. Senior government officials confirmed to TOI that a decision has been taken to relax the norms of the lockdown, marking a second Uturn on the move in less than 24 hours. Relaxation of lockdown was first announced and later retracted by the CM within hours on Saturday. The cabinet, at its meeting on Monday, is expected to decide on relaxation of the lockdown norms. “There is no specific reason why the stringent lockdown was extended till April 21. There may be a need to review containment zones and safe zones at the cabinet meeting. An order will be issued to relax the lockdown on Monday or Tuesday,” said the official, adding the government wanted to assess the 24-hour impact of withdrawing the lockdown in other states starting from Monday. ‘Economy will collapse if norms not eased’With two groups in the cabinet making conflicting suggestions, it is said the CM is reportedly in favour of partial lifting of the lockdown at it tries to mitigate economic losses. “You cannot function in an atmosphere of a lockdown longer than this. Our economy could collapse if the norms are not relaxed,” said a minister. The order issued on Sunday asks deputy commissioners, municipal commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and senior bureaucrats to continue the strict conditions till the midnight of April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-bs-yediyurappa-govt-may-ease-lockdown-norms-from-april-22/articleshow/75241033.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa govt may ease lockdown norms from April 22||BENGALURU: Signalling the possibility of chief minister BS Yediyurappa relaxing the lockdown, the Karnataka government on Sunday extended the strict curbs till the midnight of April 21 instead of May 3 — the original date to end the lockdown. Senior government officials confirmed to TOI that a decision has been taken to relax the norms of the lockdown, marking a second Uturn on the move in less than 24 hours. Relaxation of lockdown was first announced and later retracted by the CM within hours on Saturday. The cabinet, at its meeting on Monday, is expected to decide on relaxation of the lockdown norms. “There is no specific reason why the stringent lockdown was extended till April 21. There may be a need to review containment zones and safe zones at the cabinet meeting. An order will be issued to relax the lockdown on Monday or Tuesday,” said the official, adding the government wanted to assess the 24-hour impact of withdrawing the lockdown in other states starting from Monday. ‘Economy will collapse if norms not eased’With two groups in the cabinet making conflicting suggestions, it is said the CM is reportedly in favour of partial lifting of the lockdown at it tries to mitigate economic losses. “You cannot function in an atmosphere of a lockdown longer than this. Our economy could collapse if the norms are not relaxed,” said a minister. The order issued on Sunday asks deputy commissioners, municipal commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and senior bureaucrats to continue the strict conditions till the midnight of April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-bs-yediyurappa-govt-may-ease-lockdown-norms-from-april-22/articleshow/75241043.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa govt may ease lockdown norms from April 22||BENGALURU: Signalling the possibility of chief minister BS Yediyurappa relaxing the lockdown, the Karnataka government on Sunday extended the strict curbs till the midnight of April 21 instead of May 3 — the original date to end the lockdown. Senior government officials confirmed to TOI that a decision has been taken to relax the norms of the lockdown, marking a second Uturn on the move in less than 24 hours. Relaxation of lockdown was first announced and later retracted by the CM within hours on Saturday. The cabinet, at its meeting on Monday, is expected to decide on relaxation of the lockdown norms. “There is no specific reason why the stringent lockdown was extended till April 21. There may be a need to review containment zones and safe zones at the cabinet meeting. An order will be issued to relax the lockdown on Monday or Tuesday,” said the official, adding the government wanted to assess the 24-hour impact of withdrawing the lockdown in other states starting from Monday. ‘Economy will collapse if norms not eased’With two groups in the cabinet making conflicting suggestions, it is said the CM is reportedly in favour of partial lifting of the lockdown at it tries to mitigate economic losses. “You cannot function in an atmosphere of a lockdown longer than this. Our economy could collapse if the norms are not relaxed,” said a minister. The order issued on Sunday asks deputy commissioners, municipal commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and senior bureaucrats to continue the strict conditions till the midnight of April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-bs-yediyurappa-govt-may-ease-lockdown-norms-from-april-22/articleshow/75241045.cms||---
April 20, 2020||India||Army eliminating Pak jihadis before they cross LoC: Rajnath||NEW DELHI: India is conducting “targeted strikes” on terror launch pads across the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and eliminating Pakistani infiltrators before they cross to the Indian side, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. Indian armed forces are maintaining full operational readiness and not lowering their guard while continuing to play a significant role in the national effort to combat the coronavirus pandemic, he said. “Indian armed forces are prepared for all contingencies and I can assure the country that we are prepared to defend our sovereignty from adversarial forces in all scenarios,” said Singh. “As you would have gathered from the operations along the LoC in the last two weeks, we are dominating the enemy through targeted intelligence-based strikes on their launchpads and eliminating them before they set foot on Indian soil,” he added. Army chief General M M Naravane, who visited forward locations amidst the surge in ceasefire violations (CFVs) and infiltrations attempts, had on Friday said that while India was engaged in helping its citizens as well as other countries by sending medical teams and exporting medicines, Pakistan was “only exporting terror”. As reported by TOI last week, India has recorded over 1,250 CFVs along the 778-km long LoC this year, with the Army Para-Special Forces also killing five heavily-armed terrorists who had infiltrated into the Keran sector earlier this month. Five Indian commandos laid down their lives in the fierce close-quarter combat during the encounter on the snow-bound heights on April 5. The Army on April 10 used 105mm field guns and 155mm Bofors howitzers to target terror launch pads, ammunition dumps and gun positions in the Dudhniyal area opposite Keran sector of Kupwara. Naravane warned that the Indian Army will retaliate with “a punitive response” to acts of ceasefire infringement and support to terrorism by Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-eliminating-pak-jihadis-before-they-cross-loc-rajnath/articleshow/75241049.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Over 30 men from Bengal travelled to J’khand on spl train||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government has asked the railways to specify its standard operating procedures (SOP) after it found that a “special train” from Howrah (Kolkata) carried more than 30 men — including retired railway employees and some persons stranded after their treatment at various railway hospitals for different ailments — to many parts of Jharkhand on Friday. Sources said the train had an engine and just three sleeper coaches. The “special medical train”, which departed from Shalimar station in Howrah on Thursday evening, was meant to ferry a consignment of medicines, personal protective equipment and other material. However, it also carried over 30 men. The train reached Ranchi — after dropping people off at Bondamunda, Tatanagar, and Chakradharpur stations — on Friday evening. The last batch of passengers alighted at Ranchi station. While officials at Ranchi and South Eastern Railways’ (SER) headquarters in Kolkata said the passengers were railways personnel, sources said most of them were retired employees stranded after they were discharged from different railway hospitals in Kolkata following their treatment for various ailments. These men allegedly alighted at various stations, dodging screening and quarantine protocols, the sources added. A senior official at the SER headquarters in Kolkata said, “The railways is working as per instructions and guidelines from the Centre. We are not aware that we have to take any clearance from the state government to start any special train.” However, a senior official of the transport department responded to the claim saying, “Who knows whether these passengers are infected with the novel coronavirus? The railways cannot have such a lax attitude.” In a letter to the divisional railway managers (DRMs) on Saturday, the state transport department asked the officials for detailed information on their SOP on movement of freight, parcel, special trains and personnel during the nationwide lockdown. The letter, written by transport secretary K Ravikumar to DRMs of Ranchi, Chakradharpur, Adra, Asansol, Dhanbad, Bhagalpur and Malda divisions, has sought a response by Monday evening. Ravikumar asked the divisions to provide the names, phone numbers and addresses of those who travelled on the train and alighted at various stations, including Bondamunda, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur and Ranchi. He also asked if these men were quarantined after they reached their destination as per protocol. Neeraj Kumar, the chief public relations officer of Ranchi railway division, said, “We have received a letter from the state transport department. We will reply to it soon.” In the letter, a copy of which is marked to the Railway Board chairperson, Ravikumar asked if the railways had sought permission from the local authorities and informed those concerned about the movement of men in the train. With the lockdown in effect, inter- and intra-state movement of trains are prohibited without prior approval. Ravikumar said, “We have sought answers from those concerned. Further course of action will be decided once we get a response from the divisions.” A week ago, the Ranchi division landed in a spot after seven RPF jawans reached Ranchi from New Delhi on board a parcel train without any approval. Questions are being raised on the practice of social distancing protocol within the railways after a 35-year-old railway employee tested positive in Dhanbad on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-30-men-from-bengal-travelled-to-jkhand-on-spl-train/articleshow/75238910.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||Centre should answer: CM on J’khand students stranded in Kota||Ranchi: While the Uttar Pradesh government arranged 300 buses to bring back the state’s students stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota, chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday resorted to attack the Centre over the “wrong being done” on the people of Jharkhand while several tweets to him from concerned parents went unanswered. “When students of UP could be brought back, the Centre should make arrangements to bring back labourers and students of Jharkhand who are stuck outside. Why is wrong being done on the people of Jharkhand? Centre should answer to the people of Jharkhand,” Hemant tweeted. Meanwhile, worried students and parents tweeted out to the CM on Sunday, but to no avail. Speaking to TOI, Raj Kiran (17) from Dumka, who is currently in Kota, said, “We do not know what to do, the environment at Kota is very depressing. A new case of Covid-19 was found just near my hostel. I am afraid and want to get back home. My parents are also anxious.” Most of the students are also getting food from messes located away from hostels, increasing the chances of the spread of the infection. Another student, Suraj (18), from Chandrapura, said, “We are getting food from outside. Shops near our hostels are shut and hostel owners are not ready to give us concessions on monthly rents. I am away from my parents and sometimes so much problem is unbearable. I thought Hemant sir would also make arrangements to take us home, but surprisingly he is asking for help from the Union government.” Meanwhile, the Kota district administration expects the number of students from Jharkhand in the city to be around 2,000. Speaking to TOI, Kota district collector Om Kasera said, “We are continuously trying to get the exact numbers of students from each state. As for now, the number of students from Jharkhand is approximately between 1500-2000.” Earlier, passes were being issued to students who wanted to leave Kota on their own, but, later on it was discontinued. Harshitra Aakanksha, a resident of Giddi ‘A’ near Patratu said, “We heard that the Rajasthan government will arrange cabs for those with passes and their parents had come to take them. I tried several times to get a pass, but couldn’t. I want to go home and see my parents.” A source in the education department said, “We are working on the process to bring our students back along with our labourers. The CM has sought help from the Central government to allow us to bring the labourers and students together. Our nodal officer for Rajasthan will talk to the Rajasthan government first, then the idea will be tabled before the chief secretary and executed after a green signal from the Vidhan Sabha Committee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-should-answer-cm-on-jkhand-students-stranded-in-kota/articleshow/75238940.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal ‘in action mode’ on PDS, says guv||Kolkata: The Raj Bhavan-Nabanna stand-off over alleged discrepancies in PDS distribution showed the fir-st signs of de-escalation on Sunday, with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar saying the Mamata Banerjee government was “in action mode” after he flagged the issue. Dhankhar indicated that he had spoken to Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan. He also hinted he would speak to Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Monday “for a constructive way forward”. The ruling Trinamool Congress sharply criticised the governor for undermining West Bengal’s effort to reach out to people in crisis, and said it would lodge a complaint against him with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Trinamool parliamentary party leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay said: “The governor is doing politics instead of playing a constructive role. He is acting like a BJP partyman. He is only bothered about BJP. He is using Raj Bhavan like a BJP party office, which is unbecoming of a governor. We will lodge a complaint against him with Lok Sabha speaker.” Kolkata mayor and senior minister Firhad Hakim said “he is clearly overstepping”, and added it was not a welcome move in this hour of crisis. The governor on Sunday made it clear he was unhappy with the state responses given by Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and later, chief secretary Sinha. Dhankhar said the home secretary’s reply was “bereft of any content” and the chief secretary’s reply was “evasive”. But the governor indicated that Bengal had accepted the rollout of Pradhan Ma-ntri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. “Appreciate belated ste-ps to accept FREE RATION @narendramodi under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana,” he wrote on Twitter. There was no immediate response to this from the state government. The state government had earlier informed Raj Bhavan that it had not received the required quantum of foodgrain from the Centre. The government had further said it had already taken to task all “defaulters in the administration” and errant ration dealers, and lodged 32 FIRs in this connection. It has indicated that the 5kg rice per head per month will continue for the next six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-in-action-mode-on-pds-says-guv/articleshow/75240761.cms||---
April 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata private hospitals demand ‘coronavirus-free’ certificates||KOLKATA: Doors shut for a diarrhoea patient, a heart attack victim turned away, precious minutes lost for a cerebral stroke victim. Even as the entire attention of the healthcare system seems to be focused on fighting the pandemic, several Kolkatans with non-Covid-19 ailments reported that private facilities were demanding a doctor’s certificate — declaring “virus-free” status — before agreeing to admit or even treat them. Families of patients are having a hard time running from one hospital to another, trying to get the necessary clearances, wasting time, of-ten in emergency cases. A senior doctor has called the practice “unethical”. Abhijit Chowdhury, a member of the state expert committee on Covid-19, denounced the move by a section of private hospitals. “It is unethical on the part of hospitals to refuse emergency patients during a pandemic,” he said. “They have no right to be driven by fear since it is their job to provide treatment to all, making sure that they identify the Covid-19 suspects and segregate them. Hospitals are equipped to do this and can’t shy away from their responsibility at a time like this. This insistence by private hospitals, while ethically questionable, is probably a knee-jerk reaction to the instance of one such facility that had to shut down after a few asymptomatic patients infected several of its health workers. Two such families TOI got in touch with said they had sought emergency admission for chronic or sudden ailments. Central Kolkata resident Gulzar Ahmed had a harrowing time when he tried admitting his ailing mother, Noor Jahan Began, to hospital on the night of April 14 for a sudden bout of diarrhoea. The first hospital he went to, off EM Bypass, said they did not have any vacancy, while the second one in Salt Lake said they needed to be sure the patient wasn’t an asymptomatic carrier of Covid-19, and asked the family to get a certificate that she did not have the virus. That night, Ahmed took his mother to Beliaghata ID Hopital, but was told they could not test her. Past midnight, he called it a day and nursed his mother at home all night. Next morning, he set off for SSKM but was again told they did not conduct the test. From there, he went to MR Bangur Hospital but was again turned down after an hour’s wait. Frustrated, he returned home and contacted a doctor on the phone to carry out her treatment at home. Luckily, her condition improved upon the medication prescribed over the phone. “If we can’t get basic emergency healthcare despite being ready to pay for it, I wonder what will happen if someone less fortunate has an emergency,” said Ahmed. “If private hospitals are demanding Covid-19 tests before admission, why aren’t they directing patients to facilities where the tests will be expeditiously carried out and the result provided so that it isn’t too late for the patient?” In the other case, a 42-year-old Tollygunge resident rushed his 76-year-old father — who was having a heart attack — to a south Kolkata private hospital last Monday, only to be told that they needed to be sure that the septuagenarian was not Covid-19-positive. Several minutes were wasted in trying to organize a thermal check and a basic examination to rule out the virus before emergency treatment commenced. “We had already lost time in arranging for an ambulance, which was not easy. Then, the patient was made to lie down on a stretcher and wait for the Covid-19 checks. My father could have died,” said his son. In yet another instance, a 25-year-old south Kolkata resident was turned away by two hospitals last week when she sought admission for her 58-year-old mother who had suffered a cerebral stroke. A doctor eventually helped her secure admission to a private hospital, which had earlier refused her. “We lost two days, during which her condition deteriorated sharply. Doctors have admitted that she would have been in a much better shape had she been admitted earlier. But everyone at the hospital said they were wary of asymptomatic patients. My mother doesn’t have any Covid-19 symptom,” said the woman. Some private hospitals admitted in private that they were wary about non-Covid-19 patients “who appeared asymptomatic”. “We are not refusing anyone but merely putting every patient through a mandatory check. There have been cases where families have been forced to delay admission of their non-Covid-19 patients, fearing refusal. Some have even attempted to treat them at home, resulting in deaths. This week we received two such patients who had died on the way and had to be declared brought dead,” said the spokesperson of a private hospital. A representative of AMRI Hospitals pointed out that they had instructed their staff and doctors to admit every non-Covid-19 patient once he or she has been put through a check. “The rule is simple. A patient with symptoms has to be treated as a suspect at the isolation unit. The rest should be admitted as a non-Covid-19 patient but screened,” he said. AMRI has resumed its outpatient department services. It also plans to launch a digital campaign asking patients to visit the hospital without hesitation or delay in the case of an emergency. The spectre of asymptomatic patients spreading the virus still looms large, though. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) said it was “exercising a high degree of suspicion when it comes to identifying or screening Covid-19 patients”. “Testing has been scaled up over the past few weeks in government and private labs and hence we are testing patients showing any sign of suspicion. We are currently not testing non-suspected patients and will wait for guidelines on it before commencing,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-kol-hosps-demand-covid-free-certs/articleshow/75240806.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 20, 2020||Ranchi||BSF war widows make masks after duty hours in H’bag||Hazaribag: War widows of BSF personnel in Hazaribag are manufacturing masks by taking out time after their duty hours as a part of their contribution to the fight against Covid-19. About a dozen widows were inducted into BSF in different points of time on compensatory grounds as constables. Talking to reporters, Mahendra Singh, IG at the BSF training centre in Meru, said, “These women constables have volunteered to make masks after their duty hours without charging any extra wage for distribution among our forces and the district administration. So far, 4,000 masks have been made and distributed.” He added that the BSF Wives Welfare Association (Bawa) have come forward to donate clothes and sewing machines to these constables. “The women constable are are putting in four hours of extra time after duty to prepare masks every day.” Singh also informed that the technical team of BSF also developed a fully automatic sanitizer chamber which has been installed at the entry point of the BSF training centre. “It is sensor-based and when anyone enters, the machine starts working automatically. We have also set up a 30-bedded quarantine centre inside the training campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsf-war-widows-make-masks-after-duty-hours-in-hbag/articleshow/75238787.cms||---
