April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Storytelling sessions go the online way during lockdown in Bengaluru||Ever since the lockdown began, entertainers across the world have been going online to ensure you have regular doses of live music, stand-up comedy and more. Fitness coaches and yoga gurus soon followed suit and now, the latest to join the bandwagon, are storytellers, with engaging sessions for both children and adults. Offering folktales, stories about hope and humour, they seem or be doing their bit to uplift moods amidst the global pandemic. Bengaluru-based performing storyteller and theatre professional Vikram Sridhar says that the lockdown is an opportunity for many storytellers to showcase their work. “There are two kinds of storytelling events that are taking place right now. One, where storytellers put out their work for any audience to consume, and the second that caters to a specific audience. Given the current situation, the number of these sessions is on the rise.” Stories about hope and humour in demand Adithi Rao, a writer from the city, says, “At a time like this, when children are in a restricted space, we are careful about what kind of stories we choose.” Vikram points out that even humour can be a source of hope. “I try to make children and adults laugh through my art and that itself is hope. Humour gives hope to many people,” he says. Actor Vasishta N Simha, who recently did an online storytelling session for kids, says, “It was a short story from the Panchatantra with a moral at the end. The aim is to include stories from the previous generation. The stories that our grandparents told us were eye-openers and we learnt so much from those.” There are sessions for adults, tooVikram adds, that in the present scenario, several adults too are enjoying storytelling sessions. “I have people telling me that after watching the session they got a good night’s sleep after many days. It’s like a lullaby for so many adults. Over the past few weeks, storytelling as an art itself, has become important,” he shares. Daycare centres pitch inRamya N, mother of a three-year-old, says that it is not just storytellers, but even daycare centres who are organising these sessions. “These events are ablessing, especially for those in a nuclear family, because they can rely on these sessions to keep their little ones engaged. My kid’s daycare has been conducting simple storytelling sessions online during the lockdown and it is definitely a big help,” she says. Kids like narration with props and costumes Singer-actor MD Pallavi, who recently performed The Elephant’s Nose as part of Ranga Shankara AHA!’s ‘Little Cloud’ online storytelling programme, says, “Whether it is an online performance or a face-to-face session, it is the art of narrating a story that matters the most. To be able to tell the story to children in an engaging manner is pertinent here. To give it a more realistic touch, props such as puppets, drawings and costumes are important. And, if you can, change your voice for different characters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/storytelling-sessions-go-the-online-way-during-lockdown-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75255535.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Raipur||'Tired of sitting at home' during lockdown, Chhattisgarh minister travels 250km||RAIPUR: “Tired of sitting at home”, Chhattisgarh industries and excise minister Kawasi Lakhma travelled to Raigarh, nearly 250 Kms away from the state capital—sparking a controversy over violation lock-down norms with opposition BJP demanding an FIR against him. The tribal minister’s initial explanation was that he came to meet a Godman, who didn’t meet him. Now, the minister has been quoted as saying that he went to Raigarh on a “surprise visit” after he was informed about sale of illegal liquor and decided to personally and check. Amid nationwide lock down, Lakhma, along with his convoy, had travelled to Raigarh last week, in an overnight journey of about 250 kilometers and returned on Sunday. In Raigarh, he told reporters on Saturday “ I was tired of sitting at home, so I came here to meet a Godman and I will return." The minister didn't mention about his surprise visit then and clarified it only later after opposition raised an objection that he was on a secret tour to Mahasamund and Raigarh districts. Amid allegations that Lakhma got a locked hotel open up for accommodation, the minister said that there was no government rest house open so he asked a friend to help who arranged his stay at a lodge. He added that he didn't hold meetings but had met a local MLA and few reporters in Raigarh. Denying that he had violated any lockdown rules, Lakhma told media that “ I received inputs about sale of illegal liquor on the borders of two districts and he decided to go and check by himself if the norms were being flouted by police”. Escalating the matter, leader of opposition Dharamlal Kaushik said, it's shocking that at a time when large number of migrant workers have been stay put at different places and nation is observing a complete lockdown, a cabinet minister of Chhattisgarh is getting bored at home and is flouting the norms by travelling to another district. I have no word for him. It's state government’s and minister's prerogative to think about this." BJP MP from Raigarh Gomti Sai alleged in a statement that the minister wasn't wearing mask on his tour to Raigarh and he wasn't seen maintaining social distancing either. Despite lockdown norms, the minister not only travelled long distance but also met few people here. Sai demanded that an FIR be lodged against Lakhma and his party workers for violating prohibitory orders. "Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel should immediately drop Lakhma because he has not only violated lockdown norms but also created vulnerability towards spread of coronavirus. He didn't inform anyone about his travel and also forcibly got a hotel open for stay. I will also complain to Prime Minsiter and Union Home Minister”, she said. This is the second time minister Lakhma sparked a controversy since the lock-down. On April 11, he went to Dhamtari on a visit to distribute ration and called for violation of social distancing as a large crowd gathered at the spot. There was no arrangement to control crowding or maintaining distance. When questioned, Lakhma was quoted as saying that he was a public representative and peoples gathering in his presence is inevitable. Earlier, he was in news for giving a bizarre advice to school children in Sukma district on how to become a big and successful politician by grabbing the collars of collectors and superintendents of police. The minister who didn’t had a formal school education, became a butt of social media ridicule as he couldn’t read out the oath after he was inducted into the cabinet. Watch Chhattisgarh minister travels 250km, says 'tired of sitting at home during lockdown'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/tired-sitting-at-home-during-lock-down-chhattisgarh-minister-travels-250km/articleshow/75259957.cms||Rashmi Drolia
April 21, 2020||Business||US benchmark WTI oil price closes at -$37.63/barrel||NEW YORK: Oil prices ended New York trading in the negative on Monday for the first time ever, as a supply glut forced traders to pay others to take the commodity. With space to store oil scarce, US benchmark West Texas Intermediate for May delivery ended trading at -$37.63 a barrel ahead of Tuesday's close for futures contracts -- when traders who buy and sell the commodity for profit would have had to take physical posession of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/us-benchmark-wti-oil-price-closes-at-37-63/barrel/articleshow/75260481.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||It’s #quarantinefashionweek for these models||They are not able to sashay down a ramp due to the lockdown, but that has not deterred the glamazons of the fashion world from ramp-walking online. Supermodels and fashion choreographers from Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata have been participating in #quarantinefashionweek on social media. No, they are not cat walking for clothes as expected, but for household chores. Fashion show director-choreographer Achla Sachdev was one of the first to initiate something like this. She says, "I did the jhaadu dance on Facebook one day as I wanted to amuse myself amidst housework. The comments were encouraging, so I decided to ramp-up the masti by making it a glam circle and several models decided to participate. The idea was to enjoy doing the mundane with grace and in style." So, let’s have a dekko at how the models did their daily chores... Cleaning dishes in style like Candice PintoSupermodel Candice Pinto even makes cleaning dishes look glamourous. She shares that her “isolation schedule” keeps her busy the whole day. It includes “reading, cooking, cleaning, washing, working out, video chatting with family and friends, and spending time with my husband.” Power dressing like Alesia Raut for online classes When model and fashion choreographer Alesia Raut is not conducting online classes, she’s cherishing the stay-at-home order. “This has given us an opportunity to be with our families. I’ve been brushing up my culinary skills and they are the guinea pigs,” she quips. Look, Akshitaa Agnihotri’s got a new fashion prop According to model and actor Akshitaa Agnihotri, you can take away the ramp from the model, but she will still find a way to pose. Calling the online fashion week a fun way to stay “connected with fashion”, she adds that it also helped to showcase models as “today’s women, who handle their household work with the same ease as fashion weeks.” Sucheta Sharma James adds a touch of spice to her routine Model Sucheta Sharma James has had no time to think of fashion matters during the lockdown. But when given a chance to spice up her domestic routine, which is running after her “15 month-old son, cooking and fitness training with husband (Harrison James),” she does it with a knotted tee, hot pants and loads of attitude. Lokesh Kori’s healthy platter Model Lokesh Kori is all peaches and smiles while cooking in the kitchen. “Fashion is not just wearing good clothes, it’s about the way of living a life,” he says. Reha Sukheja takes fitness up another level with yoga and window cleaning Supermodel Reha Sukheja captioned her picture of wiping windows while doing yoga as: "My mom is wondering why window cleaning is taking so long." She says, "As much as I hate routine, quarantine-life has become just that. I am into yoga, books, playing the piano, watching movies and trying new recipes. I even burnt a cake, but I'm not giving up." All boring tasks have became fun for Madhabilata Mitra Madhabilata Mitra, Kolkata-based model and mountaineer, is excited about the online fashion initiative. She says, "This has brought a smile back to my face. All my boring tasks have become fun now. Living with family in the middle of a pandemic has made my bond stronger with them." This has been the best stress buster for Sandhya Shetty Model, karate champ and motivational speaker Sandhya Shetty says, "This online fashion-week initiative is a great way of showcasing that models are as hardworking and normal as anyone.It has been the best stress buster for me."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-quarantinefashionweek-for-these-models/articleshow/75258449.cms||Debarati S Sen
April 21, 2020||India||Tolling resumes on NHs, NHAI gets work permissions for many projects||NEW DELHI: Toll collection across most of the NH stretches was close to 20% on Monday. While most of the toll plazas operating without any problem came as a sigh of relief to NHAI, the second good news was district administrations giving approval for carrying out construction in nearly 40% ongoing projects. Sources said the details were shared by most of the regional officers during a web-based interaction with NHAI chairman, S S Sandhu on Monday. “There was hardly any obstruction to resumption of tolling on the NH network. Some of the regional officers said construction works have started and these will pick up quickly as availability of labourers increases,” said an official. Some of the toll operators told TOI that more than 60% of the user fee was collected through FASTag. “Almost all the vehicles on NHs were trucks and goods vehicles. We have appealed to the drivers to adopt digital payment for their safety and of our staff as well,” said one of them. He added since the traffic flow is very less, now they are managing the toll plazas with less manpower. The NHAI is staring at nearly Rs 2,000 crore claims from toll operators. Moreover, contractors engaged in the ongoing works will also raise claims for idling of their men and machineriy during the complete lockdown period. "Our priority is to jumpstart construction. WE will deal with the claims when we get them. Any more delay in resuming work will have cascading impact on economy and jobs. The chairman has directed all officers to ensure that the all safety norms are fully adhered to at all workplaces," said an NHAI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tolling-resumes-on-nhs-nhai-gets-work-permissions-for-many-projects/articleshow/75261042.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 21, 2020||Goa||Kiyan ready to shoulder Nassiri burden||PANAJI: Jamshed Nassiri has quite an enviable record at East Bengal. Among the more famous foreign footballers to ply their trade in India, he scored 72 goals for the club with only a dozen scoring more than him in the club’s rich 100-year history. Except for Chima Okorie, no other foreign player did better in front of goal. It was natural for Jamshed’s son, Kiyan, to follow in his footsteps. But while his father did duty for East Bengal and then hopped over to Mohammedan Sporting, the 19-year-old has committed his future to fierce rivals Mohun Bagan. And he will be here for some time to come. “I have a long-term contract with the club and there’s plenty to learn. The first year was good, watching and training with so many great players,” said Kiyan. Kiyan’s first year with Bagan seniors came out of the blue. He was training with the U-19s and impressed coach Kibu Vicuna during trials in Goa. He made just one appearance this season – in a winning debut against TRAU -- from the bench in Bagan’s title triumph, but he’s in no hurry whatsoever. “Whatever the coach thought, made perfect sense. There are so many established players here and I just have to keep working. Sooner or later, the rewards will be there,” said Kiyan. Kiyan’s father didn’t have to wait for success. Jamshed broke through to the Iran youth team, participated in the inaugural Fifa U-20 World Cup in 1977, and then took Indian football by storm in the eighties with his talismanic partnership with compatriot Majid Bishkar. Kiyan never saw his father play, not even on YouTube videos, but he needs no reminding just how good, how feared, he was. “I hear of it all the time,” said Kiyan. He’s had to live with the pressure of expectations. Having a famous surname is never easy, not at least when you are following in your father’s big footsteps. “Everyone expects me to do well because of what my father did here in India. I’ve gotten used to it now. Have to work my way around it. Sometimes the comparison and criticism helps me because I realise that I have so much ground to cover. I know I will eventually measure up to the challenge,” said Kiyan. Kiyan knew what he was getting into. As a youngster, he had several options. He was good at most sports. Like he said, “anything with a ball.” But, just like his father, he never looked beyond the beautiful game. In 2014, he was called up for the Bengal under-13 camp in Kalyani, was spotted by Mohun Bagan scouts and briefly caught the attention of Bibiano Fernandes when the coach was building his India under-16 squad. Games in the U-19 league helped build confidence. Then Mohun Bagan came calling, I-League happened, and now there’s so much to look forward. The pressure of doing what his father did will always remain. But even though these are still early days, Kiyan has gotten used to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kiyan-ready-to-shoulder-nassiri-burden/articleshow/75261099.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 21, 2020||India||54 held for Bengaluru attack on medical staff; IMA demands special law||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Padarayanapura area in Bengaluru turned into a garrison on Monday, hours after mobs attacked health care workers in the area who visited the area to isolate contacts of Covid positive patients, with hundreds of policemen, including gun-wielding Garuda force personnel, stationed at vantage points across the ward. Police arrested 54 people including a woman in connection with Sunday night’s violence. The entire ward – which has thrown up 19 positive cases – was declared a containment zone and residents are barred from stepping out of their houses. Meanwhile in Delhi, adopting a tough approach towards reports of violations of lockdown guidelines in Covid-19 hotspots and attacks on medical personnel, the home ministry has deployed teams to make on-the-spot assessments and named Indore, Mumbai, Pune, Jaipur, Kolkata and seven other places in West Bengal as areas of serious concern with regard to spread of the disease. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Indian Medical Association demanded a special central law on violence against medicos and hospitals by an ordinance. IMA also decided to observe 'white alert' on April 22. Trouble erupted on Sunday evening in Bengaluru when a team of health officials, including doctors and Asha workers, Arafat Nagar to take 58 contacts of positive patients to institutional quarantine. The attack has spurred the state government to decide on promulgating an ordinance, based on the Uttar Pradesh and Kerala model, to protect police and frontline health workers fighting Covid-19. And, it is not just in Karnataka. Frontline workers – policemen, health staff, municipal workers – are facing the wrath of people scared of being taken into quarantine. Somewhere else, they are being targeted for trying to shut down overcrowded shops or, stopping people from venturing out. Many are being driven out by landlords for being in forefront in dealing with Covid positive patients and suspects. The Bengaluru mayhem followed two assaults that rocked the country – medical workers attacked while on duty in UP’s Moradabad district and Nihangs chopping off hand of a policeman in Patiala in Punjab. In states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Telangana, Punjab mob fury is singeing those on duty. If around 28 cases of assaults on police personnel have been reported in Vidarbha in Maharashtra, including four in Nagpur, till Sunday since the enforcement of lockdown began in the state, in Hyderabad, police arrested two brothers for assaulting a post-graduate medical student at Osmania General Hospital on April 15. The accused were family members of a man quarantined on suspicion of having Covid-19 symptoms. The man’s test samples later turned up positive. At least six cases of attack on health professionals and police personnel have been reported from Bihar ever since nationwide lockdown was invoked. The latest assault was reported from West Champaran district where a team from a primary health centre had to face the wrath of the villagers on Sunday. Similar attacks were reported from Aurangabad, Nalanda, Nawada, East Champaran, Madhubani, Supaul and Munger districts. In Jharkhand, protests erupted on April 13 night in Ranchi when a team of district administration and police officials were attacked and ambulances were vandalized during their visit to shift three positive patients from area to COVID-19 hospital and their family members to quarantine centre. Even burials are becoming hotbeds of trouble. Public gathered with sticks and stones at the Velangadu crematorium and burial ground in Anna Nagar in Chennai on Sunday, protesting against the burial of Dr Simon Hercules, a city based neurosurgeon who died due to Covid-19 at a hospital in the City outskirts, on Sunday. His mortal remains were eventually laid to rest with police protection. (With inputs from Chandigarh, Ranchi, Patna, Jaipur, Lucknow, Nagpur & Hyderabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/54-held-for-bengaluru-attack-on-medical-staff-ima-demands-special-law/articleshow/75261730.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Biryani, rosogollas and phuchkas rule lockdown kitchens||Nothing can keep Kolkatans away from biryani, phuchka and rosogollas. Not even a nation-wide lockdown. As they don’t have access to restaurants and the para phuchkawallas, they are making their own. Going by trends visible on a few city-based social media food groups, the lockdown has led to a nearly 50% rise in posts by members. And among these, the chart-toppers are biryani and rosogolla, followed closely by phuchkas. “We usually filter posts to keep the group interesting. Posts with good photographs or videos get more preference. Since all posts are moderated, we know the exact number of people posting on the group,” said Avinav Saha, the creator of the group, Soulful Appetite, which has 7,000 followers. The same process is followed by more popular groups like Foodzpah (357K followers), Calcutta Foodies Club (227K followers) and Bhoj Adda (140K followers). Shahbaaz Zaman, the creator of Foodzpah, said they have been receiving between 500 and 600 posts every day during the lockdown. Of these, 10% are on homemade biryani and phuchkas and 9% on rosogollas. “Even after moderation, we post two-three biryani and phuchka updates every day,” he said. Biswajit Bhattacharjee, the creator and admin on Bhoj Adda, said he comes across about 20% posts on biryani and phuchkas, along with quite a few on gulab jamun. Chandan Gupta, an admin of Calcutta Foodies Club said out of their regular 900 odd posts, 10% to 15% are related to biryani, phuchka and rosogolla. Anushmita Ghosh, who recently made biryani at home and posted it on a group, said she had been planning to do it for months now. “The lockdown gave me the time to finally do it. It was a confidence booster because so many people praised me on the group,” she said. On the other hand, Anneha Sarkar recently made phuchka. “I was missing it for nearly a month now, so finally went ahead and made it at home,” she told us. And the trend doesn’t end there. Many members are experimenting big time with the recipes, microwave and prawn biryani and phuchka shots being a few of these. “Since they are making these dishes for family members, they are not afraid to experiment,” Avinav said. To this Chandan added, "People are trying to make something different with regular food items. That's a very positive thing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/biryani-rosogollas-and-phuchkas-rule-lockdown-kitchens/articleshow/75257945.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
April 21, 2020||Business||Confusion, questions as parts of India return to work||NEW DELHI: As parts of India stirred to life on Monday amid a conditional easing of the lockdown, confusion prevailed in Delhi and NCR on how to regulate the surge of people and traffic caused by absence of clarity on aspects such as who among the junior central government workforce would constitute one-third of the office turnout allowed on a given day. The attendance conundrum compelled police to permit movement solely on the basis of employee identity cards, resulting in even those not supposed to attend office moving around freely. Traffic in the New Delhi Municipal Council area and on roads along the CGO complex, where most central government offices are located, was heavier than expected despite strict checking at multiple points. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsDelhi Police's special branch had issued a circular on Sunday, saying "all central government employees be permitted on the basis of their identity cards". Although rosters have been made, officials said non-biometric attendance had made it possible for senior officials to "make informal arrangements without compromising on safety and other guidelines". Things will be streamlined in next couple of days, they said. In Gurgaon, classified as a Covid-19 "red zone", there was some chaos at NHAI project sites after workers gearing up to resume work were stopped by police. The NHAI had asked its contractors to resume work on Monday with whatever workforce was available at these sites, subject to compliance with Union home ministry guidelines on social distancing and other safety protocols. Police officials, however, said separate permission was required from the administration since Gurgaon was in the red zone. UP appeared to handle the first-day challenges better, with several road projects like the Purvanchal, Bundelkhand and Gorakhpur Link expressways resuming after almost a month. The state government has lifted curbs on 11 industries for now. "The government is ensuring that all labourers brought for work are medically screened," a senior government official said. In Mumbai, the entire Thane district being declared a containment zone on Sunday ensured that all Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) estates spread across Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali, Ambernath and Murbad remained shut on Monday. Raigad district, where the Taloja industrial estate is located, saw mainly industries producing medicines and packaging material being permitted to open. Around 35 units have been granted permission to resume operations. In the rest of Maharashtra, 1,335 units employing 20,000 workers have been granted permission to operate. Around 3,000 had registered for permission. Across Kerala – in Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Alappuzha and Wayanad districts, all of them classified as either "green" or "orange" zones – lockdown rules were eased for businesses to breathe again. But with the Centre advising the state government against an all-out resumption, the buzz seemed to die down just as quickly. Restaurants that had been allowed to resume dine-in from Monday were hastily shut. Salons met the same fate. Police sources said there was also confusion over the odd-even rule for vehicles. While the rule was implemented in the rural belt, vehicles were prevented from entering city limits, triggering the first snarls in almost four weeks in areas bordering the state capital. In Bhubaneswar, offices reopened after a month in 20 districts, barring the hotspots. But getting back to work was not quite the same, with masks and a minimum distance of six feet between two people being made mandatory. For meetings, the limit was 10 people in a room. IT and ITES companies started work with a maximum of 50% of their workforce Dillip Jena, a building contractor who resumed work on his project in Gajapati district, said, "With fewer workers and materials not readily available, it will take some time for the situation to become normal. We needed 50 labourers on Monday, but had to start with 11." Lockdown restrictions remained in force in Bhubaneswar, except in government offices. The capital city is a Covid-19 hotspot with 46 cases so far. "Returning to office gave me the feeling that things are slowly returning to normal, although there were few people on the roads and everything except our offices was shut," said Kaveri Dhar, an employee of the revenue department. Gujarat, which is battling a surge in Covid-19 infections, allowed 6,000-odd industrial units to resume functioning. According to the labour and employment department, all these units are located outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/confusion-and-questions-as-parts-of-india-return-to-work/articleshow/75261778.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||Outbreak in slums forces Mumbai to confront its ‘shame’: Ratan Tata||MUMBAI: Imagine 8-9 lakh people crammed into a 2.5-sq-km area, and you get a population density that is perhaps the highest anywhere on the planet. That’s the unorganised sprawl of Dharavi in the heart of Mumbai, where experts fear the spread of the infection most. Referring to housing policies which have given rise to such slum-dominated neighbourhoods within Mumbai, Tata Group chairman emeritus Ratan Tata on Monday described it as “a wake-up call” for planners and administrators struggling to contain the coronavirus pandemic through social distancing. Tata, speaking at a virtual panel discussion on the “Future of design and construction” watched by several thousands, said the Covid-19 outbreak had served to underscore a crisis in housing which deprived lakhs of Mumbai’s residents of fresh air and open space. “We do design for high-value housing and provide in the slums the residue. We should be ashamed because we have the image we want to project of ourselves and there’s a part we want to hide. We are offended when people criticise it, but we have social responsibilities as architects and builders. The corona issue is a wake-up call of what beholds us. What our concern is that it turns around and bites us,” he said. Tata, a trained architect, expressing regret that he could not practise architecture except for two years in Los Angeles, did not mince words about the condition of the slumdwellers. Their occupants live on top of each other in a manner of speaking, he added, referring to the multistoreyed slum structures in the precinct. “We as architects and developers have been satisfied to do (that),” said Tata. Tata, who was speaking at discussion organised by CorpGini, a global innovation platform, also questioned the policy of removing slums and shifting the occupants into narrow, high-density structures 20-30 miles away. “For the first time, the close proximity, low-value structures we have built are the cause of new problems. The last few months have taught us that we are suffering from close proximity,” he said. “I think there should be re-examination of what we consider to be acceptable standards in terms of quality of life,” said the industrialist. While high-value housing is put on slum land, the residue is like “putting the garbage together and calling it a community, making it difficult to survive,” in a clear reference to slum rehabilitation policies. “Perhaps, there ought to be a revision in terms of the fact that we are dealing with communities, we’re dealing with populations that need to be a part of new India. We are creating a community which we are ashamed of. We should be really driven by the desire of creating a world culture,” he said. Tata added, “In the last few months, we have been humbled to realise that a disease could run across the globe... I think we have to consider this issue as being our problem and not their problem. We need to concern ourselves with the quality of lives everywhere. We need to ask ourselves, are we ashamed of what we see or proud of what we see? We need to consider urban communities as one. We need to look at the possibility of ownership of slums rather than rentals. We need to be ashamed of what we’re doing and we need to focus on considerably being proud of what we’re doing. Mumbai and Maharashtra need to be proud of the transition that they make. And the transition needs to be real.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/outbreak-in-slums-forces-mumbai-to-confront-its-shame-ratan-tata/articleshow/75261851.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
April 21, 2020||India||As emergency patients await treatment, many hospitals insist on Covid-19 tests||NEW DELHI: A debate is raging among doctors on whether or not to test all patients coming to hospitals for Covid-19. Meanwhile, there has already been more than one report of a patient dying while waiting for the test results, and not from the coronavirus. After a private hospital chain decided that it would insist on Covid-19 tests before admitting patients, to protect its staff from possible infection, the Delhi government last week issued an order stating that strict action will be taken against any private hospital or nursing home denying emergency care and that patients seeking treatment were not obliged to submit a Covid-19 negative report for treatment. In Tamil Nadu, too, the director of medical services has warned that if a hospital or clinic denied services, action will be taken under the Clinical Establishments Act, which could include closure of the establishment. However, most states are yet to issue any policy direction on this issue. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWhen about 20 big and small private hospitals and nursing homes were shut down in Mumbai after many health workers tested positive, many doctors in different cities argued that it might be more sensible to insist on the test than end up having to shut down operations, which would affect other patients too. But the other side of the debate points out that this not only adds to costs for patients, it could also mean potentially life-threatening delays while the results of tests are awaited, sometimes for up to 48 hours. In Jharkhand, for instance, a 61-year old woman who needed dialysis died while the hospital waited for her test results to determine whether she should be in the Covid-19 ward or the general ward. Similarly, a 14-year old in the state died at a private hospital, which demanded a coronavirus negative certificate before administering dialysis. With just one testing centre in Ranchi, there was a long waiting period that proved lethal. Doctors in Mumbai claimed they insist on a Covid-negative report only for patients undergoing dialysis and radiotherapy. "Even that seems impractical, because patients may get a false negative result if they are in the early stages of the infection," said Dr Prince Surana, who owns three hospitals across Mumbai. Joy Chakraborthy, COO of Mumbai's Hinduja Hospital, said the group is not making the test mandatory for patients. "However, our nurses and other staff use personal protection equipment such as N95 masks while attending to emergency patients." "In emergency care, we are taking all precaution as if the patient is Covid positive. However, in the case of urgent surgeries or procedures like obstetric or cancer surgeries where we can afford to wait, we send samples for testing as results are available within 24 hours," said a senior consultant in a private hospital in Haryana. Though OPDs opened on Monday in Haryana, they are functional outside the hospital premises to reduce the risk. Reports of doctors insisting on Covid test are coming in from many states, including Rajasthan, West Bengal and Jharkhand. In Odisha, too, many private hospitals such as Apollo Hospital, AMRI Hospital and Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences have made Covid tests mandatory. "Any patient coming to hospital is being tested for Covid-19 before being shifted to a ward from the emergency isolation room," said an AMRI spokesperson. "For OPD care, you don’t need a test. However, before any intervention procedure, such as a surgery, dialysis or chemotherapy, all patients should undergo a Covid test. Otherwise, many healthcare professionals will turn positive and the system may collapse," said Ghanashyam Biswas, a medical oncologist in Sparsh Hospital, Bhubaneswar. "Tests for Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C and HIV are mandatory for any intervention. Now Covid test should be add to these. It is also in patients’ interest because a Covid-19 positive may be at higher risk of complications," he said. In Uttar Pradesh, making Covid testing mandatory for treating any disease is not practical, said Dr P K Gupta of UP IMA. There is hardly any infrastructure for Covid testing in the private sector with very few private labs getting approval to do the test. However, in the government sector in UP, any patient in need of emergency surgery is first tested for Covid. In Bihar, a majority of private establishments have solved the problem by simply not running OPDs or undertaking any institutional deliveries after hearing about doctors getting infected. The situation compelled the state’s principal secretary (health), Sanjay Kumar, to tweet about the "almost complete withdrawal" of the private sector and point out that "even regular services have become unavailable". With no clear instructions from governments on how to address the safety of healthcare workers while also ensuring patients do not face crippling costs or dangerous delays in procedures, hospitals are finding their own answers. (with inputs from state correspondents)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-emergency-patients-await-treatment-many-hospitals-insist-on-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75262116.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 21, 2020||Business||HC order on Indiabulls NCD dues puts MFs in tight spot||MUMBAI: An order of the Delhi high court obtained by private sector lender Indiabulls Housing Finance against markets regulator Sebi has put mutual fund houses in a tight spot. The HC has granted Indiabulls, a non-banking financial company (NBFC), the permission to not pay its debenture holders, including fund houses, interest and principal as long as the RBI allows banks and NBFCs to offer moratorium to their borrowers. Fund managers now fear that other NBFCs may take the same route and not pay MFs for the next few weeks. This is the first time in India a situation has arisen where fund houses may not be in a position to meet their payment obligation to their investors if they don’t get money from the issuers of debentures, that is NBFCs. “A situation like this has never happened. Looks like more NBFCs will take this same route and not pay MFs on the NCDs they hold, and MFs will fail to pay to investors,” said a top fund manager said. “One of the way outs could be for the RBI to step in like in 2008 and 2013 and guarantees a line of credit to the fund houses.” So far, the RBI has not spoken about providing a line of credit to the fund houses. Sebi is also working to find a solution to the imbroglio, sources said. While the RBI has allowed banks to provide a moratorium to their borrowers, the Indian Banks Association specifically excluded NBFCs. A meeting among lenders on Saturday was inconclusive with banks deciding to approach the RBI. Sources in credit rating agencies said that with the court order, they might have to suspend their rating for Indiabulls or they might inform investors that given the current scenario ratings may no longer be relevant. According to reports, Edelweiss Financial Services has also approached the Bombay high court to restrain rating agencies from revising its double-A rating during the lockdown period. Sources said that the company wants more time to communicate its plans to the rating agency. According to Indiabulls’s lawyers, the logic was if it did not receive money from its borrowers since it has to give loan moratorium to them, how will they be able to pay its debenture holders? Under section 11B of Sebi Act, Indiabulls prayed to the court to postpone its liability to pay its NCD investors. The court asked for a status quo on the position and asked Sebi to respond by May 19. However, the silver lining is that on Monday also Indiabulls paid about Rs 30 crore that had fallen due to some of the mutual funds. According to a source, the company has taken this order as a precaution, more like a last line of defence, and it continues to honour all principal obligations including bonds which matured on April 20. “Since NBFCs have not been given moratorium on their own borrowings but have to give moratorium to their borrower companies, it is taking steps to preserve their own asset-liability management issues,” the source said. According to some estimates, about Rs 20,000 crore worth of NCDs are set to mature by May 31 and this will have to be either paid back to the investors or rolled over. However, fund managers say there is absolutely no activity in the credit market and rollovers are not happening. “Every investor wants their money back,” said a debt fund manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-order-on-indiabulls-ncd-dues-puts-mfs-in-tight-spot/articleshow/75260711.cms||Partha Sinha
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||Terraces a threat to social distancing||Vadodara: With policemen prowling the streets, ‘adda’ has chosen a new hideout — terraces. However, while gossiping is fun, the gathering of people on terraces of the buildings pose threat to social distancing, thereby greater exposure to virus risks. No Barodians don’t head downstairs for a stroll, they climb up literally, onto the terraces for some opportunity to catch up on clean air and a good chat. Terraces are turning the favourite hangout zones in the Banayan City, especially in the old city area, where the houses are closeby, and neighbours spend their evenings chatting, playing games or sharing recipes. “I never used to come on terraces before lockdown. But now there is no other place to go as police are keeping watch on people using drone cameras so I come to terrace to spend the evenings,” said Nitin Chavada, a footwear designer living in Wadi. Chavada said that he spends time talking with his friends in neighbourhood and flying kites. A homemaker, Aarti Rajput, spends her entire day doing household work but as the day comes to end, she starts getting bored. That is when she and several other women of her apartment gather on the terrace. “Evenings are very difficult to spend in our 1BHK home so we all women of the building sit on the terrace chit-chatting about our day or cutting and chopping vegetables, Rajput said. Rajput claims that they try to maintain physical distance on the terrace but it becomes difficult when children and sometimes men too gather on the small space. “This behaviour is very similar to health belief model of psychology where people are “othering” the disease — a complex psychological strategy to undermine something. People would not have seen any close kin suffering from the disease so they do not feel threatened or vulnerable while gathering on the terraces,” said professor Urmi Biswas of MS University’s psychology department. She added that since people are going through crisis situation they want to reassert themselves by talking to their close-ones, including their neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/terraces-a-threat-to-social-distancing/articleshow/75258564.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||PILs disposed of as govt resolves issues before hearing||Ahmedabad: In a rare instance of proactive approach on part of the state government, an issue on food distribution were redressed much before the concerned public interest litigation (PIL) came up for hearing before the Gujarat high court.The issue involved the state government’s policy for distribution of grains among the poor during the lockdown announced by the Centre due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Sabarkantha district’s Aabidali Patel had filed a PIL on April 15 complaining against the food and civil supplies & consumer affairs department’s decision not to give food grain and grocery to the APL-1 ration card holders without Aadhar card.The government issued a circular on April 11 that showing Aadhar towards identification was a must to get free grains for APL-1 category ration card holders. Patel complained before local authorities, but they said that it was the state government’s decision.Patel filed the PIL on April 15 seeking removal of the condition that Aadhar should be the only identification proof for APL-1 card holders. He contended that this would defeat the very purpose of the government to give free food to all the needy, even without a ration card. He demanded that other identification documents should also be considered.On April 16, the state government came out with a new circular suspending its decision that Aadhar should be the only identification document, and it gave a list of 13 documents, which can now serve as identification proof. The government circular mentioned Patel’s PIL, which had just been filed in the HC and the registry had not even numbered it.Finally, when hearing took place on Monday in the high court, the government told the court about the action taken after coming to know the grievance of the petitioner. The PIL was disposed of, said petitioner’s advocate Manish Shah.Similarly, petitioner advocate K R Koshti filed a PIL for free food for all poor people in Gujarat, as the earlier decision was to give food basket to 65 lakh families only after the lockdown. By the time his PIL was heard, the government had taken the decision to widen its free food basket net on the informal request he made to the government law officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pils-disposed-of-as-govt-resolves-issues-before-hearing/articleshow/75259945.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||16k units in Ahmedabad district get nod||Ahmedabad: Nearly 16,000 units in Ahmedabad district that are outside the limits of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation have been granted permission to resume operations. The Union ministry of home affairs had earlier issued guidelines, allowing commercial activities to begin in areas not affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Collectorate officials told TOI that a total of 15,963 units had been granted permission to operate, with the condition that all safety guidelines will be adhered to. The majority of these units are MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/16k-units-in-ahmedabad-district-get-nod/articleshow/75259916.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Surat||Stranded Surtis in Dubai ‘jugaad’ for a chartered plane||Surat: After they learned about how a few stranded Japanese nationals were flown to New Delhi from Surat in a chartered flight to help them fly back home, two Surtis — Hardik Tejani, a realtor, and Rakesh Patel, a software company owner — struck an idea. The duo now stranded in Dubai with four of their employees for the past one month made a ‘jugaad’ for a chartered plane to reach home. However, it’s been more than a week now of following up with the Indian authorities, but they are yet to get a nod to land their chartered plane in Surat. Talking with TOI from Dubai, Tejani, a resident of Parle Point said, “We are stuck here for almost a month now. Coronavirus cases in Dubai are increasing every day and now we fear for our safety.” Tejani further said that after the lockdown was extended till May 3, he came to know about the Japanese nationals being flown in a chartered flight from Surat to Delhi. “Through our contacts, a business tycoon in Dubai agreed to give us his chartered plane. We have reserved his plane with the promise to pay certain amount in advance. We don’t want our government to send repatriation flight, like other countries are doing for their citizens. We only want permission to land our chartered plane at the Surat airport” Tejani pleaded. Tejani said that they established contact with a senior Union minister and authorities in the aviation department to help them get permission to land their chartered flight in Surat. The minister wrote to the Indian consulate in Dubai, who in turn asked them to get the required permission from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). “The airport in Dubai is ready to clear the chartered plane, but without the landing permission from DGCA, they can’t allow us to fly. They (Dubai consulate) stated that the flight operations in India have been suspended. If that is so, then how are the expatriates from other countries flying out of India?” Tejani questioned. Tejani and Patel, close friends and business partners, had gone to Dubai for business meetings along with four of their employees on March 16 and they were scheduled to return on April 19. But after reaching Dubai, most of the international flights to and from India were cancelled following the pandemic outbreak. The party got stranded in the foreign shores with no options to reach Surat. “We are bearing all the expenses of the chartered plane from Dubai to Surat,” said Patel, who is missing his family of three including his six-month-old daughter, wife and a five-year-old son. “We are ready to follow all the procedures including 14-day quarantine and all required medical tests after reaching India,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/stranded-surtis-in-dubai-jugaad-for-a-chartered-plane/articleshow/75260344.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Rythu bazaars closed, residents return home empty-handed||VIJAYAWADA: Residents of the city were left in the lurch on Monday morning when they came out to buy vegetables as several makeshift rythu bazaars remained closed. The district administration and city police have been focusing on crowded marketplaces after the number of cases in the city shot up last week and officials directed the agriculture marketing department to regulate crowds at markets. Authorities of the agriculture marketing department closed nine makeshift markets on Monday morning. “We were not allowed to come out of our homes with the lockdown. Our area is in a red zone and no shop is opened during the lockdown relaxation period. Officials who promised to supply vegetables and essential commodities have failed to keep their word. Rythu bazaar at Bishop Grassi School is closed and we have to search for other markets,” said Pattela Ravi Krishna, a resident of Gunadala. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) which is facilitating the agriculture marketing department in establishing makeshift markets said they were unaware of the reasons behind the sudden closure of markets. The civic body also clarified that vegetable markets are operated under the supervision of agriculture marketing authorities. M Diwakar Babu, assistant director of the agriculture marketing department said markets were closed on Monday following a gap in communication between different departments. Diwakar Babu added that the department followed the directions of the police and closed crowded markets. “Our intention is to reduce the crowd at markets. We have started door-to-door sales of vegetables and issued passes to the farmers. But the huge number of buyers came to markets today. It happened due to a small miscommunication and we will not repeat it. All makeshift markets except Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium, Bishop Azariah school grounds will remain open for consumers from Tuesday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rythu-bazaars-closed-residents-return-home-empty-handed/articleshow/75258612.cms||Venu Lanka
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Collectorate first lets liquor shops operate, rescinds order||Gandhinagar: While permit holders have been demanding that liquor be made available to them as it has been prescribed on medical grounds, this is not being allowed by the state government. Meanwhile, some enthusiastic officers in the Gandhinagar collectorate issued permits to two Gandhinagar hotels to start selling liquor to permit holdes from April 20, only to cancel the order within hours without providing a reason.S R Raval, mamlatdar in Gandhinagar collectorate office, issued permission to Narayani Hotels and Resort Ltd and Hotel Haveli in Gandhinagar district to open their liquor shops and start selling liquor to permit holders from April 20. However, Raval was forced rescind his own order within hours.In his revised order, Raval said, “You (both hotels) were given permission to open your liquor shops during the coronavirus 2019 lockdown period from April 20 for the benefit of liquor permit holders. This permission has been cancelled with immediate effect.”Although the mamlatdar did not mention any reason for first granting and then cancelling the permission sources said the mamlatdar may have issued the permission under “some high-level influence”. The source said, “The mamlatdar issued the permission under some high level influence, however it led to a controversy with liquor shops of all other districts seeking similar approval. This became a problem for the government and so a fresh order was issued to cancel the permissions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/collectorate-first-lets-liquor-shops-operate-rescinds-order/articleshow/75260051.cms||Kapil Dave
April 21, 2020||Surat||Surat death toll touches 10, 57 more +ve||Surat: The Covid-19 death toll in the city touched the double-digit mark after two positive patients succumbed to the deadly virus on Monday. With this, the Covid-19 death toll in the city soared to 10. Niyaz Ahmed Saiyed (70), a resident of Ramnagar Society in Limbayat died at New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Monday. The deceased was suffering from other ailments including diabetes and myocarditis.Another patient, Dayakor Hiralal Rana (80), a resident of Hathi Faliya in Begumpura, was the second casualty on Monday. The deceased was suffering from myocarditis, hypernatremia and acute kidney injury.The officials of the health department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that the last rites of both the deceased were performed in accordance with the government protocol. On Monday, about 57 fresh cases were detected from the city during the community testing, taking the total positive cases to 290.Meanwhile, a doctor employed with the Kiran Hospital in Katargam, identified as Dr Dharti Thummar, tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. A resident of Puna village near Surat, she was shifted to the isolation ward of the NCH on Monday.A 45-year-old vendor, a resident of Bhatar, tested positive during the community sampling drive.“People in the city are concerned for their own safety as Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the city and this is a good sign. We have increased testing numbers to trace persons infected with the virus and give them timely treatment to stop the virus from spreading further,” said SMC commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani. “We are focusing on clustering the areas where we find Covid-19 positive cases, and it has proved to be effective in controlling the spread. Rander was our first containment zone but now, number of cases have dropped from Rander area. So, we need to consider this aspect as well and work in that direction,” Pani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-death-toll-touches-10-57-more-ve/articleshow/75260199.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||VAT payment deadline for petroleum dealers extended||Ahmedabad: In a relief measure for petroleum dealers across Gujarat, the state commercial tax department extended the deadline for payment of value-added tax (VAT) on the sale of petroleum products by a month. Customarily, VAT payment for a given month is to be made by the 12th of the next month. However, with the extension announced by the state commercial tax department, petroleum dealers will now be able to pay VAT for March sales by May 12.The decision came in response to the demands of the Federation of Gujarat Petroleum Dealers’ Associations (FGPDA), earlier this month. Arvind Thakkar, president, FGPDA, said, “We had urged the state government to give us more time to pay VAT. While the government decision was announced a week after April 12, most dealers had not paid their dues anticipating some relief from the state government.”The move, according to Thakkar, will benefit some 4,000 petroleum dealers across Gujarat, as sales of petroleum products have plunged.According to FGPDA estimates, sale of petrol and diesel in March plunged by at least 35%, as there was barely any vehicular movements for 10 days. In April, sales have fallen by 90% due to the continuing lockdown. “As the lockdown will cover the entire month of April, there will be hardly any vehicles moving an revenue will fall tremendously, hence working capital will shrink. Being an essential service, fuel stations are supposed to remain open and overheads will continue,” said the owner of a fuel station in the city.The month-long extension will certainly help petroleum dealers address working capital woes. How much it will affect the state government’s revenues remains to be seen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vat-payment-deadline-for-petroleum-dealers-extended/articleshow/75259971.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||MLA wants curfew lifting during Ramzan||Gandhinagar: Congress MLA from Dariyapur constituency in Ahmedabad, Gyasudin Shaikh, on Monday wrote a letter to CM Vijay Rupani andsought lifting of curfew in Ahmedabad and other cities during the Ramzan month. Shaikh in his letter said, “As the holy Ramzan month is starting from April 24, imposition of curfew should be lifted in certain areas. People are following lockdown guidelines andare getting themselves tested voluntarily. As announced earlier, the government should lift curfew during the holy month of Ramzan,” the MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mla-wants-curfew-lifting-during-ramzan/articleshow/75259999.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Tech glitches pose hurdle for industries keen on starting ops||Kolhapur/Aurangabad/Nashik: Hundreds of industries in the rural parts of Maharashtra, including Mahindra and Mahindra and Jindal Saw Limited in Nashik, submitted their ‘self declaration’ online seeking permission to start operations. Many industries, however, faced technical glitches in getting confirmation of their applications.Faced with technical glitches and stringent norms, many industries in Kolhapur and Aurangabad said they would not resume operations just yet.Officials of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation admitted that there were some technical issues due to which industries applying on Monday could not get printouts of their submissions or get confirmations either. Officials, however, said the issues would be resolved soon. They claimed that the website received a bulk of applications from industries across the state and got overloaded.A senior official from MIDC’s regional office from Nashik said over 1,100 industries applied for permission to start operations. “We could not see their applications online due to some technical snag. Moreover, there are also issues of industries not getting acknowledgment after submitting applications, but these issues will be sorted out shortly,” officials said.The state government has said that industries outside the limits of municipal corporation areas and lying in the green and orange zones can resume operations. Industries have to mention the vehicle registration numbers in their applications to get passes from the police. Moreover, the industries have to make staying arrangement for workers in the company premises or they have to use buses to transport workers.Shashikant Jadhav, president of Nashik Industries and Manufacturers Association, said the industries that applied online did get acknowledgement from the MIDC. “They will apply for RTO and police administration for transport permissions after they get acknowledgement from MIDC,” he said.Mahindra & Mahindra’s (M&M) engine manufacturing plant near Igatpuri in Nashik district has applied to MIDC for its permission to start operations. However, some plants of M&M in Nashik municipal limits are closed due to lockdown.“We are fulfilling all the procedural parts required to start operations. We have also submitted ‘self declaration’ to MIDC. Now, we are studying the availability of materials, workers and other factors before starting operations,” said sources from M&M.Sources from Jindal Saw Ltd, which has its plant in Sinnar in Nashik district, also said that they were completing all the procedural parts to start operations.Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce, said that many industrialists with units in the MIDC estates in Kolhapur district were trying to apply to get approval on Monday morning but faced errors while uploading applications.“We are constantly in touch with the MIDC officials, who have assured us that the technical issue will be sorted out soon. All the industrialists were enthusiastic about starting operations from Tuesday. But now we will have to wait for one more day to start operations provided the issue is resolved,” he said.Dhanaji Ingale, Regional Officer, MIDC, Kolhapur said they had received details of the applications and present status and were trying their best to resolve the technical issue.In Aurangabad, non-essential product industries are choosing to keep the shutters down due to the stringent terms and conditions in seeking permission to start work. In Aurangabad, only pharmaceutical, seed and continuous process industries are operating. Bajaj Auto has also decided to keep their operations suspended during the lockdown period.Giridhar Sanganeria, president of Chamber of Marathwada Industry and Agriculture (CMIA), said beer manufacturers have decided not go ahead with foreman manufacturing as the excise and stock is not moving. As far as automobile industries are concerned the state government has laid out several stringent rules for operations. So, manufacturers are preferring to wait until May 3,” Sanganeria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tech-glitches-pose-hurdle-for-industries-keen-on-starting-ops/articleshow/75261614.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jamalpur emerges as Covid-19 hotspot||PATNA: The Munger district administration is on its toes after Jamalpur, a sub-divisional town, emerged as the second major hotpost of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Jamalpur, known for its railway workshop, has recorded 13 out of 20 positive cases from the district till date. Siwan, however, figures on the top with 29 positive cases. However, no fresh case has been reported from Siwan in the last three days. Munger civil surgeon Dr Purusotam Kumar said that a seven-member team from the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH), Bhagalpur, is camping at Jamalpur with adequate number of paramedical staff to deal with the cases. The health department officials have already started screening suspects in those areas where 182 persons had travel history. Altogether 442 samples were sent to RMRI in Patna for testing. Of them, 425 were tested negative while the remaining 17 were tested positive. Besides, three more cases were confirmed positive on Saturday, taking the number to 20 in the district. Out of 13 suspects tested positive from Jamalpur, nine belonged to one family. A 60-year-old man, who had returned from a religious congregation in New Delhi last month, is said to have infected them all, including a six month-old girl and two year-old boy. This has put the district in red zone. Munger DM Rajesh Meena said that door-to-door screening was carried out in around 3.04 lakh households in the district. Besides, 17.9 lakh people were screened by the health department officials in the last four days. Of them, 41 have been identified as suspected. Their samples have been sent to Patna for test. Sources in the state police headquarters said that personnel of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed at Jamalpur to assist the district administration. Of the 38 districts in the state, 14 have so far reported Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jamalpur-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/75258023.cms||Ramashankar
April 21, 2020||Business||Zydus to test use of Hepatitis C medicine for virus||MUMBAI: Zydus Cadila announced that its biological therapy Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b, ‘PegiHep’, used in Hepatitis B and C, may emerge as one of the pathways to treat Covid-19. Interferon alpha-2b has been used in the treatment of Covid-19 in China and Cuba, and is a part of treatment guidelines of the Chinese government, it said. Zydus has been commercially manufacturing Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b under the brand PegiHep, since 2011 for the treatment of Hepatitis B and C with 1.5 lakh doses being administered. PegiHep is not licensed or approved for the treatment of Covid-19 yet. Zydus has approached the department of biotechnology to investigate the drug’s role for Covid-19, and is ready to undertake clinical trials. The company is also working with USFDA to open an Investigational New Drug (IND) filing for it. The treatment has emerged after the publication of two non-peer reviewed research articles at bioRxiv and medRxiv, the Covid-19 pre-print servers hosted by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. The first one by the University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, showed evidence of a direct anti-viral effect of Interferon alpha against novel Coronavirus in vitro. The study demonstrated around 10,000 fold reduction in virus titre in cells that were pre-treated with Interferon alpha 48 hours earlier. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe second — a group of universities in China, Australia and Canada retrospectively analysed 77 moderate Covid-19 subjects in Wuhan and observed that those who received Interferon alpha-2b showed a significant reduction in the duration of virus shedding period and even in levels of the inflammatory cytokine, IL-6. This suggests that if a long-acting molecule like Pegylated Interferon alpha is given early on in the infection, the patient suffering from Covid-19 will have a significant benefit as the viral load is reduced, lesser IL-6 is produced and virus eliminating specific immune response is generated. Speaking on the development, Sharvil Patel, managing director Cadila Healthcare said, “At this juncture, as the healthcare fraternity the world over, is exploring options for a safe and efficacious treatment to combat COVID 19, Pegylated Interferon alpha emerges as one such possibility with it’s potential to reduce virus titres when given earlier in the disease and offering better clinical outcomes. We are working with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and have opened an investigational new drug (IND) filing for Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b for the treatment of COVID-19”. Additionally, Zydus is already manufacturing Hydroxychloroquine which has been found to be effective in treating patients suffering from COVID-19. The group is also working on an accelerated vaccine development programme which is currently in the animal testing stage and if the results are successful it should enter clinical studies in second quarter of this financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zydus-to-test-use-of-hep-c-med-for-virus/articleshow/75260635.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||Tough Sebi norms in place till May 28||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Monday said its directions issued on March 20 to curb market volatility will continue till May 28. Among other measures, the regulator had made short selling tougher and asked for stricter margin requirements in the derivatives segment. Initially, the measures were in place for a month only but have been extended now. and now they have been extended. “Since the implementation of the measures (March 20 order), securities market has witnessed recovery in broad market indices. Further, there has not been any major disruption in stock exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories on account of the existing robust regulatory framework. However, the expected volatility in the stock market still remains on the higher side,” the Sebi release on Monday said. Hence, the continuation of its earlier order for another five weeks. Sebi’s March 20 order had made it tougher for traders to speculate by short selling, raised margin requirement in the cash and derivatives segments, made it expensive for traders to play the market and also tightened margin systems in the derivatives segment. Sebi had also reduced the number of shares of a company on which contracts could be traded in the derivatives segment (called position limits) and at the same time had increased penalties for flouting these limits. The regulator had also put greater responsibility on stocks exchanges and clearing corporations to maintain market integrity by all participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tough-sebi-norms-in-place-till-may-28/articleshow/75260647.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Industry shows signs of life in Changodar, Sanand||AHMEDABAD: Industry associations have welcomed the state government decision allowing a section of industrial units to resume operations. “Around 20%-25% of the industrial units in Changodar industrial area began operations on Monday. More units will start functioning on Wednesday, as industrial activity remains suspended on Tuesday due to load shedding,” said Rajendra Shah, president, Changodar Industries Association. There are some 500 units in Changodar and they are keen to restart work and will begin operations as they get permissions. It will take a week for things to normalize. “While big units have managed transport facilities for workers, smaller ones are facing problems getting workers to the units. We are going to request local authorities to arrange buses to ferry workers of smaller units,” Shah added. Some five companies in the engineering and packaging materials sector resumed operations in the Sanand industrial estate, 22km from Ahmedabad. “A few pharmaceutical companies were already working. Over and above, some five MSMEs have also resumed operations with an average 35% of their usual workforce. Some 700 workers are back at work at the estate,” said Ajit Shah, president, Sanand Industries Association (SIA). While industrialists have welcomed the government’s approval to factories to resume operations, SIA members have opposed the government decision penalizing factory owners if a Covid-19 positive case is found. “While industries will take all precautions maintaining cleanliness, hygiene and social distancing, it is unfair to penalize manufacturing unit owners for Covid-19 cases. We strongly oppose this,” said Ajit. Even though two automobile giants in Sanand have received approval from the district collector to resume operations, production has not begun as yet. Sources confirmed that Tata Motors is yet to start production at the plant. Meanwhile, Ford India Limited, which also has a passenger car manufacturing plant in Sanand, has decided to keep the plant shut till May 3. “At this point, the operations of Ford India Limited will not resume, in the interest of safety and well-being of the employees. The company’s manufacturing facility in Sanand will continue to remain shut till May 3, for the full duration of the lockdown,” said a Ford India spokesperson. Industrialists also say that a standard operating procedure is needed. “While the state government notification allowing industries to resume operations is welcome, there needs to be more clarity on the standard operating procedure with regards to sanitization of manufacturing units. Industrialists would certainly not want coercive action and to be shut down for non-compliance due to ambiguity,” said Durgesh Buch, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). At the same time, industrialists who have manufacturing units in the industrial estates of Vatva, Naroda, Narol and Odhav, have sought permission to begin operations. “We have sought permission to resume operations across at least 600 manufacturing units in Vatva, Odhav, Narol and Naroda. At present, permission to operate has not been given because these estates fall within municipal limits, where the number of Covid-19 cases have increased in teh past few days,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). “For most of these units, either containers with raw materials and other goods have arrived or their shipments are held up. It will be better if these units are allowed to resume operations with minimal staff,” said Parikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industry-shows-signs-of-life-in-changodar-sanand/articleshow/75259889.cms||Kalpesh Damor
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||On Day 1, only 6,000 units across state resume work||GANDHINAGAR: Although the state boasts of over 5 lakh micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and large units, only about 6,000 units actually resumed work on Monday. The state government allowed industrial and commercial activity to start after almost a month of lockdown. According to official data of the state labour and employment department, about 30,000 units which paid a sum of Rs 1,950 core as wages to labourers during the lockdown period did not commence their commercial activities from Monday. In an official statement issued on Monday evening, the state government said that over 6,000 units started functioning across the state outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities on Day 1 of the relaxation. The statement said that over 45,000 persons have started getting employment again. Of these, about 350 units in Rajkot, 600 in Vadodara, 250 in Surat, 450 in Bharuch, 600 in Valsad, 400 in Morbi, 400 in Gandhinagar, 750 in Kutch and another 850 units have started operations in other districts of the state. Manoj Das, the principal secretary to the chief minister and industry & mines department said, “A lot of applications are in the process of approval and over the next two or three days, the total number of functioning units will cross 25,000.” Das went on to say: “Units engaged in chemicals, ceramics, pharma, shipbreaking, and cement are opening in large numbers. Other sectors will start functioning shortly.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-6000-units-resume-functioning-across-state/articleshow/75259898.cms||Kapil Dave
April 21, 2020||Surat||Surat death toll touches 11, two more die in Vadodara||Surat/Vadodara: The Covid-19 death toll in the city touched 11 after three patients succumbed to the deadly virus on Monday. A 70-year-old man Niyaz Saiyed (70), a resident of Ramnagar Society in Limbayat, died at New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Monday. He was suffering from other ailments including diabetes and myocarditis. A woman named Dayakor Rana (80), a resident Begumpura, who died was suffering from myocarditis, hypernatremia and acute kidney injury. Another 65-year-old woman Tahira Malik of Khatkiwad also succumbed in NCH. The death was announced after the state government’s health bulletin. On Monday, about 57 fresh cases were detected from Surat during the community testing, taking the total positive cases to 290. Meanwhile, a female doctor at Kiran Hospital in Katargam, tested positive on Monday. A resident of Puna village near Surat, she was shifted to the isolation ward of the NCH on Monday. In Vadodara, two women died and 14 tested positive. Half of those who tested positive on Monday are from the hotspot of Nagarwada which has been declared a red zone. According to officials in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), the two deceased include Geeta Rana, a 55-year-old from Fatehpura who died in the early hours on Monday. The other is a 60-year-old woman from the Nagarwada area in the city. With the fresh deaths, the total number of Covid-19 victims increased to nine. In Bhavnagar, a 55-year-old woman who had tested positive died during treatment at SIR T Hospital late on Monday night. This is the fifth death in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-death-toll-touches-11-two-more-die-in-vadodara/articleshow/75260504.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||China investment arms use P-Note, FPI routes too||MUMBAI: It’s not only direct investments like in HDFC in which the neighbouring country’s People’s Bank of China (PBoC) now has 1% stake. China, through its other investment arms China Investment Corp (CIC) and State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), has been investing in India for years now. These institutions have been investing through the foreign portfolio investment (FPI) route as well as through the more opaque participatory note (P-Note) route, institutional dealers and fund managers said. Another China government arm that’s also showing interest in India is the Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). In the past few years, these investment arms have also been investors in some of the exchange-traded funds (ETFs) floated by global fund managers, they said. In India, such ETFs are registered as FPIs under markets regulator Sebi. Currently, CIC manages about $900 billion, ICBC about $600 billion, while SAFE is the agency that manages China’s forex reserves, currently at over $3 trillion. According to a top fund manager, in one of the India-focused ETFs that was floated by the Hong Kong arm of a US-based financial major, CIC was the anchor investor. An anchor investor usually invests between 15% and 25% of the total target amount of the fund, which also gives confidence to other investors to invest in that fund. The two arms of China have been investors in several ETFs in recent years, some of which were Asia-focused, while some were more concentrated and, as a result, invested in Indian companies. According to an institutional dealer, the Chinese sovereign funds — CIC and SAFE — have mostly been very patient investors and, after buying some minority stakes, remained invested for years. “They also took the passive investment route…coming through ETFs,” the dealer said. “SAFE mostly bought a basket of stocks and never any single stock.” Buying a basket of stocks means buying several stocks at the same time, which is usually benchmarked against an index. For example, if an investor intends to buy a sensex basket, it means it will buy all the 30 sensex constituents and in a ratio that would mirror their weight in sensex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-investment-arms-use-p-note-fpi-routes-too/articleshow/75260568.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: This 33-year-old wants to do his bit for society||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, Pankaj Rajvanshi, who hails from Sirdala block in Nawada district, travels more than 15km daily to ensure delivery of doorstep banking services with the help of Aadhaar-enabled Payment System (AePS). The 33-year-old postman covers nearly 25 houses in 28 villages to avoid overcrowding at banks and ATMs. “I am helping people with Aadhaar-linked bank accounts carry out basic services like balance enquiry, fund transfer, cash withdrawal and deposit. This is a completely safe process as AePS transactions require the fingerprints of the account holders,” Pankaj told this newspaper over the phone. While at work, the tricenarian follows social distancing norms, uses a hand sanitizer and wears a mask. He also sanitizes his biometric micro ATM every time someone else uses it for withdrawing money. Although his 31-year-old wife, Sarita Devi, asks Pankaj not to go out because of the pandemic, he leaves his house at 6 in the morning and returns home at 5pm every day. He simply wants to “do my bit for the society and help the needy”. “My wife and mother ask me to stay at home, but how can I do so? I make sure that I reach distant rural places and help people deposit or withdraw money easily. I also distribute medicines and food grains among the needy, especially the senior citizens, who cannot go out,” the postman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/this-33-year-old-wants-to-do-his-bit-for-society/articleshow/75257739.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt rebuts Jehanabad frog-eating report||PATNA: The state government on Monday rebutted the media reports regarding children eating frogs in Jehanabad district due to alleged non-availability of food. State information and public relations department (IPRD) director Pradeep Kumar Jha said in a statement that the reports were based on videos circulated on social media and published without any spot verification. “It is extremely disappointing to publish news reports without verifying facts, especially amid the stressful scenario in the state as well as the country owing to Covid-19 pandemic,” Jha said. The state government also quoted a press statement issued by Jehanabad DM Navin Kumar, which reads, “News came on the social media that children were eating frogs at Ramgarh Mohalla in ward number 9 under Jehanabad municipal council. It is clearly evident from the video that some irresponsible persons had made the video with the intention to malign the image of district administration. Taking cognizance of the matter, a team of the district administration went to the spot and found sufficient quantity of wheat, flour, rice and pulses in their house. The children also said they get food everyday in the community kitchen run by the administration.” Jha has sought clarification from the media houses that whether they verified the video on social media through spot verification and why complete statement of Jehanabad DM in this matter was not published. TOI also carried a report titled “Kids ‘eat’ frog, J’bad DM orders probe”. “Bihar government is dedicated to providing all possible support to people in the state in the prevailing scenario. The image of entire state has been maligned by publishing such baseless and unverified news reports,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-rebuts-jehanabad-frog-eating-report/articleshow/75258036.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||4-fold hike in WMA limit for states to Rs 2 lakh crore||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday further increased Ways & Means Advance (WMA) limits for states for April-September of this year by almost fourfold to Rs 2 lakh crore, from about Rs 51,500 crore that was set on Friday. This will make available more money for states to meet their Covid-related expenses, bond dealers said. On Friday, the RBI had allowed states to borrow about Rs 19,200 crore more from the central bank since most of their revenue streams are now chocked due to the nationwide lockdown.  On the other hand states’ expenses are rising manifold since they are at the forefront of India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/4-fold-hike-in-wma-limit-for-states-to-rs-2l-cr/articleshow/75260771.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||Treat ad costs as investment, give tax relief: AAAI to government||MUMBAI: The business of advertising agencies has shrunk by more than 70% following the spread of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown. In a recommendation to the government, the Advertising Agencies Association of India (AAAI), which is the national association of advertising agencies, has proposed that advertising expense be treated as an investment and the cost be amortised over the next three years. The objective is to encourage a higher level of expenditure by profitable companies, which will in turn accelerate the revival of economic activity. In a letter to Prakash Javadekar, the Union minister of information & broadcasting, AAAI said on a Rs 100 expense, an advertiser be allowed to claim an expenditure of, say, twice that amount (Rs 200), while computing income tax. The bulk of the agency’s costs are fixed in nature, be it salaries, rent, electricity and communication, among others. “The income and cash flow has been in serious stress in the last month and unless there is some intervention, many businesses will either file for bankruptcy or will have to under-size considerably,” the note said. AAAI president Ashish Bhasin, who is also CEO, Dentsu Aegis Network Greater South and chairman & CEO of India, told TOI, “Advertising industry is like the lubricant to the economy. And the lubricant for the advertising industry is liquidity. A whole ecosystem of television channels, newspapers, radio and other media depends on the advertising industry. If we can infuse liquidity in advertising by encouraging profitable companies to continue to advertise, it will spur consumer demand, which in turn will kick-start the economy. The positive benefit from an improved consumer demand will far outweigh the offsets we are asking for.” With hotels, airlines and other industries impacted by the lockdown, Bhasin said overall average advertising industry revenues have come down by more than 70%. “We had earlier estimated a growth projection of 11-12% for this calendar year. However, with the current situation, we might just end the year with a degrowth,” said Bhasin. Many of the advertising agencies also have substantial dues from the Indian government, as well as from the central government-controlled PSUs. AAAI has requested the government to pay its dues to advertising agencies at the earliest possible. The TDS on advertising agencies has always been significantly more than the profits they make.  “Several crores of rupees of I-T refunds are due to each one of the agencies. Can this be immediately refunded for the past years, including for the Assessment Year 2019-2020?” the note said. AAAI has also asked for an expedited refund of GST applications within 2-4 weeks. In addition, it has requested that the banking sector allow an extra 33% cash credit limit for at least one year, at prime lending rates, without any additional security. This is to ensure more cash flows that would help agencies steady their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/treat-ad-costs-as-investment-give-tax-relief-aaai-to-govt/articleshow/75260739.cms||Namrata Singh
April 21, 2020||Business||Paytm cuts losses 20% as e-pays fall||BENGALURU: Paytm has started curbing expenditure amid the pandemic to extend its runway. The e-payments major — India’s most valued startup at $16 billion — has been cutting costs at a rate of 15-20% in the last two months, founder and CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma told TOI in an exclusive interview earlier this month. The development comes even as digital payments across channels — Unified Payments Interface (UPI), e-wallets and debit/credit cards — are down by 30-40%. Consumers have not been spending on several use-cases online, apart from getting essential services, as the economy takes a hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Paytm was already working on reducing overall losses by 33% to $400 million, as TOI reported in October 2019. Sharma said the company is cutting down across verticals like marketing and cloud-usage, along with renegotiating office rentals. It has also gone to the extent of not sending confirmation text messages to users on recharges and bill payments, which typically costs “a few lakhs” per month. “We have been able to cut a lot of fixed costs and once this is over we will be a lean, mean and stronger machine,” said Sharma. He added that at the current loss rate, the company has enough money to survive for over 4 years. Paytm had announced a $1-billion investment from T Rowe Price, SoftBank and Ant Financial in November last year, while it is lining up additional funding. The development also comes as the government has decided that future investments from China will need to be approved. When contacted, a Paytm spokesperson declined to comment on the impact of the new rules, which as of now do not impact existing investments. The Noida-based company has decided to go forward with its annual appraisal cycle where it now plans to allocate a higher amount of employee stock ownership plan (ESOPs) shares to its staff than a cash component. It has not undertaken any pay-cut measures as of now. Sharma said even though the majority of his senior leadership was willing to take a lower salary, it would have had a marginal impact on the firm’s cash flow. The company said it has around 5,000 full-time corporate employees on its payroll. “Employees are a lot more pragmatic than one expects them to be and a lot of them were understanding of salary cuts when we did a recent town hall over a video call. But we have told employees to give money to PM CARES fund instead of taking salary cuts,” said Sharma. While businesses like online movie ticket booking and travel have come down to virtually zero due to the virus outbreak, Sharma said utility payments, like mobile recharges and electricity bills, have gone up. As some of its verticals are seeing no operations, the company is utilising the staff strength for other businesses like financial services and insurance brokerage. It has started selling coronavirus insurance in partnership with Reliance General Insurance. Going against the current trend of a hiring freeze across organisations, Paytm is in discussions with executives for senior roles across the company. Sharma added they would be looking to tap into the vast amount of junior to mid-level talent that is available in the market due to cost-cutting or scaling down operations in other startups. “We are totally being opportunistic right now and expect to hire both in Bangalore and Delhi,” said Sharma. At the same time, Paytm Payments Bank, where Paytm owns 49% and Sharma 51%, has also crossed the milestone of Rs 1,000 crore in deposits across 57 million savings account holders. The bank is also now taking direct benefit transfers (DBTs) across 400 schemes like MGNREGA, LPG gas subsidy and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-cuts-losses-20-as-e-pays-fall/articleshow/75260576.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Duo, accomplices held for attacking teen||NAGPUR: Pardi police on Sunday registered a case of assault and unlawful assembly against a liquor smuggler and his accomplices for attacking a teenager on April 15 at an open space at Nageshwar Nagar. Saurabh Thavkar, 16, sustained minor injuries in the attack. The accused suspected that Thavkar’s mother tipped off police about their illegal liquor smuggling activities. The accused are Raju Sidhuriya, Akash Meshram and their four to five accomplices. According to police, Sidhuriya was recently arrested by police for allegedly smuggling liquor. He was upset and suspected that Thavkar’s mother Sarika must have tipped off the cops. On April 15, Saurabh had gone to buy some groceries when the accused called him near a ground at Nageshwar Nagar. Sidhuriya started beating Thavkar and also threatened Thavkar of dire consequences. Akash also thrashed the teenager with a wooden stick before fleeing. It is learnt that Thavkar was afraid to file a complaint against the accused, but later approached Pardi police and registered a case against the accused. Pardi police, led by senior PI Sunil Chavhan, then arrested Sidhuriya, Akash and four others in the case. It is learnt that the accused has old offences registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/duo-accomplices-held-for-attacking-teen/articleshow/75260977.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 21, 2020||Patna||Take care of your vehicles during lockdown: Experts||PATNA: Private vehicles are mostly not being used during the lockdown period. However, experts say the vehicles, be it a four-wheeler or a two-wheeler, need care or else they might create problems in ignition after a long period of time and when movement is allowed from May 4. According to experts, battery of a vehicle is the most vulnerable part when it is not used for several days. Some of the vehicle manufacturing firms are now sending SMSs to owners mentioning about the dos and don’t to be followed amid the present scenario. Additional guidelines are being sent for hybrid vehicles. Satyendra Kumar Singh, manager of a South Korean four-wheeler firm’s showroom in Patna, told TOI that protecting battery from getting drained is the most important thing a vehicle owner needs to do. “The four-wheeler engine should be started and run for at least ten minutes every day, if possible. If not, then it can be done every alternate day to keep the battery charged and in good condition,” he said. Singh said one must not press accelerator after starting the engine after a long time as it might result in internal damages. “Avoid accelerator as lubricant is settled at the lowest level from everywhere inside the engine and sudden acceleration can cause internal wear and tear,” he said. Singh said keeping a vehicle clean and sanitised is also important in the present circumstances as it is touched by several persons. He said his company is ready to provide doorstep service to its customers if allowed by the government and situation normalizes. Rakesh Ranjan, manager of another four-wheeler showroom in Patliputra Colony, said running the engine in idle condition for ten minutes is enough. “Engine compartment must be kept clean. Such steps also help in keeping rodents away. No other steps are required for modern diesel or petrol vehicles when they remain shut for several days. Hybrid vehicles also require the same steps to be taken for keeping them in good condition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/take-care-of-your-vehicles-during-lockdown-experts/articleshow/75257714.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||10.94L workers paid Rs 1,909 crore in wages||Gandhinagar: Gujarat labour and employment department in a statement said that during the ongoing lockdown, more than Rs 1,909 crore in wages have been paid to over 10.94 lakh workers. Vipul Mitra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department said, “A total of 30,373 factories, commercial establishments, and shops have paid wages to the tune of Rs 1,909 crore to 10.94 lakh workers in the last couple of weeks during lockdown period.” “We launched this massive outreach exercise to ensure that workers are paid their wages in full and on time according to the state government’s directions. As of April 18, our officials have made more than 14,000 phone calls to employers and reached out to 18,000 more via emails and whatsapp. The efforts are bearing fruit and workers are being paid their dues by employers,” said Mittra. The labour and employment department has also launched helpline number 155372 to allow workers to raise their grievances regarding non-payment of wages. “We have been getting several complaints on the helpline, and are immediately taking them up,” said Mittra. He also said that 9,191 migrant workers are at present housed in 236 shelter homes across the state where they are being provided with food, healthcare services, and counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10-94l-workers-paid-rs-1909-crore-in-wages/articleshow/75260107.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Surat||Nurse among two infected in Bharuch||Surat: A nurse employed with the Civil Hospital of Bharuch and another person tested positive on Monday taking the total positive cases in Bharuch to 25.Officials said that a 45-year-old nurse working with the civil hospital was tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. One Irfan Patel, 41, relative of Covid-19 patient who died at the Jayaben Modi hospital on Sunday, also tested positive of the virus on Monday.Health officials said about 80 staff of three private hospitals in Bharuch, where the woman who died of the deadly virus had taken treatment, have been quarantined. The hospitals have been sanitised and disinfected and that the samples of all the staff members have been sent for laboratory testing.Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to start partial operations at the Bharuch civil hospital starting from Tuesday including emergency and OPD services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nurse-among-two-infected-in-bharuch/articleshow/75260243.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nashik||District’s Covid-19 lab gets NABL approval||Nashik: The first Covid-19 testing laboratory in Nashik district is likely to start functioning from Thursday after it got the approval from National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). “The much-awaited approval for the laboratory started at Dr Vasantrao Pawar Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre in Adgaon has come. With this we will now be able to start the process of testing the throat swab samples for Covid-19,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. The approval from NABL came hours after the two blind samples provided by All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, for the microbiologist and staff of the laboratory were tested successfully. AIIMS has been nominated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for real time (RT) PCR test for Covid-19 and it imparted the training to microbiologist and two technicians at the Nashik-based lab. “Two blind samples were tested successfully under the watchful eyes of experts from AIIMS through video conferencing. This is a big step towards starting the facility at the earliest,” Mrunal Patil, dean of Dr Vasantrao Pawar Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, said. The testing kits are likely to be available by Wednesday. “We are likely to receive around 3,000 testing kits. Though the number may vary, we are also trying to source the kits at the earliest so that the laboratory starts functioning and there is lesser load on the laboratories where sample testings are currently being conducted,” Kumar Ashirwad, assistant collector, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/districts-covid-19-lab-gets-nabl-approval/articleshow/75259839.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 21, 2020||Patna||No relaxations for common man as lockdown continues, says Bihar DGP||PATNA: Common people in towns and cities remained indoors on Monday whereas rural areas witnessed marginal increase in movement on the first day of relaxation in nationwide lockdown, which has been extended up to May 3. State DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, however, made it clear that there was no relaxation for common people and they should stay at home and not pay heed to any rumours. “A lot of rumours are doing the rounds. I am reiterating it that there is no relaxation of any kind from today. The lockdown will go on for common citizens till May 3,” he told reporters after the assessment of the first day of relaxation on Monday. He, however, hastened to add that the Centre has allowed the resumption of some activities. “So, if people engaged in those activities come out, common people should not think that they can also step out of their homes now,” he added. The police intensified patrolling soon after reports started pouring in from different parts of the state that people came out on the streets and shops other than grocery and vegetables were open. More vehicles were seen plying on the roads. Attendance in government offices, banks and other establishments was better than earlier. Officials and grade III and IV employees, however, maintained social distancing. Some people also visited the government offices to inquire about their applications. “I was taken aback when an elderly man visited the grievance redressal cell in Muzaffarpur to know the status of his complaint he had submitted before the lockdown,” said an employee at the Tirhut divisional commissioner’s office. In West Champaran, a large number of residents came out on streets as if the lockdown had come to an end. The police asked them to return home. In Madhubani, the scene was no different. A few shops opened and services resumed in Sitamarhi, which is in the green zone. The district administration closed the business establishments which were not on the relief chart. In Gaya, people were disappointed as restrictions continued. “Lockdown in the rural areas has been eased to facilitate agricultural and some construction activities with certain conditions,” Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said. Government offices started functioning but the civil court remained closed. The footfall in banks and on the roads at Bhagalpur marginally increased. Shops and major establishments, however, remained closed. People in Darbhanga found the mohallas grocery shops opened since morning. Government offices functioned with one third attendance. Vehicles mostly remained off the road. There was increase in the number of patients at OPDs in hospitals. Lack of transportation and fear of contracting Covid limited the impact of partial relaxation in Ara town. Though the wholesale rice and wheat market was open, there were few porters to carry the goods. “No buses or autos were on the road,” Anil Kumar, a trader, said. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh and SP Meenu Kumari told reporters that relaxations have been given only for health services, agricultural activities, cross border transport of essential goods, sale of essential items, commercial and private establishments, financial institutions and construction activities. In Nawada, some more government offices like that of the DTO opened. But crowds thronged the banks for withdrawing Rs500 credited in their Jan Dhan account. (With inputs from Ramashankar, S K Singh, Abdul Qadir, Kumar Rajesh, B K Jha, Praveen, N P Thakur and S B Sinha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-relaxations-for-common-man-as-lockdown-continues-says-dgp/articleshow/75257691.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Surat||Surat: Video of boy being beaten goes viral||SURAT: A video of a police officer of State Reserve Police (SRP) hitting a teenage boy with a stick at Pandesara area of the city has gone viral on social media on Monday. The thrashing of the boy by the policeman on bandodust duty during lockdown has shocked even senior police officers. The video was shot by an onlooker near Saptashrungi Mata Temple. The cop, who is in uniform, asks the boy in yellow T-shirt to do sit-ups. Later, there is an argument between them and the cop starts hitting the boy on his leg. The cop has been identified as Lalji Pandor, assistant sub-inspector, SRP, Rajpipla. He has been posted at Pandesara police station and was on patrol duty along with a policeman. The incident happened when the policeman accompanying Pandor went to fix puncture in his motorcycle’s tyre. Pandor told his colleagues in Pandesara police station that the boy is a member of a group of teenagers who used to mock policemen when they were on patrolling duty in the area. "Pandor said the boys used to hurl abuses at them. When policemen used to chase them, they would disappear in the narrow lanes," said a police officer at Pandesara police station. City police have sent a report of the incident to SRP for action against Pandor by his seniors. "It is a shocking incident. Police cannot do this to anyone. In this case, the victim is a boy and should have been handled properly,” said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, zone III. "Since the cop is from SRP, action will be taken by his seniors. It was a shocking behaviour. So far no one has come forward to lodge a police complaint in this case. If anyone comes to police, the complaint will be registered and action taken," Chaudhary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/video-of-cop-thrashing-minor-with-stick-goes-viral/articleshow/75260317.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||Government to issue Rs 4.5 lakh crore treasury bills in Q1 FY21||MUMBAI: With ample liquidity currently available in the banking system, the government has decided to borrow an additional Rs 1.50 lakh crore — that is 50% more than planned earlier. The government will raise the funds through treasury bills (T-bills) during the April-June quarter of the current fiscal. Against a planned borrowing of Rs 3 lakh crore through T-bills, the government has now decided to borrow Rs 4.5 lakh crore through these papers, which are of less than one-year duration. By borrowing more through the T-bill route and less through government securities, the Centre will also be able to bring down its total cost of funds, bond dealers said. On Friday, the RBI governor had said that about Rs 6.9 lakh crore was being put in the central bank’s reverse repo facility. This was an indication that banks were not lending such a large amount of money and kept that with the central bank to earn interest. To disincentivise banks from parking money with the central bank, it also cut reverse repo rate by quarter of a percentage point to 3.75%. According to the revised T-bill auction schedule, the government will borrow a nearly equal amount of Rs 1.5 lakh crore through each of the 91-day, 182-day and 364-day T-bills over 12 weekly auctions. In comparison, in the first three months of fiscal 2020, the government had borrowed Rs 2.6 lakh crore through T-bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-issue-rs-4-5l-cr-t-bills-in-q1fy21/articleshow/75260843.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat wakf board forbids Ramzan gatherings||GANDHINAGAR: Following guidelines issued by the Union ministry of minority affairs, the state wakf board issued directions to more than 10,000 mosques and other organizations, to strictly avoid any kind of gatherings during the month of Ramzan, which begins later this week, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Union minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had a video conference with the various state wakf boards recently. I R Mansuri, chief executive officer (CEO), Gujarat wakf board, said, “Following the government of India guidelines as a precaution against the Covid-19 virus, we have issued an appeal to more than 10,000 mosques and trusts under the wakf to avoid any kind of crowding to prevent the spread of the virus people may gather during Ramzan. We appeal to people to stay home.” The board appealed to the people to follow the lockdown and social distancing rules and perform all religious observances of Ramzan at home. Muslim clerics also appealed to the community to not insist on offering the special extra namaz with the night prayers during Ramzan – the taraweeh – and certainly not in a congregation. Tanzim Ulama-e-Ahmedabad has appealed to Muslims to follow the government’s guidelines and the advice of doctors, and stay away from offering prayers at mosques. It also urged people not to pray in groups, on terraces or in parking lots. Meanwhile, for the duration of the lockdown, the Gujarat high court ordered the state government to strictly prohibit the gathering of people and congregations at religious places. This order is to remain in force at least till May 1, when the HC is to hear the case further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-wakf-board-forbids-ramzan-gatherings/articleshow/75260027.cms||Kapil Dave
April 21, 2020||Surat||Surat: Eight caught from temple in area under curfew||SURAT: Eight people, including four persons above 60 years age, were arrested by police from a Jain temple in Mahidharpura area of the city on Monday. When a police team was on patrol duty, it noticed gates of Adishwar Jain Derasar open on Galemandi main road in the morning. Police entered the temple and found the accused performing puja without maintaining the norms of social distancing. Police arrested Bhushan Shah, Jatin Shah and others for violating curfew orders. Mahidharpura and areas under four other police stations in the city are under curfew since Friday. However, women of these areas are permitted in the afternoon for three hours to go to market to buy milk and vegetables. Police registered 18 offences of violation of order issued under public notification and registered 118 offences for negligent act that can spread infectious disease on Sunday. About 190 people were arrested and 119 vehicles detained on Sunday. Police had registered three offences after detecting violation through drone camera surveillance and one from CCTV footages. Since lockdown was enforced, a total of 730 cases of violation of order issued under public notification and 4,059 cases of negligent act that can spread infectious disease have been registered in the city. Police had registered 295 cases after noticing violation using drone cameras and 15 cases on the basis of CCTV camera footages. They also registered 81 offences based on photos received through social media. Till now, 11,439 people have been arrested and 12,818 vehicles detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eight-caught-from-temple-in-area-under-curfew/articleshow/75260291.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Four more Medical College and Hospital doctors test positive in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Four doctors of Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata (MCH) tested positive to Covid-19 on Monday. All four are attached with the gynaecology department where a new mother tested positive to coronavirus two days after delivery. On Sunday, three other doctors of the hospital — two from the same department and a post-graduate trainee from the medicine department — had tested positive to Covid-19. A woman from Narkeldanga had a C-section on April 10. She tested positive to the virus three days later. The hospital had drawn up a list of about 50 healthcare providers — who had come in contact with her — who would be sent to quarantine and have their samples tested.  But the doctors alleged that not all of them were quarantined and that samples of only 30 were tested. “Some of us were asked to continue working either in the ward or OPD. The college authority said we were not primary contacts and there was no need for testing. Now there are about 20 patients in the gynaecology ward and there is fear we might be carrying the virus and patients might get infected. That is why we want the testing to be done on all who had worked in the gynaecology department when that patient was admitted,” said a doctor. On Monday, the junior doctors demanded mass screening of healthcare workers who were posted in the Eden Building that houses the gynaecological ward. They also demanded a proper quarantine facility for those who have tested positive. No immediate response was available from the hospital authorities. A day after an Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals employee tested positive to Covid-19, 86 people from his Barrackpore neighbourhood, including his family and six colleagues who commuted with him to work, were sent to quarantine. North 24 Parganas district magistrate Chaitali Chakrabarty and Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Kumar Verma visited Ward 5, where the 47-year-old lives – on Monday. They instructed the local municipal officials to identify all close contacts of the patient and quarantine them. The ward has been cordoned off and has a huge police presence. A patient at Ruby General Hospitals was earlier shifted to MR Bangur Hospital after testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-more-medical-college-docs-test-positive/articleshow/75259630.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Little respite for truckers amid partial relaxation of lockdown||PATNA: Even as the government offices resumed their functioning on Monday with stress on restarting development activities and construction work, the truckers maintained that their hands were tied and, in fact, they were not in position to transport the building materials. Besides cement and iron & steel, the building materials also include stone chips and sand and a notification was issued on Monday for purchase and transportation of these items by trucks. The special secretary cum director of the mines and geology department, Arun Prakash, issued the directive. As per the notification, truckers have to purchase stone chips and sand from the licensed dealers, who store them for sale at their depots. The directive said that the truckers and the licensee have to follow guidelines regarding containment of coronavirus spread. Further, the district mining officers (DMOs) have to periodically and personally inspect the sites where sand and stone chips are stored, the notification added. However, Bihar Truck Owners’ Association (BTOA) president Bhanu Shekhar Prasad Singh said they were worried that the purchase of stone chips and sand from the licensed dealers might prove to be costly affair for them, as their stock might be empty, or short of the quantity required to fulfil the demand for the two building materials, in which situation their prices might be increased. “The mines department notification is only for government-related works in rural areas,” he said. He demanded opening of JP Setu between Digha and Pahleja over the Ganga, as otherwise they would have to cross the river by taking a circuitous route from Patna or Gaya via Arwal, Ara and Chhapra to reach Hajipur and other north Bihar towns and Hajipur covering an extra distance of over 250km. As Singh said, if the truck tyres got punctured or the vehicle required repair in the way, there would be no facilities for that by the roadside. To reach a technician to the stationary truck, one would have to get the technician from some distant town on small four-wheelers whose plying would require passes by the government official concerned. Besides, the roadside dhabas have been closed due to the lockdown and their opening would take some time. In fact, their opening was dependent on the smooth flow of a large number of trucks. The state has around 4 lakh trucks, Singh said. As a matter of fact, transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal apprehended the constraints and accompanying problems. “The number of trucks plying on the national and state highways, as well as on other roads, would increase gradually once the demand for the supply and transportation of essential and non-essential increases,” he said. “Even agriculture produce and heavy agriculture inputs (fertilizers and chemicals) have to be transported for sale and trade. Once the industries opened, not just in Bihar but in neighbouring and other states, they would require transportation of raw materials,” he said. “As for Bihar, the most important factor is the construction sector, including the renovation of ponds under Jal Jeevan Hariyali campaign,” Agarwal also said, adding: “The unrestricted plying of trucks is a matter of time. It would pick up gradually.” Today, the state has 4,917km of national highways and 4,253km of state highways. By one estimate, as many as 25,000 roadside dhabas and around 15,000 vehicle repair shops stand along them. The truckers have food and also serve their other natural concerns like wash, rest and sleep, at these hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/little-respite-for-truckers-amid-partial-relaxation-of-lockdown/articleshow/75257943.cms||Abhay Singh
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||NICED withdraws faulty test kits after West Bengal complaint||KOLKATA: NICED, Kolkata, on Monday withdrew the batch of faulty kits from state laboratories and replaced them with kits provided by National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The state had, on Sunday, claimed that the inconclusive results from faulty kits supplied by NICED were delaying tests. The state had flagged the issue to Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s nodal body for Covid-19 testing. On Monday, NICED-Kolkata director Shanta Dutta said, “The matter is being seriously addressed by ICMR.” Agencies quoted ICMR’s chief scientist Raman Gangakhedkar telling reporters in New Delhi that the kits are approved by the US FDA and are of good quality, but they may show errors if kept above 20°C. “We received a grievance that in Bengal, RT PCR kits are not working properly. We have told the state that the kits we use in NIV, which can carry out 10,000 tests, are available in Kolkata. We are providing these for temporary use to tide over the crisis,” he said. “We had urged the ICMR to investigate the issue immediately as the delays have resulted in the need for repeat confirmatory tests that are slowing down the battle against the pandemic,” state director of health service Ajay Chakravorty said. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said, “Initially, the test kits used to come from the NIV. Now these kits are routed through ICMR and NICED. We have identified a batch of kits that has been showing ambiguous results. Reports could not be prepared for the tests conducted on patients at MR Bangur.” Dutta said, “The initial NIV kit was assembled. NIV procured the primer and probes from US, standardized the kit in their lab with other reagents and controls, and distributed directly to other VRDLs. When the demand for kits increased, it was difficult for NIV to cope. Then ICMR started procuring ready-made kits and supplied to VRDLs through 16 depots across the country. It is unfortunate that the kits are not standardized by the manufacturer to give exact results. It is difficult for each of the medical colleges to standardize the kits, hence they are showing inconclusive results.” NICED is a depot entrusted with supplying kits to Odisha and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, besides Bengal. “There was no problem earlier, when the kits were being received directly from NIV. Recently, the supplies to government labs in Bengal have been routed through ICMR-NICED, Kolkata. The apparently defective kits supplied by ICMR-NICED are resulting in a high number of repeat/confirmatory tests and causing delays and other attendant problems,” the health department said on Sunday. Last week, the NICED director had questioned the low Covid-19 testing rate in Bengal and clarified there was no dearth of kits. Dutta pointed to the declining number of swab samples NICED was receiving from the state since April 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/niced-withdraws-faulty-test-kits-after-state-complaint/articleshow/75259592.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two more cases registered against jamaatis: DGP||Ahmedabad: Two more cases were registered against Tabligh jamaat members on Monday, DGP Shivanand Jha said. Jha said that two persons from Sura jamaat had gone to Bhusaval from Kalol before lockdown was imposed and had returned to Kalol on Sunday. A case was registered against them in Gandhinagar and they have been sent for medical check-up.In another case, three persons of Sura jamaat who had come to Panchmahal from Uttar Pradesh during lockdown were booked. Jha said a case was registered against them in Godhra and they also have been sent for medical check-up.Though inter-district travel has been permitted now, Jha said three persons were caught at Nenava village of Banaskantha district. “They had come from Bangaluru on a bike and were going to Rajasthan. Whenever they saw a check-post they used to leave the road and escape the police barricade. Now I have directed police to keep a watch to catch these types of elements,” Jha said.WEAR MASKS EVEN WHERE THERE’S EXEMPTION FROM LOCKDOWN Jha said that people in those workplaces and other spots that have been exempted from lockdown should still use masks and maintain social distancing.“Police will deal strictly with violators in areas under curfew. However, we will ensure that in areas exempted from lockdown, the commuters don’t face any unnecessary problems,” Jha said.SENIOR OFFICERS VISIT SPOTS TO INSTRUCT ON COVID-19Jha said to check the spread of Covid-19 infection among police, senior police officers have been told to visit deployment spots and give tips to their subordinates on avoiding getting infected by the virus. “On the instructions of the chief minister, the jawans deployed in affected areas have been given personal protection equipment (PPE) kits” said Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-more-cases-registered-against-jamaatis-dgp/articleshow/75260079.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 5 held for pelting cops with stones in Danilimda||AHMEDABAD: In yet another incident of assault on police, a mob of nearly 50 people pelted stones on a police control room van (PCR) near Parikshitlalnagar in Behrampura on Monday late afternoon. However, teams of crime branch and RAF rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control within 20 minutes. An FIR has been registered at Danilimda police station in connection with the incident. According to police sources personnel in a Danilimda police station PCR van, while patrolling in the area, saw some people gathered around Parikshitlalnagar. “They instructed the people to go inside. However, more people came out on roads and started pelting stones on the cops. The cops called in more reinforcements and also teams of crime branch rushed in. With use of minimum of force the stone pelting was brought under control. Later, drones were flown over the area to spot the troublemakers. Five people were rounded up from the spot for questioning. No one has been reported injured in the incident,” said a senior official of Danilimda police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-held-for-pelting-cops-with-stones-in-danilimda/articleshow/75260127.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Patna||Stuck in Kota, students clamour to return home||PATNA: Even as the state government has decided not to bring back students preparing for competitive exams in Rajasthan’s Kota, thousands of medical and engineering aspirants from Bihar are clamouring to return home citing lack of proper food and essentials as well as the trauma of being away from home as the Covid-19 pandemic rages across the country. Among those stranded in hostels and PG accommodations in Kota is 20-year-old Amandeep Kumar, a medical aspirant, who is desperate to reach home in Chhapra. “The lockdown has left more than 1,000 students from different parts of Bihar stranded. Here in Kota, we follow a single room norm where we get a bed and a study table. The mess is run by locals. However, eating mess food feels unsafe as it is located only four-five kilometres from a Covid-19 hotspot,” Amandeep said. Shweta Jha, an IIT aspirant, is stuck in Kota along with her sister Sonali. A native of Madhubani, she feels left out as most students from other states in the PG have left. “It is really difficult to stay locked-up. Classes have also been dismissed and we are left with nothing right now. I came to Kota last year in May to crack IIT but now it feels impossible to even pass the exams,” Shweta said. The case of 18-year-old Om Ranjan is worse. He is facing problems from his landlord as he is not able to pay his room rent. “I asked my landlord to give me time till the lockdown ends as my parents are unable to transfer money but he is adamant. Besides, the quality of food in the mess is degrading with every passing day. It has become impossible to stay here,” Ranjan said. Many students are also facing mental health issues as they feel abandoned. Mahin Fatima from Madhubani is finding it difficult to concentrate on her studies. “Staying in a room away from my family has made me depressed. Everybody in my hostel from other states have gone back home. My warden will also leave on Wednesday. Knowing I will be one of the few people who’ll not be able to go back is giving me panic attacks,” the 17-year-old medical aspirant said. Back in Bihar, parents are worried about the well-being of their children as the number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan is much more than in Bihar. Patna’s Police Colony resident Vinod Kumar, whose 18-year-old daughter is in Kota, said being confined to a small room can be depressing for anyone. “My daughter gets food twice a day which is insufficient. We had sent her to study but she is so depressed that she neither studies properly nor sleeps. It’s high time the Bihar government should bring students back,” he said. Darbhanga resident Sadaf Shakil, elder sister of a medical aspirant, said, “Looks like the Bihar government has categorized students as migrant workers. They should understand that students are young and cannot manage themselves alone. Besides, if authorities can bring back students from China, then why not from Kota? The government is taking risks by leaving our children in Kota.” Faculty members at the coaching institutes in Kota, too, feel Bihar government should take back students. Aditya Narayan, a chemistry teacher in Kota, said, “I have received several complaints about quality of food at the mess which has degraded after the lockdown. They are not able to concentrate on studies as coaching institutes are shut. Earlier, students were getting passes from the district magistrate to return, but from last one week they are facing several hassles at the Bihar border, due to which the administration has stopped issuing passes,” he said. Kota district administration was earlier issuing passes to students to leave for home. However, several states, including Bihar, have refused to allow them to return. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday said calling students from Kota is a violation of the principles of lockdown. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar too objected to students arriving in private vehicles from Kota. “It is a clear cut of violation of lockdown as sending children will only increase the risk of the spread of the virus,” Kumar had said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stuck-in-kota-students-clamour-to-return-home/articleshow/75257879.cms||Archi Rani
April 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Work on infra projects resumes||PATNA: As the state government gave partial relaxation from the second phase of lockdown, which will end on May 3, work resumed on various projects in different sectors. Officials of the road construction department said that work on all major projects, including the rehabilitation of Mahatma Gandhi Setu, Rajendra Setu and construction work of R-Block-Digha Road resumed on Monday with limited number of workers. Road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav said, “Several projects have been delayed due to the lockdown. But now that work has resumed, we are trying to complete them with utmost safety. Several guidelines for social distancing have been issued by the ministry, which will be followed at all construction sites.” State industries minister Shyam Rajak said that work in industries in rural areas, including food processing units and essential services have also started. “At least 576 industries under the Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA) area, 235 industries in rural areas, two jute industries and one cement industry resumed work on Monday. All general managers of the industries have been asked to write a letter to the state government mentioning that they would provide all essential services, such as food and accommodation to all workers,” the minister said. Meanwhile, several MSMEs have also applied to resume work in their units. Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president Ram Lal Khaitan said, “The guidelines issued by the state government is rather difficult for small industries to follow. MSMEs should apply only if they can follow the social distancing norms.” With regard to utility services, the Patna district administration has started issuing passes to technical service providers like electricians, generator mechanics, plumbers, AC mechanics and TV mechanics for movement. Authorised technicians with identity cards can commute for providing essential services to residents without any pass, officials said. Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said that some mobile repair shops will open during the partial exit of lockdown. “As it is not possible to get mobile phones repaired at home, we have decided to keep some of them open in various localities across the city. Besides, we have allowed few ‘dhabas’ to remain open,” he said. As construction work of real estate has only been permitted in rural areas, work at most construction sites could not commence on Monday. “Most of the real estate work are in municipal or urban areas. Hence we could not resume work. The work force needed in real estate sector is much more than the work force required in other construction sectors,” said Sachin Chandra, president of Bihar chapter of Builders’ Association of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-on-infra-projects-resumes/articleshow/75257581.cms||Archi Rani
April 21, 2020||Patna||Patna University offices reopen||PATNA: Amid the corona lockdown, the offices of Patna University (PU) and its constituent colleges reopened on Monday after a 25-day closure. All the officials and some Class-III and Class-IV employees reported for duty. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra told this newspaper that the entire office was thoroughly sanitized before the arrival of the staff and norms of social distancing were followed by them. They were also thermally screened and examined by a team of medical officers at the entrance gate. “The offices of the university and the colleges have been opened only for the transaction of some essential works like perusal and disposal of pending financial accounts, clearance of utilization certificates, pay and income tax-related documents, processing of contractual bills and payment to contractual staff,” Mishra said, adding colleges were also supposed to carry out similar essential works. He pointed out that no staff from corona hotspot areas like Sultanganj or Khajpura had visited the office. “They have been directed to remain in Patna and be available on their cellphones,” he said. Wearing of masks and preliminary screening at the main gate by infrared contactless thermometers will continue to be enforced for all employees of PU on working days. “No person from outside or visitor will be permitted to enter any section of the university unless called by the officials through the registrar,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-offices-reopen/articleshow/75257650.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Patna||Immediately pay Rs 1,000 to families sans ration cards: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday asked the officials to ensure immediate payment of Rs1,000 to all those poor families whose rejected, pending and faulty applications for issuance of a ration card have been approved after a fresh inquiry. “Such families should be first provided financial assistance of Rs 1,000 per family and other relief materials. Consequently, a fresh ration card should be issued to them,” Nitish said at a review meeting with state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar and a few other senior officials. The chief secretary informed the CM about the status of the ongoing door-to-door medical screening drive to detect people with Covid-19 symptoms on the pattern of pulse polio campaign, besides transfer of Rs1,000 per family in the bank account of each ration card holder and progress in wheat procurement from farmers through primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS). The CM further said the poor families which do not have any ration card should also be immediately provided financial assistance of Rs1,000 per family. “The families without ration cards should be provided financial assistance on the basis of identification done by the self-help groups (SHGs) of Jeevika, without waiting for issuance of fresh ration card to them. The ration card to such families can be issued later,” the CM told the officials. Nitish had earlier asked the Jeevika’s SHGs to identify all such poor families in their villages who did not have any ration card. Reviewing the status of wheat procurement, the CM asked the officials concerned to speed up wheat procurement drive at each PACS so that farmers could be able to get appropriate price for their produce in this hour of crisis. The CM said more than 36.14 lakh homes have so far been covered under the door-to-door medical screening drive as part of the state government’s fight against Covid-19. So far, the general symptoms of cough, cold and fever were found only in 1,386 people during the screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-immediately-pay-rs1000-to-families-sans-ration-cards/articleshow/75257990.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Varanasi||Drones to spray disinfectant on roads only, not people: Admin||VARANASI: After the advisory of the ministry of health & family welfare against spraying of disinfectant on people for Covid-19 management, the local administration will use the recently introduced drone for sanitizing only streets and roads. A drone was recently outsourced from a Chennai-based aerospace company for sanitizing the Covid-19 hotspots in the city. The drone had started spraying disinfectants from Saturday in the hot-spot area of Madanpura, a congested and densely populated locality. Currently the district has six Covid-19 hotspots including Madanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta, Nakkhighat, Gangapur and Pitarkunda. As per the plan, after covering the hotspots the drone will be utilized for sanitizing shelter homes, quarantine centres and isolation wards. “Drone is being used to spray disinfectant only on streets and roads, not on people,” said district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Monday. “Besides, the disinfectant tunnel is not for common public but would be used only for medical professionals or exposed government employees,” he said. According to the advisory, spraying disinfectants on individuals or groups is not recommended under any circumstances. Spraying chemical disinfectants on an individual or group is physically and psychologically harmful. Disinfectants are chemicals that destroy disease causing pathogens or other harmful micro organisms. It refers to substances applied on inanimate objects owing to their strong chemical properties. Chemical disinfectants are recommended for cleaning and disinfection only of frequently touched areas/surfaces by those who are suspected or confirmed to have Covid-19. Precautionary measures are to be adopted while using disinfectants for cleaning – like wearing gloves. Spraying of chlorine on individuals can lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as nausea and vomiting. Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes of nose, throat, respiratory tract and may also cause bronchospasm. Besides, the use of such measures may also lead to a false sense of disinfection and safety and hamper public observance to hand washing and social distancing measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/drones-to-spray-disinfectant-on-roads-only-not-people-admin/articleshow/75257886.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||BMW India CEO Rudratej Singh dies at 46||CHENNAI: German luxury marque BMW Group’s India president and CEO Rudratej (Rudy) Singh (46) passed away on Monday morning. Sources informed that Singh had suffered a massive cardiac arrest, but the company said the cause of this sudden death is being ascertained. Singh joined BMW Group India on August 1, 2019 after a little over four years with motorcycle maker Royal Enfield as global president. On Monday, Eicher Motors MD & CEO Siddhartha Lal tweeted, “I am deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of Rudy earlier today. He was a wonderful person and a good friend to many of us at Royal Enfield.” I am deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of Rudy @Rudratej earlier today. He was a wonderful person and a… https://t.co/cuRcpaLwAg— Sid Lal (@sidlal) 1587378542000Prior to Royal Enfield, Singh had worked with Unilever in India and international markets for over 16 years. A Delhi University graduate, he had an MBA in marketing and finance from Institute of Management Technology, Ghaziabad. “His demise comes at a crucial junction when BMW Group India was in the midst of implementing strategic measures for strengthening the dealer network across India,” BMW said in a statement. The German company has appointed its chief financial officer Arlindo Teixeira as acting president in the interim. Singh’s sudden demise comes less than two weeks after BMW lost its head of sales Mihir Dayal to cancer. Singh had then tweeted: “Rest in peace my friend — we play our pending round of golf now on the other side.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bmw-india-ceo-singh-dies-at-46/articleshow/75260584.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 21, 2020||Patna||New courses launched in Purnea, Munger Universities||PATNA: Purnea University has launched a PhD fellowship programme to encourage talented scholars in science, arts and commerce streams. The step has been initiated by the university in a bid to give an impetus to the higher education scenario in the state, particularly in the field of research work. Purnea University vice-chancellor (VC) Prof Rajesh Singh said, “The university will award an international fellowship in science stream and four national-level fellowships in science, social science, humanities and management streams. The syndicate has already approved this proposal on April 15 and this step has been taken to create a research culture. The fellowship programme includes travel grants and partial contingency for about six months in any international and national laboratories, institutions and universities.” “The university has invited applications from eligible candidates latest by May 5. Applications can be filled up on the varsity’s website www.purneauniversity.ac.in,” he said adding, “The university intends to do the selection of candidates latest by last week of May.” Meanwhile, Munger University has also taken various steps to successfully hold e-classes for postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate (UG) students during the lockdown. “The university has created its official YouTube channel for uploading lectures delivered by the faculty,” said Munger University VC Prof Ranjit Kumar Verma. “About 650 students have so far subscribed to the YouTube channel to avail the benefit of video lectures. Besides, the university has also uploaded contents of e-classes on the university students’ portal. These video lectures mainly focus on revision classes for students of Part I and II courses,” he said. The VC said the university is also sending SMS to those students, who have been slow learners at the UG level to connect themselves to the UMIS portal to benefit by e-classes at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-courses-launched-in-purnea-munger-universities/articleshow/75257799.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Government departments resume operations, with caution||KOLKATA: Some of the government departments resumed office operations on Monday, though the attendance was lower than the 25%-workforce diktat. This, officials pointed out, was owing to lack of public transport. A secretary-ranking official in Salt Lake said only 15 employees living nearby were ferried to work by office transport. A PWD official at Bhabani Bhavan said he had only one employee at his office. He added that they would arrange for vehicles to bring in people living nearby. But the few who attended work at Nabanna and Writers’ Buildings had to follow a strict cleanliness regimen: they had to wash their hands at the entrance and then, on entering respective departments, they again had to use sanitizers. Before the skeletal staff force attended office on Monday, the urban development and municipal affairs department sanitized several of their office complexes in Salt Lake, like Purta Bhavan, Nagarayon Bhavan and Bikash Bhavan, over the weekend. Hand sanitizers have been kept at the receptions and the premises are planned to be disinfected every day. Among the other precation plans are restriction on the entry of visitors, sanitisation of vehicles once a day and not allowing too many people in the conference rooms. The department has come up with work-from-home arrangements for employees, especially those who live far from office. “We have given many of them computers. Those who stay nearby will attend office,” said an official. At Hidco and NDITA, seniors will attend office on alternate days. Not over 25% of the support staff can be brought by office pool cars. A source said central government officials had been told to use electronic communication to enssre less physical file movements. Income tax department started working with 33% workforce on rotation. GST Bhavan also resumed work, maintaining a roster. CGO Complex in Salt Lake also saw one-third of the roll attending work. ED has ensured transport to employees. Customs has requisitioned buses from state transport department to ferry its employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-depts-resume-ops-with-caution/articleshow/75259885.cms||Suman Chakraborti
April 21, 2020||Varanasi||‘Regulate coronavirus cases, ensure other patients don’t suffer’||VARANASI: In a bid to properly regulate the treatment of coronavirus cases while ensuring that non-Covid patients are also not neglected or exposed to infection, Varanasi district magistrate has asked all hospitals and nursing homes to provide treatment to patients suffering from other ailments by taking necessary precautions. A day after Banaras Hindu University barred entry of people in its hospitals terming them infected zone, the district administration asked it to restrict all Covid-19 treatment and tests to super specialty wing only in order to normalise services for other patients in SSL hospital, trauma centre and other wings. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma on Monday issued a letter to Institute of Medical Science BHU, medical superintendent of SSL hospital, chief medical officer, DDU district hospital, government women hospital, LBS government hospital Ramnagar, ESI hospital, Indian Medical Association and nursing homes’ association in this regard. Sharma said no patient should be denied treatment on reaching a hospital and instructed them to keep all equipment like ventilators, diagnostic machines, ambulances and ICUs operational by sanitising them daily. “All Covid-19 symptomatic patients should be referred to DDU district hospital and ESI hospital immediately. In case, the case is confirmed by test, operations should be stopped till all doctors, nursing, paramedical and other staff is tested,” he said. All private hospitals and nursing homes have been told to ensure proper training of staff, provide personal protection kits, N90 masks and gloves. DM said nursing homes can pool patients by identifying one hospital in each area for corona cases to avoid risk of infection. Reacting to the directives, BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh said entry restrictions were for common people and patients not needing immediate treatment since its hospitals are of level-3 category. Services in cancer hospital, trauma centre, emergency OPD are on and operation theatres, labour rooms and paediatric wing are also operational, he added. Opening general OPDs can lead to crowding due to which maintaining social distancing will become difficult hence normal services are being avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/regulate-corona-cases-ensure-other-patients-dont-suffer/articleshow/75257927.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government defends ordinance on SEC tenure in HC||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday heard a writ petition filed by former state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar challenging the ordinance issued by the state government reducing the tenure of SEC. A division bench headed by Chief Justice J K Maheshwari and Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy heard the case through video conference and posted the matter for further hearing on April 28. The state government in its affidavit stated that the ordinance is constitutional and has the approval of the governor. It stated that the decision was to conduct the election in a fair and transparent manner. Ramesh Kumar said the ordinance was unconstitutional and brought in with ill-motive. Advocate general Sriram Subramanyam requested the court to give more time to file additional affidavits. The court directed the petitioners to submit their petitions to SEC Justice V Kanagaraj as he too is required to file an affidavit on the issue. The court directed the AG to file additional affidavits by Friday and posted the case to April 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-defends-ordinance-on-sec-tenure-in-hc/articleshow/75258652.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Structural audit of old bldgs from next month||Kolhapur: Keeping in line with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s appeal to start preparing for the monsoon, the civic administration has decided to conduct the structural audit of buildings in the flood-prone areas of the city which are more than 30-years-old and also get the storm water drains cleaned. The audit work is set to start from the first week of May. Since last week, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has already started removing silt from the major nullahs to prevent the Panchaganga river from flooding. KMC’s deputy city engineer Harshajit Ghatge said, “We are going to carry out structural audit of the buildings in the low lying areas as well as of the dilapidated buildings in other parts of the city which may easily give way during heavy rain. A public notice appealing to residents will be issued soon. We have a panel of structural engineers whom the residents or occupants can consult. It will help them minimise the damage caused due to heavy rain or floods.” The civic bodies are permitted to slap a fine of Rs 25,000 on the owners of the buildings which are more than 30-years-old if they fail to get the structural audit done. Every year, the KMC issues notices to owners asking them to get the structural audit done. However, very few owners do the needful. This time, ,the civic body is going to deploy its team of engineers to get the audit done. “Currently the structural engineers have been asked to audit the structures at the toll plazas. One such structure collapsed due to heavy rain and gusty winds a few days ago. Some vehicles under it were crushed, however, there were no casualties. These structures are at all the entry points of the city. There has been no maintenance of the structures in the last seven years,” said Ghatage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/structural-audit-of-old-bldgs-from-next-month/articleshow/75261619.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Offer Ramzan, Eid prayers at home: Cops||Kolhapur: With increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the district administration, and police department have appealed to the people to stay at home during the month of Ramzan. As per the government rules, all festivals celebrated by communities are being banned due to the current pandemic. Leaders of Muslim communities have stated that all the mosques in Kolhapur district will remain shut during this period. “We have issued instructions to all the people including the leaders of the community to offer Ramzan prayers and break their fasts at their homes instead of gathering at mosques or any other public places. We have appealed to the people to follow the norms keeping in view the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic,” said an official attached with district collectorate. As declared by the central government, the lockdown is in place in the district till May 3. “We hope that people from all the communities avoid gathering on the backdrop of coronavirus outbreak and stay in their respective homes for celebrations. All the police stations in the district have been instructed to ensure that people follow these rules and avoid any law and order problem. The police will ensure that the people stay in their homes and avoid coming on roads without any valid reasons,” said a senior police officer. Gani Ajarekar, chairman, Muslim Boarding, Kolhapur said, “We appeal to all the Muslims to avoid visiting mosques and stay in the house and offer Ramzan. All the mosques will be locked and out of bounding for the people. At all the mosques only five persons will pray namaz keeping social distance rule on behalf of all people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/offer-ramzan-eid-prayers-at-home-cops/articleshow/75261627.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nashik||Migrants stuck in dist put pressure on distribution system||Nashik: The people who have come to Nashik from various parts of the state in search of employment and have been stranded here due to the lockdown have put tremendous pressure on the public distribution system (PDS) here. The migrant workers are taking their share of ration from the fair price shops in Nashik district, often depriving the local beneficiaries of their share of the grain. “There’s no harm in taking grain as the portability facility has been introduced by the state government with the sole aim of helping the workers get subsidised ration wherever they go. However, there has been a sudden surge in the number of beneficiaries during the lockdown and this is now putting a strain on the system here,” said a senior officer from the district supply office, Nashik. Usually, 1-2% of migrant workers get their ration from the fair price shops in areas other than their home tehsil. Besides intra-district workers, there is also a small percentage of inter-district migrants who take their stock of ration from the areas where they are working. The portability system is a boon for migrants who are able to buy grain at subsidised rates in the city they are working in. After the PDS was made available online, multiple members of a worker’s family are allowed to take the share of ration they are allotted to from the fair price shop using biometrics.The senior officer said, “The migrant workers have used the portability system to buy grain this month from the fair price shops, though their family members back home have also withdrawn the share of ration that the worker and his family are allotted to. As a result, the worker is taking the share allotted to the local beneficiary whose name is registered with the shop. A large number of migrant workers are availing the portability facility and putting a strain on the PDS.” This month, till April 17, 34,700 ration cards were used to buy grains. The beneficiaries of the Priority Family and the Antyodaya schemes have collectively bought close to 6-lakh kg of grain from the fair price shops. This figure is comparatively very high as against around 1,000 people who benefit from these schemes. Since the quantum of grain is huge and it is not easy to replenish the stock amid the ongoing lockdown, some of the local beneficiaries will have to wait till the stock is arranged. Of the 7.65 lakh beneficiary card-holders in the district, grain has been distributed among 6.64 lakh card holders so far. The PDS in Nashik is under a lot of pressure in the current month. The stock of grain is likely to be regularised next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/migrants-stuck-in-dist-put-pressure-on-distribution-system/articleshow/75259851.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 21, 2020||Nashik||NMC seals private hospital, quarantines medical staff||Nashik: A private hospital in Sanjeev Nagar, along the Satpur-Ambad link road, has been sealed by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) after a patient admitted here tested positive for Covid-19. A team of 14 medical staff, including doctors, has also been quarantined. A 63-year-old woman, a resident of Sanjeev Nagar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Following this, the civic body quarantined the entire area and declared it as containment zone. The civic body also isolated the six family members of the woman and collected their throat swab samples for testing. Later, four of the six family members tested positive for Covid-19. One of the positive patients was admitted to this private hospital. "We have sealed this hospital where the positive patient was admitted before he was tested positive. Moreover, all the staff has been quarantined as well," a civic official said. Sanjeev Nagar is the the fifth containment area in the city that has been sealed by the NMC in the last 14 days. The other four being Govind Nagar, Rajlaxmi Lawns on Nashik Road, Anandvalli on Gangapur Road and Nasardi Bridge area on Nashik-Pune road. The civic health teams continued their door-to-door survey on Monday, but no new suspects were reported from Sanjeev Nagar. The health teams checked a total of 1,642 houses, covering as many as 6,274 people. Meanwhile, the first patient from Nashik city, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 6, was from Sumangal housing society in Govind Nagar area of the city. The NMC had sealed the areas on the same day for 14 days. The restrictions on Govind Nagar was to be lifted on Monday, but the NMC has now extended the containment period for another 14 days. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game said that as per Centre’s new guidelines, the containment areas where Covid-19 positive patient is reported are now to be sealed for 28 days, instead of earlier time-frame of 14 days. Game has also warned of legal action against private hospitals that do not provide information regarding Covid-19 suspects admitted to their hospital to the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seals-private-hospital-quarantines-medical-staff/articleshow/75259867.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||PIL filed in Telangana HC on hamalis at paddy centres||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court has taken up a letter written by advocate J Venudhar Reddy who raised concerns over welfare of workers at paddy procurement centres (PPCs) as a PIL and posted the case to Tuesday for hearing. Narrating his own experience in Kannekal village of Madugulapalli mandal, Nalgonda district, where he saw 100 farm labourers, farmers and hamalis working at the PPC, the petitioner said that there are four lakh such workers working at 4,000 PPCs. “None of them is wearing masks. Nor are they using any sanitisers. If we allow this to happen, the coronavirus may spread to rural areas which will worsen the situation and put the state in a dangerous situation,” he said. He sought directions to the state government to forthwith supply masks, soaps, sanitizers,handkerchiefs, towels and water at all these PPCs. In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the government has come forward to procure paddy from farmers in their villages. “This will help the farmers to remain safe in their villages. But, as the paddy is being brought straight from the agricultural fileds, it needs to be dried up before handing it over to the procurement authorities. For this, farmers are engaging labourers to dry paddy at PPCs. There are already hamalis employed by the PPCs. The number is going up to 100 at each of 4,000 PPCs all over the state,” the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pil-filed-on-hamalis-at-paddy-centres/articleshow/75260976.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Varanasi||Deoband student tests positive, first case in Mau||VARANASI: Mau recorded its first novel coronavirus case when a Deoband student who had returned home after lockdown implementation was traced and found infected. Meanwhile, a woman in Ghazipur another in Azamgarh also tested Covid positive, both having been in touch with Tablighi Jamaat attendees. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan told TOI on Monday, “In Mau district, a Deoband student, who had returned home during lockdown, has tested positive. He has been admitted to isolation ward while Mau police are tracing other students who had returned from Deoband with him.” “The police succeeded in tracing 134 Deoband students and their screening is being done,” he added. SP Mau Anurag Arya issued a clear warning to all those people in the district with history of travel to cities having corona cases to turn up for necessary medical check in 48 hours voluntarily or else be ready to face action. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said samples of a Ghazipur collectorate’s record room employee, who was in contact with Tablighi Jamaat attendees, and his wife had been sent for test. The employee was found uninfected but his wife tested positive and was admitted to isolation ward, pushing the number of Covid-19 cases in Ghazipur district to six. Officials, meanwhile, heaved a sigh of relief when the laboratory report of a Kota student who tested positive in rapid kit test upon her return showed she wasn’t infected. “The girl had arrived from Kota with other students in a bus on Sunday and tested positive in rapid test. She has been declared not infected in the laboratory test report and was sent home and asked to be in home quarantine for 14 days. The girl had been kept apart from the 28 students who had returned in the same bus and were quarantined. They were all allowed to go home,” the commissioner said. In Azamgarh, a woman neighbour of the middle-aged man in touch with Tablighi Jamaat members also tested positive. DM Azamgarh N P Singh said, “One more woman in Chaksitti hotspot of Mubarakpur in Azamgarh district tested positive. Earlier, three Jamaat attendees from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ghaziabad staying in Chaksitti had tested positive. Then a middle-aged man in their contact tested positive. On April 13, his son and daughter were also found infected.” Covid cases in Azamgarh have increased to seven, though three have been discharged from hospital after they recovered. Total 183 samples from Mubarakpur had been sent for test following detection of six cases, and 182 were declared not infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoband-student-tests-positive-first-case-in-mau/articleshow/75257905.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||82 people from Dammaiguda quarantined after 70-year-old dies||HYDERABAD: As many as 82 people have been quarantined after the death of a 70-year-old due to Covid-19 in Cheriyal, Dammaiguda. The person was admitted to a hospital owing to some other ailments and was not aware that he had the virus. He had met his relatives, friends and others in the apartment complex. According to a multi-disciplinary surveillance team, he had even held meetings with the apartment association and senior citizens of the area until April 15. “The person had multiple health issues related to lungs and kidneys. It was only after he was admitted to hospital that he and his family members discovered about him being infected with coronavirus,” said a police officer. “The person was very social and we are tracing his activity from April 1 to April 15 after which he was hospitalised for three days and passed away on April 18,” added the police officer. After the person’s death, members of Dammaiguda municipality have decided to shut all shops before noon. The officials said that they will ensure no resident of the village steps out and no outsiders enters the area. “We have decided that not even a single shop will be open post noon in our locality. People can purchase and stock essentials before that. Already several people in Dammaiguda Municipality (Cheeryal village) have been quarantined and ensuring strict lockdown is the need of hour,” said a resident of Cheriyal, who is also one of the volunteers of the containment zone. After police barricaded the place, locals further raised temporary barricades in bylanes and ensured there is only one common point used to enter and exit the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/82-people-from-dammaiguda-quarantined-after-70-yr-old-dies/articleshow/75261005.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana gets Rs 982 crore relief from central tax||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday received Rs 982 crore as its share from devolution of central tax. The Union ministry of finance released April instalment of the state’s share. The latest allocation comes close on the heels of release of Rs 269 crore by the central government as part of GST compensation. In this financial year, the state was expected to get Rs 14,348 crore towards its share. Till January, it received Rs 8,472 crore. The inter-state share is decided as per the recommendations of the 14th Finance Commission. States get money for centrally-sponsored schemes. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been urging the Centre to see that the Finance Commission recommends an increased tax devolution to states from the central tax pool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gets-rs-982-cr-relief-from-central-tax/articleshow/75261019.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nashik||BSNL extends prepaid a/c validity till May 5||Nashik: State-run telecom operator Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) has extended the validity period of its prepaid customers till May 5 as the country-wide lockdown has been extended till May 3. This means that the BSNL’s prepaid customers will be able to make and receive calls without having to worry about recharging their accounts until May 5. “We have taken this decision in the interest of BSNL prepaid customers to facilitate them during the lockdown as announced by the government up to May 3. The mobile recharge outlets are closed due to lockdown and prepaid customers are facing inconvenient as they are unable to recharge the validity of their prepaid services,” said Nitin Mahajan, general manager, BSNL, Nashik. Moreover, BSNL has also decided to provide recharge facilities at their homes. “The prepaid customers may contact BSNL office, which will send staff at their homes to recharge validity and they will have to make the payment online through Paytm or POS machine,” said Mahajan. The services of incoming calls will also not be disconnected immediately after May 05 and will continue to be active for the next few days. “If the validity of any prepaid customers is ended today and they are unable to recharge the validity. We will not disconnect the services of that customer who will continue to get incoming calls up to May 5,” added Mahajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bsnl-extends-prepaid-a/c-validity-till-may-5/articleshow/75259941.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath opening date shifted to May 15, Kedar opening also likely to be extended||Dehradun: In a move that many termed as an unprecedented one in the history of the Char Dham Yatra, the date of opening of the Badrinath shrine after the winter break was on Monday extended from the scheduled opening date of April 30. The shrine would now be reopened on May 15 at 4.30 am. The decision was taken by the erstwhile royal family of Tehri– regarded as the custodians of the Badrinath shrine – whom the state government had approached , requesting that they decide on when the shrine should be reopened in view of the prevailing Covid-19 threat. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday held a meeting on the issue with tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, Tehri Lok Sabha MP Mala Rajya Laxmi Shah, chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh and director general of police Anil Raturi after which the new dates of reopening of the Badrinath shrine were announced. Speaking to TOI, Tehri Lok Sabha MP Mala Rajya Laxmi Shah, who belongs to the erstwhile royal family, said, "Our family normally decides three auspicious dates for the opening of the portals. After the Badrinath Rawal got stranded due to the lockdown, our family priest was again consulted for the dates and then the new date was decided." Badrinath temple’s ‘dharma adhikari’ Buhvan Chand Uniyal added, “The time for opening the temple’s doors is selected by the royal family’s priest and astrologer who look into the planetary positions to get the most auspicious time for opening the portals.” Meanwhile, a decision on the date for opening of Kedarnath’s portals will be taken on Tuesday morning. Speaking to TOI, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that the chief priest of the Kedarnath shrine has called a meeting with other priests on Tuesday morning in which they will decide on the date for reopening of the shrine. “This is an unprecedented situation. The chief priest just returned from Maharashtra. His quarantine period and other safety measures are also important. We are keeping all these factors in mind,” he added. Earlier, the Kedarnath shrine was to reopen on April 29. It is being speculated that it may now be reopened a day prior to the Badrinath shrine, ie on May 14. Meanwhile, portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri will open on the scheduled date of April 26. (With inputs from Yogesh Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-opening-date-shifted-to-may-15-kedar-opening-also-likely-to-be-extended/articleshow/75258678.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 21, 2020||Varanasi||BHU lab to start pool testing to clear pending Covid-19 samples||VARANASI: The Banaras Hindu University’s microbiology department laboratory will start pool testing of Covid-19 samples from Tuesday in view of the increasing number of pending samples reaching here from 13 districts of east UP region. Talking to TOI on Monday, in-charge of BHU laboratory Prof Gopal Nath disclosed, “We are conducting over 350 tests every day against our capacity of 300 samples per day, for more than a week. But, the number of samples collected from all 13 districts connected with this lab is accumulating. Even after conducting tests of over 350 samples on Monday, over 400 samples are still left to be tested.” Nath said that district magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma had asked him to start pool testing on the lines of Agra and other labs in the state to give early results. “In view of it we have decided to start pool testing of Covid-19 samples as it has also been approved by Indian Council of Medical Research. It will be started from Tuesday,” said Nath. The DM said, “We asked BHU lab in-charge to start pool testing on the lines of Agra and other places in the state to clear the pending sample tests. Of over 400 samples 280 are from Varanasi only. We want early results as the number of sample will increase massively in coming three days due to large scale screening and sampling being conducted in six hot-spot areas and their buffer zones.” With the confirmation of one more Covid-19 case in Pitarkundra locality the total number of infected people in district had reached to 15 till April 18 night. Total areas declared as hot-spots reached to six including Madanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta, Gangapur, Nakkhighat and Pitarkunda while one km area in their surrounding have been declared buffer zones. Population of over 13,000 in initially declared four hot-spot areas had already been screened. The DM said that the estimated population in two newly declared hot-spots and all six buffer zone is 23,000 and screening of all people in these areas are being carried out by dedicated teams. He said that 45 ward flu clinics, which were carrying out screening process in 90 wards, have been divided in six groups for screening in hot spots and buffer zones. DM said that apart from collecting samples of symptomatic people and persons in direct or indirect contact of infected people, process of testing people randomly with rapid test kits in the same areas has also been started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-lab-to-start-pool-testing-to-clear-pending-covid-19-samples/articleshow/75257959.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: New mom dies, HRC seeks report||HYDERABAD: Lack of blood transmission facility at a government area hospital in Vanasthalipuram led to the death of woman, alleged activists in the city. Achyuta Rao, president of Balala Hakkula Sangham in a letter to TSHRC said that 29-year-old Samudrala Vijaya died after delivering a baby, due to lack of blood transmission facility. TSHRC has directed district medical officer, Rangareddy, to send a report on the issue by June 16. “The matter will be listed for further consideration,” TSHRC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-mom-dies-hrc-seeks-report/articleshow/75261027.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||After UP, now Uttarakhand brings back stranded students from Kota||DEHRADUN: Days after Uttar Pradesh brought back its stranded students from Kota in Rajasthan, Uttarakhand government arranged 16 buses and rescued around 400 stranded students from the educational hub on Monday. After the news of stranded students of Uttarakhand spread, the state government had got in touch with its UP counterpart and sought help in rescuing the students. State protocol minister Dhan Singh Rawat said, "Our government worked out a strategy with the UP government to bring the students near Agra from where our state buses along with policemen brought the students to Uttarakhand." More than 250 students belonging to Haridwar, Dehradun, Chamoli and Pauri Garhwal were in the buses which reached Rishikesh on Monday where the administration had positioned a team of doctors for medical examination. A senior state government official said, "The students were divided into two batches — those who live in Dehradun and those who are from hill districts like Tehri and Pauri."  "Those who have family living in Dehradun were allowed to leave after check-up while others were accommodated in Maharana Pratap Sports College in Raipur," said the official. All the students were asked to observe home quarantine. A similar protocol was being followed for students in Kumaon as well, the official added. Meanwhile, parents expressed relief at their wards returning home. Prem Prakash Purohit, a parent, said, "We are extremely relieved that the state government intervened to bring back our children. My son had been stranded for the past few weeks in Kota and all of us were very tense about his well-being.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-up-now-ukhand-brings-back-stranded-students-from-kota/articleshow/75258688.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 21, 2020||Business||ED hopeful Vijay Mallya will be in India in 28 days||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is hopeful of getting former Kingfisher Airlines chairman Vijay Mallya extradited from the UK in less than 28 days after the high court in London rejected his appeal against a district court’s order to extradite him to India for the offence of money laundering. Mallya is accused by Indian agencies of defrauding government banks of Rs 9,000 crore and laundering the ‘proceeds of crime’ through shell companies created in tax havens abroad. A senior ED official monitoring the case said an agency team is likely to leave for London soon to take custody of the fugitive businessman who has 14 days to seek permission to appeal in the UK’s Supreme Court. “Permission to appeal in the UK’s Supreme Court is only granted on constitutional matters. Since this is not a constitutional matter or an issue requiring constitutional interpretation, it is very unlikely to get such permission,” the official said. Once Mallya’s request for appeal is rejected, the investigating agency gets another 14 days to take him into its custody and extradite him, sources said. This will be a major success for the ED which is also hopeful of getting extradition order for another high profile accused Nirav Modi, the diamond trader who defrauded Punjab National Bank (PNB) of over Rs 13,500 crore. Modi, like Mallya, had fled to the UK to evade arrest from Indian agencies probing banking fraud and money laundering. However, unlike Mallya, who had obtained bail from a UK court in 2017, Modi was arrested and is currently in a prison in London. His matter will also come up soon, the ED official said. The high court concurred with the district judge’s order that “loans were disbursed as the result of a conspiracy between the named conspirators” and these loans to Kingfisher Airlines were “made despite KFA’s weak financials, negative net worth and low credit rating”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-hopeful-vijay-mallya-will-be-in-india-in-28-days/articleshow/75262144.cms||Pradeep Thakur
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Anganwadi workers deliver aid, but at own risk||CHENNAI: Though anganwadis across the state are shut due to the Covid-19 outbreak, its workers and helpers have been going door to door, delivering ration and nutritional supplements to children and lactating mothers. The workers have been spending their own money to visit every house in and around the neighbourhood, which has slowly begun to worry them since many are sole breadwinners of their families, and are themselves struggling to make ends meet during the lockdown. They are also not being provided masks, gloves or sanitisers, making them more vulnerable. “My husband has been unemployed since the lockdown, and I have two daughters who are in middle school. Last week alone, I spent more than Rs 600 on visiting 30 houses. It is a lot for me to spend from my salary,” said an anganwadi worker requesting anonymity. The usual pay of anganwadi workers and helpers at these centres varies between Rs 10,000 and Rs 13,000 a month, which they said is not enough, especially during this time. They have requested the authorities from the social welfare department to provide them conveyance allowance. “My husband is disabled and I have to take him for physiotherapy sessions every week. Most of what I earn goes there and for house rent. It would be really helpful if the authorities could give us conveyance allowance,” said another worker. Apart from monetary concerns, they were also worried about their health. “A large number of houses we visit are located in slums, always crowded and there is no social distancing followed anywhere and none of us are provided with any safety equipment. I fear for the of me and my children,” said B Nirmala an anganwadi worker. Every 15 days, the workers deliver 1kg rice, dal, pulses to children and nutritional supplements to lactating mothers. They deliver eggs every Wednesday to houses of undernourished children. “They carry out so many tasks but their plight is ignored. Despite several requests, they are still not provided protective hear. They need it more,” said K Shanmugavelaytham, convenor TN-Forces. Senior officials from the social welfare department said that they will soon be providing transportation for anganwadi workers for the deliveries. “They can also claim money spent on transport at the end of the month,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anganwadi-workers-deliver-aid-but-at-own-risk/articleshow/75261044.cms||Aditi R
April 21, 2020||Varanasi||Entry in SSL hospital in Varanasi restricted||VARANASI: The Banaras Hindu University administration has restricted the entry of common public as well as media persons in the premises of Sir Sunderlal Hospital. The hospital administration has issued a guideline on late Sunday evening for strict compliance. BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh said that in view of increasing coronavirus infection in Varanasi, the hospital premises have been declared ‘Coronavirus Infected’. According to him, entry of any person other than faculty member of the Institute of Medical Sciences, administrative officers of university and district administration, resident doctors, nursing personnel and support staff is prohibited in the hospital premises with immediate effect. Only the attendants of the admitted patients carrying gate pass are allowed with a warning of possible infection. The hospital administration also notified that no media personnel (digital and print) would be permitted to enter the hospital premises. Any interview/videography/photo shoot of any faculty, resident doctors, staff, patient and their attendants would not be permitted in the hospital premises. The doctors and staff are also prohibited to post any video, photo and information on any stream of social media. It was notified that strict compliance of the guideline would be ensured failing which appropriate action would be taken. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/entry-in-ssl-hosp-restricted/articleshow/75258020.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||‘In whites at night, we’re easy targets’||CHENNAI: The ambulance crew of New Hope Hospital ferrying the body of their chairman, Dr Simon Hercules, were not prepared for the mayhem at Velangadu near Anna Nagar around midnight. Attacked by a mob, Y Anand and M Damodharan had to flee for their lives along with the doctor’s body. The two had not expected to carry Dr Simon’s body. After news of the death was announced, they went to the family residence. The family members were going to the hospital and the two men followed in the ambulance to "see our doctor for one last time". It was decided at the last minute to ferry the body to the crematorium in the hospital’s ambulance. "We were not expecting it. But, we could not say no. He was like a father figure to us. For eight years, we worked at his hospital and when we approached him to let him know we would start our own ambulance service, he magnanimously agreed and asked us to work for the hospital too. He was the one who named our service First Care," said Damodharan. They set off from the hospital around 11pm. The family members and others followed. The body was to be taken to the crematorium at T P Chatram but was diverted to Velangadu following information that people had gathered there to protest. When the ambulance with the body arrived at the Velangadu crematorium, several people armed with sticks and stones were present. As corporation staff and police were pacifying the agitators, the attack began. "It was dark and we were in white overalls making us easy targets. We were mercilessly attacked with stones as we took the body near the burial pit," Anand told ToI. Both were hit on the head and left with bleeding injuries. The family members and doctors were sent off and Anand and Damodharan took the body back to the ambulance. "As we were driving out, the mob hurled stones and sticks at the vehicle. The windshield and window panes were broken," Damodharan said. They were stopped by police near Ega theatre. "We were bleeding and Anand was feeling giddy. Police were waiting for confirmation for our story. So, we left the keys in the vehicle and walked to Kilpauk Medical College and hospital," Damodharan said. Anand was administered five sutures and Damodharan three. Dr Pradeep Kumar, a colleague and friend of Dr Simon, performed the final rites with another person under police protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-whites-at-night-we-were-easy-targets/articleshow/75261033.cms||Srikkanth D
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: After 89-hour search, kin find Alzheimer’s patient||KOLKATA: A 65-year-old Alzheimer’s patient who had gone missing after sneaking out of his Lake Town home for a stroll on the road despite his family’s denial last Thursday, was found by his family after 89 hours of intense search on Monday. Lying on a footpath in Nagerbazar, without a shirt on his body, Paresh Roy, a former central government employee, was tracked by his younger son on Monday afternoon following a lead from a local rickshaw puller. He has been kept in home quarantine as advised by a local doctor. “My father doesn’t even remember for how many days he had been roaming on the road. We had requested him several times not to go out on the road during the lockdown but since we have a small house, but he keeps insisting to go out for fresh air. He had somehow gone out last Thursday and then went missing. We have traced him all by ourselves and now we just hope he doesn’t develop any Covid-19 symptom as we have no clue where he had been in the last few days and with whom he had interacted,” said Agnish, Roy’s elder son and a railway employee. According to the family, Roy often sits on a bench beside a local stationary shop outside their house in Kalindi. On Thursday evening, when they didn’t find him at home, they thought he must be there at the shop. But there was no trace of him there. After searching till midnight, they went to Lake Town police station and lodged a missing diary. Over the next two days, the family visited all nearby police stations and hospitals but without any result. They also shared his photo and description on Facebook and WhatsApp seeking help from people. “Then we printed 100-odd posters and pasted it in various neighbourhoods and even hired a toto to go around our area with a loudhailer urging people to inform us about our father with a vivid description of him. That is when a rickshaw puller said he had seen a man with similar description in the Nagerbazar area,” said Agnish. Agnish’s brother Ranjan and his friend Dibyajyoti kept scanning every lanes and alleys of Nagerbazar in the last two days till they spotted him beside ILS Hospital. “On being asked, my father said he was being fed by someone in the locality. He said when he had come out of home, he wanted to walk to his in-laws’ place which is 5 minutes away from our home but he lost way and came all the way to Nagerbazar. This is the first time he got lost in this manner,” said Agnish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-89-hour-search-kin-find-alzheimers-patient/articleshow/75259913.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||Two dead, 14 more test positive||Vadodara: Two women died of novel coronavirus even as 14 more tested positive in Vadodara. Half of those who tested positive on Monday are from the hotspot of Nagarwada which has been declared a red zone. According to officials in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), the two deceased include Geeta Rana, a 55-year-old from Fatehpura who died in the early hours on Monday. The other is a 60-year-old woman from the Nagarwada area in the city. With the fresh deaths, the total number of Covid-19 victims increased to 9. The new cases included seven from Nagarwada, three from Madan Jhampa Road and one each from Wadi, Tandalja, Fatehpura and Ajwa Road. The disease not spreading to new areas came as a slight relief to the administration. Dr Vinod Rao, senior IAS officer appointed as OSD to handle the Covid-19 situation in Vadodara, said that five experts form the union government visited SSG Hospital, GMERS Hospital at Gotri as well as other areas. “We gave them an understanding of the work done in the city and the strategy adopted by us. They appreciated the approach and may replicate the best practices elsewhere,” he said.Rao said that the health teams will also be distributing dose of homeopathic medicines as approved by the AYUSH ministry in the red, orange and yellow zones. He added that the rapid test kits for Covid-19 had also arrived. “We have received 400 RAT kits and these will be put to use from Tuesday,” he added. The approval of testing facilities at a private laboratory in the city and a multi-speciality hospital with medical college were in the pipeline. The approvals were expected shortly. With persons with comorbid conditions dying, the officials have also asked doctors to give necessary instructions and advise to persons who are at high risk of getting Covid-19 infections. The Indian Medical Association has been asked to coordinate in this regard. Health officials had begun surveillance in areas where new cases had been reported. Micro red zones were likely to be created if the health surveillance revealed persons with flu-like symptoms or upper respiratory tract infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-dead-14-more-test-positive/articleshow/75258594.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Madurai||Plea to raise GDP spend for healthcare||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu chapter of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India (TNAHPI) has urged the government to take measures to allocate larger GDP spending to healthcare post Covid-19 outbreak to ensure affordable healthcare services for all in future. “India spends just a little over 1% of its GDP on public healthcare despite an increase in health expenditure since 2009, according to the latest National Health Profile (NHP) data. India’s healthcare system is in dire need of funds not just to be able to employ more doctors and nurses but also for more hospitals and better run primary health centres in rural areas,” said Dr S Gurushankar, president, TNAHPI. He further pointed out that the average healthcare spend per person in the country is among the lowest when compared to other countries. “With the world’s largest poor population, India’s low public health spending has serious implications. Further, there is also a lack of accountability, unethical care, overcrowding of clinics, poor cooperation between public and private spheres, high healthcare cost and low insurance coverage,” explained the doctor. It was stressed that the quality of care provided in state-run hospitals needs to be brought up to the standard of healthcare infrastructure provided by the Centre. “As of now, even the poor have to knock on the doors of private hospitals for access to quality healthcare, bleeding them of all their savings and resources. This problem can only be solved when every citizen is entitled to access a package of essential health services through a national health entitlement card,” added Dr Gurushankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-raise-gdp-spend-for-healthcare/articleshow/75259910.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Four held for selling liquor in Tirupur||Coimbatore: Police arrested four people and seized 51 litres of liquor and a car from them at Soosaiyapuram in Tirupur on Monday. They were selling liquor mixed with Datura stramonium (oomathangai), which is often used as a hallucinogen. The Tirupur North police identified the arrested as D Muthukumar, 28, and D John, 27, R Selvakrishnan, 27, and S Dhanabal, 27, all from Rayapuram in Tirupur. Sub-inspector Rajendraprasad and his team, while on a patrol, spotted the four selling liquor from a car at Soosaiyapuram. After seeing the police, the four tried to escape from the spot, however the team managed to catch them. When questioned, the men said two bar owners Murali and Palani in Tirupur supplied them 51 litres of brandy and asked them to sell it, a police officer said. “The two are absconding. The bar salesmen and supervisors were also involved in the case,” the officer added. Meanwhile, officers found a strong stench emanating from the seized liquor. The accused said they mixed the liquor with juice of Datura stramonium to get high quicker. The accused were remanded in judicial custody. Further investigations is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-held-for-selling-liquor-in-tirupur/articleshow/75259923.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Madurai||BJP leader urges Centre to reconsider toll collection||Madurai: Senior BJP leader Ila Ganesan has urged the central government to reconsider its decision to collect toll at toll booths and said that it should be exempted till May 3. Addressing reporters through videoconferencing on Monday, Ganesan said the containment of Covid-19 is effective in India when compared to other developed countries. He praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his planning and also the cooperation of the people for the containment of Covid-19. He said that BJP cadres who are in the field are rendering help to lakhs of needy people in the state by providing them food and other essential commodities. He also appreciated the steps taken by the Tamil Nadu government to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Ganesan also requested the central government to allocate more funds for Tamil Nadu to expedite Covid-19 works. BJP state secretary R Srinivasan said that when the country is in such emergent situation and is taking steps for the containment of Covid-19, DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran had made adverse remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on the collection of relief funds from the people. Condemning Maran, Srinivasan said that the MP should apologize for making such remarks. DMK president M K Stalin should intervene and should refrain his party functionaries from making such remarks, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-leader-urges-centre-to-reconsider-toll-collection/articleshow/75259921.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Two dead, 14 new coronavirus positive cases in Telangana; tally at 872||HYDERABAD: Two persons died and 14 others tested positive for coronavirus on Monday in Telangana, the first such low numbers of Covid-19 cases in more than two weeks. On April 1, the state reported 12 cases and since then continued to report more than 25 cases on most days. A 72-year-old man from Adilabad died six hours after he was admitted to a hospital with comorbid conditions. Another 35-year-old woman from Rangareddy district, who had tested positive just three days ago, also died. She was a cancer patient undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital. The 72-year-old is a resident of Nirmal and was admitted to a government hospital in Nizamabad before she was shifted to Gandhi Hospital. The total number of positive cases have reached 872 and 23 people have died, while the number of those recovered remains at 186. The government on Monday also made a crucial change in the administration. Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Sravan Kumar was appointed Telangana coordination officer for coronavirus. In his place, Dr Raja Rao from the same hospital was appointed superintendent of Gandhi Hospital. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continues to report a high number of cases with 12 of 14 cases on Monday. Medchal and Nizamabad districts reported one case each. Meanwhile, state health minister Eatala Rajender spoke to Union MoS for health Aswini Kumar Choubey, seeking immediate supply of 1,000 ventilators to the state as promised. Local authorities said that since the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) will begin operations in Gachibowli, these ventilators are required there. Eatala said that despite the Centre promising N95 masks and PPEs, they have not reached the state. “If the state buys them it will cost us more, if the Centre supplies, the burden will be eased” he told the Union MoS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-dead-14-new-ve-cases-in-telangana-tally-at-872/articleshow/75259919.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC to target potential super spreaders||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has now decided to target those who because of their profession can spread the virus to large numbers of people. A drive has been taken up to check all potential super spreaders.Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra, while defining the term, super spreaders can be people such as vegetable vendors, grocers, pharmacists and even door-to-door waste collectors, who could infect large number of people if they were carriers.The solid waste department has been given the responsibility of checking hygiene standards maintained by such persons, and whether they wear masks, use sanitizers and keep their establishments clean.,Nehra said that by 11am, 91 such people had been fined Rs 1,000 each in the city. “We have taken up a massive drive to check on such people and health teams are also chekcing potential super spreaders. They will be checked properly and if they are found to have symptoms they will be tested.” According to officials, such people come into contact with as many as 100 persons every day, and could infect large numbers of people if they are carrying the virus.Meanwhile, to test more people, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had received antibody testing kits, and on the first day since they were delivered, a total of 264 persons were tested and eight persons were found to be positive. Meanwhile, the AMC has so far gone in for testing of 14,768 persons of which 1,828 were through passive testing and 12,940 were through active surveillance. Of those tested passively, 208 were found to be positive and 940 were found to be positive through active surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-target-potential-super-spreaders/articleshow/75259938.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Allahabad||Doctors advice: Explore your hidden talents to beat stress||PRAYAGRAJ: The psychiatry ward of MLN Divisional Hospital, also know as Colvin Hospital, will interact with over 1,000 patients and their families and encourage them to explore their creative talents while being stuck indoors during the lockdown. The initiative is in tandem with World Creativity and Innovation Day, which will be observed on Tuesday . MLN Divisional Hospital doctors are encouraging people to try their hand at activities like painting, writing, chess or carrom while staying at their homes to beat stress and depression. The celebration aims to encourage people to use art for problem-solving in context of economic, social and sustainable development. Therefore, United Nations has designated April 21 as World Creativity and Innovation Day to raise awareness about the role of creativity and innovation in human development. MLN Divisional Hospital’s consultant psychiatric Dr Rakesh Paswan said, “Under the National Mental Health Programme, we wil launch a special initiative — Mann Kasha — on occasion of World Creativity and Innovation Day. We will encourage patients and their families to explore their hidden creativities while staying at home during the lockdown.” He said that by exploring their creativity, people would not only beat stress, but will also be developing a positive mindset. “We have called up around 1,000 psychiatric patients and encouraged them to explore creativity at their homes on Tuesday” said Dr Paswan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/doctors-advice-explore-your-hidden-talents-to-beat-stress/articleshow/75258092.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schools to follow MHA advisory, closed till May 3||PANAJI: Most schools across Goa will continue to remain shut until May 3, as they have decided to go with the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), in the absence of any other instructions from the state government. From Tuesday, colleges will become operational with only principals and non-teaching staff reporting to work. While schools in some pockets across the state summoned teachers to work from Monday, the move was resisted by teachers. Heads of school had sought clarity from the directorate of education, from whom no official instructions had come until late evening on Monday. This led to institutions deciding to put off preparation of results for the academic year 2019-20 for now, or to instruct their teachers to continue preparing them at home. “When teachers pointed out to heads of their school that even if the directorate of education issues instructions, it cannot contradict the MHA guidelines, the school heads agreed to keep the schools shut,” said a teacher. Some heads of schools clarified that on Monday they had summoned teachers only to submit marksheets . “When board exams have been kept on hold, internal school results can surely be put of. The pandemic Act has been invoked and these are unusual circumstances,” said another teacher from South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-to-follow-mha-advisory-closed-till-may-3/articleshow/75261046.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Doctor who went beyond call of duty||CHENNAI: His personal protection suit covered in blood, one eye on the police standing a distance away, Dr Pradeep Kumar trembled with fear as he picked up the dirt with his hands to bury Dr Simon Hercules. All that the angry mob throwing stones from outside the burial ground could see was the latest victim of Covid-19 -- to them nothing more than a nameless faceless body wrapped in three layers of plastic -- being placed in a makeshift grave. But alone in the Velangadu graveyard, nearing midnight on Sunday, with just two hospital ward staff for assistance, all Dr Pradeep could see in the dim light he was provided was a friend, colleague and mentor whom he was determined to lay to rest with the dignity and respect he deserved. "He wasn’t just a neurosurgeon," says Dr Pradeep. "From conducting free surgeries to offering subsidized medical treatment, Dr Hercules was always ready to help people. Ever since the lockdown, he has been helping with distribution of N95 masks and gloves to the police and government personnel." During the 2015 floods, Dr Hercules set up medical camps, says Dr Alington Jacob, a physician at New Hope Medical Centre in Kilpauk, where Dr Hercules was the managing director. "In 2018, when cyclone Gaja hit, he set up medical camps in Puducherry and Cuddalore, and went there to help." One-and-a-half years ago, Dr Hercules started Hope99, a project close to his heart, to serve those living in slums with health conditions such as diabetes and heart disease. "Doctors from the hospital would be sent there once a month to check people with health issues who could not afford medical care. An entire month’s supply of medicines would be provided to them at around Rs 150, when their actual bills for medication would amount to more than Rs 3,000," says Dr Jason. "It is heart-breaking that a man who served society all his life was not even allowed a proper burial."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doctor-who-went-beyond-call-of-duty/articleshow/75261041.cms||Kamini Mathai
April 21, 2020||Erode||Erode: Ten more patients discharged from IRT Perundurai Hospital||ERODE: In a positive development, 10 more Covid-19 patients were cured and discharged from the IRT government hospital in Perundurai in Erode district on Monday. The patients will be home quarantined for another 14 days and health officials will track their development every day, Erode collector C Kathiravan said. “With this, a total of 37 patients were discharged from the hospital. Another 33 patients are getting treatment there,” he said. Earlier on the day, the collector, SP S Sakthi Ganesan and other officials gave warm send-off to the 10 discharged patients. A total of 1.27 lakh people are under home quarantine across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/ten-more-patients-discharged-from-irt-perundurai-hospital/articleshow/75259943.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Allahabad||Seven samples test negative for Covid-19 in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: The swab samples of seven people, including a man who had attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, and returned to the city on March10 were tested negative here on Monday. SSP Prayagraj, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said: “The samples of the man, who attended the TJ congregation in Nizamuddin and returned in city on March 10 along with six of his family members, all residents of Mauaima, were taken on Sunday night and their samples were tested negative on Monday. Meanwhile, additional CMO and nodal office Dr Rishi Sahai told TOI that the third sample of Kaushambi- based man, who was undergoing treatment at Covid-19 level one hospital, was tested negative on Monday. “We will be taking his sample again on Tuesday and once it comes negative, he wil be discharged from the hospital”, he added. Meanwhile , the health department on Monday collected a total 16 samples for testing. The health department team also screened a total of 45 students who returned from Kota and all of them were tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/seven-samples-test-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/75258251.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Road work resumes at Mukkola-Karode national highway||Thiruvananthapuram: L&T Constructions, after a long gap, resumed construction works at Mukkola-Karode national highway on Monday. Though KNR Constructions had begun maintenance works at Kazhakoottam-Karode stretch, police stopped the work citing lockdown restrictions.  National highway authority of India (NHAI) is engaged in widening of the 26.5-km stretch from Kazhakoottam-Mukkola and laying of concrete road from Mukkola to Karode (16.5km). The contractor has been providing food and accommodation for its labourers during the lockdown period so that work could be started once restrictions are lifted. On Monday, the L&T began embankment works by ensuring social distancing. “Only five to six workers are being deployed in an area to practice social distancing,” sources said. Apart from the delay caused by the lockdown, hurdles in getting raw materials is also a concern for the NHAI. “Lockdown has already affected the work. We will have to revise the deadline. Already lack of availability of raw materials has affected the work. We are planning to complete the work by the end of this year,” sources said. The contractor, apart from completing the construction of Mukkola –Karode national highway, also has the responsibility of laying service roads, which was not part of the original plan. Sources said though contractors have ensured adequate labourers, plan to bring in more workers from Tamil Nadu was affected due to the pandemic. The Chackai police on Monday asked the KNR Constructions to stop maintenance works at the national highway. “The workers were engaged in planting on the median s and patch works, which should be done before monsoon. However, police informed us that work could not be allowed unless there is specific directions,” officials said. DCP K Karuppasamy said lockdown restrictions are in place and works could not be allowed till relaxation is announced on it. Though the NHAI had approached the collector, two days ago, to permit maintenance work on the stretch, they were yet to receive a reply. The KNR Construction has completed most of the works on the Kazhakoottam-Mukkola national highway. The NHAI has sent a request to its headquarters to remove the pending works from the scope of the contractor. Construction of service roads at Gurunagar near Infosys campus and near Kovalam junction are the major pending works. NHAI is expecting the district administration to introduce some relaxation for NH maintenance work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/road-work-resumes-at-mukkola-karode-national-highway/articleshow/75258771.cms||Jisha Surya
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ration at doorstep in containment zones||NEW DELHI: To ensure that public distribution system beneficiaries living inside the containment zones do not face shortage of dry ration, Delhi government has decided to send their entitlement of wheat and rice at their doorsteps. Senior officials said a detailed plan has been worked out by the department of food and civil supplies to inform the ration card holders about the date and time of the delivery of ration. Government officials said, those living inside the containment zones cannot step out of their houses. While the Centre has already released the ration for May to all fair price shops in the city, some beneficiaries may be deprived if the doorstep delivery plan is not enforced. Officials said the department’s area officers have been asked to prepare a list of the people enrolled at each fair price shop living in the containment zones within three days. “These officials will also have to prepare the delivery plan in consultation with the area SDM. A copy of it will be sent to the system analyst so that a text message on the mobile phone linked with the ration card could be sent,” an official explained. While the food supply officer will ensure the delivery of ration till the barricades, the civil defence volunteers will ensure that the ration reaches the correct house. “The distribution will have to be completed within seven days so that the regular sale of ration at each fair price shop could be started,” said an official. In case a fair price shop is located within the red zone, all ration cards linked with that unit will be temporarily transferred to a nearest shop outside the zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ration-at-doorstep-in-containment-zones/articleshow/75261090.cms||Atul Mathur
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Assistant civic chief vacates bed for patients in need||AHMEDABAD: Assistant municipal commissioner Deven Bhatt who has tested Covid-19 positive had been admitted to SVP Hospital since Thursday. But the decision of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to start a Covid care centre at the Samras hostel prompted Bhatt to move to the hostel and vacate his bed for another patient. Bhatt has even volunteered to assist in the management of the care centre till he is able to. “I have only a sore throat. I do not need any special treatment and hence when I learnt of the Samras hostel care centre, I decided to offer my bed to someone needy,” Bhatt said. “I requested the municipal commissioner to shift me to the care centre.” Bhatt said that during his conversation with other staff members, he learnt that municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra had decided to open the care centre for patients who are positive but asymptomatic. Bhatt was in charge of Ghatlodia and Chandlodia municipal wards. “Being an AMC employee I could have easily occupied the bed till I was totally cured,” Bhatt said. “But then I decided to make way for a patient who needs doctors’ monitoring.” Bhatt said: “We tried to contact trace the infection, but being a municipal employee I come in contact with so many colleagues in the field.” He went on to say: “In fact, all the field staff and assistant commissioners I had come in contact with have tested negative.” Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said: “On Monday, Bhatt informed me that he wanted to be shifted to the Samras hostel and said he would like to assist in managing the hostel and help fellow patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assistant-civic-chief-vacates-bed-for-patients-in-need/articleshow/75259926.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Teacher trains students to write Tamil Brahmi script via WhatsApp||MADURAI: A government school teacher from Ramanathapuram district is teaching few of his students to read and write ancient Tamil Brahmi script through WhatsApp in order to keep the students engaged during the Covid-19 lockdown period. V Rajaguru, who is working as a graduate teacher at the government higher secondary school at Thiruppullani in Ramanathapuram and is an archaeological enthusiast, is also the founder of Ramanathapuram archaeological research foundation. Speaking to TOI, Rajaguru said that he used to take his students, who are members of the students’ heritage club, on trips to various archaeological sites in the district to kindle their interest in archaeology. He said that since, he was not able to take his students on such trips this summer due to the lockdown, he decided to train few students in reading and writing Tamil Brahmi script through a WhatsApp group. He said that this would help students keep themselves engaged. “I had sent materials of Tamil Brahmi letters through the WhatsApp group and asked them to practice by writing them. Once they become familiar with the letters, they were asked to write the Tamil lessons in their books such as Thirukkurals in Tamil Brahmi script. Once the students send their works through WhatsApp, I would go through the same and tell them if there are any corrections,” explained Rajaguru. He said that he also sends them pictures of Tamil Brahmi stone inscriptions taken from archaeological sites and asks them to translate it in Tamil. The students are showing great interest and are sharing their works every day, he added. A student, M Pravina, studying in Class VIII, said that she is a member of the students’ heritage club at the school. She said that after visiting several archaeological sites with her teacher Rajaguru, she has developed an interest in such sites and is learning to read and write ancient scripts found on stone inscriptions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teacher-trains-students-to-write-tamil-brahmi-script-via-whatsapp/articleshow/75259930.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 21, 2020||Allahabad||FIR lodged against stand-up comedian||PRAYAGRAJ: A clocal based lawyer filed an FIR against Mumbai-based stand-up comedian Munawwar Farooqui for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Hindu community in one of his videos. The FIR was filed at Georgetown police station late Sunday night. The FIR was registered under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 295 A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feeling of any class insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 65 and 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act. The complainant, Ashutosh Mishra, alleged that he filed the FIR after watching one of Farooqui’s videos ‘Nawab- Nehru Gujrat -2002’ online on April 16. He alleged that Farooqui had not only used derogatory language against Union home minister Amit Shah, but also hurt the sentiments of Hindu community with his remarks. The lawyer alleged that issues discussed in the video on the pretext of comedy, could hurt the sentiments of a community. Mishra also alleged that there was another video with a different title, uploaded on a popular app, where Farooqui had used derogatory language against Hindu deities. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said the case would be transferred to Mumbai Police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/fir-lodged-against-stand-up-comedian/articleshow/75258157.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Allahabad||Two arrested for duping public with claims of ‘corona cure’||PRAYAGRAJ: Two men were arrested for allegedly duping people with claims that they could treat novel coronavirus (Covid-19) with black magic in exchange for money near Bakarganj in trans-Ganga area of the city on Monday. The accused were identified as Vinod Yadav and Virendra Kumar Yadav, residents of Tharwai and Sarayinayat respectively. They were arrested while they were addressing a huge crowd and vouching for the potency of their black magic in treating the infection. The two were booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code on charges of violating section 144 of CrPc. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “The two men were distributing tabeez (amulets) — which they claimed could treat Covid-19 — in exchange for money. As news spread about their claims, a huge crowd assembled in the locality in no time.” The duo even started chanting ‘mantra’ to win over locals’ confidence. Meanwhile, a few local residents alerted Tharwai police and the latter rushed to the spot to nab them red-handed. During interrogation, the accused admitted that they were duping people in order to earn some quick cash. Meanwhile, police intensified patrolling in the city on Monday, even as most streets remained deserted in the wake of the lockdown. Police did not allow commuters to come out of their homes without any reason and only those with valid passes were allowed to move around. Police also booked over 40 persons between Sunday and Monday for allegedly violating rules of the lockdown enforced to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. Seventeen persons were arrested after nine FIRs were lodged against them under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with violations of section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code. Police teams also maintained strict vigil in Old City localities like Kareli, Attarsuiya, Kydganj, Shahganj and Kotwali via drones. Barricades around 185 crossings and intersections in the district were put up to regulate non-essential traffic movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-arrested-for-duping-public-with-claims-of-corona-cure/articleshow/75258189.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Goa’s roads abuzz with commuters on Day One of lockdown relaxation||MARGAO: With the government relaxing lockdown restrictions to enable commencement of commercial activities, a sudden surge in the movement of people and vehicles was witnessed on the roads while market places were abuzz with activity in most parts of Goa on Monday morning. Except for grocery shops, medical stores and essential services, all other businesses remained shut, however. All government departments as well as civic bodies started functioning on Monday, though visitors to the offices were scarce. As regular public transport is yet to be resumed, office-goers had to commute in their own vehicles and that explained the sudden increase in vehicular traffic. Taking advantage of the relaxation, others also ventured outdoors in their two and four-wheelers, adding to the traffic. Police pickets were set up at busy traffic junctions and those violating traffic regulations were fined. Two-wheelers with pillion riders and four-wheelers with more than two occupants or with both front seats occupied were stopped, questioned, and a few, penalised. Long queues were witnessed outside banks and other financial institutions. Though banks had resumed operations just a week after the lockdown, Monday saw a sudden increase in footfalls, sources said. In the mining belt of South Goa, heavy movement of iron ore trucks was seen along the Codli-Sanvordem and Cavrem-Curchorem route. Claims by the state mining department that truck movement from mines to jetties has been restricted to 25 trucks per hour, flew in the face of the chaotic mining transportation. Sources said that with more mining firms in the area likely to resume transporting their ore soon and with gradual increase in movement of private vehicles along the mining belt in the next few days, the traffic situation could pose a threat to the safety of the road users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-roads-abuzz-with-commuters-on-day-one-of-lockdown-relaxation/articleshow/75261071.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Temples take pujas to devotees, to livestream||CHENNAI: Monday onwards, the city’s pious who have had to cancel their temple visits and summer pilgrimages in light of the Covid-19 outbreak, can be rest assured to not miss out on the year’s most anticipated temple festivals. Thanks to Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department, which after much contemplation, has finally agreed to allow a few temples in the state to livestream the auspicious occasions. Among them is the Madurai Meenakshi Amman Temple’s celebrated annual marriage festival. Sources in the department say livestreaming the event will especially delight devotees, who have been constantly calling to know if there was a way to access photos and videos of the festival sitting at home. “As of now, we have permitted livestreaming of pujas, rituals and festivals at Chennai’s Kapaleeswarar Temple, Madurai Meenakshi Amman Temple and Samayapuram Mariamman Temple. In the coming days, more temples will be given the go-ahead to livestream important events,” HR&CE commissioner Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The months of March, April and May are famous for a list of significant annual temple festivals. In Shaivite temples, ‘pradosham’, a revered bi-monthly occasion, draws a massive crowd numbering in thousands every year. “Since the lockdown began on March 25, we did share some photographs of homams being conducted inside temples, but devotees wanted to witness other pujas that they missed this year too,” said a senior HR&CE official attached to a Chennai temple. Livestreaming will be restricted to rituals taking place inside the temples. The famous Madurai Meenakshi marriage festival will be held on May 4, a day after the scheduled end of the lockdown. “But we decided to livestream the festival in any case as we weren’t sure how the situation will be,” said the Madurai temple’s chief trustee, Karumuttu Kannan. This year, History channel will be showcasing the Madurai Chithirai festival from May 4. Temple officials will be sharing livestreaming links ahead of events on their social media pages and through newspapers. The pradosha puja at the Kapaleeswarar Temple can be viewed on www.youtube.com/channel/UCw5l4gl5-YsTQQLCSTLtXjA/live “We will allow those recording the puja inside only a few minutes ahead of the event. Social distancing will be strictly followed and every crew member entering the premises will be given hand sanitizers,” said the temple’s executive officer D Kaveri. Like temples, trusts and ashrams such as Ramakrishna Mutt, Tiruvannamalai Sri Ramana Ashram and Puducherry Aurobindo Ashram, too have started livestreaming annual festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/temples-take-pujas-to-devotees-to-livestream/articleshow/75269213.cms||B Sivakumar
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Ill-fitting goggles may be letting coronavirus in: Doctors||CHENNAI: Goggles distributed to healthcare professionals in Covid-19 isolation units could be one of the biggest sources of infection, doctors’ bodies in Tamil Nadu fear. Doctors also say thickness of the aprons isn’t as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) specifications. A day after six post-graduate doctors at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital tested positive for the virus on Thursday, several doctors’ bodies wrote to the state government seeking better quality PPEs.  Coronavirus live updates Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president Dr K Senthil said on Monday many doctors were infected despite wearing protective gear. "While the ICMR has revised the spec of the coverall or jump suits to 95GSM, we are getting only gowns or apron of 75GSM. There are gaps between the hood and the collar, leaving the neck partially exposed. The goggles are like the ones sold on the beach. They don’t sit firmly on the nose, exposing the eyes to the virus," he said. The Federation of Government Doctors Association has made a representation to the state government. "When the whole population is under lockdown, hospitals and healthcare people may become the source of infection. We have been demanding certain things to minimize the involvement of healthcare people," said Dr S Ramalingam of the association. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state was doing "everything" to ensure protection of healthcare warriors. "The products given to the doctors are quality tested," he said. Tamil Nadu Medical Service Corporation managing director Dr P Umanath said even when the ICMR recommended 60GSM as the spec for coverall, the state ordered products that are at least 70GSM. However, he said that local manufacturers were unable make proper goggles. "We have asked for two varieties of goggles – one can be worn over the spectacles, another that can be worn with spectacles. Vendors are taking time to produce good quality ones," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ill-fitting-goggles-may-be-letting-virus-in-docs/articleshow/75261050.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Oxygen levels in Yamuna up nearly 33%||NEW DELHI: The water quality of the Yamuna and the subsidiary drains flowing into it has improved considerably, a recent analysis by Delhi Pollution Control Committee has pointed out. The report, which was submitted to the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee, stated that Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) levels in the river have improved by up to 33%. The committee in its analysis compared readings of April 2019 with this month to assess the actual improvement that occurred during the lockdown. DPCC studied water samples from nine points and 20 individual drains and attributed the improvement to more water being released into the river and stoppage of industrial activities. The committee, however, explained that while there has been an improvement, the river was still not meeting the water quality criteria due to domestic sewage flowing into it. At Okhla barrage, pollution in terms of BOD levels saw an 18% reduction, while at Nizamuddin bridge it fell by 20%. Agra Canal at Okhla barrage saw a dip of 33%, ITO bridge 21% and Qudsia Ghat 4%. Meanwhile, Palla and Surghat — the first two locations the river flows through after entering Delhi — marked no improvement, but both met the water quality criteria of bathing standards (Class C), the report said, adding that no other locations met this criteria. Khajuri Platoon Pool was the only location that saw an increase in the pollution levels at 42%. BOD levels should ideally be 3 mg/l or less to sustain aquatic life. The other parameters tested included pH, COD, DO and faecal coliform level. “High faecal coliform was still found at locations, indicating the amount of raw sewage entering directly into the Yamuna,” said a DPCC official. While there had been a drop in the pollution levels due to stopping of industrial activities, another reason was more water being released into the river, an official explained. “In March, we received good rainfall and a lot more water was released this year compared with the same time last year. Industrial flow has stopped, however, domestic sewage is still an issue. It is clear you cannot meet the standards if sewage is still entering the river,” he added. The report stated that while the average water flow into the river in April 2019 was 1,000 cusecs, it was 3,900 cusecs this month. “Therefore, dilution is also contributing to the improvement in its quality,” it added. In terms of drains, the highest drop in pollution levels was at Civil Mill drain (80%), followed by ISBT (68%). Barapullah drain saw an increase in pollution levels by 32%, which experts explained was due to the high domestic sewage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/oxygen-levels-in-yamuna-up-nearly-33/articleshow/75261663.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Temples take pujas to devotees, to livestream||CHENNAI: Monday onwards, the city’s pious who have had to cancel their temple visits and summer pilgrimages in light of the Covid-19 outbreak, can be rest assured to not miss out on the year’s most anticipated temple festivals. Thanks to Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department, which after much contemplation, has finally agreed to allow a few temples in the state to livestream the auspicious occasions. Among them is the Madurai Meenakshi Amman Temple’s celebrated annual marriage festival. Sources in the department say livestreaming the event will especially delight devotees, who have been constantly calling to know if there was a way to access photos and videos of the festival sitting at home. “As of now, we have permitted livestreaming of pujas, rituals and festivals at Chennai’s Kapaleeswarar Temple, Madurai Meenakshi Amman Temple and Samayapuram Mariamman Temple. In the coming days, more temples will be given the go-ahead to livestream important events,” HR&CE commissioner Phanindra Reddy told TOI. The months of March, April and May are famous for a list of significant annual temple festivals. In Shaivite temples, ‘pradosham’, a revered bi-monthly occasion, draws a massive crowd numbering in thousands every year. “Since the lockdown began on March 25, we did share some photographs of homams being conducted inside temples, but devotees wanted to witness other pujas that they missed this year too,” said a senior HR&CE official attached to a Chennai temple. Livestreaming will be restricted to rituals taking place inside the temples. The famous Madurai Meenakshi marriage festival will be held on May 4, a day after the scheduled end of the lockdown. “But we decided to livestream the festival in any case as we weren’t sure how the situation will be,” said the Madurai temple’s chief trustee, Karumuttu Kannan. This year, History channel will be showcasing the Madurai Chithirai festival from May 4. Temple officials will be sharing livestreaming links ahead of events on their social media pages and through newspapers. The pradosha puja at the Kapaleeswarar Temple can be viewed on www.youtube.com/channel/UCw5l4gl5-YsTQQLCSTLtXjA/live “We will allow those recording the puja inside only a few minutes ahead of the event. Social distancing will be strictly followed and every crew member entering the premises will be given hand sanitizers,” said the temple’s executive officer D Kaveri. Like temples, trusts and ashrams such as Ramakrishna Mutt, Tiruvannamalai Sri Ramana Ashram and Puducherry Aurobindo Ashram, too have started livestreaming annual festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/temples-take-pujas-to-devotees-to-livestream/articleshow/75261054.cms||B Sivakumar
April 21, 2020||Madurai||Two cracker units sealed for lockdown viloation||Madurai: The Virudhunagar district administration on Monday sealed two cracker units in Sivakasi, which were functioning illegally by violating the curfew. Recently, Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan had said that permission would be granted for cracker units situated in the rural areas to function from April 20. He said that the units can commence functioning with 50% employees and adhering to all safety norms by following social distancing, spraying disinfectant and issuing masks to the employees. Subsequently, the district administration officials had sent a communication asking the fireworks manufacturers not to commence production and to wait for detailed guidelines, to be issued by the government following the recommendations of an expert committee. Meanwhile, a cracker unit situated at Anuppankulam village with 11 workers, including its owner Kanimuthu and another unit owned by Murugan, situated at Vetrilaioorani village with four employees, started functioning. Speaking to TOI, Sivakasi sub-collector C Dinesh Kumar said that when the officials were carrying out a routine inspection, they noticed that both these units which were licenced by the district revenue officer were manufacturing crackers illegally. “The employees were secretly manufacturing crackers without wearing masks and without social distancing by violating the curfew rules. The employees at the cracker unit at Vetrilaioorani were seen manufacturing cracker under a thatched shed which was a violation,” he said. Since both units were functioning illegally by violating the rules even after a communication was sent by the officials, they were sealed.. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-cracker-units-sealed-for-lockdown-viloation/articleshow/75259960.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||SC collegium recommends BV Reddy for Telangana HC judge’s post||HYDERABAD: The Supreme Court collegium on Tuesday recommended to the central government to appoint advocate B Vijaysen Reddy as judge of Telangana high court. He hails from a family of lawyers and judges. He is the eldest son of former Lokayukta Justice B Subhashan Reddy. Born on August 22, 1970, in Hyderabad, Vijaysen Reddy pursued his LLB course from PRR College of Law and got enrolled as an advocate with the AP Bar Council on December 28, 1994. In his practice, spanning more than 25 years, he has covered all branches of law. He has appeared before all courts and authorities and commanded voluminous practice as a private advocate. The SC collegium also recommended names of advocates B Krishna Mohan, K Suresh Reddy and K Lalitha Kumari for elevating them as judges of AP high court.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-collegium-recommends-bv-reddy-for-t-hc-judges-post/articleshow/75259953.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Asiatic Society goes the e-way, brings out journal on Covid-19||KOLKATA: Asiatic Society, the premier institute for Indology research of the ministry of culture, has gone for digital publication for the first time in its 236-year-old history. This was done by scholars and staff, who are working from home during the lockdown. Having done this successfully, a series of digital publications have been lined up now. Interestingly, this e-journal is themed on Covid-19 and is packed with look-back articles on two other pandemics that had affected the city, more than a century ago — the plague that caused a havoc from 1898 to 1905 and the Spanish Flu of 1918-20. The cholera epidemic that took thousands of lives, too, is coming up in the next edition. The volume starts with how Swami Vivekananda led his band of volunteers to help the state authorities, (those days the British), fight the epidemic. Swamiji’s own manifesto to fight the epidemic has been included. It spoke about cleanliness as the top priority in the wake of the plague and how rooms, clothes and beds were to be cleaned and homes sanitized. He had lauded the efforts of the state- run hospitals and said these had a good infrastructure to handle patients and were doing an efficient job, so there was no need to hide the illness when afflicted by the disease. Stressing on the importance of vaccination, Swamiji had tried to remove the stigma attached to it. “The scene of the city during the plague as has been captured by our writers in this e-volume and Swamiji’s role, along with Sister Nivedita, is so similar to what we are seeing around us today. So, we wanted to chronicle those days,” said publications secretary, historian Ramkrishna Chatterjee. Historian Urvi Mukhopadhyay, in her article, has written about the first recorded plague epidemic in Europe, better known as Black Death (1347-51), when the West had tried to blame India and quarantined all trade items shipped from India. Zia ud din Barani and Ibn Batuta’s accounts have been quoted refuting the Western claim. Spanish Flu reached Kolkata via Mumbai, after a ship landed there from Europe in May 1918, writes historian Subhasis Biswas. It killed 18 million people in India and the scene in Kolkata, where the cholera also raged, was scary. Gandhiji himself suffered from the flu and then worked towards its eradication to emerge as a mass leader. Some scholars of literature like Chinmoy Guha and Sudeshna Chakabarty have referred to Albert Camus’s Plague which is a novel based on the plague epidemic in the French Algerian city of Oran and its impact on human relationships. The volume is also replete with Covid information by leading doctors like oncologist Shankar Nath, doctor of medicine Agnibha Maiti of SSKM and Anup Bhattacharya of Tripura Medical College. “This was our first digital publication and it was made possible by working from home, which was a totally foreign concept that was brought home by the pandemic,” said general secretary Satyabrata Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asiatic-society-goes-the-e-way-brings-out-journal-on-covid/articleshow/75260004.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 21, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK to sponsor food at Amma Canteens to feed the poor in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai urban district unit of the AIADMK has come forward to sponsor food at all the 12 Amma Canteens in the city so that the poor can consume food free of cost. Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju said the party will bear the expenses from Monday onwards and will continue till normalcy is resumed. The canteens function at Arapalayam, Anaiyur, K Pudur ITI, Gandhipuram, Ramaraya Mandapam, Government Rajaji Hospital, New Ramnad Road, CMR Road, Sundararajapuram Market, Palanganatham, Thiruparankundram Bus Stand and Melavasal near Periyar Bus Stand. At present, around 12,500 people get benefited in a day. More than 22,000 idlies and variety rice are being served through these canteens. Idly is sold at Rs 1, sambar rice at Rs 5 and curd rice at Rs 3. Raju also handed over Rs 50 lakh worth materials to the Madurai Corporation purchased using his MLA fund to fight Covid-19 on Monday. They included two mini-jet rodder machines, each costing Rs 18 lakh (to be purchased), 100 battery-operated manual pumps, 2000 litres Lysol, 1,000 gloves and 500 personnel protection equipment (PPE). The minister said that so far, 17 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the city of which five have been cured and 11 are under treatment. One person has died. “Madurai Corporation has earned the appreciation of people for tireless Covid-19 containment works. It has taken various measures to ensure social distancing like decentralizing vegetable markets and introducing assorted vegetable bag sales at the doorsteps. Work to maintain cleanliness and disinfection activities is also being carried out,” he said. He said that works are under way for the sale of Rs 500 grocery bag containing 19 items through the cooperative department. Grocery items will be available at cooperative stores and ration shops soon at 10% lesser price than market. When asked about various criticism against the state government by opposition leader M K Stalin, the minister said that the DMK leader should understand that it is not the time to do politics. He should instead take up constructive measures and come up with suggestions to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-to-sponsor-food-at-amma-canteens-to-feed-the-poor-in-city/articleshow/75259976.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur group distributes food, ration to migrants||KANPUR: Faculty members, staff and students of IIT-Kanpur have been serving the needy staying at the brick kiln units and villages near the institute campus by providing them cooked meal packets and ration. IIT-K in a statement said, “On March 28, seeing the hardships of the local population around the istitute campus, a group of IIT-Kanpur campus residents formed a volunteer group to prepare meal packets for distribution. The group, comprising of faculty, staff and students, distributed around 250 food packets in the initial few days.” Later, the campus community and IIT-K alumni also joined the efforts by providing ration and money to help those in need. The institute administration also supported the initiative following which the number of food packets distributed reached to 800 per day. By intaeracting with the persons in distress it was felt that it was best to provide ration to the migrant brick kiln workers and others to supplement their meager earnings, the institute stated further. In close to two weeks, the IIT-K group has supplied over 4,000 meal packets and 5,000 kgs of rations including wheat flour, pulses, rice, salt and oil. The group has also been providing rresources to community kitchens operating in Nankari village. There are three community kitchens operating in Nankari serving more than 1,000 food packets per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-group-distributes-food-ration-to-migrants/articleshow/75261335.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Allahabad||Six auto-lifters arrested, seven bikes seized in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Six members of an inter-district auto-lifting gang were arrested in trans-Ganga area of the city on Monday. Police also seized seven stolen motorcycles from the various hideouts of the accused. The accused were identified as Suraj Kumar Maurya of Phulpur , Neeraj Kumar of Phulpur, Sachin Yadav of Jaunpur, Chanchal Maurya of Jaunpur, Arvind Kumar of Kaushambi and Anurag Maurya of Ghurpur. Phulpur police said that the accused had hidden the stolen bikes in fields and rented homes. They were planning to re-sell them once the lockdown ended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/6-auto-lifters-arrested-7-bikes-seized/articleshow/75258263.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nashik||June exams: MUHS seeks list of students||Nashik: City-based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has asked all its affiliated colleges to send a list of eligible students who would appear for various examinations to be held in June.Owing to the lockdown imposed in order to curb the spread of Covid-19, the university recently postponed its examinations for a month. Earlier, the exams were scheduled to be held in May.Deelip Mhaisekar, MUHS vice-chancellor, said, "We do not want our students to take any trouble and come to colleges to fill the forms until the lockdown is lifted. Hence, we have asked the colleges to prepare a list of the eligible students and send them to us by May 25." According to the VC, the university will send the further guidelines to colleges about filling and sending the physical forms after May 25. There are a total of 383 colleges affiliated to the MUHS across the state and nearly 65,000 will appear for the examinations to be held in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/june-exams-muhs-seeks-list-of-students/articleshow/75259978.cms||pragya jain
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Policemen struggle to get tested, advised isolation||Ahmedabad: When around 25 cops of city police have already tested Covid-19 positive, many of them who remain untested in want of proper guidance by health officials may be carrying it. TOI has followed the journey of a cop from Khadia police who had to struggle even to get his medical test done to learn whether he is Covid-19 positive or not.On Sunday, an audio clip went viral in which a doctor is heard telling a police inspector not to depend on Covid-19 testing and rather increase his immunity by taking lemons as much as he can.TOI approached another cop from Khadia police station who had been in constant touch with six cops who had tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. He was first asked to approach a health centre of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in Khadia and when he went there, he was told to go to a health centre which falls in South zone of the city.“I was told to stay in quarantine and advised to undergo test as I was in constant touch with those cops who had tested positive. I am being shunted from here to there just to give samples for Covid-19 tests. I am living with my family, and before that I had to work in field and had met many people, I do not know whoever has got infected by me, or whether I am infected myself,” said the police official after he again failed to get his test done at a health centre of AMC on Monday.Another cop said that he was advised to stay in home quarantine but as they did not collect his samples, and said he will have to go to an urban health centre to undergo a test. “We are policemen and we are allowed to roam around in the city to maintain law and order, but it is not right given that I am a suspected Covid-19 patient and allowed to go outside just because I am not being tested at my home or at any hospital,” said the cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/policemen-struggle-to-get-tested-advised-isolation/articleshow/75259985.cms||Ashish Chauhan
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Khaki takes cake at the doorstep to celebrate citizen’s b’day||Nagpur: It was a pleasant surprise for Shompa Mukherjee in Hindustan Colony for whom hordes of cops from the crime branch had landed up at her doorstep with a birthday cake on Monday. The crime branch unit of the city police has adopted an innovative strategy to convince people to stay at home in view of the coronavirus outbreak and also maintain social distancing. The concept was the brainchild of DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane. In their latest approach, the cops have decided to celebrate birthday of citizens and take the opportunity to create awareness among the neighbours about the need to follow the lockdown. The gesture of the cops had gladdened Mukherjee, a teacher, her family members and neighbours too who had gathered for the impromptu birthday celebration. As part of the celebrations, Hindi and Bengali songs were also presented. Sub-inspectors Mayur Suryavanshi, Amit Tripathi, Priti Kulmethe and others led by inspector Pidurkar ensured that the ‘guests’ maintained social distancing during the cake cutting. “We had come to know about Mukherjee’s birthday as she is teacher in a school where a cop’s child is student. The idea is to surprise the citizens with a birthday cake from the police department and also a unique celebration that will remain itched in the memories forever,” said Suryavanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/khaki-takes-cake-at-the-doorstep-to-celebrate-citizens-bday/articleshow/75259970.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Release of more water played its part too in cleaning Yamuna: DJB||NEW DELHI: At a time when the anti-coronavirus lockdown is being widely credited for cleaning up the Yamuna with marginal improvement in its parameters, data from the discharge of water from barrages and test results from DJB indicate that it is the release of additional water that has helped in improving the river flow and flushing down pollutants. DJB discharge data showed that on an average, 2,628 million gallons of water was released every day downstream of Wazirabad in the last month due to additional rainfall in upstream states, compared to just 429 MGD in February and 714 MGD in January. Experts associated with DJB said that while industrial pollution had also gone down, the contribution of dilution factor due to additional water weighed much heavily. Ankit Srivastava, technical advisor to DJB and consultant for the “City of Lakes” project, explained that due to better rainfall, huge amount of water was available in the river. “In March 2020, more than 2,600 MGD clean water diluted the 450 MGD Najafgarh drain water daily. It was the 700% more dilution that improved the water quality in the river. The lockdown has a minor role but environment-flow is the hero,” he said. Srivastava claimed that 2,628 MGD was an average figure and there had been days when more than 5,000 – 8,000 MGD water was released washing down the river. DJB’s central laboratory in Wazirabad analysed samples from Najafgarh supplementary drain, Majnu ka Tila, Shastri Park, Geeta Colony, Nizamuddin Bridge, Barapullah and Ghazipur drain on 12 parameters. While dissolved oxygen had improved at Geeta Colony Bridge (5.6ppm), Nizamuddin Bridge (3.6) and Okhla Barrage (5.2), the BOD and COD levels, though still high, saw marked improvement. Indicators like conductivity and chlorides, which showed industrial pollution, had also gone down but could still be due to dilution factors, an official said. Comparison of conditions in April of 2018, 2019 and 2020 sheds more light on the picture. In 2019, the water release had doubled from 500 to 1,005 MGD a day, which led to improvement in water quality while in 2018, it had remained zero from May till June due to which dissolved oxygen levels remained zero along the river’s entire length. According to last year’s water quality analysis submitted by researchers of University of Chicago, the amount of oxygen dissolved in water, which should be a minimum 4, was almost zero in April 2018. “The river was also observed to be sludgy and stinky. However, there seemed to be quite an improvement in dissolved oxygen levels in April 2019. While there are some pockets along the river where the dissolved oxygen levels are 1 mg/l or near zero, in many other pockets, the levels were seen to be above 5 mg/l. A possible reason is the better flow observed in the river,” the report, a copy of which is with TOI, stated. A senior DJB official said that environmentalists should be wary of using lockdown data as an argument for shutting down industries. “The biggest challenge is containing the raw sewage that flows in the river. We expect that interceptor project will be completed in two months after normalcy returns and a significant improvement in river-water will be noticed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/release-of-more-water-played-its-part-in-cleanng-the-yamuna-djb/articleshow/75261682.cms||Paras Singh
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Sanitation tunnels no more allowed in Maharashtra||NAGPUR: Innovatively made and enthusiastically adopted sanitization tunnels will not be allowed in Maharashtra from now on. Following guidelines of central government’s ministry of health and family welfare, the state health department on Monday issued advisories to all civil surgeons, DSOs, and medical officers of municipal corporations that spraying of disinfectant on people for Covid-19 management should be stopped. Disinfectants such as sodium hypochlorite spray are used in such tunnels to disinfect the persons walking through it. In Nagpur and Yavatmal, similar tunnels were assembled in police vehicles too. City mayor Sandeep Joshi has installed such a tunnel in NMC office and Union minister Nitin Gadkari had experienced it during his recent visit to NMC. This concept gained a lot of media attention and many institutions and local bodies started using it. According to the Union health ministry, disinfectants are chemicals that destroy disease causing pathogens or other harmful micro organisms. It refers to substances applied on inanimate objects owing to their strong chemical properties. Chemical disinfectants are recommended for cleaning and disinfection only of frequently touched areas/surfaces by those who are suspected or confirmed to have Covid-19. “Spraying on individuals or groups is not recommended under any circumstances. Spraying an individual or group with chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful,” read the advisory. “Even if a person is potentially exposed to Covid-19 virus, spraying the external part of the body does not kill the virus that has entered your body. Also, there is no scientific evidence to suggest that they are effective even in disinfecting the outer clothing/body in an effective manner,” it added. There are possible health hazards too. Spraying of chlorine on individuals can lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as nausea and vomiting. Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes to the nose, throat, respiratory tract and may also cause bronchospasm. Finally, the use of such measures may lead to a false sense of disinfection and safety and actually hamper public observance to hand washing and social distancing measures. “This advisory is timely and we must follow it. Many establishments and institutions were planning to install such sanitizing cabins. We must discourage them now. Hand hygiene is very important and should be followed,” said a senior official from the district health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanitation-tunnels-no-more-allowed-in-maha/articleshow/75261080.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Growing secondary infections worry health officials||CHENNAI: Sunday saw a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state and Monday’s numbers too are higher than the last few days. While they say increased screening is one of the reasons for the spike in numbers, state health officials are worried about the growing secondary infections – family and close contacts of people with travel history. On Sunday, when the state announced 105 more positive cases, there were seven people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi, but 50 others were their contacts. Two people with travel history, and 15 contacts also tested positive. On Monday, when the state added 43 more cases taking the total number of cases to 1,520, officials added 23 more people to the TJ cluster – two primary contacts and 21 close contacts. Health minister C Vijayabaskar cited increased screening. "We are testing more people now every day. And this test is among asymptomatic close contacts and anyone with influenza like illness," he said. On Saturday 5,023 people were tested, taking the total number to 29,997. The total number rose to 41,710 on Monday. Public health officials say some contacts who tested negative earlier are now testing positive. "RT-PCR is the best diagnostic tool available now. But it is far from perfect," said a senior virologist. "Sometimes, healthcare workers may not have collected enough material for nasal or throat swab. The machine may spin a false. There is up to 30% error in such a test. This is exactly why protocols demand two consecutive negatives," said the virologist. Infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan says, "Even after the body has recovered, the virus can leave behind debris. They do show up as positive cases in tests," he said. Senior virologist like T Jacob John says this is the price for delaying testing. "Testing early and isolating people should have been a formula adopted very early. We haven’t been able to flatten the curve because we delayed testing," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/growing-secondary-infections-worry-health-officials/articleshow/75261069.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Allahabad||Petition sent to SC demands probe into Palghar lynchings||PRAYAGRAJ: A letter petition has been sent to the Supreme Court on Monday, requesting the Chief Justice of India (CJI) to direct setting up of a high-level committee to inquire into the lynching of three men on April 16 by a mob of around 200 people at Gadchinchale village in Kasa Taluka of Palghar district of Maharastra. Palghar is located 125 km away from Mumbai. In the letter petition, moved by a high court lawyer, Gaurav Dwivedi, a request has been made to the CJI to treat this petition as public interest litigation (PIL), as there is no interest of petitioner except public interest. In the letter petition, the petitioner has also requested the CJI to issue notice to the Maharastra government to submit its clarification on the incident of the said mob-lynching. In the letter petition, addressed to the CJI, the petitioner has taken the ground that the Supreme Court is well aware of the fact that India is secular in nature and religious in culture, hence this horrific incident has left many questions on administration as well as on the Government of Maharastra, which is very necessary to be solved by the Supreme Court of India vide its power. According to the petitioner, as seen in viral video, three men, who were killed by the mob of around 200 people, have been identified as Sushil Giri Maharaj, Nilesh Telgane and Chikane Maharaj Kalpavriksh Giri. Two of those killed were sadhus and third was driver of the car in which they were travelling towards Surat, Gujarat to attend the funeral of their guru. The petitioner has requested the Supreme Court to exercise its suo motu power and take action in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/petition-sent-to-sc-demands-probe-into-palghar-lynchings/articleshow/75258358.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||Petlad’s female health worker tests positive in Ahmedabad||Vadodara/Anand: A 35-year-old female health worker (FHW) from Anand district tested positive for coronavirus in Ahmedabad on Monday.The FHW, who works with Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), is a resident of Devdat Colony of Isarama area of Petlad. It is the first Covid-19 positive case reported from Petlad.So far, positive cases in Anand district had surfaced from Enterprise Society in Anand city, Hadgud village near Anand, a village of Anklav taluka, Khambhat’s Aling crossroads area and Umreth.The FHW was involved in medical check-up and mass sampling in Jamalpur area of Ahmedabad, which has been declared a Covid-19 hotspot. After her samples tested positive, the woman was admitted to S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad.Sources said most of the time, the FHW used to stay in Ahmedabad but at times she returned to her house in Petlad. All her family members have been asked to remain under home quarantine.With this, the total number of positive cases in Anand has reached 27 out of which three persons have been discharged and two passed away. So far, samples of 310 individuals have tested negative. While 57 people have been kept under quarantine at government facility, a total of 1,499 individuals are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/petlads-female-health-worker-tests-positive-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/75258661.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ensure doctors get treated at private hospitals: AMA to govt||Ahmedabad: Miffed at the treatment of three private practitioners at the Covid-19 ward at SVP Hospital on Sunday, Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) approached the state government demanding treatment of Covid-19 positive doctors at private hospitals.Dr Mona Desai, president of AMA, said that the doctors volunteered for the test after their patients tested positive to ensure that other patients don’t get the infection. “They were asymptomatic. However, they were kept along with other patients with varying symptoms. The doctors also said that there were no separate male and female wards,” she said, adding that they have approached the state government to ensure frontline Covid-19 warriors get the best possible treatment. “We are not against any specific hospital but we need to instil confidence in the community to encourage them to participate in treatment. We are getting a good response from the state government.” Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said that the issue had come to their notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ensure-doctors-get-treated-at-private-hospitals-ama-to-govt/articleshow/75259996.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Don’t discriminate against healthcare workers: AIIMS||NEW DELHI: AIIMS on Monday appealed to people not to discriminate against the healthcare workers playing a crucial role in the fight against the novel coronavirus. In a video, institute director Dr Randeep Guleria said novel coronavirus caused Covid-19, a viral infection, late last year. “However, this has also created unprecedented issues which are unfounded and mainly driven by fear rather than scientific evidence,” he added. It is followed by an address by Dr Kaushik Sinha Deb, an associate professor in the psychiatry department. Pointing to reports about people fearing that doctors and other frontline workers, who have pledged their life for treating Covid-19 patients, may be spreading the infection, the doctor said, “All medical workers take strong precautions. It takes more than half an hour for a doctor to remove all protective gear he uses while managing Covid-19 positive patients. So, by the time a doctor comes out of active duty into the community, the chances of infection from a healthcare professional is nil.” Dr Deb added that the reaction of some people trying to throw doctors out of their house was coming mainly from fear and was uncalled for. The video also appealed to people not to attach any stigma to Covid-19. “The Covid-19 worriors who are putting their life at stake should be given more care by society rather than being stigmatised,” the AIIMS director emphasised. The video follows multiple incidents of doctors and nurses being asked to leave their rented premises and, in a few cases, even getting abused by miscreants. A woman resident doctor of Safdarjung Hospital was reported to be verbally abused near her residence recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-dont-discriminate-against-healthcare-workers/articleshow/75261690.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Allahabad||Seers lynched: Akhara Parishad warns of protest||PRAYAGRAJ: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) strongly condemned the mob lynching of two Juna Akhara seers in Palghar district of Maharashtra, on Thursday night and threatened to launch a massive agitation if strong action is not taken against the culprits. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said there is ‘Ravan raj’ in Maharashtra where sadhus are being lynched in presence of police and demanded termination of the cops. On April 16 night, two seers Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) were dragged out of their car near a village in Palghar district and beaten to death by a mob that suspected them to be thieves. “Lakhs of Naga sadhus and members of various akhara would march tor Maharashtra after lockdown if all the guilty are not punished. The Maharashtra government should terminate all the police officers who failed to protect the saints”, said ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri. Presently, there is ‘Ravan raj’ in Maharashtra where sadhus are being beaten to death in presence of police, he added. “The entire area should be sealed and the culprits arrested. The akhara parishad will prepare strategy for the agitation in Haridwar,” Giri said. Juna akhara chief patron mahant Hari Giri also condemned the brutal killing of saints of his akhara. “There are no words to condemn the killings. The video clearly shows that police failed to protect innocent seers.” The heads of other akharas also condemned the mob lynching of seers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/seers-lynched-akhara-parishad-warns-of-protest/articleshow/75258308.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Plasma of asymptomatic donors may not help||CHENNAI: With many states showing intent to test plasma therapy, medical experts say the procedure may be a shot in the dark for treating Covid-19 patients as plasma from asymptomatic donors and people with mild infection may not have enough antibodies to treat an infected person. Virologists say as the therapy is given based only on the assumption that the plasma from a person recovered from Covid-19 has neutralising antibodies, storing and testing plasma samples when antibody tests are available, and pooling of plasma are ways to approach the issue.  Coronavirus live updates "You need high titer plasma. The situation right now is that people who are asymptomatic and people with mild infection don’t seem to be rising very high titer antibodies. So, I think plasma therapy is going to be a challenge," Shahid Jameel, virologist and chief executive officer of Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliances, had said at a webinar on Covid-19 organised by Bennett University recently. "The therapy will be restricted to people who have bad disease in hospital settings. At this point I don’t see it as a public health measure." The views come at a time when Indian Council of Medical Research said that 80% of the Covid-19 cases remain asymptomatic. In convalescent plasma therapy, plasma with antibodies obtained from the blood of patients cured of the disease is transfused to Covid-19 patients. Upon transfusion, the antibodies bind to specific antigens, recognised by the body as alien, and destroy them. The therapy was tried to treat ebola, SARS and MERS, and showed encouraging results. Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Delhi sought the Centre’s nod and Kerala has received permission to conduct trials. ICMR is likely to begin a randomised control study to assess efficacy of the therapy for Covid-19. Virologist Dr Jacob John suggested that in the absence of IgG antibody test kit and a study to show the antibody levels in asymptomatic or people with mild infection, plasma can be collected from donors and stored to be tested later for titers. Instead of conducting randomised control studies, where half the patients may not receive treatment, Dr John said the therapy could be tried on severely ill patients on ventilators, who have low chances of recovery. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Subramanian Swaminathan said pooling of plasma from many donors to ensure it contains enough antibodies is an alternative way to address in the absence of a test kit. "But when you pool it, you are reducing the titer of antibodies," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plasma-of-asymptomatic-donors-may-not-help/articleshow/75261086.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||NMC asks 13 private hospitals to stand by for Covid-19 patients||NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has asked 13 private hospitals in city having 100 or more beds each to be ready for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The civic body will take over these hospitals in a phased manner if capacity and resources at GMCH and IGGMCH are exhausted. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Monday met representatives of these hospitals that include most of city’s top ones. Mundhe, who is competent authority for containing Covid-19 in the city, told TOI, “Number of positive patients is on the rise in the city. Need is to keep 5,000 beds ready. We have identified 42 private hospitals. Thirteen have 100 beds or more and remaining 29 between 50-100 beds. These 13 have facilities of oxygen, ICU and ventilators. As of today, we do not require their services. If the number goes up and capacity at GMCH and IGGMCH is exhausted, we will utilize these then,” he said. Mundhe said, “All hospitals have been given a proforma and asked to be ready with it. All hospitals in the city can be requisitioned,” he said. On facilities like masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits etc, Mundhe said, “All requirements will be fulfilled well before time.” Asked whether private hospital can also give services to non-Covid-19 patients, Mundhe said, “We will identify Covid-19 centres as well as other centres. Identified private hospitals will be exclusively for Covid-19 patients.” As on Monday, city had registered 81 positive cases including one death. Twelve people have been discharged after recovery. IGGMCH has 120 beds with provision of ventilators and 40 with high-dependency unit. This hospital can increase the number to 600 beds as it has reserved surgical complex for Covid-19 patients. At present, 34 positive and 49 suspected patients are admitted here. At GMCH has two dedicated Covid-19 wards which have 34 positive and 41 suspected cases, as on Monday. Sixteen beds are reportedly vacant. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar said, “Private hospitals will be eligible to serve as Covid-19 centres subject to fulfillment of criteria. If government is looking towards us for necessary support to help fight this epidemic, it is natural for us to extend our services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-asks-13-pvt-hosps-to-stand-by-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75261107.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 21, 2020||Pune||Stricter regime gets in place for weeklong curfew in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: The city police on Monday issued a fresh order imposing curfew with modification in the timing for operation of essential services across Pune till April 27 midnight as a part of the stringent measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. “The timing for shops in areas earlier declared as containment zones is 10am to 12noon (local police can exercise discretion in case of violation of social distancing), while in the new areas covering the rest of the city, the timing will be 10am to 2pm,” joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve told TOI, after issuing the order under Section 144 (1) [3] of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). On Sunday night, the Pune Metropolitan Area comprising Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations were declared as containment zones. Late on Sunday night, Pimpri Chinchwad’s police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi had issued a similar order imposing curfew in the twin industrial cities. “Strict curfew implementation till April 27 will be confined to only the areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. Areas like Dehu Road, Hinjewadi, Chakan, Alandi, Mulshi and Haveli, which are under our (police) jurisdiction but out of the PCMC limits, won’t see the curfew implementation,” he said. “No one will be allowed to move in or out of the PCMC limits. We have set up 10 additional checkpoints and deployed additional manpower. The passes issued by us for different essential services will remain valid only till April 22 and, thereafter, people will have to obtain new passes from the PCMC,” Bishnoi said. In Pune, Shisve’s fresh curfew order rendered all digital passes (barring those issued to certain essential services) as defunct. “We have cancelled digital passes issued earlier to IT and other companies, social activists, NGOs, corporators and office-bearers of various political parties because they were not being used for the required purposes. We are streamlining the process of issuing passes,” said deputy commissioner of police Pankaj Deshmukh. A stricter regime has been put in place on roads in terms of regulated movement of vehicles, enhanced checkpoints, additional manpower on streets, and vigil even in lanes and by-lanes to discourage people from gathering at one place. In Kalyaninagar, the police asked several housing societies to bolt their gates and maintain a log of anyone stepping in or out even for making essential purchases. Near Baker’s Point on the NIBM crossroads, the police were seen deflating tyres of two-wheelers. Kondhwa resident Tanaji Lonkar said, “Police are compelling people wandering without any valid reason to wait alongside the road for few hours before issuing them notices of legal action and deflating their vehicles’ tyres.” New Modikhana resident Shashi Puram said, “People are rushing into their houses on seeing policemen on streets in Camp.” Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham justified the stricter lockdown as a “much-needed” exercise considering the rising number of Covid-19 infections. “During the last few days, we have seen positive cases from grocery shopkeeper, person distributing food as being member of an NGO, pharmacist, vegetable vendor and others. These are the people in essential services and we need to break the chain,” the police chief said. “We are definitely for firm enforcement of the lockdown measures and have been repeatedly appealing to people to stay home and stay safe. We are appealing to people to step out only in extreme essential circumstances irrespective of whether they have a digital pass or not,” said Venkatesham. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “We have deployed around 3,000 policemen on bandobast duty on Monday. Other policemen are engaged in contact tracing for quarantining people with the virus symptoms and maintaining vigil at health establishments. We have sealed all roads, lanes and by-lanes. Main roads have been kept open for emergency reasons. We have reinforced 125 nakabandi points and 11 inter-borders of Pune connecting the Pune rural police and the Pimpri Chinchwad police.” Strict measuresCurfew is in place for some time now in six containment zones, including Nanded, Kolhewadi, parts of Dhayari, Kirkatwadi and Nandoshi villages, on the fringes of Pune city along the Sinhagad Road. “We are enforcing strict curfew measures at villages in these containment zones with all roads having been sealed. In the remaining parts of the district, we are implementing the nationwide lockdown steps,” said Sandeep Patil, superintendent of police, Pune rural. (With inputs by Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stricter-regime-gets-in-place-for-weeklong-curfew-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/75261697.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 21, 2020||Madurai||Registrar office opened after a month break||Madurai: After a break of one month , all the district registrar and sub-registrar offices were opened for services on Monday following the permission from the state government. However, only a few people turned up to avail the service. Registration of properties and agreements was stalled due to lockdown. It resulted in unavailability of stamp papers required to execute sale deeds and rental agreements. While real estate sector has come to a standstill, the state government decided to the department for work with some conditions like limiting number of registrations in a day, social distancing and providing hand sanitisers before people entering offices. Less than 50% of the employees had turned for work on day one. T S Naganathan, secretary of Madurai district document writers’ association, said that till 1 pm there was only one document registered in the district office near Thirumalai Nayak Mahal. Usually, 100 to 150 registrations used to take place in a day, he said. “Just like other sectors, we too are jobless for the past one month. There are 250 documents writers in Madurai district and there are around 6,000 in whole of Tamil Nadu. Government should come forward to help us,” he said. The city witnessed slightly higher number of people on roads starting from early on Monday morning. Although police allowed them to commute after questioning reasons for leaving out of their houses, they started register cases against those, who loitered unnecessarily after 10 am. “A section of people has started coming out as if the curfew was lifted. The state government made it clear that there will not be any relaxation of restrictions till May 3,” said a police officer. The city police registered 580 cases on Sunday in connection with the violation of curfew restriction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/registrar-office-opened-after-a-month-break/articleshow/75260003.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||17,000 Goa government staff resume duty, citizens refrain from visiting government offices||PANAJI: The general public refrained from visiting government offices for routine paperwork on Monday, when the state government opened its offices to ensure delivery of services. After a gap of almost a month due to the lockdown necessitated to halt the spread of Covid-19, over 17,000 government employees resumed duty on Monday after the central government relaxed certain lockdown restrictions. The nationwide lockdown will continue till May 3. Additional collector Dashrath Redkar told TOI that there were no visitors at the North Goa collectorate for trivial matters like obtaining of residence certificate or other permissions. “People are only coming to seek permission to restart activities which are permitted by the central government guidelines during the lockdown,” he said Transport director Rajan Satardekar said that there were no people dropping in to the transport department headquarters at Panaji to do day-to-day work. The department has started clearing pending files and preparing new proposals. Director of panchayats Narayan Gad said that there was not a single visitor at his office, but employees are busy with pre-monsoon work, issuing permissions for house repair and sanitisation of village panchayats among other things. The state government offices opened with a skeletal staff strength of 33%. Heads of departments have called employees to work alternate-day shifts with attendance staggered across three-time slots. The remaining staff will work from home. During the functioning of government departments, HODs cannot convene meetings unless it is essential. The government has directed HODs to avoid asking field functionaries to come to the head office in a routine manner. Efforts should be made to do the work through video conference instead of regular meetings. Departments are requested to instruct their staff to remain at home if they have symptoms like cough, cold, fever or if they are short of breath and advised them to take appropriate medical advice from government doctors. The doctor’s advice and prescription should be digitally sent to the HOD for information. The offices and employees engaged in essential/emergency services and for controlling the spread of Covid-19 will continue those duties, as assigned, till further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/17k-govt-staff-resume-duty-citizens-refrain-from-visiting-govt-offices/articleshow/75261109.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Corona delivers food agents in Delhi a body blow||NEW DELHI: Mohit, a delivery agent at Mamagoto, while providing safe delivery also ensures that he and his entire team’s body temperature measurements are attached with the bill. He has saved news articles regarding proper hygiene practices and proudly flashes it on his phone to explain how food delivery follows strict guidelines and hand washing is done for 20 seconds regularly. After a pizza delivery boy in Malviya Nagar tested positive for Covid-19, the WhatsApp groups of people and housing societies had a new slogan — No to delivery. The panic was such that people started either regretting their orders or hiding their “lockdown pizza history”. Food delivery orders dropped drastically and eateries looking to crawl back into business through home delivery had their calculations dashed. For Arjun, a delivery boy who was among the handful of migrant workers who had stayed back in Delhi, people fearing food delivery meant a fight for survival. Till last month, he had a target of over 25 orders to qualify for an incentive. He used to earn at least Rs 1,000 every day. However, these days he has been able to deliver barely five orders reducing his daily earnings to a meagre Rs 250. Sitting on a roadside bench, Arjun looks eagerly at his phone for a beep notifying a new delivery order. He said no one talks of him getting infected by delivering to houses whose residents have returned from abroad. He has news on his phone proving that none of the contacts of the pizza delivery boy tested positive. From sending videos of their kitchens to customers to highlighting the distance maintained by the staff and sending food bills with body temperature notings, Kabir Suri of Azure hospitality is doing all he can to address concerns around food delivery. “Nuclear families and single professionals depend on food delivery. We are trying to ensure safe and hygienic food reaches them,” he added. He has also provided hazmat suits to his employees. Deepak Bhatia of Lite Bite Foods noticed that most of his customers have been ordering directly at his outlets and orders on the aggregator’s app have reduced drastically. “Maybe it’s because most of our patrons know our staff and trust our hygiene standards,” he observed. The app-based aggregators have been actively dispelling all doubts surrounding the safety of home delivery. A Zomato spokesperson said, “Our delivery partners are undertaking all safety measures. We are constantly in touch with them checking up on their health, providing masks and setting up sanitisation stations.” Swiggy has introduced a “Safety Standards” section on the app where users can see the safety process followed by restaurants. Vishal Jindal of Biryani by Kilo said they are regularly reaching out to consumers to explain the strict hygiene practices followed by them. “Anyone can get this viral infection from anywhere. Till we do not stop the stigma surrounding it, any case of infection will have an adverse impact on the entire business,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-delivers-food-agents-a-body-blow/articleshow/75261706.cms||Amin Ali
April 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik lab gets green signal for swab testing||Nashik: The Covid-19 testing laboratory at the Dr Vasantrao Medical College Hospital and Research Centre at Adgaon here has finally got the clearance and is expected to begin work on Tuesday. “We have got the clearance from the National Accreditation Board of Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and testing should start from tomorrow,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said on Monday. The staff at the laboratory has been trained by All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Nagpur, which has been appointed as mentor for the testing laboratory process by Indian Council of Medical Research. Sample testing was conducted in video conferencing, following which the approval was given. The laboratory equipment required for the processes were contributed by Datar Genetics, while the college provided infrastructure and the manpower — microbiologist and technicians. The district administration coordinated for the construction of some section of the laboratory with the help of Public Works Department (PWD) and also in getting up to 3000 kits required for testing of swab samples. “The first batch of samples will be taken in on Tuesday morning, following which the process of testing will begin. We can conduct more than 70 tests simultaneously and one batch requires about 4.5 hours for yielding results,” another officer said. The laboratory will function for patients from Nashik district, thus reducing the chances of dependency on laboratories in other districts. Currently, samples originating from Malegaon and Satana taluka are taken to the laboratory at Shree Bhausaheb Hiray Government Medical College Hospital, Dhule, which also tests samples from Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts. The samples from rest of Nashik district go to the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) in Pune, which also receives samples from various other districts for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-lab-gets-green-signal-for-swab-testing/articleshow/75415402.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Madurai||9 new cases in South TN, tally now 338||Madurai: As many as nine new Covid-19 cases were reported across the 10 southern districts on Monday, including four from Tenkasi district, which has been seeing a gradual rise in cases during the past week. This takes the total number of cases in southern districts to 338. A concerning trend has been the slow increase in cases during the past few days in Tenkasi district which initially largely remained without any Covid-19 positive cases. Out of the 26 cases reported in the district, 21 cases were reported only since April 14. The four new cases in Tenkasi on Monday were all reported to be contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. A total of 17 persons are currently under home quarantine in the district while as many as 2300 persons had completed their home quarantine for 28 days. The district has so far tested a total of 844 samples. DIndigul district recorded two more cases on Monday, both of whom were contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. “We have actively started rapid anti-body testing as well in the district giving priority to those in containment areas. Most cases reported recently have all been only contacts of Covid-19 positive persons. Hence, so far, in Dindigul, there has been no indication of a community spread,” assured district collector M Vijaya Lakshmi. Ramanathapuram also saw one more case, a contact of Covid-19 positive patient. Ramanathapuram district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that a 19-year-old male from R S Mangalam is the extended contact of person who had visited the religious conference and was tested negative. He said that since the 19-year-old man was tested positive, the R S Mangalam has been made as a containment zone and containment plan would be followed by cordoning off the area for 14 days. One primary case each was meanwhile was reported in Sivagangai and Tuticorin districts. Eight Covid-19 positive persons were discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Monday after making a successful recovery. The eight patients are a 40-year-old man from Narimedu, 60-year-old man from Gomathipuram, a 41-year-old man from Thirumangalam, a 50-year-old man from Usilampatti, a 26-year-old man from Keelamathur, a 42-year-old from Kuppupillai Thoppu, a 27-year-old man and a 42-year-old man from Mahaboobpalayam. All patients were sent off with gift of a fruits and flowers basket and greeted by the hospital staff. Before leaving, they were addressed by GRH Dean Dr Sangumani J and district collector Dr TG Vinay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/9-new-cases-in-south-tn-tally-now-338/articleshow/75260036.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||Small window to buy ration spurs mad rush in Pune||PUNE: After two hours of mad rush on Monday morning, most of the grocery shop owners pulled down shutters of their establishments at noon in the absence of clear guidelines on the timing of operations. Crowded roads in neighbourhoods till 11.45am wore a deserted look after noon, in just 15 minutes. Several residents had returned home empty-handed by then amid the scramble for ration. Several residents and experts fear the social distancing norms would go for a toss because of the four-hour window of 10am to 2pm for grocery shops to function after the entire city was sealed. They stressed the limited time within would trigger rush at shops every day, defeating the purpose of the curfew — “social distancing”. Town planner Aneeta Gokhale Benninger said, “The purpose of the curfew is to reduce person-to-person contact. If only four hours are given for shopping, people will crowd stores even if they do not want to. The trick is to spread it over a longer period and check the genuineness of the reason.” Before the curfew was imposed, the grocery shops in areas under Zone 1 would operate from 10am to noon. Those in areas like Kharadi and Chandanagar had an operation timing of noon to 2pm. The grocery shops in Zone 3, such as Kothrud, Warje, Karvenagar and Uttamnagar, operated from morning till noon. Shops in some other areas would operate from morning till noon, and then reopen in the evening for a few hours. A citizen tweeted, “Grocery shops in Vimannagar are open from 11am to 2pm; places are crowded, need to stand in a long queue. If the shops are allowed to be open from 9am-6pm, there would be no such rush.” Sachin Nivangune, the president of Pune District Retail Traders’ Association, said, “People tend to flock the stores for the smallest of items, which they sometimes do not even need. This has been causing crowding at shops, creating problems for the retailers. It is one of the reasons for keeping shutters down for four days.” Malati Patil of Model Colony said, “Many grocery store owners themselves do not know the closing and opening time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/small-window-to-buy-ration-spurs-mad-rush/articleshow/75261708.cms||Neha Madaan
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC disposes of 13 PILs seeking relief during lockdown||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has disposed of all 13 PILs which were filed for directions to the government for better management of the situation in the state during the lockdown due to Covid-19 spread, saying that it was satisfied with the state government’s efforts, and the advocates representing different petitioners also agreed with the court’s view.These PILs were seeking directions on various counts – from against compulsory mask policy to free food for all; from requirement of more testing for checking Covid-19 to intervention on three-month moratorium on loans by financial institutions; from issuance of passes for volunteers during the lockdown to supplying masks and sanitizers to inmates in jail; from release of prisoners facing less punishment and PASA detainees to directions to cops not to arrest anybody till the lockdown period ends.During last hearing on Friday, the bench headed by the Chief Justice Vikram Nath found many demands unnecessary, a few of them already fulfilled by the authorities, and it disposed of the rest of the PILs on the assurance given by the state law officers that the demands of the petitioners will be taken care of.The HC was also critical of the petitioners and their lawyers too, “The reliefs claimed in these Civil Applications and Public Interest Litigation are so many times repetitive or have been made in a reckless and irresponsible manner. In so many matters there is no foundation laid but multiple reliefs are claimed. Anything and everything that can be imagined…”The HC further said, “What happens is one or two good causes raised get eclipsed and lose their sheen and are covered by the majority of frivolous ones. The Court hopes and trusts that Counsels or parties in person would be more careful and cautious in future.”The high court has posted further hearing on its suo motu PIL on May 1, when the state government has been asked to place further action taken report in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-hc-disposes-of-13-pils-seeking-relief-during-lockdown/articleshow/75260060.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Home minister’s son helps UP man stuck in Nagpur||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh’s son, Salil, helped an Uttar Pradesh-based CCTV technician find safe accommodation at a shelter home after he ran out of money in the city, having got stuck here in the ongoing lockdown. Pradeep Kumar Ramchandra, an expert technician in CCTV cameras, had gone to Pusad in Yavatmal for work before the national lockdown was announced. He returned to Nagpur on the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a national lockdown in the backdrop of the pandemic Covid-19 scare. Ramchandra was unable to leave the city and was stuck at a lodge. It’s learnt that the lodge owner had asked him to vacate the room after he ran out of money. Ramchandra managed to get the contact of social worker and Youth Congress member Fazloor Rehman Qureshi, and asked him for help. Qureshi contacted the cops who ensured that the lodge owner allowed him to stay for free, but there was no arrangement of food. As cops first appeared unwilling to shift Ramchandra to a shelter home, Qureshi contacted Salil Deshmukh, who contacted social worker Nutan Rewatkar and her team to take up the case as she is a peace committee member. Qureshi and Rewatkar contacted Ganeshpeth and Sadar police stations for help. Following their appeal, Sadar police helped shift Ramchandra to a shelter home, where he can stay as well as get food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-ministers-son-helps-up-man-stuck-in-nagpur/articleshow/75260042.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Rapid testing in southern districts to check for community spread||MADURAI: Rapid anti-body testing for Covid-19 has begun in most southern districts of Tamil Nadu mainly aiming to check for possible community spread of the disease. Among the southern districts, Madurai, Dindigul and Tirunelveli districts have received among the highest number of kits considering the relative high number of Covid-19 cases there. Health officials across districts noted that tests conducted using these rapid anti-body test kits, whose results can be checked in just 15 minutes, are not confirmatory tests. Through the test, it will be checked if antibodies against the virus had been formed in the body. Hence, they said that the major role of bringing in the kits is to check for possible community spread. The kits will be deployed to screen suspected contacts, vulnerable groups, health officials and police personnel mainly in containment areas on a priority basis. Even among them, priority will be for those experiencing flu-like illness. For Tirunelveli district, which has recorded 62 Covid-19 cases so far, a total of 2200 test kits have been given. “Testing will soon begin. We have split up and distributed the kits to different areas. We are trying to cover the whole district as per guidelines given to us and screen all suspected and vulnerable persons. Though it is not confirmatory, the fast results can help us survey and assess possible community spread,” said a senior health official from the district. Madurai and Dindigul districts actively began rapid antibody testing starting Sunday. Madurai district has received 1000 test kits while Dindigul has received 1200 kits. Dindigul tops the list of most cases in southern districts with 76 Covid-19 cases so far. The tests are being conducted by health officials and doctors in containment zones. “On Monday, 80 samples were tested via rapid anti-body testing and all results were negative. We have given 200 kits separately to Dindigul Government Hospital as well and so far, samples tested there too are all negative. We will be intensifying the testing prioritising vulnerable groups in containment areas,” said Dindigul district collector M Vijaya Lakshmi, speaking to TOI. For Kanyakumari district, which has a relatively low number of Covid-19 cases at 16, only 300 rapid test kits have been given. “We are already carrying out PCR testing in containment areas and so far there is no suspicion of a possible community spread here. We have checked the test kits on Monday by carrying out sample tests. We will use these kits as and when required,” said a district health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rapid-testing-in-south-to-check-for-community-spread/articleshow/75260045.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man flees shelter home, abuses and spits on police||PUNE: A homeless man escaped from a Pune Municipal Corporation-run shelter home in Kothrud on Sunday evening after jumping over the compound wall. The man entered the premises of a housing complex, located behind the school, and pushed four two-wheelers. When society watchman Anil Verma tried to stop him, the man allegedly abused him. After he was caught by the Kothrud police, the man reportedly abused and spat on the personnel. He was thrashed by the policemen and sent back to the shelter home. The video clip of the police thrashing the man went viral. Pratibha Joshi, senior inspector, Kothrud police, told TOI, “The man had fled the shelter home. Our men caught him and told him to return to the shelter home. He, however, turned violent and started creating a ruckus. He pushed some policemen and broke the temporary shelter put up for the police. He also abused them and spat on our men. We had to use force to send him back,” Joshi said. When TOI visited the shelter home, the man, who identified himself as Amit Verma, he said that other people in the facility had instigated him. “I had a good job in Pune and was working with a distributor. A few months ago, I lost my job and since then I had been staying at the railway station and was doing odd jobs,” Verma said. He said that for last few days he had been staying in the school. “Every day, we get food. But the people who do not want to stay here have been harassing me,” Verma said. Sanjay Kadam, caretaker of the school, said that on Monday a counsellor from the regional mental hospital in Yerawada came and spoke to Verma. “After that he has calmed down,” Kadam said. He said that there are 40 homeless people in the school. For the past few days they have been creating trouble. “They ask for tobacco and cigarettes,” he said. He said the doctors regularly visit the shelter home to check on these men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-flees-shelter-home-abuses-spits-on-police/articleshow/75261716.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 21, 2020||Pune||Hunt for space to keep cops keen to safeguard kin||Pune: Police are identifying space to accommodate the personnel unwilling to go back home to safeguard their families from the coronavirus infection because of their present nature of duty to contain Covid-19. A constable posted with a police station in the heart of the Pune city tested coronavirus positive with his wife last week. The Pune police have identified the vacant rooms in the police colonies to accommodate the personnel. The Pimpri Chinchwad police have started looking for empty flats. Deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath of Pimpri Chinchwad police said the personnel would be accommodated there, if required. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh of the Pune police said, “We have identified many rooms in the police colonies at Gokhalenagar, Vishrantwadi and other places,. We are cleaning and improving these rooms. “ Many hotel owners have come forward and offered their rooms. A senior police officer said, “We shall use our facilities first and then we shall consider the hotel rooms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hunt-for-space-to-keep-cops-keen-to-safeguard-kin/articleshow/75261722.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Function halls in Telangana to store fertilisers||HYDERABAD: Function halls in Telangana will now store fertilisers. As these facilities are lying vacant due to ban on mass gatherings till May 7, the Telangana government, which had earlier decided to store paddy in government schools, has now directed district collectors to make arrangements for storage of 21.5 lakh metric tonne of fertilisers at function halls in all districts except GHMC area. There are over 500 major function halls in district and mandal headquarters in the state. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has said the agriculture department estimated that sowing operations are likely to be taken up in over 1.35 crore acres during the ensuing kharif season, which commences from mid-June. The CM said 21.5 lakh metric tonnes of fertilisers will be required for a crop area of 1.35 crore acre. The farmers could start purchasing fertilisers from May 5 onwards. He appealed to the farmers not to rush to fertilizer stores once the monsoon hits the state in June. It is better to take it from May 5 onwards. The farmers should come at staggered timings so that social distancing could be followed. Officials said all arrangements would be made to supply fertilisers through shops. The government has been facing a huge challenge of storing agriculture produce as the state has produced bumper yield of all crop varieties in the rabi.“Due to availability of water through irrigation projects, round-the-clock power supply, good rains and pro-farmer schemes such as Rythu Bandhu, farmers took up cultivation on large scale in rabi. As a result, there has been a bumper crop of paddy, maize, Bengal gram, tur dal, sunflower and jowar,” an official said. In view of lack of marketing facilities to farmers to sell their produce due to the lockdown, the state government has decided to procure even maize, sunflower and jowar in addition to paddy and Bengal gram. For all these, it needs storage space,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/function-halls-in-t-to-store-fertilisers/articleshow/75260048.cms||Roushan Ali
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Forced to give consent for land acquisition’||HYDERABAD: A group of displaced persons from Kochchaguttapalli village of Siddipet district whose land and houses are under acquisition for paving way for Ananthagiri reservoir filed a plea in the high court saying that the police and officials of the area have forcibly dispossessed them and demolished their houses contrary to the high court’s orders. The HC earlier directed the authorities not to release the water in a way that displaces the petitioners. “Unable to bear the pressure from the authorities, some of our people have signed the consent letters. We have not yet signed them. We too may sign if the pressure becomes more. But we request you not to consider these forced consents as consent at all”, villagers E Mangavva and others said in their plea. The petitioners are seeking better compensation and rehabilitation. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy is likely to take up the matter on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forced-to-give-consent-for-land-acquisition/articleshow/75260034.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Trader gets new heart; home care amid pandemic a challenge||Kolkata: When the entire world is busy tackling Covid-19, a group of doctors at Medica Superspecialty Hospital was quietly focusing on a patient so that the 45-year-old could go back home with a new heart. Amit Kumar Dey of Nadia’s Debagram got lucky just a few days before the nationwide lockdown began. Deys’s family rushed to the hospital on getting a call about the prospect of heart transplant as a matching organ was allocated to the hospital. The small-time trader had been suffering from an end-stage heart failure. On March 18, an organ retrieval team from Medica flew to Patna to retrieve the heart from Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, where the donor had died after ROTTO allocated it. The heart was flown in and was transplanted on the same day. “The transplant surgery was only a part of the challenge. The patient had to be on constant supply of medications post transplant, which had posed a challenge on the face of the lockdown that followed. But with meticulous planning and support from all stakeholders, we overcame that difficulty,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, who led his transplant team with doctors Sandip Sardar, Arpan Chakraborty, Dipanjan Chatterjee and Soumyajit Ghosh. Doctors said the patient had an uneventful recovery. The transplant team has also been training the patient’s family members on how to take care of his nutrition, hygiene at home, specially when a pandemic is around. Dey will be heading for his home on Tuesday. This was Medica’s maiden heart transplant. Last year, the city had seen at least 8 heart transplants when the number of deceased organ donations went up in the state. This year, there has been at least two donations. But with the healthcare system focussing more on Covid-19 crisis, people involved in organ donation movement expect less donations this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trader-gets-new-heart-home-care-amid-pandemic-a-challenge/articleshow/75260074.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||‘Take me out or I will die’, said 1st deceased in video call message to family||Nagpur: Around 8pm on April 5, Tahir (name changed) received a video call on his cell phone from an unknown number. The caller was a woman patient from IGGMCH isolation ward under observation on the bed next to the 68-year-old Satranjipura resident whose samples tested positive for Covid-19 a day after his death. Even family members are prohibited from entering the isolation ward. The deceased’s son, his relative Tahir and another close relative used to be at the hospital but had returned home. Thanks to the alert woman, the city’s first Covid-19 victim could have one brief interaction with his big family through a video call from her phone. The woman had called up on a number she got from the contact list of the 68-year-old’s phone after he complained of uneasiness. “His eyes welled up on seeing all of us. We didn't know it was the last time his only son, three daughters, grandchildren, son-in-law and daughter-in-law were speaking to him,” said Tahir, who too tested positive for Covid-19 on April 19. The woman, in her 30s, was at the ward for coming in contact with another coronavirus patient. She had been discharged and was about to leave the hospital when the 68-year-old man asked her to make a call. “He was asking us to take him out from the hospital as he feared he would die there,” a relative said. The woman later told them that soon after the call disconnected the man fell unconscious and never opened his eyes. In the chaos that followed, the relatives misplaced the woman’s number. The deceased’s relatives, who too tested positive later, said the woman also asked them to come fast as the elderly man’s condition seemed to be deteriorating. “She told us no one was attending to him as he suffered from loose motions,” the relatives said. Another relative said they would like to meet the woman and personally thank once the crisis is over. “Most of us couldn’t even see his body before burial. All that is left now is those precious memories of around 10 minutes conversation,” said another relative. “He was also happy to see his six-month-old granddaughter. He called out her name,” the relative said. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey, who is nodal officer for Corona (Pt Care), said that how can relatives comment about patient care when they were not present. The hospital has alleged that relatives of the deceased had abandoned him and didn’t’ come forward even after his death. “Patient was presented with complaints of loose motions but our vigilant doctors found him with respiratory distress and immediately shifted him to Covid suspects’ (isolation) ward. Our doctors are doing everything without caring for their own lives,” Dr Pandey said. GMCH officials said that as per protocol they couldn’t give the woman's contact number. They said they too were trying to find out how she came in touch with the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/take-me-out-or-i-will-die-said-1st-deceased-in-video-call-message-to-family/articleshow/75261133.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 21, 2020||Goa||Cops enforce strict social distancing||Panaji: With the partial easing of the lockdown for economic activities from Monday, Goa police from Monday started implement social distancing measures very strictly, even for vehicles. Four-wheelers were stopped and co-passengers were asked to sit in the rear, while challans were issued to two-wheelers carrying pillion riders. On Friday, Goa police had said that it would strictly implement social distancing measures, even for private vehicles. Speaking to TOI, both district superintendents of police (SPs) Arvind Gawad and Utkrisht Prasoon said police on Monday stopped four-wheelers and asked co-passengers to sit behind. Gawas said that in South Goa, on Day-One of the partial easing of the lockdown, two-wheelers carrying pillion riders were let off with a warning and that they would start taking action from Tuesday. In North Goa, Prasoon said that action has been taken against two-wheelers flouting social distancing norms. Police on Friday had said that no pillion riders will be permitted on two-wheelers, and in four-wheelers, no co-passenger will be allowed on the front seat. Only two persons can travel in a single car, the non-driver compulsorily occupying the rear seat. Police also warned people to wear masks. Prasoon said that on Monday it was seen that around 99% of the people had worn face masks. The state government has made wearing of face masks compulsory from Monday. Section 144 of the CrPC will continue to be in force till May 3 and action will be taken against public gatherings of more than five persons, police said. Weddings and funerals will be regulated by district magistrates. The strict ban on sale of liquor, gutka, and tobacco continues, even as spitting in public places has been made a punishable offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-enforce-strict-social-distancing/articleshow/75261132.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kanpur||Health authorities conduct thermal screening of 35 cops in Kanpur||KANPUR: The health authorities on Monday conducted thermal screening of 35 police personnel of Kakwan police station. The staff of Community Health Centre Kakwan besides conducting mass screening of the cops also examined 200 persons.District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari had recently issued a direction for the medical examination of the cops deployed at community and primary health centres and quarantine centres. A couple of days ago, some senior police officials had suggested to examine the cops and police personnel who are giving their services at the quarantine centres and hospitals where suspected corona cases are being treated for the last fifteen days. In response to the request of DIG/SSP, CMO Dr Ashok Shukla had constituted a six-member medical team led by the medical superintendent.  The team conducted thermal screening of about 80 families of the cops asked them to take necessary precautionary measures. The team suggested to the cops and their families not to observe fast, stay in sunlight for at least one hour in the morning, avoid use of air-conditioners, consume warm water, consume a lot of fresh fruits and take warm milk with turmeric.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/health-authoritiesconduct-thermal-screening-of-35-cops/articleshow/75261344.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite deaths, no norms being followed at vegetable market||Ludhiana: Even after the death of two officers due to Covid-19 in less than a week, little seems to have been done on the ground to implement safety norms, including social distancing, in the main vegetable and fruit market of the city. ACP Anil Kohli and kanungo Gurmail Singh had succumbed to the disease in the past three days, following which the administration claimed to have taken a slew of safety measures. But lack of such steps at the vegetable and fruit mandi at Jalandhar Bypass has become a cause of serious concern. Besides, due to decreased patrolling in the area, a large number of unauthorised vendors have begun entering the city. Though the district administration has restricted to three days a week the entry of vendors to the mandi for buying fruits and vegetables for sale in retail, there is no provision for thermal screening. While market sanitisation is being done by the local members of the mandi association regularly, no one is deployed at the entrance to ensure implementation of safety measures. Gurkamal Singh, president of New Sabzi Mandi Arhtiya Association, said, “Members of the association have been putting their lives at risk due to inadequate safety measures. There is no provision for thermal scanning of visitors. The administration has not deputed anyone at the entrance to ensure sanitization and checking if people are wearing masks and gloves.”Fearing for their lives in the absence of safety norms, several members of arhtiya association have closed their shops. Raju Malik, chairman of the association, said, “We are dealing with hundreds of vendors and most of the times, we are donating them gloves and masks. Some days back, ACP Anil Kohli too had visited our vegetable market and interacted with many of us. We are creating awareness among vendors, but a majority of the workers involved in procurement are not maintaining social distancing. Many of them don’t wear gloves at the time of buying vegetables and while making payments to arhtiyas. They reason that safety gears hamper their work.”Secretary of marketing committee Deepak Sharma said, “We will look into the demands of local arhtiyas of ensuring thermal scanning of vendors.” Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “The administration will start testing those visiting the sabzi mandi with rapid testing kits. Sufficient amount of rapid testing kits have been received.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-deaths-no-norms-being-followed-at-vegetable-market/articleshow/75258860.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Testing starts at DMCH; DC, top cop among 14 examined on Day 1||Ludhiana: Finally, Covid-19 testing started at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital on Monday. As many as 14 persons were tested on the first day. The reports, which take about seven hours, are sent to the office of the chief medical officer.The first to be tested were deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and commissioner of police Rakesh Aggarwal. Both of them tested negative for coronavirus.DMCH secretary Prem Gupta said, “We are glad that our virology lab is operational now. Results will be out the same or the next day. These will be sent to the CMO’s office.” Even as each test costs Rs 6,000, the hospital will charge Rs 4,500, as per the Supreme Court guidelines. Besides, it gives about 50% discount for the samples received through government authorities.“We will charge Rs 2,500 from those who are referred by the government authorities,” Gupta addedDMCH, Tagore Nagar, Civil Lines, had received the green signal from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct Covid-19 tests. It had procured 192 testing kits the previous week. It has placed an order for more than 800 kits, which will be received by Tuesday.It is the first private laboratory in the state to get ICMR’s approval. At present, the state has three government laboratories reporting to ICMR: Government Medical College, Amritsar, Government Medical College, Patiala, and Guru Gobind Singh Medical University, Faridkot.Test costPatients referred by government authorities: Rs 2,500 General public: Rs 4,500||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/testing-starts-at-dmch-dc-top-cop-among-14-examined-on-day-1/articleshow/75258871.cms||Mehak Jain
April 21, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 patient dies, 18 more test positive in Kanpur||KANPUR:A man died on Monday at Covid -19 ward at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital while being treated for suspected coronavirus has become city’s second Covid -19 fatality with his samples taken earlier confirming the infection, said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The man was admitted to the Covid -19 hospital on Sunday, and was shifted to ICU after his condition deteriorated. He, however, died on Monday, CMO said further. Meanwhile, as many as 18 more people tested positive for coronavirus in the city on Monday, taking the number of positive cases to 75. Earlier on Sunday, 26 persons tested positive for the virus in the city. The active cases stood at 66 while death toll remained unchanged at one. “The number of positive cases in the city is 75, as 18 more people have tested positive for Covid -19 in different parts of the city as per the test report received by the district health department from Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College Covid -19 lab on Monday morning,” said Dr Shukla. “A total of 103 nasal and throat samples were sent to Covid -19 Lab at GSVM Medical College on Sunday. Report which we have received on Monday morning, however, confirmed 18 more positive for coronavirus. They all have been shifted for treatment to isolation ward of Covid - 19 hospital,” he added. “The number of active case in the district, however, stands at 66, as seven persons including a 70-year-old US returned man and six Jamaatis, had attained normalcy after rigorous treatment at Covid -19 hospital. A 40-year-old man, who died in Neuro Science Centre at Covid -19 isolation ward at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, is so far the only death due to the pandemic in the city,” the CMO told TOI. “So, the death figure has remained the same. All the 66 active cases are at present undergoing treatment at Covid -19 isolation wards of Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, Ursala Horseman Hospital and Sarsaul Community Health Centre,” he added. District magistrate (DM) Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, meanwhile, said people should cooperate with the authorities in following the norms of the lockdown and precautions and maintain social distancing. Meanwhile, SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal said lockdown restrictions will continue in hotspot areas and red zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-patient-dies-18-more-test-positive-in-city/articleshow/75261361.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 21, 2020||Pune||Regulated fuel at pumps till May 30 in Pune||PUNE: Buying fuel from petrol pumps in the city will continue with strict regulations at least till May 30, Petrol Dealers Association, Pune, vice-president Sagar Rukari said on Monday. “The petrol pumps have started maintaining a database of people coming for refuels. The regulations will continue at least till May 30. This means that even if the lockdown is temporarily or fully removed after May 3, people coming in for fuel at the pumps will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing,” Rukari said. “At present, we are serving only those carrying out essential services in the city and no compromises are being made in this connection. A software has been developed for the purpose, under which our representatives are taking photographs of the vehicles and also the identity cards of the people coming in ,” he said. “There are around 110 petrol pumps in the Pune city and around 45 pumps in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area. Safety of the customers and those working in the pumps is essential and these norms need to be followed,” Rukari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/regulated-fuel-at-pumps-till-may-30/articleshow/75261733.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Cheques cleared, but no one gets them due to curfew||HALWARA AIRPORTLudhiana: After delay in land acquisition for Halwara Airport due to refusal by many farmers, the authorities have finalised cheques for those who agreed to give land on fixed price. However, because of the curfew, the farmers are unable to get the cheques. On February 7, Bhupinder Singh, land acquisition collector, GLADA, had said that regarding the international civil terminal at Halwara Airport, the announcement of awards for landowners and affected persons was done in his office and 161.2703 acres in Aitiana village were being acquired. GLADA had said that landowners would have to submit ID proof and documents of land ownership, PAN card, among others, for getting compensation and failure to do so would mean that the amount would be deposited in the reference court.The GLADA land acquisition collector said the acquisition was going on and they had got claims from about 30 landowners and their compensation cheques have been made. These farmers couldn’t come because of the curfew. The process of land acquisition would gather pace after curfew ends and they might get the land for the project by May-end, he added.He indicated that the compensation cheques were being made as per the rates approved by the government. He said farmers could produce documents and collect compensation. However, farmers said only those with small land might have given the claim document. “Maybe those farmers who have small landholdings have given consent to acquisition. Majority of the farmers haven’t given their consent, as we want proper rate,” said Sohan Singh, a landowner. He also raised questions on how the GLADA carried out the process when it’s office was closed after March 24. Another farmer said, “Many landowners with small holdings, which are not of much use to them, are giving consent. There are five to seven such landowners. The present rate of Rs 22 lakh per acre and relief and rehabilitation rate of Rs 5.5 lakh per family are not acceptable to us. We want at least Rs 50 lakh per acre.”Sarpanch of the village Lakhvir Singh said four to five villagers have signed the form for compensation, but majority haven’t done so. He said the farmers would take compensation with protest, as they don’t have other option. “But we will knock the doors of the court for more compensation,” added the sarpanch. Want Mohali rate Though the GLADA has announced the compensation, the farmers, expecting much higher amount, haven’t shown much interest and are demanding the rate given in Mohali for the airport project. There are around 200 farmers (who represent about 90 families) whose land is being acquired for the Halwara Airport project. Discrepancies in recordsMany farmers have complained of “discrepancies” in the revenue records of their land and claimed that the revenue department has not corrected them. Some even claimed that about 20 persons in whose name the land was have died and they had given the list to the authorities for corrections, but it has not been done till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cheques-cleared-but-no-one-gets-them-due-to-curfew/articleshow/75258879.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: LPG refill a big worry in barricaded Kondhwa||PUNE: Salunke Vihar Road resident Neeti Krishna was in for a rude shock on Monday, as she left home with her daughter to replace her empty LPG. With the pathway leading to Salunke Vihar Road being barricaded, she did not know what to do. “How can they suddenly seal all the roads without prior information to the people? How I am supposed to reach the LPG agency godown? LPG cylinders are not being delivered home, at least in our areas, and all the roads reaching the agency’s godown have been sealed. I have an induction machine at home, but that’s not enough to cook food for the entire family,” Krishna said. The entire metropolitan area of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad with a population of over 7.5 million has been declared a containment zone and will remain sealed till April 27. Many residents in different areas, including Kondhwa, claimed that they did not have prior information about the road closures. Along road number-11, a foreign national was found sitting on a pavement with a 5kg LPG cylinder. “I need to get it refilled but all shops are closed and the roads are shut. I am worried about my food now,” he said, without mentioning his name. A couple was spotted in front of the road number-11, with the woman on the pillion carrying an infant. “My son is unwell and I need go to hospital. But the road is closed,” the visibly worried man was heard telling a few men present on the road. They told him to take a detour through NIBM Road and then enter Salunke Vihar Road via Kondhwa Road. The couple left in a jiffy. Rohan Gaikwad, a social worker and an MNS activist in the Kondhwa area, told TOI that many people were facing difficulties. “Many arterial roads have been shut and peoplecannot go out to buy essentials. We have set up an LPG cylinder in coordination with the gas agency near the barricades to help the people.” Vinayak Gaikwad, senior inspector of Kondhwa police station, said information about the closed roads was being provided to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lpg-refill-a-big-worry-in-barricaded-kondhwa/articleshow/75261740.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||140 quarantined people return home after testing negative||NAGPUR: Around 140 suspects including Delhi returnees have been allowed to go home after they completed 14 days of institutional quarantine and tested negative twice. Some of the them were from neighbouring districts and due to shortage of ambulance besides long distances involved are allowed to go back in hired vehicles as public transport is shut. As on date, 538 suspects are under institutional quarantine at six centres across the city. The MLA Hostel is hosting 293, Ravi Bhavan 78, Lonara-based Central India College of Pharmacy 31, Symbiosis Campus 74, Vanamati 52 and 10 staying in paid centre set up at a hotel. The city has at present 1,281 beds for institutional quarantine including 409 paid beds offered by Nagpur Residential Hotels Association at 18 hotels. Rest of the 872 are free of cost managed by city administration. The suspects were dropped home in buses and ambulances under monitoring of doctors and officials from public health department and civic body. “Proper care was taken while sending them home even though they have twice tested negative and completed more than 14 days in quarantine. We have seen many times the virus showing up even after 20 days. The chances of infection to them or spreading through them are low but we maintained social distancing while dropping them off. Several buses were deployed and they made mutilple trips during the day to ferry people,” said an incharge doctor. At some quarantine facility, the inmates helped collect funds for those hailing from other districts to hire cars. The inmates were issued letters by the doctors of being Covid-19 free. Yet, some of them faced problems in getting entry in their towns and villages. “Villagers didn’t’ allow even natives to enter fearing spread of coronavirus in their area. They called back and it took several hours for us to convince the local bodies to let the persons in,” said incharge of a quarantine centre. Those relieved on Monday included people from Satranjipura connections, Mominpura, Jaripatka, Hingna while people from Katol, Narkhed, Pulgaon in Wardha districts, Kamptee and Wardha Road were among those dropped off. In last couple of days, most of the over 200 Delhi returnees have been discharged but not without them putting intense pressure on the officials for early release. However, 74 new persons were brought to MLA Hostel, Vanamati and Ravi Bhavan for quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/140-quarantined-people-return-home-after-testing-negative/articleshow/75261156.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Urban areas become Covid’s playground||VISAKHAPATNAM: About 80% of the Covid-19 cases in the state were reported from urban pockets. Among the 722 cases reported as of Monday morning, nearly 600 cases are from various municipal corporations, municipalities and other urban areas. A majority of contact cases and deaths, too, have been reported from urban areas. In view of the increased number of infections in urban areas, the state government has directed the officials of all cities, towns and municipalities to adopt the extended lockdown and all restrictions will remain in place till May 3. Factors such as density of population, number of international travellers and activity level have been attributed to the large instance of Covid-19 cases in urban areas than in their rural counterparts. The same factors, however, are making tracing the origin of the disease more complicated. Krishna district officials recently raised an alarm over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases with untraceable origin in Vijayawada city. ICSSR senior fellow and former head of the department of geography, Andhra University, Prof B Hema Malini, who has previously geographically mapped various diseases in the state, said social distancing may not be possible in some parts of the urban areas given the narrow bylanes and people living in clusters. “The cities and towns usually have a significant number of commuter and commercial activity, and higher number of foreign travellers. These factors will subsequently have a direct proportionate effect on the spread of the disease and the number of cases,” said Prof Hema Malini. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has received about 1.16 lakh rapid diagnostic kits for screening people in containment clusters in 97 red zone mandals. Nearly 16,800 healthcare workers, who have dealt with or come into contact with a Covid positive/suspected case, will be tested with these devices. The group of healthcare workers comprises doctors and other personnel who handle Covid patients, healthcare personnel involved in sample collection and transportation, and medical and other personnel working at quarantine and isolation centres. About 70,000 kits will be used for households with persons with influenza-like symptoms, high-risk or vulnerable persons in cluster zones. The remaining 27,000 kits will test persons with mild symptoms in three rounds of door-to-door survey and are yet to be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/urban-areas-become-covids-playground/articleshow/75258883.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 21, 2020||Kanpur||Now, 17 areas of Kanpur included in hotspot list||KANPUR: With 17 new corona positive cases reported in the city on Monday, the district administration has enhanced the number of hotspots and now their number stands at 17. The new hotspot areas are Jajmau, Tikunia Park and some areas of Gwaltoli. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari and SSP/DIG Anant Deo on Monday inspected hotspot areas in Jajmau, Kidwai Nagar, Chamanganj, Beconganj police circles. The DM on Monday chalked out contact tracing policy and ordered tracing and sample collection from first-and contacts and second-hand contacts of suspected cases. He said that rapid testing too had commenced on Monday and efforts were being made to trace and track all suspected persons and provide them medical help. The district administration and police administration has divided the corona affected areas of the city in three categories. The red zones are police station jurisdiction wise. There were seven red zones and now they are nine. Two more red zones are Kidwai Nagar and Jajmau. Deo said that Kidwai Nagar and Jajmau were included in hotspot list when corona positive cases were found there. Ganga Apartment of Kidwai Nagar, Asharfabad Madrassa in Jajmau and Tikunia Park in Colonelganj were new hotspot areas. Similarly, one case had been detected in Barafkhana. Therefore, adjacent area of Humayun Mosque had been declared hotspot. The movement in these new areas had been totally locked down. The district administration will enforce door-to-door delivery like other hotspots. Licenses for shops and passes for vehicles which were issued earlier in these areas had been cancelled. The area which comes under 2 kms radius from hotspot would be buffer zone. Thus around 20 percent area of the city had been sealed and police would take stringent steps to check movement. Meanwhile, the police department had prepared a list of around 1,500 to 2,000 suspected persons on the basis of travel history of corona positive cases. A list of around 500 suspected persons had been transferred to health department, he added. The SSP/DIG said just to take preventive measures, district administration has decided to sent samples to Jhansi and Lucknow too so that sample test report could be obtained at the earliest. Meanwhile, SSP/DIG disclosed that 40-year-old corona positive person who had died a few days ago may have infected around 200 persons before his death. His travel history had revealed that a chain of around 200 persons was in touch with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/now-17-areas-of-city-included-in-hotspot-list/articleshow/75261378.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||Man arrested for spreading ‘communal’ hatred in Rampur||RAMPUR: A man was booked by police for allegedly circulating hate messages against a particular community on Facebook related to novel coronavirus pandemic. Police of Khajuria police station arrested the man on Monday after his social media account carried the message. He was later sent to jail. The arrested man was identified as Rajveer, a resident of Khajuria village. Police picked him up from a market in Aero village. They also took way his mobile phone which he was apparently using to upload the "objectionable" materials. SHO of Khajuria police station, Pawan Kumar, said, "Rajveer had uploaded hate messages against members of a particular community on the Covid-19 pandemic. He was booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 505 (1) (b) (punishes those who intent to cause or likely to cause fear or alarm among the public, or any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquillity), along with section 66 of the IT Act, among others."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-arrested-for-spreading-communal-hatred-in-rampur/articleshow/75258895.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 21, 2020||Noida||Noida: Woman tests positive, gives birth to a boy hours later||GREATER NOIDA: The number of novel coronavirus infections touched 100 in Noida on Monday but there was also something that doctors and nurses at GIMS, one of the two state-run Covid hospitals, could smile about. Before the case count had hit three figures, Patient No. 98 had been wheeled in late Sunday night. It was an emergency. A separate section was created within the hospital on a war footing, and an entire team of doctors and support staff was formed. The doctors performed a C-section. Patient No. 98 —a 33-year-old woman — delivered a healthy baby boy weighing 3.1kg, hours after she learnt from her test report that she had Covid. The woman, who was in the full term of her pregnancy, was referred to GIMS by Noida’s chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri after her Covid-19 sample, which was taken on April 17 at SRL labs, tested positive. Ohri said a decision was taken to test her because her husband, who works at Jaypee Hospital, had been in contact with a person who was Covid-19 positive. “After the patient tested positive for Covid-19, we decided to send her to GIMS for the delivery as all positive patients need to be quarantined and admitted immediately. Since she was in full-term pregnancy, it was imperative that the delivery be carried out at a Covid hospital,” Ohri said. The five-member team of doctors the performed the C-section was led by Prof Shikha Seth, chief medical superintendent and head of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology. The surgery was conducted under spinal anaesthesia. Also part of the team of doctors was a couple, one of them an anaesthetist and the other a paediatrician. “Both Dr Ankita Verma and Dr Mayank Dixit volunteered to be part of the team conducting the operation where the woman underwent a successful Caesarean surgery and delivered a healthy male baby,” said Brigadier Dr RK Gupta (retd), director, GIMS. “We will test the baby for Covid on Tuesday. “We don’t expect her to have infected the newborn as normally, transmission is not carried through blood. Besides, her antibodies were good, which will protect the child. Both mother and child are stable,” he said. The boy is the woman’s second child. Her other son is 5. For the surgery, a separate quarantine ward was created, away from other Covid-19 patients admitted in the hospital. “The procedure was performed by a team of doctors wearing PPE (personal protestive equipment) kits,” Brig Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-tests-positive-gives-birth-to-a-boy-hours-later/articleshow/75261158.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Senior cops test negative, won’t do public dealings||LUDHIANA: All the senior police officials examined for Covid-19 through rapid test kits have tested negative for the virus. If any of them gets symptoms of coronavirus in the next few days, (s)he will be tested again. Meanwhile, the officials have been asked to refrain from public dealings. After losing assistant commissioner of police Anil Kohli to Covid-19, the Ludhiana administration has become more cautious. Besides the ACP, his constable driver, a sub-inspector-ranked SHO and his ASI driver had also tested positive. These cops had come in contact with other senior officials of the police department. The district mandi officer, who too had come in contact with some police officials, has also contracted the disease. Following this, the administration had conducted tests of senior officials, including commissioner of police, four deputy commissioner of police-ranked officials, three additional deputy commissioner of police-ranked officials and four assistant commissioner of police-ranked officials. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “All these cops have tested negative. However, in the next few days if anyone of them gets any symptoms, (s)he will be retested. We won’t take any chances, as ACP Anil Kohli too had tested negative in the first test.” “For the time being, these cops will not do any public dealing. They will not work in the field,” he added. On Monday, tests of cops performing frontline duties were conducted. Agarwal said, “The cops who are on the frontline and exposed to people are being tested with rapid test kits. As many as 60 cops have been tested so far. More tests will be conducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/senior-cops-test-negative-wont-do-public-dealings/articleshow/75258922.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||Lockdown rules eased but farsan shops shut, electricians & plumbers stay away||Mumbai: Despite an official relaxation in lockdown restrictions for mithai and farsan shops, carpenters, plumbers and electricians from Monday, most establishments and individuals were unable to restart activity. Until shops open, workers cannot purchase parts, tools and raw materials. Moreover, manpower is at a low ebb. Chivda Galli in Lalbaug is a hub of farsan manufacturers. None reopened their shops on Monday. Shankar Kale of Vijaylaxmi Farsan said, “My workers live in Vikhroli, Chembur and Dombivli and are unable to travel to Lalbaug in the absence of local trains.” Another shopowner said, “The steady availability of raw material needed to manufacture farsan is not guaranteed either. Basic items such as curry leaves, condiments and rice flakes are out of stock. If we reopen, the government should be able to assure us that supplies will reach us unhindered regularly.” Mithai shops, too, are unable to procure adequate milk, mawa, ghee and food colour. Rajesh Kumar of Mahalaxmi farsan and sweet shop in Bhandup said his outlet opened but home deliveries were held up due to housing society restrictions. Besides, police action against fruit and vegetable vendors has made store employees worry about their own fate. In Kalina, too, electricians depend on hardware shops to buy parts and these were closed. Ramkrishna Das (30), a plumber in Kharghar, said, “I received a call from a regular customer in Sector 15 for replacing a kitchen tap but shops are shut.” Electrician Jitendra Gupta (25) from Vashi said, “In case a fuse is burnt, it’s not possible to replace it.” Carpenter Shyamlal Lohar (45) said, “For making new furniture, we require plywood, screws, nuts and bolts. Where can we buy these?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lockdown-rules-eased-but-farsan-shops-shut-electricians-plumbers-stay-away/articleshow/75261166.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Railways plans to trim salaries and allowances, draws ire of employees||HYDERABAD: In an attempt to cover losses incurred by railways due to the coronavirus lockdown, the railway ministry plans to trim salaries and allowances of around four lakh employees, including officers, in the South Central Railway (SCR) zone. However, the move has not gone down well with the rail men. “The allowance of overtime duty, including travel allowance & dearness allowance (TADA), will be deducted 50% until the train services resume. Patient care allowances (PCA), transportation allowance (TA) and child education allowance (CEA) will also be trimmed 50% to 100% given the circumstances,” the ministry of railways said in a draft recommendation about salary cuts on April 18. Officials have informed that with all passenger train services suspended they were witnessing a significant drop in revenue, and rail driver-guards would also not be given the allowance, which is provided on a per-kilometre basis on running a train. According to the draft, there is a need to cut the allowance for overtime duty by 50%. The proposed move has, however, not gone down well with loco pilots (train drivers), guards and engineers, who have been working overtime during the lockdown. “We are still working almost daily to operate freight trains during the lockdown. Despite staying away from our families, we were informed that we will receive salary cuts,” a loco pilot, working in SCR zone, told TOI. “Due to travelling to far off locations during the pandemic, we are exposing ourselves to health risks. Despite orders to give full salaries to workers, the cuts are unfair,” he added. Workers from housekeeping services have also informed that during such a time, they have helped develop masks, sanitisers and health essentials after the train services stopped, but they have not received salaries for March yet. “Indian railway has delayed release of payment to vendors. As an emergency measure, authorities should make payment at the earliest, so that we can pay our employees too,” a railway vendor based in Nacharam said, adding that despite a vendor registration system they were still unable to get timely payment during such trying times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/railways-plans-to-trim-salaries-and-allowances-draws-ire-of-employees/articleshow/75260066.cms||Arya Sharan
April 21, 2020||Pune||Pune lockdown: Pregnant women get hospital drop||PUNE: Drivers of two buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) came to the aid of two pregnant women in distress and took them to hospitals on Monday. At 11:45am, the driver and conductor of a bus, on way from Mhalunge to PMC, came across Shikha Shailesh Kumar who was pregnant and in a lot of pain. They admitted her to a private hospital in Kothrud. In the second instance, a PMPML bus crossing Paud Phata was flagged down by a heavily pregnant woman who requested to be dropped at the KEM Hospital. The driver of the bus agreed and dropped her at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pregnant-women-get-hospital-drop/articleshow/75261746.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Old age homes in Hyderabad face dearth of medical supplies, essentials||HYDERABAD: Senior citizens in old age homes are the most affected by stringent lockdown rules as regular donors have been unable to help them. Most of the homes are running short of medicines and other essential supplies. Speaking to TOI, Bongu Ramakrishna, of Mother Teresa Elder Care Centre in Karkhana, said, “We were not prepared for this lockdown. Every month, our expenses to run the old age home go up to Rs 1.2 lakh. We did not face any shortage earlier because we used to get all the essential items such as diapers, gloves and funds to buy medicines from our donors.” “After the lockdown was announced, the donors have been unable to visit our facility or send the essentials through someone. Our staff, due to the high risk of infection involved while working with senior citizens, have also stopped stepping outside the facility,” said Ramakrishna. Though police officers and civil service departments have come forward to provide food, old age homes are struggling to arrange for medicines and safety kits for the senior citizens. Speaking about the difficulties, Krishna Reddy, of Amma Old Age Home in Malakpet, said, “This lockdown extension took us by surprise. We usually get help from donors, but the current situation has put a curb on it. We have a stock of groceries but there is shortage of medicines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-age-homes-face-dearth-of-medical-supplies-essentials/articleshow/75260071.cms||Moulika.KV
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Small, slim Punjabi wedding in the time of pandemic||Ludhiana: Keeping it simple, a young businessman of Jagraon took only five persons to his marriage to avoid gathering in view of Covid-19 curfew.Mandeep Singh, 27, of Chungi Number Five, who is into catering business, had got engaged to Amanjyot Kaur of Mansoordeva three months ago. “We were to get married soon, but it somehow got postponed. When we fixed another date, the lockdown started on March 22. Then we thought the curfew will be lifted in April, but it got extended. So, both the families decided for a simple marriage,” said Mandeep.“We applied for necessary permission from the authorities. On Sunday I, my father Ramesh Singh, mother Jasvir Kaur, younger brother Sandeep Singh and maternal uncle Jagsir Singh went to the bride’s village and we got married at the local gurdwara there,” he said.Happy with the way the marriage took place, the groom said they celebrated all traditions with a small gathering. “We invited minimum guests and I am happy that the simple ceremony kept us from unnecessary expenditure. Now, I plan to give the money saved to the poor,” said an elated Mandeep. The bride is also happy with the simple ceremony. “We had taken necessary permission for the marriage and I am happy with how things turned out,” said Amanjyot, who is pursuing fashion designing.Parents of the groom said, “We celebrated our son’s marriage in the best possible manner in these testing times. May God bless the newlyweds.”Residents also appreciated the way they got married. “Avoiding gatherings and maintaining social distance are very important,” said Harpreet Singh, a Jagraon resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/small-slim-punjabi-wedding-in-the-time-of-pandemic/articleshow/75258892.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 21, 2020||Goa||Crowdfunding aids elderly UK couple’s return flight||Panaji: A elderly British couple stranded in Goa for more than a month will finally make their way home to Bradford, UK after an online crowdfunding initiative helped pay for their flight back. Barry Lodge, 72, and Beth McKelvie, 63, spent a significant amount of their life savings while desperately trying to get flights home even as McKelvie struggled for life-saving inhalers in Goa. The pair were due to return home to Bradford, West Yorkshire, on March 18, but their flight from Goa to Mumbai was delayed and they missed their connecting Etihad Airways flight back to the UK. The couple, said Lodge, spent two days stranded there before a fellow passenger helped them book new flights with Qatar Airways online for an extra £2,000. By then, their tourist visas had expired and the couple lost out on their tickets. After several hotels turned them away, the couple took a taxi all the way back to Goa only to get stuck in the 21-day lockdown. Lodge said that all attempts to contact the Foreign Office, the British embassy in India and various helplines came to nought. “Cannot even get inhalers and medication. The wife’s inhalers are running out. All we want is to go home. It is not our fault that the flights got cancelled,” said Lodge. Random strangers have come to their aid after a fellow Briton noticed their plight and started an online GoFundMe campaign. Around 121 people raised £4,355 out of the £5,000 that the couple has spent from their savings. Their ordeal appears to be coming to an end with UK announcing 17 more rescue flights to India, including three to Goa. “There will be 17 more charter flights next week to take British travellers back to the UK – on top of the 21 flights announced previously. We are working around the clock to arrange additional flights from locations where we know large numbers are still stranded and are extremely grateful for the support we are receiving from the Government of India and local authorities,” said Jan Thompson, acting high commissioner to India. The flights are expected to cost between £537 and £591 per person which works out to a maximum of Rs 56,600 per person. Nodal officer for foreigners stranded in Goa Amit Satija said that there are 4,500-5,000 foreigners still stranded in the state. Till date, 26 special flights have flown from Goa airport to repatriate around 5,000 foreign nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crowdfunding-aids-elderly-uk-couples-return-flight/articleshow/75261164.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||Sokhda PHC health worker tests positive in Ahmedabad||Vadodara: The pandemic seems to have spread its tentacles on health workers with more getting infected by coronavirus. On Monday, a multi-purpose health worker (MPHW) working with Sokhda primary health centre (PHC) of Vadodara taluka tested positive of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad.The MPHW is a resident of Ahmedabad but works in Vadodara. According to the district health officials, the man had gone to Ahmedabad’s Dani Limda area on Thursday to see his relative who had fallen sick.“The MPHW had gone to Ahmedabad where health of one of his relative was deteriorating. Later, he was staying there. During mass sampling, his sample was also collected from the locality. Later, he tested positive,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara district.After his reports came positive, nine other health workers associated with the Sokhda PHC have been shifted to central quarantine facility at Babaria Institute campus.The nine who have been shifted to the quarantine facility include four Asha workers, four MPHWs and one community health officer. Tilawat said that the PHC will remain functional with proper precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sokhda-phc-health-worker-tests-positive-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/75258680.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||KTC to start thermal screening of passengers in Goa||PANAJI: Goa may be free of active Covid-19 cases for now, but the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd passengers from Tuesday is leaving no stone unturned to stay alert. The corporation is starting thermal screening of passengers. The government has procured medical infrared thermometers or non-contact thermal guns which the KTC will use. KTC crew members will also be screened before they begin the bus service. “We have been provided with 90 thermal guns and another 110 are to be supplied.,” KTC general manager Sanjay Ghate said. The use of the thermal guns is being demonstrated to the KTC staff. Every bus conductor will be using the device when commuters board the vehicle. KTC’s only commuters are government employees for the time being. A total 149 buses of the 206 that were arranged for commuting operated on Monday carrying 1,528 passengers to offices. From Tuesday, KTC will operate some buses on new routes that government employees demanded that KTC extend services on. “By picking employees and dropping them to their workplace, we are ensuring last mile connectivity,” Ghate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-to-start-thermal-screening-of-passengers/articleshow/75261174.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Paigah or Inam? Telangana HC to hear Gandipet prime land dispute case in June||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday posted to June first week a dispute over a prime land in Sikanderguda area of Gandipet mandal involving two sets of claimants — one describing it as an Inam land and the other calling it as a Paigah land. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy took up the case on Monday. Counsel for Vajra Infra company sought time as the case papers have not reached him during the lockdown period. Advocate general BS Prasad also sought an adjournment. Senior counsel M Surender Rao appeared for the other party, Burra family, claimants to the Inam land. The bench said it would hear the matter in June and adjourned the case accordingly. The ones that are calling it an Inam land, Burra Venu Goud, Gnaneswar Goud and others have shown occupancy rights certificates, old land documents like faisal patti, chaufasla, pahanis and pattadar passbooks as proof of their possession. They said they have roughly 11 acres left with them that was passed on to them by their elders. Vajra Infra, a firm which defines it as Paigah land, however, said it has got general power of attorney from legal heirs of Sir Viqar-ul-Umra, who served as Prime Minister of Hyderabad from 1893 to 1901, and that the land was part of the 187 acres that should come to them. The company has also shown a 2012 order of the high court that allowed one of the alleged legal heirs of Sir Viqar-ul-Umra to build a compound wall around 187 acres in Sikenderguda subject to the condition that the land will remain in the possession of the government till his claims are verified by a civil court and pronounces its decision. The Inam land pattadars, on the other hand, contended that this land does not come under the purview of Paigah and that the state government’s counter in one of the related cases had already made this point clear. The HC also stayed two orders issued by RDO and CCLA that interfered in the rights of Burra family. The orders were challenged in the writ pleas by Vajra Infra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paigah-or-inam-t-high-court-to-hear-gandipet-prime-land-dispute-case-in-june/articleshow/75260076.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Three suspected Covid-19 patients die in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Three suspected Covid-19 deaths were reported at the civil hospital on Monday. A 59-year-old ASI, who was posted with the DIG, Phillaur Range, suffered cardiac arrest at his house in Dehlon at 2am. The family took him to the civil hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. “Acting cautiously, we have sent his throat swab for Covid-19 test,” a doctor said. He was a diabetic. In another case, 27-year-old resident of Khanpur village, near Alamgir, was admitted to the civil hospital around 8pm on April 19. His father said, “First, we visited two private hospitals that referred my son to the civil hospital. On April 18, I took him there, but a doctor sent him home after giving medicines. The next day, he was gasping and complained of breathlessness at 7.15pm. We immediately took him to the civil hospital again, but he died early on Monday.” His brother said, “His tests and X-ray were conducted late. On April 18, the civil hospital doctors did not admit him, citing patient load. If private and government hospitals are not serious, where will the common man get treatment from?” The on-duty doctors said, “His throat swab was taken after he died. He was also a diabetic. We are waiting for the report.” In the third case, an eight-year-old girl of Salem Tabri was on Monday admitted to the civil hospital, where a doctor said, “She was brought dead.” Her father said, “My daughter had been suffering from typhoid for the past one week. She had cough, cold and fever, too. We took her to DMCH. As it was expensive, we brought her to the civil hospital.” Senior medical officer Dr Geeta Kataria said, “The girl’s throat swab was taken for testing. In the case of the 27-year-old man, we have specific criteria to admit patients to the isolation ward. I will look into the matter and check lapses, if any.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/three-suspected-covid-19-patients-die-in-city/articleshow/75258935.cms||Mehak Jain
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||Three dead, five injured from lightning in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Three members of a family died and five others were injured after lightning struck at a house in Daulatpur Karena village in Bareilly district on Monday night. The survivors were admitted to the community health centre in Faridpur, from which one was discharged after treatment while the rest were referred to the district hospital. Police have sent the dead bodies for autopsy. The entire village is in shock after the incident. According to police, farmer Brajesh Singh had harvested his wheat crop on Sunday and kept the sacks of grain in the courtyard of his house. On Monday evening, when dark clouds suddenly gathered and indicated rainfall, Brajesh and his family began to shift the sacks of wheat to their godown. Just then, lighting struck them. Villagers rushed to help the victims and took them to the hospital on their vehicles but Brajesh, his brother Ram Avtaar Singh and his nephew Suchit Singh died on the way. SHO of Bhuta police station Ravindra Singh told TOI, “All victims belong to the same family, and died while trying to save their harvest from rain. The condition of four survivors is critical. One has been discharged after first aid. We have informed administrative officials about the incident and sent the bodies for autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-dead-five-injured-from-lightning-in-bareilly/articleshow/75258953.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court defers 60 years celebration||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has deferred the celebrations on its completing 60 years on May 1, due to the lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic. However, it will continue with the full court reference which will take place through video conferencing. In a letter addressed to state law officers, Bar leaders and senior advocates, Chief Justice Vikram Nath said on Monday that celebrations had been planned from May 1 to May 3. But because of the lockdown, all celebrations would be deferred except the full court reference, and the address will take place on May 1, through video conferencing. The chief justice has said that because the HC premise has been locked down, the programmed will take place “using the video conferencing platform viz zoom or any other as may be notified.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-high-court-defers-60-years-celebration/articleshow/75260082.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Amaravati||Health department saved public money: YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy lauded health department officials for procuring rapid anti-body test kits in the most transparent manner, while reviewing Covid-19 containment measures with senior officials at his camp office on Monday. Referring to the controversy over the purchasing of the kits, the chief minister showered praises on the officials for exercising caution while issuing the purchase order at the hour of crisis. “You have placed the order at Rs 730 per kit which is Rs 65 less than the price fixed by ICMR. Even while purchasing it at a lower price, you have added a clause in the purchase order stating that the differential amount would be recovered from the vendor if any instance of offering the same kits to any other state at lower prices in future comes to your notice. This is a courageous decision,” he said. Since Chhattisgarh is learnt to be paying Rs 337 per kit, AP too would get the benefit due to the clause incorporated in the purchase order, the CM added. He said no purchase order is normally signed with such a clause as the state has already quoted lower prices than the price fixed by the ICMR. “However, health department officials rightly anticipated that the prices might go down after placing the purchase order and took extra safeguards to save public money. The clause has allowed the state to issue notices to the vendor and get their approval on prices, which are on par with the prices being offered to Chhattisgarh,” he said, adding that since they have paid just 25% of the quoted price, it would become easy for them to procure the kits at cheap rates. The CM further said the firm imported the kits from South Korea when AP placed the order as ICMR had not granted permission to them to manufacture the same in the country. “Subsequently, ICMR allowed the firm to manufacture the kits locally keeping in view the growing demand and Chhattisgarh placed the order after the ICMR’s nod for indigenous production of kits,” Jagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/health-dept-saved-public-money-jagan/articleshow/75258958.cms||Samdani MN
April 21, 2020||Pune||Swiggy, Zomato now deliver groceries||Pune: From bringing yummy delights from your favourite restaurants, food delivery platforms Swiggy and Zomato are also fetching your groceries home. An official from Swiggy said, "We are fulfilling service requests through neighbourhood stores and distribution centres of large brands. The service has been made available under the grocery tab." Meanwhile, representatives from Zomato said that after launching in first 80 cities, including Pune, last week, the platform is now servicing over 50 lakh households with groceries and essentials across over 150 cities through the Zomato Market segment. — Rujuta Parekh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swiggy-zomato-now-deliver-groceries/articleshow/75261749.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Death of two tigers: Three forest staff suspended||Coimbatore: Following poisoning of two tigers to death at Pollachi forest range on April 8, the forest department on Sunday placed three of its field staff under suspension as they failed to prevent the incident. Forester Prabhakaran, forest guard Sabarinathan and forest watcher Ajitdharan were placed under suspension. An official said action would be taken against Pollachi forest range officer A Kasilingam as well. On April 8, a tiger and a tigress, aged about 10, and a wild boar were found dead near Pothamadai beat of Pollachi range. A special team which investigated the case arrested P Rasu, 36, and C Karuppasamy, 56, on Thursday. When questioned, they said they poached a wild boar and laced its flesh with pesticide and left it in the spot as they wanted to take revenge on a tiger which killed their calf in December 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/death-of-two-tigers-three-forest-staff-suspended/articleshow/75260110.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||1st day, 1st snarls: Arterial roads, toll plazas clog up||Mumbai: The city’s highways and entry and exit points saw heavy congestion on Monday as several vehicles hit the roads on the first day of the gradual beginning of activity ever since the national lockdown. Other than special buses ferrying additional government staff, especially those to and from Mantralaya, more cars, tempos, trucks and bikes were seen on the roads. This led to snarls on arterial Western and Eastern Express highways as well as Bandra-Worli Sea Link at the Bandra end. “On Eastern Express highway, there were jams all along the route, beginning from the toll nakas,” said Ravi Gupta, a banker. The toll naka at Airoli, for instance, had a lot of police checks. It was also the first time after a long gap that toll was being collected. At Dadar, the police intercepted 180 bikers for travelling in twos or threes on a single vehicle. On Eastern Express Highway, checkposts were created along Ghatkopar, Kurla and other locations. A transporter of essentials said there was a snaking queue of vehicles after the Vikhroli signal and towards Ghatkopar. On the Western Express Highway, police checks led to snarls at Goregaon East and an overturned tempo caused congestion at Dahisar. Some motorists complained that toll operators at Mumbai’s entry points and other state highways had still not activated FASTag, though some other mobile e-payment options through barcode scanning were in place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1st-day-1st-snarls-arterial-roads-toll-plazas-clog-up/articleshow/75261178.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Inmates in 3 jails make 86,000 masks||AHMEDABAD: While wearing of masks when outdoors has been made mandatory across the state, prisoners in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Vadodara central jails have made a record number of 86,959 masks and have sold it to government offices, other inmates of the jails and also to the public through the administration. Jail sources said out of these 40,300 masks have been made in Ahmedabad central jail of which 15,610 were distributed to inmates, 20, 275 given to other government officers and 2,510 sold to public at Rs 10 per mask from the famous Jail Bhajiya House located near RTO. Similarly Rajkot central jail made 36, 859 masks. “9,280 were distributed among the inmates, 16,050 given to other government offices and 8,410 sold in public. Vadodara central jail made 10,100 masks, 4,900 were distributed to the inmates and 1,800 were given to the government offices. The prisoners are also sewing handkerchiefs for sale,” said additional director general of police, jails, K L N Rao. Prisoners are also making sanitizers and have made a special sanitizing tunnel through which each officer and prisoner has to pass. Ad. DGP Rao said that they have also tried to make personal protection suits, but fell short because they did not have a pressing machine which is required to make a PPE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/inmates-in-3-jails-make-86000-masks/articleshow/75266850.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Inmates in 3 jails make 86,000 masks||AHMEDABAD: While wearing of masks when outdoors has been made mandatory across the state, prisoners in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Vadodara central jails have made a record number of 86,959 masks and have sold it to government offices, other inmates of the jails and also to the public through the administration. Jail sources said out of these 40,300 masks have been made in Ahmedabad central jail of which 15,610 were distributed to inmates, 20, 275 given to other government officers and 2,510 sold to public at Rs 10 per mask from the famous Jail Bhajiya House located near RTO. Similarly Rajkot central jail made 36, 859 masks. “9,280 were distributed among the inmates, 16,050 given to other government offices and 8,410 sold in public. Vadodara central jail made 10,100 masks, 4,900 were distributed to the inmates and 1,800 were given to the government offices. The prisoners are also sewing handkerchiefs for sale,” said additional director general of police, jails, K L N Rao. Prisoners are also making sanitizers and have made a special sanitizing tunnel through which each officer and prisoner has to pass. Ad. DGP Rao said that they have also tried to make personal protection suits, but fell short because they did not have a pressing machine which is required to make a PPE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inmates-in-3-jails-make-86000-masks/articleshow/75260106.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Use cloth masks, wash after six hours, says IMA||PANAJI: The Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Goa, appreciating the state government’s decision of making wearing of masks mandatory in public, has recommended wearing handmade masks and has issued guidelines. “We request public to wear masks but those made from cloth prepared by self-help groups (SHG) supported by the government,” IMA president Dr S Samuel Arawattigi said. The IMA said the mask must cover nose and mouth and chin snuggly fitting. Cloth mask should be washed or replaced after six to eight hours of use. It must be washed in boiling water, dried in sun for eight hours and preferably iron it as well, it stated. Disposable masks have to be disposed off in a scientific manner and should not be thrown along with general waste, read IMA statement. The IMA has submitted a representation to Food and Drugs Administration to direct pharmacies to dispense three-layer and N95 masks to people coming with prescription issued by a registered medical practitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ima-use-cloth-masks-wash-after-six-hours/articleshow/75261180.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Shielding artistes from Covid-19 ravages||HYDERABAD: The Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Foundation is helping artistes and set workers tide over coronavirus crisis. With the help of online platforms and the foundation’s staff, it has been sending medicines and other essentials to families of performing artistes in Telangana and six other states — Rajasthan, UP, Delhi-NCR, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka. They are also trying to support their regular stage workers in UK and France.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shielding-artistes-from-covid-19-ravages/articleshow/75260090.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Agra||Girl ‘kills self’ after she was asked by uncle to shoot her mother, siblings||AGRA: Four days after a 16-year-old girl, who wanted to become a police officer one day, allegedly killed self, a video of her prior to the "suicide" has gone viral on social media. She also left behind a four-page suicide note under a country-made pistol at her home in Shanti Nagar, Devri Road of Sadar police limits. In the clip, the girl - a student of Class X - claimed that her uncle gave her ‘tamancha’ to shoot her 38-year-old mother and two siblings, but instead, she chose to take her own life. She alleged that her father, two uncles and a cousin assaulted and mentally harassed her mother, two siblings and her as well. Her body was found hanging in her room on April 16. Police have arrested her father on charges of abetment to suicide, while the rest are on the run. An autopsy report stated "asphyxia due to hanging". In her "suicide note", the girl wrote, “I wanted to live, to see myself become a police officer and to provide justice to my mother and siblings. But I’m ending my life, as I’m tired now. We, all four, are mentally tortured and harassed on a daily basis by my father, two uncles and cousin over property.” Also, in her "suicide message", she alleged, “Prior to marrying my mother, my father had murdered his first wife and her four children, including a foetus. My uncle, too, has served jail term. They molested me and did wrong things. They all must be given stringent punishment after my death." The message also claimed that her uncle gave her a country-made pistol and asked her to kill her mother, elder brother (22) and younger sister (10), or "I would face dire consequences, therefore I’m committing suicide". According to the FIR lodged by the girl’s mother, on the morning of April 16, the family was assaulted by the four men. Later, in the afternoon, the girl was found dead. “The four men murdered my daughter, while I was out for work,” alleged the mother. On Monday, Sadar SHO Kamlesh Kumar Singh said, “After the autopsy, a case of IPC section 302 (murder) was changed to 306 (abetment to suicide). We have arrested the father, but the others are still on the run.” “We are investigating all the allegations made by the girl prior to her suicide. We will add more sections as the case progresses,” the SHO added. Watch UP: Girl 'kills self' after she was asked to shoot her mother in Agra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-kills-self-after-she-was-asked-by-uncle-to-shoot-her-mother-siblings/articleshow/75258994.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Inmates in 3 jails make 86,000 masks||AHMEDABAD: While wearing of masks when outdoors has been made mandatory across the state, prisoners in Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Vadodara central jails have made a record number of 86,959 masks and have sold it to government offices, other inmates of the jails and also to the public through the administration. Jail sources said out of these 40,300 masks have been made in Ahmedabad central jail of which 15,610 were distributed to inmates, 20, 275 given to other government officers and 2,510 sold to public at Rs 10 per mask from the famous Jail Bhajiya House located near RTO. Similarly Rajkot central jail made 36, 859 masks. “9,280 were distributed among the inmates, 16,050 given to other government offices and 8,410 sold in public. Vadodara central jail made 10,100 masks, 4,900 were distributed to the inmates and 1,800 were given to the government offices. The prisoners are also sewing handkerchiefs for sale,” said additional director general of police, jails, K L N Rao. Prisoners are also making sanitizers and have made a special sanitizing tunnel through which each officer and prisoner has to pass. Ad. DGP Rao said that they have also tried to make personal protection suits, but fell short because they did not have a pressing machine which is required to make a PPE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/inmates-in-3-jails-make-86000-masks/articleshow/75266851.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||‘Communal slur’ hurled at vegetable vendor in Pilibhit, SP orders inquiry||PILIBHIT: A group of youths owing their allegiance to a “right-wing outfit” allegedly hurled communal slur at a vegetable vendor after seeking his identity near Holika Chauraha in Inayatganj locality here on Monday. According to complainant Padma Singh, a city-based lawyer, the youths also accused the vender of “applying his saliva on vegetables before selling it to customers”. Considering the matter to be “communally sensitive”, superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit ordered a probe by circle officer Praveen Malik. The CO, however, told TOI that he had deputed a local intelligence unit and Sungarhi police station SHO Atar Singh to probe the matter and collect necessary evidence. Based on the probe report, a case would be registered and further action would be taken, added the CO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/communal-slur-hurled-at-vegetable-vendor-in-pilibhit-sp-orders-inquiry/articleshow/75258975.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Three suspects in isolation ward||Panaji: A day after the last coronavirus patient in the state tested negative, three suspects have been admitted to the isolation ward of Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim. Apart from this, 34 people have been quarantined at the government facilities and 75 samples have been tested negative on Monday. Presently, Goa has no active Covid-19 case. Of the seven, four recovered patients are placed in a quarantine facility in North Goa while the remaining three are placed in home quarantine for seven days, stated the bulletin of directorate of health services. As of Monday, 855 samples have been tested and 46 test reports were awaited. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said virology laboratory has been functioning round the clock to conduct timely tests. “We are working hard to keep Goa safe from Covid-19,” Rane said in a Facebook post. An official said that as of now, sample load has been relatively low though they can enhance their testing capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-suspects-in-isolation-ward/articleshow/75261170.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||Tope clarifies his statement on liquor shops||State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday that liquor shops can remain open if social distancing rules are followed. Tope was replying to a question that there was no clarity on the government’s stand on liquor shops, during an interaction with mediapersons through Facebook Live. Union home ministry guidelines issued this past week lay down a strict ban on liquor sale though. When TOI contacted the minister, his brother Amol said Tope had been misquoted. Early on Tuesday, Tope took to Twitter to clarify: “Although the liquor shops are not included in the list of relaxation given from Lockdown, a final decision will be announced only after framing their stricter rules.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tope-clarifies-his-statement-on-liquor-shops/articleshow/75261187.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Govt sets guidelines for testing cases||Panaji: The directorate of health services (DHS) has fixed a standard operating procedure (SOP) for sample collection and testing of Covid-19 suspects. All symptomatic people with travel history in the last 14 days will be tested. Those who have come in contact with a laboratory confirmed case, health workers, a hospitalised patient with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) or pneumonia, will also be tested. Persons who were at Covid-19 hotspots, stayed in migration or evacuees centres, will also be tested. Similarly persons with influenza like symptoms — fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose — are also to be tested. It has also been decided to test direct and high-risk contacts — those living in the same household with a confirmed case and healthcare workers who have examined a confirmed case without adequate protection as per World Heath Organisation (WHO) recommendation — once between day 5 and day 14 of coming in contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-sets-guidelines-for-testing-cases/articleshow/75261184.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Trainee jawan ends life at MRC||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A 21-year-old jawan, undergoing training at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington, committed suicide by hanging from a tree in a wooded area within the defence compound on Monday. The jawan, S Sampath Kumar, was missing from the military hostel since early Monday morning. Around 11.30am, he was found hanging from a tree in a wooded area near Manekshaw Bridge in the cantonment zone, according to police. Sampath Kumar was a resident of Kammalampatti village in Madurai district. The body was shifted to the Coonoor government hospital for postmortem. The Wellington police have registered a case under section 174 CrPC and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trainee-jawan-ends-life-at-mrc/articleshow/75260124.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Agra||In a first for UP, Covid-19 patient delivers healthy baby||AGRA: In a first for Uttar Pradesh, a 24-year-old Covid-19 patient gave birth to a healthy child at Agra’s SN Medical College on Monday. Born out of C-section operation, the child was immediately shifted to neo-natal ward, away from the mother’s grasp to cut the chances of him contracting the virus. A team comprising junior resident doctors Yogita Gautam and Sana Ismail and anesthetic conducted the operation and the boy was out at 1:40PM. This was the first time in the state where a coronavirus infected patient has delivered a healthy baby. Talking to TOI, the mother said, “I am happy that my child came to the world safe and healthy. I am thankful to the doctors for their great service. I was very concerned about the wellbeing of my child. The doctors conducted a very smooth operation. I am confident that I will soon get well, and will be able to hug my child.” In-charge of the newly-developed Covid-19 facility at the government hospital, Dr Prashant Gupta said, “Our team did a great work. The child is healthy, and has been separated from the mother to ensure he does not get infected. The child has been handed over the family members. They have been directed to take care of the child. We will collect samples of the child after a few days for testing of Covid-19.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “It is a matter of joy for all of us that a Covid-19 patient has delivered a healthy baby. The health workers are doing a great job. They are inspiration for all of us. On Monday, six more patients were cured of infection and were discharged from hospital. So far, 26 people have been cured of novel coronavirus infection in Agra district”. A 100-bed multispecialty Covid-19 facility developed in a separate block of SN Medical College started operating on Friday. Developed following guidelines of the ministry of health and family planning, the centre has a labour room to attend to pregnant women with Covid-19 infection. It has an operation theatre and an intensive care unit. If required, dialysis can also be done here. A dedicated team of 30 health staffers is running the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-a-first-for-up-covid-19-patient-delivers-health-baby/articleshow/75259019.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 21, 2020||Hubballi||Woman cop injured in accident||Kalaburagi: A 30-year-old constable was seriously injured in a road accident when she was going for her duty early in the morning on Monday. Renuka Helavar was to attend to her duty at the vegetable market at Atal Bihari Vajpayi Layout in the city. She left home early in the morning. At around 4am, when she was walking on the road, a speeding bike knocked her down at Jayanagar Cross. She sustained severe injuries and was rushed to a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/woman-cop-injured-in-accident/articleshow/75255207.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Amaravati||Sound alert after azaan: AP CM tells muezzins||AMARAVATI: CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy has urged Muslim religious leaders to ask people to stay home for prayers during Ramzan. He said all special prayers and iftars should be held at the respective houses of individuals. Agreeing to requests of religious leaders that muezzins be allowed to visit the mosques and call for prayer (azaan), the CM asked them to issue alerts through mikes about the dangers of coronavirus and the safety measures. Alerts should be sounded every time azaan is said on the mike, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/sound-alert-after-azaan-cm-tells-muezzins/articleshow/75259008.cms||Samdani MN
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No gatherings will be allowed this Ramzan||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) council along with religious scholars on Monday appealed to Muslims to conduct prayers at home during the holy month of Ramzan which begins on April 23. GHMC conducted a meeting with the religious leaders to discuss measures to be adopted during the holy month. Addressing the media, the religious leaders said that not more than five people should be inside a mosque at once. Even after the lockdown ends on May 7, no gatherings would be allowed. However, a decision regarding the special prayers at the Eidgahs on the festival day is yet to be taken. “Based on the coronavirus situation in the state an appropriate decision regarding the special prayers on Eid would be taken,” said an official of GHMC. Members of Ulema E Deccan, moulanas and muftis met MAUD minister KT Rama Rao at the GHMC head office on Monday and expressed their support to the measures taken by the government to control Covid-19. The ulemas muftis and members of GHMC council urged the people not to go to mosques for Iftar and offer prayers at home. “People should neither host Iftar nor attend any Iftar party. Sahr is anyway done at home,” added GHMC deputy mayor Baba Fasiuddin. Religious scholars also said that people should stay away from public gatherings. “Ijtemas (gatherings) for recitation of the Holy Quran should not be held. Muslims should offer prayers and take up reading of the Quran at their homes,” said a religious scholar. The council also warned action against people who distribute essentials without consulting GHMC.  Unlike, every year charitable activities should be taken up only in the presence of GHMC near mosques as well as at other public places. “There were instances where social distancing was not followed when essentials and food was distributed without informing GHMC. Action would be taken against individuals and NGOs if they distribute food or essentials without informing GHMC,” read a GHMC statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-urges-devout-to-pray-from-homes/articleshow/75260142.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest dept rescues 3 wild boars from well||Coimbatore: Members of the rapid response team (RRT) under the district forest department on Sunday rescued three wild boars that had fallen into a well at Mullangadu near the city. The boars were stuck in the well for three days. A member of the RRT said they received the information on Sunday and reached the spot, a farm at Mullangadu in Boluvampatti forest range, around 8am. They had carried ropes and nets with them. “The well was around 100feet deep. We tied the net from above and tried to bring out the boars. But as they were without food they had been lying down and we had to provoke them to come into the net,” the member said. After almost eight hours, the team managed to capture the boars in nets by 4.30pm. Later, the rescued boars were released into the forest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-rescues-3-wild-boars-from-well/articleshow/75260146.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Congress calls for community testing||Margao: Making a case for urgent state-wide comprehensive community testing for coronavirus, state Congress president Girish Chodankar cautioned chief minister Pramod Sawant against “rushing” to declare Goa a Covid-19-free state. Chodankar said data reveals that just 0.04% of Goa’s 16 lakh population has been tested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-calls-for-community-testing/articleshow/75261189.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Agra||Agra: Temporary jail in place for lockdown violators||AGRA: The district administration and police have redoubled their efforts to strictly enforce lockdown amid steady rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Agra and its neighbouring areas. The local administration, in this regard, has now decided to register a case against lockdown violaters and send them to jail. Those not cooperating with the health department teams will be put behind bars. For this, a school in Hariparwat locality has been turned into a temporary jail. Here, arrangement for food and security for the prisoners have been made. On Monday, a team of heath department sanitised the temporary jail in the MD Jain Inter College. A company of provincial armed constabulary (PAC) was deployed at the centre. Additional city magistrate Vinod Joshi was tasked as the superintendent of temporary jail. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, "All those found on road or at public place without any valid reason will be sent to jail. Those not cooperating with the health department teams or resisting against emergency health protocol will also be put behind bars. We have developed a temporary jail for such people. Arrangement of water, toilet and food are available at the centre." Agra district jail superintendent Shashikant Mishra said, “Following orders of the district magistrate, a temporary jail has been set up at the MD Jain inter college. A deputy jailer and six constables have been appointed at the centre. Besides, all the required arrangements have been made to keep around 1,000 people. The food for the prisoners will be supplied from the district jail."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/temporary-jail-in-place-for-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75259049.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Trader rapes teacher on pretext of marriage||Rajkot: A primary school teacher lodged a rape complaint against a wholesale trader of medicines in Rajkot on Sunday night.The 28-year-old survivor alleged that the accused, identified as Divyesh Jhantakia (42), had raped her several times at her residence and at Jhantakia’s office at Bhootkhana Chowk for the past one year.The survivor had come into contact with Jhantakia after the latter put his two sons for tuition with her. Meanwhile, Jhantakia developed a romantic relationship with the survivor, claiming that he was a divorcee. “Promising to marry her, Jhantakia started having sex with her. Later, when the survivor asked for marriage, Jhantakia reneged on his promise, following which, the survivor lodged the complaint,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/trader-rapes-teacher-on-pretext-of-marriage/articleshow/75260132.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nashik||NMC starts pre-monsoon exercise||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to make the best use of the ongoing lockdown to complete the pre-monsoon work across the city. With monsoon being around five to six weeks away, the civic administration has started cleaning the nullahs, sewers and stormwater drainage lines. Development projects worth over Rs 500 crore have been affected due to the lockdown. However, after the central government offered some relaxations in the rule, the civic body decided to start the the annual exercise first. "We had to stop ongoing development works like construction of roads, school and other buildings worth Rs 350 crore under the public works department (PWD), projects worth Rs 115 crore under the sewage department, Rs 50 crore works under the the water supply department and Rs 10 crore works under the garden department," a civic official said. "After relaxation, we are yet to start these major works except construction of new Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Pimpalgaon Khamb. We have started the construction work by maintaining physical distancing among the workers. The project cost of this new STP project is estimated at Rs 55 crore," he added. The official said that except this new STP project they have not started other development projects. "We are waiting for the lockdown to be lifted after May 3. But we have started other pre-monsoon works across all six divisions of NMC," he said. "We are cleaning the sewer and storm water drainage lines ahead of the monsoon. We are also cleaning the chambers and manhole sewer, and using excavation machines to clean the nullahs," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-starts-pre-monsoon-exercise/articleshow/75415575.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 21, 2020||Agra||Pharma wholesalers screened in Mathura after medicine supplier tests Covid-19 +ve||AGRA: A day after a medicine supplier, who used to buy medicines from the wholesale market in the city, tested positive for Covid-19, Mathura administration on Monday took samples of six pharma wholesalers and home quarantined them along with their four close contacts for 14 days. Confirming this, health department official Dr Bhudev said that samples of six people have been sent for testing and 10 were quarantined. “There are around 90 shops across Holygate area in Mathura and around 300 people along with their staff were screened for Coronavirus,” said Bhola Yadav, district president of medical store association. Yadav told TOI that the person, who tested positive for the virus, visited Mathura on April 8 and bought medicines from six shopkeepers. “When we came to know about him, we immediately contacted the health department for screening the pharma wholesalers across the market and no one was found infected during the screening," he said. Meanwhile, health department has conducted rapid tests for Covid-19 on nine students who came back to Mathura from Kota on Sunday. “They all were found negative,” said Dr Rajiv Gupta, additional chief medical officer, adding that three samples will be taken on Tuesday. Gupta told TOI that 14 other children who arrived in Mathura from Fatehpur Sikri are "untraceable and efforts are being made to locate them".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pharma-wholesalers-screened-in-mathura-after-medicine-supplier-tests-covid-19-ve/articleshow/75259032.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Indore||Indore’s Recovery Rate Is Half The National Average||Indore: Corona hotspot Indore has a recovery rate, which is almost half the national average. According to records of CMHO office, recovery rate of the Swachh city is 7.91% as against the nation’s 16.09% (according to information on website of ministry of health and family welfare). There are 897 positive cases till April 19. Out of those, 71 were discharged. CMHO Dr Praveen Jadia said, “We have received cases in bunch, concentrated in few pockets of city. So, patients are also getting cured in bunches.” Two days ago, 39 people were discharged together. Earlier, people were discharged in bulk. This rate will definitely go up in coming days as people are recovering, added Jadia. A faculty member of MGM community medicine department on condition of anonymity said, “A request has been made to ICMR that along with of arithmetic calculation, time factor be also included in calculating recovery rate.” There are a large number of Covid-19 asymptomatic patients, who are recovering. They can’t be discharged before 14 days. The recovery rate should be calculated on basis of positive cases 14 days ago, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indores-recovery-rate-is-half-the-national-average/articleshow/75260140.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Over 4k industrial units resume ops||Ahmedabad/Surat/ Rajkot/Vadodara: As many as 4,000 industrial units in Gujarat were given permission to resume operation from Monday by the state government. These industries include small, medium and large firms in various sectors like chemicals, engineering, textiles, plastics, packaging and automobiles, said Ashwani Kumar, secretary to Gujarat chief minsiter Vijay Rupani in a statement. The industry associations have welcomed the state government decision of allowing about 4,000 industrial units to resume operations. In Ahmedabad’s Changodar industrial area, around 500 units are keen to restart and they will commence operations as they get permissions. It may take a week to normalise things. “Around 20-25% of the industrial units in Changodar industrial area began operations on Monday. More units will start functioning from Wednesday as the industrial activity remains suspended on Tuesday due to load shedding,” said Rajendra Shah, president, Changodar Industries Association. Ajit Shah, president of Sanand Industries Association (SIA) said, “A few pharmaceutical companies were already operational. Over and above, some five MSMEs have also resumed operations, with an average 35% staff. Some 700 workers are back on job at the estate.” In South Gujarat, the food processing units located in Surat and Navsari districts respectively are facing the acute shortage of labourers, transportation and the export of the finished products from Hazira port due to the huge pile up of the containers awaiting export clearance from the port. Chairman and managing director (CMD) of Patsons Food in Navsari, Suraj Savaliya said, “We are exporting mango pulp and mango pickle to UK and USA. Even if we start production, there is a heavy traffic at the Hazira port due to the pile up of the export containers.” Talking with TOI, Surat collector, Dhaval Patel said, “The industrial units located in the rural areas have been allowed to start operation after submitting affidavits and with strict implementation of the guidelines issued by the government.” Meanwhile, Valsad district administration has given permission to 760 industrial units till April 20 to reopen their operations. “We have given permission to 760 industrial units in the district to reopen. Most of these units are pharmaceutical, packaging and allied industries,” C R Kharsan, collector, Valsad, told TOI. Vapi Industries Association (VIA) President Prakash Bhadra said, “Since Valsad district is in green zone as not a single Covid-19 positive case has been reported till now, industries have started operations but some industries like paper mills which are dependent on import raw materials or their business channels are connected with Mumbai have not started their operations.” Officials in the Panchmahal district administration said that 131 units had sought permission for beginning operations. They added that 9,593 persons had joined work in the district. The units have already been asked to take necessary precautions to ensure Covid-19 does not spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/over-4k-industrial-units-resume-ops/articleshow/75260153.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman cop tests +ve||Coimbatore: A 39-year-old head constable attached to the Annur police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. She was admitted to the ESI hospital in the city. The constable was deployed on the Annur -Avinashi Road check post since March 25 to conduct vehicle check. Her throat swab was taken for test after she suffered from high fever on Sunday. The health department confirmed that she was positive on Monday evening. Officials are trying to identify the source of infection. She had worked with more than four cops to conduct vehicle checks, police sources said. Some cops from the containment area in Annur had met her two days ago. Health department officials have asked the cops to quarantine themselves. Cops attached to the Annur police station and police personnel deployed at the containment area in Annur will be screened for Covid-19 using the rapid test kit on Tuesday, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-cop-tests-ve/articleshow/75260176.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||Six of eight medical staffers from Parel health post infected||MUMBAI: Six of the eight medical staffers from a civic health post in Parel tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Among them are two community health volunteers (CHVs), two nurses and two coordinators, some of whom have been making door-to-door visits for surveillance. TOI spoke to one of the affected staffers who said their positive reports came late on Sunday. “Ambulances were sent to our homes and we were taken to Oswal Hall in Dadar but we haven’t been seen by any doctor yet,” said the staffer. On Monday afternoon, she said she didn’t have any symptoms but would feel better if a doctor at least checked her. The staffer said seniors in the health post never sent them to hotspots and were mindful of their health but they did visit homes to collect names, phone numbers, medical details and history of foreign travel. “We visit at least 80-90 homes on any given day.” she said, adding they didn’t have health benefits. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO, State Health Assurance Society, said all healthcare providers, including CHVs, have been extended Rs 50 lakh cover if they die due to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-of-8-medical-staffers-from-parel-health-post-infected/articleshow/75416545.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Agra||Two more test positive for Covid-19 in Aligarh||AGRA: Two more men tested positive for Novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Aligarh on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the district to three. Confirming this, district magistrate (DM) CB Singh said that the duo - aged 32 and 55 years - were found positive and they belong to Niveri Aheldadpur and Usmanpara areas, respectively. The 55-year-old man is admitted to AMU’s medical college with respiratory issues and is at present on a ventilator, the DM said, adding that it was not immediately known how he got infected. The younger patient had reportedly come back from Delhi and was under home quarantine. His report also revealed that he was infected. But, he had no symptoms. “Both the areas are being sanitised by Municipal Corporation officials and will be sealed,” the DM said. He further said, “We have now decided not to open any government offices till April 27 - with these new cases coming up.” Though cement, brick kiln and food processing units in rural areas will be operational with limited manpower and social distancing rules, work at lock industry and industrial estate will not be allowed as yet, said officials, adding that decision in this regard will be taken after April 27. The district's first positive case was reported on April 9, when a 22-year-old Firozabad resident had come to Aligarh on March 12 to take part in a Jamaat event in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-aligarh/articleshow/75259065.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Rail project work resumes after hiatus||Margao: The work on double-tracking of the South Western Railway (SWR) route in Goa resumed on Monday after a month-long hiatus owing to the lockdown. The heavy earthmoving machines which had fallen silent since the lockdown, began to roar on Monday once again and the migrant workforce who was confined to the railway’s labour camps resumed their duties. Work of construction of a retaining wall, that would facilitate laying of the second track, is in progress in Curchorem. As reported earlier by TOI, the month-long disruption in the progress of the work is likely to the see the timelines of the double-tracking project pushed back. The work of the entire Hospet-Hubli-Tinaigat-Vasco doubling work had come to a standstill since the lockdown kicked in on March 25. SWR had set March 2021 as the tentative target to make the Margao-Sanvordem double-tracked route operational, with the trial run planned for this March end. The work was under way as scheduled before the lockdown was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rail-project-work-resumes-after-hiatus/articleshow/75261201.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||Farmers reject govt offer of sugar in lieu of cane dues||PILIBHIT: With sugar mills across UP owing cane farmers over Rs 12,000 crore as arrears, the state government has offered to give sugar stock to farmers in lieu of their dues. However, farmer leaders have rejected this offer, saying it will cause losses to cane growers. According to principal secretary, sugarcane and sugar industry, UP government, Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, each cane grower would be provided with one quintal of sugar every month till June by his respective sugar mill at the minimum selling rate of the day. He said the farmers could earn a profit of Rs 1,300 to 1,400 by selling the sugar in the open market. Reacting to the offer, national convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee VM Singh asked how would farmers be able to sell the sugar stock in the open market during the lockdown period. He said the profit on sale of sugar as assessed by Bhoosreddy was a deception as the farmers would pay GST on sugar. They would get Rs 299 as payment of their sugarcane in comparison to SAP of cane which is Rs 315 per quintal. Moreover, farmers would have to pay for lifting the sugar from mill godown and selling it in open market, said Singh. “We don’t need the sugar stock and the profit on its sale. We simply want the government to ensure compliance with Allahabad High Court orders which protects the interests of the cane growers by directing the state government to pay interest to them at the rate of 12% if the cane price is paid by mills after 14 days from the date of procuring the sugarcane." Singh also expressed surprise how one quintal of sugar in a month till June would repay all arrears of cane price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-reject-govt-offer-of-sugar-in-lieu-of-cane-dues/articleshow/75259067.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Two elderly people from city test positive, 1 in critical care||Aurangabad: A 60-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman from the city have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last two days. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city has reached 32, including 14 active cases. According to Arvind Gaikwad, the nodal officer for media interaction at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), the man, a resident of Hilal Colony, was admitted to the state-run government hospital around 11am on Sunday. “Currently, the condition of the man is critical. He has been put on a non-invasive ventilator. His throat swab samples were collected on Sunday and the reports arrived the same day which confirmed that he has tested positive for Covid0-19,” said Gaikwad. He added that the man did not have a travel history, neither did he come in contact with any positive patient. However, he had been to Aref Colony, from where four positive Covid-19 cases have already emerged. In the second case, a woman from Asifiya Colony tested positive for the virus on Monday. She was referred to the GMCH on Sunday, where she is currently undergoing treatment at the Covid ward. As on Monday evening, 27 suspects were admitted to the GMCH’s Covid ward. “The hospital has witnessed two deaths in the last 24 hours. However, their throat swab samples have tested negative,” said Gaikwad. Medical officer of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Meghna Jogdand said that the work of tracing the source of infection for the two new cases had already been initiated. “Currently, nine localities in the city are sealed under the cluster containment plan of the AMC. 13 centres are working as fever clinics where primary screening of suspects is being carried out. Four centres are working as Covid care centres where those awaiting reports of Covid-19 analysis are placed,” said Jogdand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-elderly-people-from-city-test-positive-1-in-critical-care/articleshow/75259072.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Indore||10 cos submit medical report of workforce||Indore: Around 10 industries have so far submitted medical examination report of employees to tehsil office in Pithampur in a week. District administration has directed industries operational in the area under Essential Services and Maintenance Act to conduct medical examination of workers and submit report to tehsil office. Currently, close to 80 industries are operational in the area. Talking to TOI, Pithampur tehsildar Vinod Rathore said, “We have received records of medical tests from 10 industries so far. Industries have started conducting examinations of their workforce. Looking at the issue of availability of doctors, we have also roped in doctors from the nearby areas and also requested companies to help each other.” Some industries in the region had raised concerns over availability of doctors in Pithampur for medical examination. To ensure safe movement of workers in factories, list of containment areas has been given to operational units so that no employee travels from these zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/10-cos-submit-medical-report-of-workforce/articleshow/75260156.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||Most industries in MMR fail to restart operations, 1,335 in rest of Maharashtra given go-ahead||MUMBAI: While industries in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region remained mostly shut on Monday—the first day of relaxation of the lockdown—in the rest of Maharashtra, as many as 1,335 units employing 20,000 workers were granted permission to restart operations following submission of self-declaration forms online. A Anbalgan, chief executive officer, MIDC, said in all 3,000 units had registered to resume in the rest of Maharashtra, including Aurangabad, Vidarbha and Nashik. All the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) estates in Thane were shut as the collector has declared the district a Covid-19 containment zone. Thus, MIDC estates in Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali, Ambernath and Murbad were shut. In Raigad district, where the Taloja industrial estate is located, mainly industries producing medicines and packaging material were permitted. Around 35 manufacturers spread across Khopoli, Khalapur, Kamothe, Panvel, Taloja, MIDC Taloja, MIDC Roha and MIDC Patalganga were granted permission to operate. Meanwhile, work on nine Metro lines in non-containment areas restarted after a BMC go-ahead. Contractors have also begun work on MTHL, Kalanagar flyover, Koori bridge and improvement of Western Express Highway. MMRCL has started work on the underground Metro-III project. “We had more than 900 engineers, technicians and staff working on sites, primarily on monsoon-related works,” said MMRCL's director project S K Gupta. While ongoing construction projects where labourers were already on site have been allowed to resume after taking civic approval, a BMC official said the policy to grant permission to builders was yet to be approved. Also, no application were received from builders on Monday. Several within the government were upset with Thane collector’s order declaring the district a containment zone. “The entire district cannot be a containment zone. Life must go on,” said an industries department official. In Mumbai, port activities that had slowed have been restored, said Sanjay Bhatia, chairman, Mumbai Port Trust. “Oil tankers were always plying. Export of cars had slowed because of the lockdown but is now back to normal. Import of steel has resumed,” said Bhatia. Seshan Ranganathan, executive editor, TISA, a magazine of Chamber of Small Industry Associations, said there were many challenges for industries to resume. “Most industries would prefer to restart when the lockdown lifts on May 3.” Industry minister Subhash Desai said, “Containing the virus is the government’s first goal. No industry can be allowed in hot spots. Industries are being allowed to operate in rural/no risk areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/most-industries-in-mmr-fail-to-restart-ops-1335-in-rest-of-state-given-go-ahead/articleshow/75261211.cms||Clara Lewis
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown a bane for many, boon for bird lovers||Nagpur: Even as the lockdown has put people to hardships, it has come as a treat for bird watchers.Results of the week-long lockdown birding competition by Central India Birders Network (CIBN), a group of city birders, reveal that many bird species, which are usually found near forests and water bodies or greener landscapes, have been quite frequently sighted in city areas.Fantail flycatcher, grey francolin, yellow-footed green pigeon, paradise dlycatcher, grey heron... the long list goes on.“In Sahakar Nagar near Sonegaon where I stay, never before such a huge bird activity was noticed. I recorded fantail flycatcher and grey francolin, which are usually not found in human-dominated landscape. In Sonegaon, a heronry of cattle egrets with over 100 birds has come up,” said bird expert Nitin Marathe.Marathe attributed the buzz in bird activity to reduced air and noise pollution in the city and construction works on various projects coming to a standstill due to the lockdown.Over 55 entries were received for the lockdown bird count. One of the participants and winners of the contest is Sachet Khandeshwar from Ahmedabad. Entries were also received from other cities of Vidarbha.“The basic idea was to survey birds while being indoors during lockdown. Participants were asked to post pictures on CIBN page on Facebook for a week. The best 4 images were declared winners,” said Mayuresh Joshi, one of the coordinators of the event.Apart from common bird species like doves, sparrows, maynas, bulbuls, barbets etc, some good and rare sightings in urban area included paradise flycather by senior birder Surendra Agnihotri in Laxmi Nagar.“Though some birds like oriental honey buzzard and shikra are common, I saw nesting of shikra in my area in Madhav Nagar for the first time. The prey bird feeds on small birds and rodents and never before nesting were seen in such human-dominated landscape,” Joshi said.Birders like Anshuman Sahasrabhojanee from Shankar Nagar was lucky to sight a yellow-footed green pigeon, which is the bird of Maharashtra, small minivet, and horn bills. “Though not rare, these birds were not common in urban areas and we used to visit water bodies near city to sight them,” said Sahasrabhojanee, the first runner-up of the contest.“May be presence of these birds was there but we could not sight them due to air and noise pollution and disturbance. Rather, we never focused to look after these species. I recorded painted stork and red-napped Ibis in Hudkeshwar where I stay,” said Abhinav Bapat, second runner-up of the contest along with Archu Waranashiwar.Winner Sachet Khandeshwar said in an industrial city like Ahmedabad, sighting of non-urban birds like blyth’s reed warbler from an apartment is something to study. His evening picture of a black kite in the shadow of full moon bagged the first prize.“We will award Khandeshwar with a copy of a pocket guide on ‘Birds in Central India’ published by CIBN after lockdown is over,” said Chinmay Joshi, another coordinator of the event.The best part of the competition was that Pushkar Kulkarni of CIBN took the event to webinar on World of Birds in association with Vidarbha Trekkers to enlighten the audience. “Due to encouraging response, we are planning to conduct similar webinars and competitions online to promote birding while staying home and boost hobby at the same time,” said Kulkarni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-a-bane-for-many-boon-for-bird-lovers/articleshow/75260175.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 21, 2020||Indore||200 Pithampur industries may resume ops in a week||Indore: Around 200 Pithampur industries are anticipated to resume operations in lockdown period within a week while wait is much longer for Indore-based firms. Most industries returning to work would be export oriented and packaging firms, said industry officials and industry players. Industries having arrangement for accommodation of workers within campus will be the first on list to get nod from industry department followed by those industries that can arrange transportation of workers from nearby areas. Industry department has decided to give permission to industries on priority for which a form has been sent to all industries seeking details on work place, arrangement for workers, transport facility, requirement of workers among others.Madhya Pradesh Industry Development Corporation (MPIDC) Indore head Kumar Purushottam said, “We have circulated forms to every industry to that we get to know their arrangements. Our priority is least movement of workforce. Indore being a red zone we cannot allow daily movement of hundreds of workforce.” According to industry department, upon receiving forms from interested industries, they will be scrutinized and then granted permission on set priority basis. The industry department is hoping around 200 industries of Pithampur to resume operations within a week. Some district collectors have also assured government properties of accommodating workers for time being. Industries claimed that they would need at least a week to resume operations after receiving nod from industry department. According to the department, a lot of rush is seen among packaging industries to return to work. Industries based out of Indore are being discouraged to allow permission in the lockdown period due to safety concerns. Purushottam said, “For the time being, Indore based units are put on hold because workforce from containment areas cannot be allowed in factories. Besides, the aim is to ensuring a safe environment for workforce and industries in lockdown period.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/200-pithampur-industries-may-resume-ops-in-a-week/articleshow/75260168.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||VUDA CEO is new GMERS hospital administrator||Vadodara: After repeated complaints of poor handling of Covid-19 patients at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Vadodara Urban Development Authority (VUDA) has been appointed as its administrator on Monday. Senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao, who has been appointed as officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 by the state government in Vadodara, issued the appointment orders through which VUDA CEO Ashok Patel will now act as the administrator of the Gotri hospital. As its administrator, Patel is supposed to coordinate with the dean of Gotri Medical College as well as the medical superintendent of GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri for smooth functioning of the hospital and also to ensure that coronavirus positive patients get proper facilities. Patients at the hospital have complained before the district administration on several occasions about the lack of amenities in the hospital including water supply, absence of potable drinking water facility, dirty washrooms, and poor infrastructure. On Sunday, too, Rao had issued directives whereby medical superintendent of the hospital was asked to file FIRs against the contractors or agencies responsible for maintaining hygiene and ensuring facilities to patients, if they fail to do the required work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vuda-ceo-is-new-gmers-hospital-administrator/articleshow/75258699.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: With ease in restrictions, panel calls for greater caution||PANAJI: With a large number of activities resuming operations, there is a greater need for caution, chief secretary Parimal Rai said to incident commanders and officials involved in monitoring the lockdown in Goa. The State Executive Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 has decided that incident commanders should focus on field inspections to observe the implementation of the ministry of home affairs guidelines and actively enforce sanitization of common spaces, and also ensure that staggered timings for meals and shifts are followed. Industrial units which have been allowed to resume operations have been asked to insure all employees who are not covered by ESI. Police checks have been setup at the gates of all industrial estates to prevent unauthorised entry of vehicles. Commercial vehicles ferrying staff are permitted to seat just one person per row. “Under no circumstances any unit should encourage employment of someone who is currently outside the state,” said an official. Industrial units have also been permitted to operate the second shift. Rai, who heads SEC, also took stock of the situation in the state, the law and order reports and the movement of goods and people. “Public transportation is not permitted, but special buses running for government staff and healthcare workers need to follow the norms of social distancing and other health safety standards,” said Rai during the meeting. Health secretary Nila Mohanan informed the SEC that all the patients who recovered from the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) have been shifted to a quarantine facility. She also informed that 1,000 thermal guns will be issued to various government departments based on requests. PWD officials said that tankers are being used to provide water to areas where water sources have dried up due to the summer. Nodal officer for foreigners Amit Satija informed the SEC that 5,018 foreigners have left Goa on 26 special ferry flights. The SEC asked the secretary for health to procure 200 face shields for personnel stationed at all border check posts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-ease-in-restrictions-panel-calls-for-greater-caution/articleshow/75261208.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Civic chief, 80 others quarintined after contact with BMC kitchen supervisor||BHOPAL: More than 80 people were quarantined in Bhopal on Monday after it was established they came in contact with Covid-19 positive Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) kitchen supervisor. The free food from this canteen in central Bhopal is distributed to thousands of needy and homeless. The case resembles ‘Delhi pizza boy’ instance who infected 72 families in the national capital. “The protocol is clear. Whoever came in contact the BMC supervisor would be traced and tested for Covid-19,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, when asked about contact tracing and testing of people who took free meals from the canteens. Three BMC additional deputy commissioners and two BMC deputy commissioners have undergone Covid-19 test and have self-quarantine. Condition of the BMC supervisor is said to be stable. Asymptotic, the BMC employee got a random Covid-19 test at a camp organised in BHEL. He tested positive on Sunday. The government run canteen or ‘Deendayal Rasoi’ near Sultania hospital distributes 1,200 free food packets daily, going by BMC official estimates. Another 3,000 to 4,000 food packets reached the same canteen from other locations. It doubles as a food distribution centre for the BMC. The BMC supervisor and some of 80 others, who are now suspected for Covid-19, also came in touch people from other BMC run or supported canteens. These canteens provide free food to thousands of poor and those in need during the lockdown. The number of such people could into hundreds, said a BMC contractual employee working at the canteen. In each of the 85 BMC wards, there is a BMC run canteen or a tie-up, wherein a minimum of 1,000 food packets are distributed each day. “We have temporality closed down canteen (near Sultania hospital). Medical test of all the employees is to be conducted. Also in case some are affected, we would have to replace the entire team to resume the operations,” said BMC commissioner B Vijay Datta. There are identified vehicles which brought food packets to the kitchen near Sultania hospital. “The supervisor was the point man of the operation. We are making a list of all the people who were in close communication with the Covid-19 positive person. If others test positive we would increase our list of quarantine,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/civic-chief-80-others-quarintined-after-contact-with-bmc-kitchen-supervisor/articleshow/75260181.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 21, 2020||Goa||All eyes on Belagavi’s supply of vegetables||PANAJI: Despite fears surrounding the spike in Covid-19 cases in Belagavi, private vegetable as well as government horticulture suppliers are optimistic that the supply of fresh greens to the state will not be affected. While private vendors have been carrying out supply to be marketed to general vegetable vendors in Goa, the latter cater to the Goa government's 2,000-odd horticulture outlets across the state. The Karnataka government has closed all vehicular traffic, including those transporting essential commodities, after fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Belagavi district. Goa State Horticulture Corporation Limited (GSHCL) only received vegetables from Belagavi until Friday. It didn’t receive the greens on Saturday, while Sunday and Monday are holidays for the suppliers. “Since the number of patients increased, Belagavi went on a 100% lockdown,” one of the suppliers, Ramesh Pawale said. The suppliers trading with the horticulture corporation are registered with the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Belagavi. The APMC has sealed its market since they’re currently sanitising the area. The local administration, Belagavi police and APMC have requested suppliers to suspend trade activities on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. “Besides not having the labour force to transport the vegetables, suppliers were forced to suspend operations after the Belagavi police allegedly started lathi-charging people who were found loitering on the roads,” Pawale said. As a result, supplies to the horticulture corporation in Goa were affected. The supplies will, however, resume on Tuesday, so the vegetables will reach Goa by Wednesday morning, said GSHCL managing director, Sandeep Faldesai Abdul Niralgi, who supplies vegetables to private vendors in Goa, said that operators like him have all the necessary travel permits and are constantly maintaining sanitation in transportation vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-eyes-on-belagavis-supply-of-vegetables/articleshow/75261219.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Hosp where Covid patient died reopens||Coimbatore: When front line healthcare professionals were getting infected with Covid-19, the reopening of a city-based private hospital, where a patient died of the virus, has brought cheers among the medical community. Authorities of Chennai Hospitals on Monday announced that after all 45 staff members of the hospital tested negative for the infection, the district public health department had allowed the hospital to start operations again. The hospital was closed on April 10 after a patient from Kerala who was admitted there tested positive for the virus and passed away later. The health department immediately quarantined 20 staff, including a doctor, in the hospital and instructed others to remain in home quarantine. “All of them took the RT-PCR test on April 13 and 19 and tested negative both times. However, as per norms, the 20 staff will remain under quarantine till April 24. Meanwhile other doctors and staff who were not involved in treatment of the patient will continue to provide clinical services,” said a statement released by the hospital. The hospital premises have been disinfected as per the protocol, it added. Meanwhile, other hospitals, which had stopped all elective procedures and asked patients to avoid non-emergency visits, have now begun reassuring people that hospitals are safe to visit. “Thanks to indigenous textile infrastructure in Coimbatore and Tirupur, we could get international standard PPE including hazmat suits, N 95 protective masks etc,” said city-based bariatric surgeon Dr Praveen Palanivel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hosp-where-covid-patient-died-reopens/articleshow/75260170.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: One killed, 4 hurt in group clash over land dispute in Morbi||RAJKOT: One person was killed and four other injured in a clash between two groups in Maliya Miyana of Morbi district on Sunday night. Police said members of one group led by Kareem Jam (41) attacked the members of the other group led by Kasam Jam (32). Both the groups attacked each other with swords, knives, scythes and iron pipes. While a person identified as Anwar Jam (26), brother of Kasam was killed, Gulam Malani from Kasam group was injured. In the other group, Kareem and Dawood Jam received injuries. “Both Kareem and Kasam are cousin brothers. They have been having a dispute pertaining to the share in their ancestral farm land for the past one year. On the fateful night, members of both the groups came face to face at Maliya Miyana mamlatdar office,” said J V Vania, sub-inspecor with Maliya MIyana police station. While Anwar and Malani were travelling in an SUV, Kareem and Dawood were riding on their bike. “Four of them confronted each other at the mamlatdar office. After a heated exchange of expletives, the members of both the groups called their respective family members, who rushed to the spot in vehicles armed with sharp edged weapons and iron pipes,” said Vania. Kasam and Faruq Jam, who arrived in a car, allegedly rammed their vehicle into Dawood and caused him fracture in his both legs. Those injured from both the groups were first taken to Maliya Miyana Civil Hospital and from there to Morbi Civil Hospital and to Rajkot Civil Hospital, where the members of both the groups lodged the complaint and the counter complaint against each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-killed-4-hurt-in-group-clash-over-land-dispute/articleshow/75260185.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Indore||No shields for our health warriors on the frontline?||Indore: Improper implementation of guidelines has raised chances of infection among health workers, who have been relentlessly doing their job — be it staff on the field, in Covid-19 wards or scientists in virology laboratory. Health workers involved in sanitation, maintenance work, X-ray technician in corona ward in MRTB and Indore chest centre are forced to work without proper personal protective kits, said an official source. These are staff, who change bedsheet, clean floor, toilets of wards, even change diapers but not provided with good quality PPE kits. They are forced to work wearing HIV kits, which doesn’t cover their bodies properly, said the source. Many of them are using polythene to cover their shoes, hands and heads to reduce the chances of infection, added the source. MP State Employees Association’s media secretary Dr Shivakant Vajpayee said, “Every health worker, who is involved in any kind of work in Covid-19 ward should be provided with PPE kits in accordance to guidelines.” This shouldn’t happen with any one because it poses a greater risk to society, added Vajpayee. Similarly, scientists working in virology laboratory of MGM are not getting quarantine period because of work overload and pressure to increase testing. These three scientists have been working in laboratory since March 6 and they detected first Covid-19 case on March 24. According to operational protocol, any person working in areas like Covid-19 isolation wards or laboratory should be quarantined for seven days after working for same number of days, said an official source. This quarantine period is important for preventing persons working in such high risk facilities from getting infected, said official sources. There are three scientists, two postgraduate students of microbiology department and two technicians of department lab, who had been testing over 200 samples daily. On Sunday, a demonstrator of physiology department helping in lab work was tested positive. Dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said, “We have planned a roaster of seven days working and seven days quarantine for scientists and also asked them to provide staff members. But, they denied taking quarantine period. The scientists are now working in shifts as we have got three machines of our own and lab is round the clock functional.” Moreover, ASHA workers and teachers helping health department in screening persons in containment area are also working by wearing jump suits, mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-shields-for-our-health-warriors-on-the-frontline/articleshow/75260187.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||7 more recover from Covid-19||Aurangabad: A total of 7 people were discharged from civil hospital on Monday after their throat swab samples tested negative for coronavirus twice. The hospital staff, mayor Nandkumar Ghodele, district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni and civic health officer Nita Padalkar gave a warm farewell to the recovered patients. The patients also thanked the medical staff for their care and efforts. Those who were sent home after recovery included a 38-year-old man from Deolai, 28-year-old woman from Satara Parisar, 30-year-old man from Satara Parisar, 33-year-old man from Satara Parisar, 27-year-old woman from Ahebab Colony and 70-year-old man from Jalal Colony. "All those who have recovered have been asked to remain under home quarantine for next 14 days," Kulkarni said. Ghodele, meanwhile, appreciated the staff and district health officials for their efforts in registering an impressive percentage of recoveries. City saw the first recovery in March when a 59-year-old woman professor had successfully recovered. She was admitted to a private hospital. Till Monday, 15 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the city, while three have succumbed to the disease. Currently, 14 people are under treatment of which 2 are at Government Medical College and Hospital and the remaining are admitted to the district civil hospital. As on Monday evening, reports of 48 throat swab samples sent by the district civil hospital for Covid-19 analysis to the GMCH were awaited, while 56 people screened at different centres have been home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-more-recover-from-covid-19/articleshow/75259097.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Will get tough on lockdown: Top brass in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: After DGP M Mahendar Reddy talked tough on strict adherence to the lockdown guidelines, police commissioners of Hyderabad and Cyberabad — Anjani Kumar and VC Sajjanar — upped the ante asserting that enforcement across the city would be very stringent from Tuesday. While food deliveries and takeaways would not be allowed, delivery executives’ vehicles found violating the lockdown norms would be seized, the CPs warned. Anjani Kumar said 12,000 personnel have been deployed in city for bandobust round-the-clock. “Food delivery apps will not be allowed to function. We will seize vehicles of the delivery executives and book cases if rules are flouted,” he said. According to the commissioner, 49,463 cases related to lockdown violations have been booked across the city so far. As many as 69,288 vehicles have been seized. “E-pass facilities for people tending to essential services will be launched. Special Branch police will verify a person’s detail when he or she provides necessary information on our website. A pass will be issued once the verification is done but we will cancel the pass if we come across any lapse,” he warned. He elaborated on contact tracing being carried out by police. “So far, there have been 395 positive cases in the city — 331 of them are active cases, while 20 people have died. We are tracing 1,989 primary contacts and placing them under quarantine. There are a total of 124 containment zones in the city,” the CP said. He said that apart from hand sanitiers, face masks and gloves for cops at 113 check points in the city, PPE kits have also been given to personnel deployed at Gandhi Hospital. Meanwhile, Sajjanar said tenants could file complaints if landlords force them to pay rents. He also asked people to not order food online. “Food delivery and takeaways are not allowed till May 7. We have seized over 10,000 vehicles during the lockdown period,” Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-get-tough-on-lockdown-top-brass/articleshow/75260206.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||NRIs fret, make frantic calls to arrange help for elderly parents||These days, 66-year-old yoga-loving, television series-shunning Borivli resident Bharti Soni takes a selfless selfie every morning. This cheerful photograph is meant to reassure her London-based daughter Jyoti Soni that she is doing fine in the time of lockdown. “We are lucky that she is strong,” says Jyoti about her widowed mother who has made a habit of downplaying her challenges with statements like “don’t worry, neighbours are around”. For NRIs with elderly parents living alone in India, the lockdown has been an especially fraught time. Unable to fly down or count on relatives or domestic help for support, a general sense of helplessness is the default state of these NRIs as they call and try to arrange help for the seniors. Architect Deval Choksi recently suffered 10 sleepless nights in the UK worrying about her weak-kneed mother who had recently sold her house in Dombivli with a plan to move to their native state of Gujarat. Deval had been coordinating with property agents who could help her make the move when the virus hijacked global imagination, forcing her mother and arthritic father to hastily move into an unfurnished rental accommodation in Vadodara. Given the lack of groceries here, Choksi was so concerned about her parents’ survival that she almost contemplated writing a letter to the Indian authorities to allow her mother to fly down to the UK. “My mother didn’t even have a fridge in the Vadodara home and we didn’t quite have relatives we could count on there,” recalls Choksi, who then arranged for her parents to be moved to her cousin’s bungalow in Godhra on March 27. Those two hours of transit, when her parents travelled from Vadodara to Godhra by road, were stomach-churning for Choksi. “Thankfully, India doesn’t have as many corona cases as the UK, where the death rate is higher,” says Choksi. “Otherwise, my brain would be a washing machine.” Jyoti Soni knows this churning feeling quite well by now. Besides juggling chores, work, home schooling and Covid-induced anxiety, Jyoti has also been coping with the recent loss of a family member to the virus in the UK. “My aunt-in-law passed away after contracting the virus, probably at a temple in the UK where she had been volunteering,” says Jyoti, who advised her mother on video calls to make peace with TV series and resist going out. “I am also worried about my mother-in-law who stays in Bhavnagar. She has aged by 10 years in the past one week. She was used to having help at home and is a perfectionist by nature, so managing all the household chores on her own is taking its toll,” says Jyoti, adding that her father-in-law, a dutiful doctor, has been going to work daily. Some of them wish that key workers such as domestic help had been considered essential services. “In India, the privileged society has everything while the common man is left to fend for himself,” says UK-based Sandhya Raghavan, whose diabetic 71-year-old father is now looking after his 92-year-old mother in Trichy all by himself as the cook has been denied access by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nris-fret-make-frantic-calls-to-arrange-help-for-elderly-parents/articleshow/75261229.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||8 more test Covid-19 +ve, Satranjipura cases go up to 48||NAGPUR: Eight more persons tested positive for Covid-19, all of them connected to the 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, the city’s first death in the pandemic. The results on Monday took the number of cases in this cluster to 48. This case has alone contributed 59.25% of the total positive cases in the district’s total number of 81. NMC officials told TOI, “Reports of first and second samples of over 144 persons quarantined in connection with Satranjipura case are awaited. Total number of persons traced, examined and quarantined in this case crossed 200 on Monday,” they said. Of the new eight positive cases, seven are residents of Satranjipura, where the house of the deceased is situated. One is a 60-year-old woman, a resident of Shanti Nagar. On April 18, a 40-year-old person from Shanti Nagar had tested positive. The deceased’s daughter-in-law and daughter with three children were residing in the house of this person. Some more from Shanti Nagar were traced, examined and quarantined after the deceased’s nephew, who runs a tours and travel agency, tested positive. The 68-year-old passed away at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on April 5, and his reports came positive on April 6. The civic body had immediately notified Satranjipura as containment zone. Under municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, NMC teams led by chief medical officer health Dr Yogendra Savai, additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane have traced, examined and quarantined over 200 persons from Satranjipura, Shanti Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Dalalpura and adjoining areas. Some of these contacts came positive, leading to four more containment zones — Shanti Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Bairagipura and Dalalpura. Two more chains of infection may be opening up, as cases from Shanti Nagar and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar are on the rise. Satranjipura containment zone completed 15 days on Monday. Earlier, NMC had ended containment zones of Bajaj Nagar-Abhyankar Nagar-Swawlambi Nagar, Khamla, Jaripatka and a housing scheme in front of Gandhisagar after 14 days, as no one was found positive in close contact. But with new cases coming to fore, Satranjipura containment zone has been extended. Also, NMC has decided to continue containment zone of Mominpura as 11 cases were registered from there. Mundhe said, “People who came in close contact with Satranjipura deceased or his family members, other positive cases should come forward and get tested. People from other parts of the city should give correct and proper information so that we can avoid Satranjipura like scenario, where large number of positive cases came from a single case. Instead of creating a monster, we need to become warriors of Covid-19,” he said. NMC sources told TOI, “It is going to be a tough task to identify persons who visited the clinic at Satranjipura as attendance register lacks contact number and address of many who visited between April 2 and 6. One of the attendants from this clinic tested positive a day ago. We are taking help of register, doctor, attendants and other sources to identify all patients. Clinical examination of these persons will be done at their household itself as number of persons is high, and already 14-19 days have passed,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-more-test-ve-satranjipura-cases-go-up-to-48/articleshow/75260225.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Sarola forest being robbed during lockdown||Aurangabad: The ongoing lockdown has led to poor vigilance at the Sarola forest area, which has aided in rampant illegal tree-felling. A major section of the forest has also been reduced to ashes, allegedly by some villagers who triggered a forest-fire to create space for illegal farming activities. A spot visit on Monday revealed many trees — including rare indigenous species — were chopped down, possibly for firewood. A portion of hill range in the forest, towards the Kankhura village, was found to be destroyed in what appeared to be the effects of a controlled fire. Botanical expert Milind Giridhari said the trees that have found cut at Sarola also include some rare and endangered species. “Warang, kalakuda, sonsawar, ran-pangara, bija and kala shisham are among the uncommon trees that have chopped here. It is a huge loss to the local biodiversity,” he said. Located around 20km from Aurangabad, Sarola is considered a unique eco-habitat with the mixed presence of grassland, scrubland, cropland, deciduous forest, hills and water bodies. The biodiversity hotspot is home to over 160 bird species alone besides other flora and fauna. Environmentalist Kishor Pathak said trees that are getting cut illegally provide shelter as well as food to many birds and creatures. “The trees are cut for two purposes. One is for firewood, which can be used as fuel, and the other is to flatten the land for agriculture. Both these activities are illegal in the forest area. The forest department has failed to provide a proper vigil during the lockdown,” he said. Conservationists said it could take a few decades to replenish the biomass that has been destructed. When contacted, chief conservator of forests (territorial) P K Mahajan said he would increase the vigil in the Sarola area. “We will take necessary action. Tree cutting is a punishable offence. We appeal to the locals to join hands with the forest department for conservation of local biodiversity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sarola-forest-being-robbed-during-lockdown/articleshow/75259112.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Indore||Over 200 samples rejected in the lab||Indore: More than 220 samples of Covid-19 suspects were rejected out of 5200 samples collected in district — some due to procedural flaws like improper extraction of RNA while others due to poor quality of samples. Dr Shikha Ghanghoriya, nodal officer in charge of virology lab of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College said, “Contamination might occur during RNA extraction leading to invalid result during testing. This also led to rejection of samples.” Lab sometimes faces technical issues with PCR machine leading to rejection. “If the rejection is due to technical issue during PCR testing we directly call respective collection centre and advice re-collection of sample,” said Dr Ghanghoriya. In some cases, quantity is not proper for carrying out retests, she said. “Many times sample gets dry during transportation because of improper management of cold chain leading to rejection of sample,” Dr Ghanghoriya said. Samples are only opened in bio-safety cabinet after it is transported in cold chain maintaining a prescribed standard. If a sample spills in box, it can contaminate the rest. She said every sample vial is labelled with details of patient. Improper detailing on test request forms can also lead to rejection. But in Indore, laboratory staff directly calls sample collection team and collects missing information. According to guidelines of ICMR, re-collection of sample is advisable in case of rejection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/over-200-samples-rejected-in-the-lab/articleshow/75260227.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||Rescued stray leopard dies in Kanpur zoo||BAREILLY: An adult leopard that had strayed into a Bareilly village on Wednesday, succumbed to injuries in Kanpur zoo on Monday. A team of the forest department in Bareilly had tranquilised the leopard at Bharatpur village in Rampur district on Sunday evening and shifted it to Kanpur zoo for treatment. The big cat had several injuries and was suffering from septicaemia. It died while undergoing treatment at the zoo. According to officials, the leopard had strayed into Gurva village under Sirauli police station of Bareilly district on Wednesday. A few locals working in a field spotted the big cat sitting near a water pump and alerted police and forest department. The leopard later moved to a wheat field The forest department failed to trace the big cat on Thursday after it left the wheat field. The experts used a drone camera but could not locate the animal. Forest department even placed a cage in the area to trap it. However, the leopard moved to Rampur’s Bharatpur village, which is around 10 km from Gurva village. The head of Bharatpur village informed the forest department on Sunday about the leopard's presence. A team from Bareilly and Pilibhit went to the spot, “A veterinarian from Pilibhit Tiger Reserve tranquilised the leopard. It was found that it had injuries on its tail, front right paw and chest. Apparently, it sustained the injuries by getting entangled in a barbed wire fence around a field a few days ago. The injuries caused infection and hence, the leopard was shifted to Kanpur zoo. "However, the big cat succumbed to injuries and it is a very sad news, said Bharat Lal, divisional forest officer, Bareilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rescued-stray-leopard-dies-in-kanpur-zoo/articleshow/75259119.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 21, 2020||Indore||Out on streets, veggie vendors increase chance of virus spread||Indore: It seems like rules are meant to be broken, even if it puts lives on the line. Despite a check and restriction on sale of vegetables and fruits, vendors and hawkers continue to sell vegetables flouting curfew norms. The no-care-for-the-law attitude is portrayed by the number of complaints against such vendors and subsequent action by Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC). Official sources said that vendors engaged in sale of vegetables and fruits are not ready to understand, and even after facing action, they are found selling vegetables in residential areas, especially those located in the outskirts. The practice is rampant in areas like Kanadia Road, Kalani Nagar, Banganga, Kushwaha Nagar, Mangliya, Scheme-114, Dewas naka etc. “Vendors are selling vegetables only in the outskirts, where there is less risk of being caught by police and IMC,” they said adding that these vendors are not aware of the risk of catching coronavirus while they go out and deal with customers. In a latest incident, the corporation on Sunday caught one such vendor in Goyal Nagar, who was found selling vegetables from his home. A complaint in this regard was received at police control room and the same was forwarded to IMC control room. When a team of IMC reached the area and caught the vendor with vegetables, he started arguing with officials. His entire stock was seized by IMC. On Saturday, a vendor of Gurunanak Palace at Ward-74 was selling vegetables from his godown. The corporation seized over two trucks of vegetables from the area. IMC’s enforcement wing officials also admitted about the issues and said that number of complaints against such vendors have gone up in last one week. “We have formed 12 teams to conduct surprise checks across city. Seven of these teams make rounds in city during early morning and remaining move during afternoon hours,” said wing in charge Virendra Upadhyay while adding that the action against such vendors will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/out-on-streets-veggie-vendors-increase-chance-of-virus-spread/articleshow/75260210.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot namkeen makers face staff shortage as demand spikes 200%||Rajkot: Two of the major packaged namkeen manufacturers based out of Rajkot — Gopal Namkeen and Balaji Wafers — are facing severe staff shortage at a time when demand for their product has shot up by 200%. They have sought help from the district administration to get more workers.The namkeen makers said that currently they were operating with 15% manpower but need to ramp up production to cater to rising demand. The companies are also facing problems at the distribution end as dealers are not able to deliver the goods to retailers because of lack of passes to ferry vehicles. Talking to TOI, Bipin Hadvani, founder director of Gopal Namkeen said, “While the demand has shot up by 200% our the production had gone down by at least 10% because of shortage of staff.”“Our unit at Metoda GIDC can accommodate more than 600 people. But we are facing problem in transporting them to the factory. We have asked district collector to allow us to transport the staff to our factory,” Hadvani added. Gopal Namkeen produces 80-90 tonne of namkeen per day with limited staff that has been staying inside the factory premises. Another national player Balaji Wafers is also facing similar problem. Mihir Virani, director of Balaji Wafers said, “Currently 40-50 of our staff members are living inside the factory premises since the lockdown began. The production is being done with only 20% of the manpower. We tried to get movement passes for other staff, but we did not get the permission. We have requested district authority to allow us to transport the staff in a bus and adhering to all the safety norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-namkeen-makers-face-staff-shortage-as-demand-spikes-200/articleshow/75260220.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 21, 2020||Goa||Colva police assist Swedish cancer patient||Colva: The Colva police came to the rescue of a cancer patient who could not reach the hospital she is taking treatment from, in Dona Paula, Panaji to receive her medication. Police was informed that a 56-year-old Swedish national, suffering from fourth stage of cancer, is staying Benaulim could not hire a cab due to the lockdown to travel to her hospital in North Goa. Soon, PI Melson Colaco, along with his team rushed to her aid and took her to the hospital using the official car with police constables Sarvesh Velip and driver Vishnu Naik. Colaco said that the women is not stranded in Goa but is living here with a valid visa. SP Arvind Gawas appreciated Colaco and his team for proactive assistance to the foreign national and setting an example of kindnes sand displaying humanity in the testing time of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-police-assist-swedish-cancer-patient/articleshow/75261224.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: CPI (ML) functionary arrested||COIMBATORE: The city police on Sunday arrested a functionary of CPI (ML) for staging a protest on Thadagam road, demanding the central government to provide Rs 10,000 to guest workers as relief fund. The arrested was identified as Velmurugan, urban secretary of CPI (ML), Coimbatore. Velmurugan, AICCTU state secretary Louis and a few cadre staged the protest. The RS Puram police registered a case against Velmurugan and Louis for unlawful assembly and under a few sections of the IPC and Epidemic Act. Velmurugan was produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged at the Avinashi sub-jail. Louis was let off on station bail. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cpi-ml-functionary-arrested/articleshow/75260215.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Demand for clinic in Qaiser Colony||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has started 12 fever clinics to screen coronavirus suspects in the city. City district Congress working committee president Mohsin Ahmed had asked the AMC to turn the Civic hospital in Qaiser Colony into a fever clinic. All other clinics are far from the locality and people could not travel in the absence of public transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/demand-for-clinic-in-qaiser-colony/articleshow/75259134.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Ration, PPE to sanitation workers||Aurangabad: The Centre for Applied Research and People’s Engagement (Carpe) will be supporting sanitation workers of the city by providing them monthly ration and personal protective equipment (PPE). So far, Carpe is providing ration to 250 waste picker families and another 350 contract workers in waste management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ration-ppe-to-sanitation-workers/articleshow/75259149.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Another COVID-19 case reported from walled city raises concerns over wholesale mkt supply||Bhopal: The walled-city area, Azad Market/Jumerati, the state capital’s wholesale and retail market hub, reported one more COVID-19 positive case here on Monday. Only recently, the market was allowed to open after nearly a two-week lockdown.“We are closely monitoring the situation,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari in reference to another positive case in the business hub. Earlier, cases have been reported from nearby areas in the walled city. However, cases in the walled city have been relatively low compared to other densely populated areas like Jehangirabad, Aishbagh and others.Entry of customers for shopping from the outlets has been prohibited. Dozens of vehicles, which load tonnes of food to be supplied across the city and the district, line up along Safia college road as a token system for the vehicles has been implemented. More than two dozen policemen were deployed in the area on Monday. The news of a patient in his late 70s, who was diagnosed with COVID-19, had not reached the area till Monday afternoon. He was admitted after testing positive for dengue fever. The patient is said to be in stable condition, said an AIIMS-Bhopal official.“We are getting orders on WhatsApp or through mobile. We can deliver only food items through home delivery,” said Piyush Dubey, a shopkeeper in Jumerati market. Only a handful of grocery stores are open in the area. The deserted looking market is more busy in the bylanes. Many of the godowns are in the semi-residential area. “The situation is not normalised yet. We deliver orders only within a 2 km radius, as directed by the district administration,” said Mayank Gupta, a shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-covid-19-case-reported-from-walled-city-raises-concerns-over-wholesale-mkt-supply/articleshow/75260247.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Allow residents of green districts to return to their homes: Uttarakhand CM||DEHRADUN: In a major respite to residents of the green category districts – who are stuck in different areas of Uttarakhand – the state government on Monday said that permission will be given to them to return to their native districts after a medical checkup. However, the permission would be given to only those people, who wish to return to the districts that are placed under the green category. In Uttarakhand, seven districts – Tehri, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Uttarkashi, Champawat, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh — have been kept under the green category as no cases of Covid-19 have been reported from these places. In a video conferencing session with all the district magistrates on Monday evening, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat asked them to adopt a humanitarian and practical approach in public related matters. Besides facilitating permission for residents of green category districts, the CM also asked officials to look at few other aspects like marriage functions, where the CM directed the district magistrates to take decisions after finding out the native districts of the bride and the groom.  He directed them to follow the guidelines set by the Centre while ensuring that not much hurdle is created in the wedding ceremony. During the meeting, the chief minister also asked the officials to ensure arrangements for the return of those persons who have completed 14-day quarantine period. He said that a person who has completed quarantine period can be sent back to his home after a medical check-up on the 15th day. Regarding farmers, CM Rawat said that in view of the mango and litchi season, the contractors purchasing stock from the farmers should be allowed to commute after check-ups. The CM also directed officials to prepare a proforma which could help in convincing the people, who have reverse migrated to Uttarakhand, to stay back and start their work from the state. The CM added that such a move will also help in preparing a comprehensive plan on the isssue for the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/allow-residents-of-green-districts-to-return-to-their-homes-cm/articleshow/75259151.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Man beaten to death for attempting rape in Jungadh||RAJKOT: A man was beaten to death after he allegedly tried to rape a woman in Bhuvneshwari Society of Daulatpara locality in Jungadh on early Monday morning. Police said, Babu Patel and his son, attacked Mansukh Mandaviya (32) with bats and iron pipes. Mandaviya was taken to Junagadh Civil Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. “Our preliminary investigation revealed that Mandaviya had stealthily entered into Patel’s house, and sneaking into his daughter’s room, he had allegedly tried to rape her,” said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police. He said, when the survivor raised a cry, Patel and his son attacked Mandaviya. Mandaviya used to live with his mother. After divorcing his first wife, he married for the second time. However, his second wife had walked out on him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-beaten-to-death-for-attempting-rape/articleshow/75260236.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||Constable suspended for beating three teenagers in Budaun village||BAREILLY: The senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Budaun on Monday suspended a constable for allegedly beating three teenagers, including two minor sisters, in Utarna village. Dheeresh Yadav, a resident of Utarna village under Musajhag police station, said, “My brother, Satpal Yadav, was working in his field. His three children, including two daughters aged 16 and 14 years and 18-year-old son Jatin, were carrying the harvested wheat to their house on a tractor-trolley. They had parked the vehicle outside their house and Jatin was transferring the wheat from it to the house. Two policemen on a motorbike arrived and asked him to stop work and remove the vehicle from the road. When Jatin asked police to give him some time as he was storing the produce, the cops thrashed him. When his minor sisters rushed to his help, they beat them up too. The 16-year-old girl sustained injuries on her face and fainted. She was admitted to district hospital.” Police though claimed the constable had beaten the teenagers after an argument, as the latter refused to shut down their shop violating the lockdown. SSP Ashok Kumar Tripathi said, “A constable and a homeguard were patrolling in the village to ensure lockdown. They had an argument with locals and the constable beat people with a lathi. On receiving the information, SP (city) Jitendra Srivastava rushed to the village and later submitted a report after probing the case. Prima facie, the constable was found guilty and has been suspended with immediate effect.” Later, former Samajwadi Party MP from Budaun Dharmendra Yadav, a cousin of Akhilesh Yadav, tweeted about the incident and claimed it was a “brutal and shameful” act of UP Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-suspended-for-beating-three-teenagers-in-budaun-village/articleshow/75259143.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 21, 2020||Indore||Dip in cases sheds load off quarantine facilities by 30%||Indore: In last three days, the load of quarantine facilities has reduced by around 30 per cent due to drastically ‘reducing’ the number of positive cases in Indore. District administration has created 46 quarantine facilities to keep 2,000 people of primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients. In last few days, administration has released 533 inmates on completing 14 days of incubation period and not showing any symptoms. “The inmates have been released after they tested negative. They are put on 14-day home isolation and have been asked to take required precautions and approach medical team on facing any health related issue,” IDA CEO and nodal officer Vivek Shotriya told TOI. He added that 362 quarantine inmates have been shifted to hospitals after developing symptoms in this duration. “With decline in number of positive patients in last few days, there is also drop in total number of people, primary and secondary contact of Covid-19 patients being sent to quarantine facilities,” he said, adding that if one patient is found positive, an average of five of their contacts are being sent to quarantine facilities. On April 16, Indore has reported 245 positive patients but in next three days, the figure had dropped down to 50, nine and seven respectively. The nodal officer said that on Monday, 25 inmates were released from different quarantine facilities while 37 were sent there. He added that in days to come, about five quarantine facilities will be converted into Covid Care Centre to admit asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/dip-in-cases-sheds-load-off-quarantine-facilities-by-30/articleshow/75260241.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Rapid testing begins in Nilgiris||Testing of health workers, police and sanitary workers in four containment areas using rapid test kits for Covid-19 began in the district on Monday. The district received 300 rapid test kits. Collector J Innocent Divya said the testing exercise would be extended to panchayat and municipal areas in the district in the coming days. “Now, the rapid kits were distributed to all the four containment areas in the district depending upon the requirements,” she added.She said if people come across vendors selling grocery and vegetables overpriced, a complaint could be made to the control room toll free number -1077. Deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy said that the number of people (with travel history) under home quarantine has come down to 7 from 1,417 in the Nilgiris.If no fresh cases arise, sealing of Rajaji Nagar and surrounding areas as containment zone in Coonoor may be lifted on May 3, while other three zones in Ooty and Kotagiri must wait till May 8, he added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rapid-testing-begins-in-nilgiris/articleshow/75260270.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Case against lawyer for Gandhigiri against cop’s wife||Nagpur: Gandhigiri protest against a woman walking on road without wearing a mask has landed a high court lawyer in trouble as the lady turned out to be wife of a cop. Though the lawyer has been charged with molestation, the cop’s wife has been spared.Advocate Rajesh Pande, a resident of Shivnagar near Mankapur, had clapped as a mark of Gandhigiri protest from his balcony after spotting two women walking on road without wearing mask, though it has been made mandatory in view of the coronavirus outbreak. This had led to a spat between the women and Pande.It’s learnt that the women had also abused Pande before leaving the place. In the meantime, one of the women contacted her husband, a policeman. The cop, riding a bike without helmet, rushed to the place to confront the advocate.Pande, who had also alerted the police control room, was taken aback by the cop’s rudeness. After sometime, Pande was shell-shocked to receive a call from Mankapur police station stating that he was booked for outraging modesty of the woman.Pande, who secured anticipatory bail on Monday, said he did not utter anything objectionable. “While registering an offence, police should have considered the motive too. All I wanted was to discourage a fellow citizen from venturing out without wearing mask,” he said.Zonal DCP Vinita Shahu said as per the complaint the advocate had abused the woman who was heading to bring vegetables. “If we come across any evidence that the woman was walking on road without mask then action would be initiated against her too,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/case-against-lawyer-for-gandhigiri-against-cops-wife/articleshow/75260256.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||PM calls up ex-MLA for donation to fight corona||Rajkot: After 99-year-old former MLA Ratna Thumar in Junagadh donated Rs 51,000 in the chief minister relief fund constituted to fight against Covid-19 outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally phoned him to appreciate his gesture on Monday. “Even at this age, your enthusiasm has not ebbed. I salute you for your noble gesture. You have to live for many years. Please take care of your health,” the PM reportedly told Thumar. When Thumar walked into Junagadh collectorate on Friday, the security guard stopped him. While handing him a sanitizer bottle, the guard asked him, “Do you need any help?” Thumar replied to him: “No, I don't need any help. When our country is passing through such crisis, I have come here to make some donation from my savings to help the country.” As the lift in the collectorate was not operational, Thumar climbed up the stairs to make the donation. When the PM, who is known to keep the smallest updates of Gujarat, came to know about this, he took care to personally give Thumar a call. Thumar had served as an MLA from Mendarda constituency in Junagadh district from 1975 to 1980. When former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri had given a call for skipping one time meal when the country was passing through a famine, Thumar decided to skip one time meal on every Monday. “I've been skipping one time meal on every Monday,” said Thumar, who does not take his pension from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pm-calls-up-ex-mla-for-donation-to-fight-corona/articleshow/75260268.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Indore||Early action, local support has kept virus in check in 3 districts||Indore: Three districts of Malwa-Nimar region – Jhabua, Neemuch and Burhanpur have so far not reported any cases of Covid-19. The reason: Some quick and early steps taken by district administrations, support of local residents and traditional lifestyle of people in tribal areas seem to have kept the virus out of these areas so far. Burhanpur district is adjacent to Maharashtra, the state which had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 9 while Madhya Pradesh reported its first case on March 20. While other districts of MP were yet to feel the heat, an alert from neighbouring state helped Burhanpur district take required steps much early. “There are around eight lakh people in Burhapur and most of them were not much aware about Covid-19. We started spreading awareness as soon as we learnt about the cases reported in Maharashtra,” district collector Rakesh Kumar Kaul said Public participation was the key to help check the spread of the virus. “We sealed all district borders on March 24 and by that time, we had setup a system of doorstep delivery of essential commodities. We ensured that there was no panic among people by coordinating with them through different means,” he said. The district has completed health-survey of all people while 64 samples of patients with some symptoms have been sent for laboratory test. “We have received 40 negative reports while 14 are awaited,” Kaul said. In Jhabua, experts say that local lifestyle, traditions, food and less populated localities appear to be key factors in having kept the virus at bay so far. Jhabua has around 11 lakh population and of them, about 1 lakh reside in urban area. Of these, administration has sent around 70 samples for tests. “The tribal people are hard working, eat fresh and naturally-grown foods, rarely suffer from diabetes, hypertension, heart-related illness and obesity and have good immunity to combat with virus including the Covid-19,” Dr ML Bhati, who has been serving as general physician in Jhabua for around 50 years, told TOI. He said that lifestyle of tribal people of Jhabua and Alirajpur is one of the best examples to follow. “Most of locals eat crabs, fish and chicken including Kadaknath, which are considered as great source of protein and the same is useful in increasing the body-strength” he said. As malaria is a regular affair in the area, use of drugs like chloroquine phosphate, chloroquine hydrochloride, hydroxychloroquine have also helped build immunity of locals against this virus . Jhabua collector Prabal Sipaha said that all borders of Jhabua have been sealed while survey and screening of people, especially in urban areas, was being carried out. Locals too have blocked main routes that lead to their localities to prevent unknown persons from entering the areas. Neemuch collector Jitendra Singh Raje said that like Jhabua, local conditions were not quite favourable for them when it came to keep check on the virus. “Bhilwara, once a major hotspot of Covid-19, is around 100 kilometer from Neemuch. When first positive case was reported there, we had a discussion with Bhilwara collector over taking collective measures to check its spread. We immediately sealed all connecting routes” he said. He said that Neemuch administration had traced 61 people from Bhilwara and quarantined them while efforts like establishing coordination with local public, religious leaders and political figures helped in spreading awareness and implementation of major steps to control the situation. “We need to make people understand that curfew is not for law and order situation but to handle a medical emergency and thus, public participation was must. Locals supported us to help taking required steps well before to avoid spread of the disease” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/early-action-local-support-has-kept-virus-in-check-in-3-districts/articleshow/75260288.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Post nod, Pasteur Institute offers Covid-19 testing||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Pasteur Institute of India (PII) in Coonoor in the Nilgiris is all set to test samples for Covid-19 after getting approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the ministry of health and family welfare. PII is one of the leading institutes that produces anti-rabies vaccine and DPT (diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus) group of vaccines for the expanded programme of immunization of the Government of India. With capacity to conduct 80 real-time polymerase chain reaction tests a day, the institute will start the test this week, PII director Dr Sivakumar told TOI. While PII will provide the lab facility and the manpower for the real-time PCR test, the district health department will provide the test kits, swabs and blood. “The lab capacity in PII is more than enough as far as the Nilgiris is concerned,” collector J Innocent Divya said. Till date, samples taken from suspected patients were sent to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore for test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/post-nod-pasteur-institute-offers-covid-19-testing/articleshow/75260294.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Indore||Four jail inmates test +ve, 10 in quarantine||Indore: Four of the seven Central Jail inmates, admitted to MYH, were tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday creating panic among other prisoners and staff. “Seven inmates were admitted to MY Hospital on April 17 after showing symptoms. Four of them have been tested positive for Covid-19,” jail superintendent Rakesh Bhangre said. He said that reports of one has come negative while two reports are still awaited “Of these four inmates, aged 27 to 35 years, three were convicts of rape and murder and the other one was undertrial. Their health condition is stated to be stable,” Bhangre told TOI. He said that these seven inmates were kept in barrack number 1 of sector-4, and were primary contacts of another inmate – Hukum Sindusingh, who was tested positive on April 14. “We have also traced 47 primary contacts of these four inmates. Of them, 10 have been quarantined after they showed mild symptoms. Remaining 37 inmates have been kept are being monitored regularly,” he claimed. Sixteen people including NSA prisoner Javed Khan and his father were detained by police on April 8 for attacking health department workers at Taat Patti Bakhal area, and were kept in Central Jail. Javed was later sent to Central Jail of Jabalpur and was tested positive. And following this, his father, who was at Indore’s jail, also tested positive. Since then, sampling was done on 97 inmates and 16 jail staff, and six of the inmates have so far been tested positive for Covid-19. Jail authorities said all possible measures were being taken to prevent spread of coronavirus among inmates and staff. Meanwhile, the administration has provided government girls’ hostel building of Asrawad Khurd area for setting up an isolation facility for suspected jail inmates of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/four-jail-inmates-test-ve-10-in-quarantine/articleshow/75260275.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 strengthens grip on Mahisagar district||Vadodara: Covid-19 now seems to be strengthening its grip in Mahisagar with six new cases being reported in the district on a single day. The total number of cases in the district now stands at nine, while more cases have surfaced from Santrampur and Balashinor. Two fresh cases were reported from Santrampur which include a woman and an elderly man who had come in contact with the Godhra civil hospital nurse who had tested positive earlier. The four cases from Balashinor were in contact of the woman who had tested positive on Sunday. The four new cases from Balashinor include a man who had driven the ambulance carrying the woman, owner of the house where she stays, her cook and another woman in touch with her also tested positive. A man who had returned form the Gulf earlier and his mother, both staying in Virpur in Mahisagar district to had earlier tested positive. The number of cases in Panchmahal district increased to 11 with two new cases on Monday. All the cases in the district have been reported from Godhra, the district headquarters. Those who tested positive include a nurse even as two of the patients succumbed to the dreaded virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-strengthens-grip-on-mahisagar-district/articleshow/75258730.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Mother, paramour held in Coimbatore for killing six-year-old boy||COIMBATORE: The city police on Monday arrested a 24-year-old woman and her 28-year-old lover for murdering her six-year-old son at Kovilmedu here. Dhivya, wife of Arun of Kovilmedu and her paramour Rajadurai, a native of Kombai in Theni district, were arrested for killing her son A Abhishek. “Dhivya was staying with her son and a three-year-old daughter in a rented house at Kovilmedu after separating from Arun, a cab driver hailing from Gudalur in the Nilgiris. She had befriended Rajadurai, a call taxi driver, while working for a private company. He soon moved in with Dhivya,” a police officer said. Rajadurai treated Abhishek as a nuisance and used to beat him up. “Dhivya also used to thrash the boy and once branded him with a hot iron. The houseowner, who came to know about the incident, asked Dhivya to vacate the house. She shifted to another house in Kovilmedu on March 26 but continued to torture the boy. Last Saturday, the boy became unconscious after Dhivya and Rajadurai thrashed him. She bought some medicines from a medical shop and gave it to the boy, after which he became normal. On Sunday around 10am, the boy again became unconscious and died soon,” the officer told TOI. Dhivya called the 108 ambulance services and an ambulance reached the home. The medical staff told Dhivya that the boy was dead. They also informed the Saibaba Colony police. Dhivya and Rajadurai confessed to the crime during police interrogation on Sunday. They were arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Monday evening. Both of them were booked under sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mother-paramour-held-for-killing-6-yr-old-boy/articleshow/75260323.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Three recover from virus in Rajkot||Rajkot: Three people recovered while two more tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Monday.Those discharged include Jay Sorathiya (28), a resident of Nana Mauva and Riyag Patni and Imtiyaz Dakora, both from Jangleshwar area that has become the hotspot of coronavirus.While Sorathiya was admitted to a private hospital on March 29, the other two were admitted on April 9.Those who tested positive include two women aged 27 years-and 42 years, both from Jangleshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-recover-from-virus-in-rajkot/articleshow/75260313.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Salem||No relaxation, lockdown to continue till May 3: Tamil Nadu government||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday decided to continue the lockdown until May 3. The relaxation of some curbs suggested by the Union government after April 20 will not be applicable in the state. The TN government will review the lockdown based on the virus spread. The announcement was made after a 22-member expert committee led by finance secretary S Krishnan submitted an interim report to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The committee made a presentation to the chief minister and senior ministers during a three-hour long meeting that discussed the activities that could be allowed and the consequences. Finally, the chief minister decided to consolidate the gains from the lockdown and not to relax the restrictions. The expert committee considered the red flags raised by public health experts. Many of them said more data was required to take a decision. “That is also one of the key elements. None of the public health experts says it is perfectly safe to relax curbs. The problem is that we don’t have enough data nor enough knowledge about the virus. No one is able to say what technique works,” a committee member said. Since the state ramped up testing, which was now more focused on contacts, extended contacts, containment zones and people with symptoms, the authorities expected a clearer picture would emerge in the coming days. The committee took note of two key issues raised by industry -- export commitments and deployment of available workforce. However, there were also concerns over the availability of vendors at different locations, which could be containment zones, and supply chain management. IT and IT-enabled services firms said they would not need to follow the Centre’s guideline of 50% strength in offices as they had managed 95% productivity with work from home. “A lot of the industries are not keen on opening up in these circumstances,” said a member of the committee. The MSME sector sought clarity since many thought all operations could begin after April 20, while the government was to take a call based on the recommendations of the expert committee. “This is one reason the government issued a statement on Sunday that lockdown will continue until a decision is made. Today, the government decided not to relax curbs as it did not want to take a chance if there is a spike in cases. If we delay by two weeks, economy will suffer, and revenue receipts will take a hit, but what if people die. The economy will rebound, and we can earn later,” another committee member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/no-relaxation-lockdown-to-continue-till-may-3-tn-govt/articleshow/75269245.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Hospital seeks AMC help in handling bodies||Aurangabad: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has asked the civic body to provide necessary protective equipment, disinfectants and plastic covering for cremation or burial of bodies of Covid-19 patients. The hospital has also sought staff from the AMC while citing the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The city has seen three deaths due to Covid-19 and, in a bid to stay prepared for any possible deaths in the coming days, the GMCH has placed the demands. The hospital has referred to a circular issued by the health department of Pune Municipal Corporation in this regard on April 6. In a letter to the municipal commissioner, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar on Sunday stated that while handling the body of a Covid victim, it is important to take precautions so that the handlers do not get infected with the virus. “In order to carry the body, the municipal corporation should provide vehicle from fire department,” she stated. The GMCH has also demanded that protective equipment be provided to the workers at crematoriums or burial grounds by the medical officer of the respective zone. Yelikar has stated that the bodies of Covid patients should be wrapped in plastic bags and placed in a vehicle for transportation while the local police station should conduct a ‘panchanama’. “The assistant municipal commissioner concerned should provide three helpers to conduct cremation or burial under the supervision of the local health inspector,” she said. “Following the burial or cremation, the van used for carrying the body has to be disinfected using solution with 1% sodium hypochlorite,” added Yelikar. City engineer Sakharam Panzade said that the AMC will provide a van to the GMCH to carry the bodies of coronavirus victims. “We recieved the letter on Monday and accordingly provision of the necessary equipment and staff will be done by the zonal offices of the civic body,” he said. Panzade added that the Thane-based Chirantar Udyog has volunteered to repair and get the LPG-run crematorium functional at Kailash Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hospital-seeks-amc-help-in-handling-bodies/articleshow/75259206.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: Azad colony, nearby areas in Doon declared ‘containment zone’||Dehradun: In view of the several Covid-19-positive cases found in city’s Azad Colony and other nearby localities, Dehradun district administration has declared the area as “Containment Zone”. The DM on Monday ordered a complete lockdown at Azad Colony, including areas of Namdev Colony, Munni Chowk, Turner Road, and children cremation ground till the midnight of May 3. Residents will not be allowed to move out of their homes during the complete lockdown period, officials said. District supply officer has been asked to ensure the availability of mobile vans for regular supplies of essential commodities like ration. In addition, mobile ATM machines will be stationed in the area.  The district administration has also issued helpline numbers 0135-2729250, 2626066, 2726066, and 7534826066 for residents living in the areas under complete lockdown in case they experience health issues like cough, cold and fever. The district administration has also decided to give conditional permission for carrying out funeral processions, for which the permissions can be taken from concerned sub-divisional magistrates and the station in charge of the area. Also, the passes for operating landline and internet services can be attained from sub-divisional magistrates and deputy director of department of telecommunications, Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-azad-colony-nearby-areas-in-doon-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/75259205.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||No relaxation, lockdown to continue till May 3: Tamil Nadu government||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday decided to continue the lockdown until May 3. The relaxation of some curbs suggested by the Union government after April 20 will not be applicable in the state. The TN government will review the lockdown based on the virus spread. The announcement was made after a 22-member expert committee led by finance secretary S Krishnan submitted an interim report to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The committee made a presentation to the chief minister and senior ministers during a three-hour long meeting that discussed the activities that could be allowed and the consequences. Finally, the chief minister decided to consolidate the gains from the lockdown and not to relax the restrictions. The expert committee considered the red flags raised by public health experts. Many of them said more data was required to take a decision. “That is also one of the key elements. None of the public health experts says it is perfectly safe to relax curbs. The problem is that we don’t have enough data nor enough knowledge about the virus. No one is able to say what technique works,” a committee member said. Since the state ramped up testing, which was now more focused on contacts, extended contacts, containment zones and people with symptoms, the authorities expected a clearer picture would emerge in the coming days. The committee took note of two key issues raised by industry -- export commitments and deployment of available workforce. However, there were also concerns over the availability of vendors at different locations, which could be containment zones, and supply chain management. IT and IT-enabled services firms said they would not need to follow the Centre’s guideline of 50% strength in offices as they had managed 95% productivity with work from home. “A lot of the industries are not keen on opening up in these circumstances,” said a member of the committee. The MSME sector sought clarity since many thought all operations could begin after April 20, while the government was to take a call based on the recommendations of the expert committee. “This is one reason the government issued a statement on Sunday that lockdown will continue until a decision is made. Today, the government decided not to relax curbs as it did not want to take a chance if there is a spike in cases. If we delay by two weeks, economy will suffer, and revenue receipts will take a hit, but what if people die. The economy will rebound, and we can earn later,” another committee member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-relaxation-lockdown-to-continue-till-may-3-tn-govt/articleshow/75261272.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Over 15k migrants back to work in Amravati division||Nagpur: Just over 15,000 migrant workers have left their temporary shelter homes and joined work at various public projects in Amravati division. In a smoothly coordinated movement of migrants, Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh has ensured that migrants are back to their original workplaces while adhering to health guidelines. Speaking to TOI, Singh said they had two groups of migrants housed across various shelter homes. “One group numbering around 15,000 comprises those who were already working here in projects like Samruddhi Expressway and had to leave those work sites because of the lockdown. These people were then accommodated at various shelters homes across the division,” said Singh.He added that the second group of around 7,500 comprised those who were working outside Maharashtra. “These are people who were on their way back home through Maharashtra. Since lockdown was in effect and borders sealed, we stopped their journey and provided them shelter with all necessary facilities,” said Singh.It’s the first group which has now gone back to work at their original locations. Singh said, “Work has resumed at various public project sites and these approximately 15,000 migrant labourers have rejoined.”It is common practice for such labourers to stay at the site in makeshift tents. Singh said, “To start with, we even provided some food grains to the site contractors so that the labourers don’t face immediate problems. Now, the work has started and things are back to routine for them.”However, the second group of migrants is eager to return home. “They have expressed their desire to not take up any employment at the moment, as their priority is to return home. Whenever the green signal for inter-state movement comes from the government, we will start the process for that,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-15k-migrants-back-to-work-in-amravati-division/articleshow/75260339.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Apparel exporters seek funds to pay workers||Coimbatore: The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking financial assistance to pay wages for workers of apparel industries for the next two months. In the letter dispatched to the PMO on Monday, AEPC chairman A Sakthivel said the council had managed to distribute wages to workers for March but won’t be able to pay them for April and May as there is neither production nor revenue in sight. The sector employs lakhs of people, most of them guest workers. Pointing out that their principal export markets in the US and Europe are under lockdown, he said that some of their buyers had not paid them for exported goods while some others had either postponed or cancelled the orders. “The loss of export is estimated to be over $4 billion,” he added. The lockdown in our country has resulted in complete stoppage of work and the situation may push many to close their factories which could result in several job cuts, he said.Explaining that they have been paying about 30% of the product cost as wages to workers and have 4-5% as profit margins, he requested the government to financially assist them in paying their workers, an immediate concern for the industry.Meanwhile, the South India Spinners Association (SISPA) on Monday requested the state electricity minister K Thangamani to sanction six equal instalments for payment of electricity bills for March without levying late payment surcharge or other additional levies.SISPA president N Murugesan in a letter to the minister said Tangedco should be advised to collect minimum electricity charges and not the sanctioned demand during the lockdown period as MSMEs are using electricity only for lighting the premises and are not consuming the entire sanctioned demand.He added that the same benchmark should be followed for at least six months as the availability of manpower and sale of finished products are uncertain during the period and that the exception would assist them overcome the financial crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/apparel-exporters-seek-funds-to-pay-workers/articleshow/75260341.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kochi||Rural police use soft power to manage guest workers||KOCHI: When the nation is anxiously looking at the Covid-19 spread in the slums of Mumbai, down south in Kerala the police have pulled off a nearly perfect containment campaign at Perumbavoor. The small town, which is less than 50km away from Kochi, hosts 1.2 lakh guest workers in 1,675 camps. Rather than using brute force, police relied on intelligence operations and soft power to keep thousands of guest workers in their respective camps for nearly a month, thus effectively controlling any possible disease spread through this largely volatile population. Ernakulam Rural police chief SP K Karthick says the situation at Perumbavoor is fully under control with the guest labourers being content with the facilities provided to them. According to sources with the Rural police, one among the first operation they undertook was to infiltrate the WhatsApp group of the guest labourers. Apart from making special branch personnel to join existing groups, police triggered creation of new groups and managed to acquire presence in as many as 360 groups, helping them effectively pull off their intelligence operation. Officers say that police not only used these groups to push police agenda but also to weed out troublemakers among the community who were spreading fake news. “We were able to understand their thoughts from these groups. We identified camps that needed attention and we managed to pick up troublemakers who deliberately tried to create issues. Some of them were moved to different camp sites,” said a senior officer. Police then relied on nodal officers — appointed by other states to take care of their people who are working in Kerala — to solve the grievances workers had about their families back in their home states. Police also took steps to ensure that the workers won’t use their free time for wrong purposes. “With the help of well-wishers, we gave them television sets and arranged cable networks. So, when they watch a Hindi channel, they see the situation in other states as well. If not for real news, they will turn to fake news on the social media and end up getting instigated into doing something stupid,” said the Rural SP. Police also had made an arrangement with cable service providers to give them access to movie channels so that they remain occupied. Officers even went to the extent of arranging them pen drives full of movies in their mother tongues. “We made committees within camps to prepare ideal food so that everyone is Police said maintaining social distancing was nearly impossible as there were so many people in a little space. “We can’t go to a colony of 5,000 and ask them to maintain social distancing at labour camps. So, we isolated these colonies and didn’t allow anyone, including politicians, to visit them,” said an officer, adding that frequent route marches were also held to show them that police have adequate force to take punitive action, if they are not cooperating to the kind face of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rural-police-use-soft-power-to-manage-guest-workers/articleshow/75257849.cms||Disney Tom
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||After CDV scare, is Gujarat’s pride under threat of another epidemic?||RAJKOT: Is another epidemic, similar to canine distemper virus (CDV) that had left 23 Asiatic lions dead in 2018, stalking Gujarat’s pride again? For the past two days, top forest officials of Gir sanctuary and near-by ranges are huddled in the Jasadhar range of Gir (east) division, reportedly concerned over some serious infection that is possibly spreading. They are particularly worried about three forest ranges - Tulsishyam, Hadala and Jasadhar - where at least 10 lions have died since January. Four have died in Tulsishyam-Khambha range, three in Jasadhar, two in Savarkundla and one in Hadala range. Of these, seven are lionesses, aged between five and 14 years, according to official data. The forest department has rescued a pride of around seven lions including cubs from Dedan village in Tulsishyam range since Saturday. They have been shifted to Jasadhar animal care centre. Officials, however, denied any possibility of a virus outbreak in the lion’s abode. Tulsishyam range has maximum lionsWhen contacted, D T Vasavada, chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle), claimed that the pride of seven lions was rescued because one of the cubs was weak. “We don’t know who is the cub’s mother, so it’s necessary to rescue the lioness for treatment,” said Vasavada, brushing aside possibility of CDV or a similar outbreak. “It’s a rumour. A similar rumour of CDV was spread a couple of months ago too when we had rescued a pride,” he claimed. In fact, it is reliably learnt that some forest department staff working in the field had flagged the possibility of a virus outbreak among lions in Gir (east) to the senior forest officials around three weeks ago. But the warning went unheeded, and now, the department has woken up to the seriousness. Interestingly, these three forest ranges are core areas of Gir sanctuary and relatively there is less human disturbance here. Also, Tulsishyam range has the highest number of lions in the entire Gir forest. In October 2018 too, the forest department had initially denied any disease when lions in Dalkhaniya starting dying one after another. But ultimately, they conceded that CDV was the killer. In the state Assembly last year, the government had conceded that of the 413 lions that died in Gir forest and other protected areas, 35% had died due to ‘illness.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/another-epidemic-stalking-gujarats-pride-once-again/articleshow/75260385.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Fresh MHA guidelines set to add burden on cops||Nagpur: The fresh guidelines issues by the ministry of home affair’s (MHA) for the extended lockdown period till May 3 may leave the already burdened cops overworked. The containment zones, clusters and hotspots have been the prime focus of city police. As per the new guidelines, equal concentration is required for other adjoining areas and elsewhere in the city too. In addition, city police will also have to keep tabs on the industries and companies for ensuring that lockdown norms are not violated and social distancing is maintained.City police commissioner BK Upadhyay said his force will try to carry out the responsibilities as much as possible.The fresh guidelines have indicated that cops will have to stretch community policing further. During the forthcoming community testing, police will have to ensure safety of health officials. Preparing for the community testing drive, cops will have to organize peace committee meetings involving local leaders so that they can intervene in case of resistance or violence against the health team.They will have to provide security to migrant labourers during their transportation to different work sites now, as the government is set to allow them to earn their livelihood in the area of their skills. Police are already managing security of shelter homes. Later, cops would have to ensure these migrant labourers do not cross the state border.Till 4pm on Monday, city police have already registered 3,341 offences against violators since lockdown.A senior inspector said police machineries would be exhausted if they are compelled to take up so many different responsibilities at the same time. “With the available manpower, it would be extremely demanding in regions like Vidarbha, where temperatures are high in summer, to meet the responsibilities so diverse in nature,” said the inspector.Another officer said that different agencies are handling separate work responsibilities as far as fighting Covid-19 is concerned but police remain present with all such teams. “City police have also taken up the responsibility to feed almost 1 lakh people per day with the help of NGOs and groups,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fresh-mha-guidelines-set-to-add-burden-on-cops/articleshow/75260352.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav rebooting self with Gita, Harrison’s Radha-Krishna||LUCKNOW: When politics is on a pause mode in the lockdown, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav is utilising time in re-reading Bhagwad Gita, Mahatma Gandhi’s Hind Swaraj and famous speeches of Ram Manohar Lohia. He also misses no chance to listen to Radha Krishna songs by George Harrison of Beatles fame and Pandit Bhimsen Joshi’s 'bhajans'. As political activities have come to a standstill, Akhilesh is able to give time to his ageing father Mulayam Singh Yadav. Last week, he had gifted a book of Indumati Kelkar on Lohia’s life to his father. Few days later, when he went to meet 'netaji' again the senior Yadav handed him over the same book after getting it properly bound. When Mulayam asked his son about some quotes in the book, Akhilesh told him that he would discuss the point after going through it thoroughly. Talking to TOI, the SP president said that whenever he could spare time from monitoring the food distribution work or looking into problems and grievances of the poor, he starts reading books of famous speeches of Ram Manohar Lohia as well as 'netaji'. “This is a great learning experience,” he said. Akhilesh is also going through books on famous correspondences between Lohia and Jawaharlal Nehru on various issues concerning the country, the polity and ways to check spread of communalism. Listening to George Harrison's songs and studying his experiences why he became a part of the 'Hare Krishna movement', the former chief minister said that “Krishna is the greatest pholosopher. He guides you in difficult times and solves everyone's problems. I am also trying to follow path shown by Geeta in my day-to-day life.” Now Akhilesh feels that someone has aptly written: “Don’t ridicule or annoy communal minds. Pity on them for being misguided. Bring them into the mainstream.” Akhilesh is also devoting at least a hour in listening to Pandit Bhimsen Joshi's famous 'bhajans' daily after his morning and evening workouts. It keeps him mentally and physically strong in these testing times. Basically a family man, Akhilesh still does not forget to tell everybody in his family the importance of maintaining social distancing. “This is a must to keep the corona threat away,” he said adding that due to the lockdown he is also able to give time to his family, including wife Dimple, twins Arjun and Tina and eldest daughter Aditi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-chief-rebooting-self-with-gita-harrisons-radha-krishna/articleshow/75261293.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Enough water to last till mid-June, says Coimbatore corporation||COIMBATORE: As the city gears up for summer season, residents are worried about water scarcity. But the city corporation is confident of supplying uninterrupted drinking water till June 15, officials said.“With the water in reservoirs, the corporation can ensure uninterrupted supply until mid-June. The monsoon showers will begin by that time,” said a corporation official. The civic body is careful using water from the Siruvani reservoir as in 2016, level had gone below five feet, the dead storage capacity. Water from the reservoir is supplied in 24 wards. The current water level in the reservoir is at 20 feet, a Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage (TWAD) board official said. “As the level has been decreasing, we have reduced the quantum of water drawn by 20 MLD so as to ensure steady supply.” On Monday, 80 to 85 MLD was drawn from the reservoir, the official said. “We used to draw 101 MLD, of which 96 MLD was supplied to the Siruvani water fed areas in the corporation limit and the remaining in 10 village panchayats and seven town panchayats in Thondamuthur.” At present, drinking water is supplied once in five to six days in most of the areas, the corporation official said. “To manage the situation, we have reduced the distribution cycle by almost an hour. Borewell water is supplied daily in the old corporation limit and once in two to three days in the added areas.” The corporation draws 125 MLD from the Pillur reservoir for 62 wards. The level in the reservoir is at 84 feet. Water from the Aliyar reservoir and the Bhavani scheme is supplied in seven wards each. The civic body has been supplying 220 MLD out of the city’s requirement of 240 MLD through pipelines and tanker lorries every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/enough-water-to-last-till-mid-june-says-corpn/articleshow/75260364.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Don’t get carried away while felicitating Corona warriors, maintain social distancing: Police||Dehradun: Uttarakhand police on Monday said that people are "getting carried away" in order to felicitate and welcome the coronavirus warriors/frontline workers—doctors, health workers, cops and sanitation workers—and violating social distancing norms. Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, said, "We are coming across several videos on social media where people are garlanding frontline workers, especially police personnel, with flowers and welcoming them. We respect their emotions, but in doing so, they are violating social distancing rules." There have been reports from several parts of Uttarakhand of people in groups showering flowers and welcoming police personnel and other officials with garlands for expressing gratitude towards their work in the ongoing crisis. "Even the flowers which are showered on the corona warriors can be carriers of coronavirus, as no one is aware from where they were sourced and whether they have been sanitised or not," Kumar said. The DG added that police headquarters has advised personnel to convince people to not gather in groups to felicitate corona warriors and refrain from showering flowers, as it can be a potential risk factor. Kumar said that police are making an appeal to the people to not forget social distancing norms while felicitating frontline workers and to not come out in groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-get-carried-away-while-felicitating-corona-warriors-maintain-social-distancing-police/articleshow/75259231.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 21, 2020||Surat||Experts study advanced AI nCov scanning||Surat: With an aim to prevent doctors from getting infected with coronavirus, a mother-daughter medico-technical team studied the AI-based Covid scanning to identify infection in a patient at the preliminary stage without any physical intervention of a doctor. In their study, the duo developed a concept that it can be verified at initial level if a person has infection through visual examination of throat by an automated AI scanner. The Study aims at prevent doctors who are already limited in numbers from getting infected from exposure to coronavirus during treatment of Covid positive patients.Dr Upena Dalal, professor in electronics department at Sardar Vallabhabhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) and her daughter Dr Parima Dalal Parikh, a paediatrician, undertook a study of throat infections in Covid-19 patients and developed a method to examine it electronically by a AI-based scanner. The duo took a lead from Krishna Ojha and Ekta Arora, two BTech students of Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Surat, who developed an initial model of AI based Covid19 scanner. “The students’ AI-based Covid-19 scanner notices basic symptoms of sneezing, coughing, runny nose and chest X-ray. But chest infection is developed at a later stage and in that condition a patient cannot even stand properly,” explained Dr Parikh.But during their study, the duo found that tonsillitis with some specific characteristics can suggest if it is due to coronavirus. “After studying the findings of doctors and examination details of coronavirus at the initial infection stage, we arrived at a conclusion that if the AI-based scanner can notice and identify the infected throat, it will be more effective for treating it at once,” said Dr Dalal.The mother-daughter team has also shared their findings with the two IIIT students. “Now we are working on use of infra-red thermal and optical camera to examine throat infections. With this, a patient can be examined by the scanner without any doctor coming in direct contact with the infected person,” Dr Dalal added.However, the study is still on the theory table without having conducted any clinical validation as yet. The team is now working on to get support from the MHRD to develop the project at an advance level which can be used in hospitals and health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/experts-study-advanced-ai-ncov-scanning/articleshow/75260368.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Police take charge of largest containment pocket in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: A slum off EM Bypass that hit the novel coronavirus spotlight nearly a week before Kolkata and the rest of India went into lockdown mode was sealed off by combat forces on Monday after at least three persons developed symptoms that resemble cases of Covid-19 infection. A large posse of policemen, including combat force personnel, surrounded Shahid Smriti Colony — a tenement that had sprouted in the late 1990s and organically developed into a 105-bigha slum with a 15,000-strong population — and barricaded it from all sides to ensure that the infection did not spill out. The containment measure though isn’t foolproof as one of the Covid suspects is the spouse of a chicken vendor who serviced several customers in the belt. The slum dwellers who worked in nearby high-rise complexes as part-time maids, drivers and plumbers had hit the headlines on March 18 when a woman who lived there and worked in a condominium across the road was quarantined after the son of her employer tested positive to the virus. He had returned from abroad recently and was the first recorded Covid case in Kolkata. However, when the Shahid Smriti Colony resident tested negative, it was a huge relief for not only other residents but public health officials as well. For containing a disease as infectious as Covid-19 in a densely populated slum with low hygiene practices is many times more difficult than at other urban settings. The relief, though, was short-lived after three persons in the slum first had high fever and then complained of respiratory distress — classic symptoms of a Covid-19 attack. Once KMC health officials got wind of the problem, Kolkata Police was immediately notified and a decision was taken to seal the area. The combat force — with help from Panchasayar and Purba Jadavpur police — turned the area into a fortress on Monday. They later accompanied a KMC health team armed with thermal radars on a house-to-house search for possible infected cases. The high-rise apartments where many of the slum residents worked are also under surveillance to identify possible suspects and isolate them. Residents of the housing complex that had reported the first case said they had sealed the complex gates and imposed a ban on movement of people. “The situation is scary. We have asked all residents to stay inside the complex and not venture out. Some of the men and women who came from outside to work here have been asked to stay back in the complex till this nightmare is over,” said Nilanjan Das, secretary of the apartment owners’ association. A KMC official said the solid waste management department had begun disinfection operations at Sahid Smriti Colony and it would continue over the next few days. Residents of adjoining neighbourhoods, like Ahalya Nagar, have sealed themselves in with bamboo barricades. In Nayabad, residents have formed a group wherein one person from a cluster of families is going out to shop for grocery and vegetables for all. “We have adopted the strategy to minimize movement of residents. Panic has gripped the entire neighbourhood that is now a high-risk zone. We have seen a number of people from the vicinity being sent to hospitals and quarantine centres,” said Anirban Chattopadhyay, a retired teacher and a resident of Nayabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-take-charge-of-largest-containment-pocket-in-s-kol/articleshow/75261298.cms||Saikat Ray
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Owing to lack of connectivity, courier services fail to take off||Nagpur: Even as the state government has exempted courier services from the lockdown with effect from April 20, operators are not hopeful of benefiting out of it unless transport and business sectors are allowed to function normally.Several courier firms to whom TOI talked expressed apprehension whether they would be able to work smoothly in the absence of staff and closure of road, air and rail transport services.Jayesh Paunikar of JP Courier Services said, “My firm mostly deals in dispatch of packaged material and documents either through post office or trains, airline and buses. As these transport services are closed, the relaxation is just an eyewash. Why will people come to me for dispatch of goods or papers? I opened my office sans any business.”Expressing similar fears, Ramji Joshi of Tirupati Courier Service said, “In view of the reports from Delhi about spread of Covid-19 even by delivery boys, we are thinking on how to go about it. We operate in 25 states and there remains a question mark on whether it will be safe to start services in the current situation. We have staff of 15. There are issues like how social distancing will be maintained. Secondly, when transport sector is closed, how to accept consignments when will we not be able to deliver?”However, major player DTDC has hailed the state’s decision. Abhishek Chakraborty, executive director, DTDC, said, “Our firm will start air cargo services for urgent deliveries to limited destinations. The company will impose Covid-19 emergency surcharge.”Chetan Tarode, manager (operations), DTDC, said, “The move will help us boost supplies by 30%. Though we have been operating during the lockdown and ensured supplies of 3,000 tonnes of life-saving essential commodities like medicine, masks and devices to fight Covid-19, opening of agriculture sector will boost supply of fertilizers, seeds and farm equipment. We will benefit as we have our own dedicated vehicles to transport these material.” For hotspot cities like Nagpur, Tarode said, “Non-essential goods will also be transported provided the manufacturer shows permission from the district administration. We are ensuring ‘zero contact delivery’ to customers by way of OTP. We are going for thermal test of customers and social distancing is maintained.”On the contrary, Fakir Naik, area manager, Blue Dart, said, “The state’s decision will not benefit unless there is connectivity. We are functioning with 30% capacity to deliver medicines and for banking sector. The government has not allowed opening of e-commerce sector, which could have benefited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/owing-to-lack-of-connectivity-courier-services-fail-to-take-off/articleshow/75260380.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Cane cutters stranded in W Maha start for their homes in Marathwada||Aurangabad: Thousands of sugar cane cutters started returning to their homes on Monday after getting the government’s consent. As per the official figures, about 1.31 lakh sugar cane cutters, most of them from Beed district of Marathwada, are currently stranded at 38 sugar factories in western Maharashtra. On Monday, the Beed administration received an application from the Pune-based Shiv Chatrapati Co-operative Sugar Factory Ltd, for the movement of 328 vehicles carrying the cane cutters. Officials said that of these 328 vehicles, 219 will be carrying sugar cane cutters from Beed alone. The remaining 109 vehicles would head toward Jalgaon and Parbhani. Beed, which has a sizeable number of sugar cane cutters, has gone all out to make necessary arrangements in the villages the workers will be returning to. As a precautionary measure, district collector Rahul Rekhawar has ordered that all the cane cutters would remain in quarantine for a period ranging from 14 to 28 days, before they are allowed to head home. Quarantine arrangements are being made in the villages. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar told TOI: “Of the 19 entry points to Beed district, most are along the western border. To avoid choking of the highways or any other law and order situation, 15 entry points have been earmarked for the entry of these vehicles, depending on the village or taluka they are heading to.” The officer said that as per government directives, each of the sugar cane cutters would be screened at the sugar factory, before they start their journey. “We have decided to screen each of them at the entry point as well,” said Poddar. Speaking about the sugar cane cutters, who had started for Beed without a clearance from the health department or the administration, Poddar said they will be strictly screened, and depending on the findings, would be sent for quarantine or to the district hospital. The authorities have designed a two-stage clearance process. Each of these 38 sugar factories should prepare a village, taluka and district-wise detailed list of all the cane cutters and appoint group leaders These factories will share this data with their respective district collectors and police authorities, who, in return, will share the same with the district collectors and superintendents of police. On reaching their villages, the village sarpanch, police beat marshals, Zilla Parishad staffers would counsel the cane cutters, and make them stay at either the shelters or ZP schools for the prescribed quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cane-cutters-stranded-in-w-maha-start-for-their-homes-in-marathwada/articleshow/75259234.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||Unwell daughter in her arms, Moradabad woman cop enforces lockdown||BAREILLY: In an awe-inspiring display of dedication to work, a woman sub-inspector (SI) posted at Civil Lines police station was spotted carrying her “unwell” one-year-old daughter in arms even as she stood guard at Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) trisection to nab lockdown violators. "As the district is on the high alert and with multiple novel coronavirus positive cases pouring in each day, I have to manage and look after my child during the duty hours," said the SI. Nishu Kadiyan, SI, Moradabad police, said, “I have two children and a caretaker look after them when I am out on duty. Besides, my husband, a businessman, also helps me in looking after the children. However, my one-year-old daughter has been unwell for a couple of days and she wants me by her side all the time. Since she had a mild fever and needed my attention, I had to bring her with me. I cannot afford to skip my duty at a time when the entire department is fighting the spread of the pandemic.” “Since the district is on the high alert, the police department is on its toes to ensure nobody violates the lockdown, and police personnel have been deputed at almost all prominent junctions and streets to ensure the lockdown compliance. Thus, I decided to report to my duty along with my baby rather than skipping it. Despite holding my baby in the arms, I have been performing my duty with full dedication and nabbed many people who were loitering in the area. On Monday, we issued around 20 e-challans for violating the lockdown norms,” added Kadiyan, who is in her 30s. Heaping praise on the SI, superintendent of police (city) Amit Anand told TOI that it came as a pleasant surprise to them as they learnt that “one of our constables is performing her duty so dedicatedly in such a testing time when the district has been declared a red zone with multiple Covid-19 positive cases being reported every day. The police department is taking all possible measures to combat the spread of the deadly virus and all our personnel are performing their duty with full dedication and devotion." The SP, meanwhile, appealed to the people to stay at home and cooperate with police in making the lockdown successful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unwell-daughter-in-her-arms-woman-cop-enforces-lockdown-win-plaudits/articleshow/75259262.cms||Maria Khan
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu coronavirus toll now 17; 43 new cases||CHENNAI: A 57-year-old Covid-19 positive man died at a private hospital and the state recorded 43 new cases on Monday. This took the total number of cases recorded in TN so far to 1,520 and the death toll to 17. For the second consecutive day, Chennai recorded the highest number of cases in the state – 18 on Monday - while Pudukottai recorded its first positive case.  Coronavirus live updates Thirteen other districts recorded less than five cases each. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said of the 43 new cases, 23 belonged to the Tablighi Jamaat cluster. Forty-six people were discharged. While 46 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 457, there were 1,043 active cases in various hospitals across the state. “Six of them are sick requiring support systems such as oxygen. Most patients are asymptomatic,” he said. The state, he said, has ramped up testing across all 33 labs, including 22 in the government sector. “We are doing RT-PCR tests for diagnosis. We will soon be adding facilities to do cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test -- a molecular diagnostic test for TB (identifies DNA in TB bacteria) – for diagnosis of Covid-19,” he said. The central government will supply cartridges, which will help the state get results in about 45 minutes, in a less cumbersome but efficient method of testing, he said. The state has tested 46,985 samples on Monday using RT-PCR compared to 40,876 on Sunday, he said. “In addition we are doing tests with the rapid antibody testing kits. Most samples are testing negative. We will not be able to announce the number of positive samples unless these people undergo a confirmatory PCR test,” he said. The state, he said had followed all norms in procuring rapid antibody kits. “Chhattisgarh has made fresh orders after the previous vendor declined to supply the order because it was not viable. AP has bought kits for a much higher price,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-toll-now-17-43-new-cases/articleshow/75261315.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kochi||Lockdown in Mulavukadu, corp even after April 24||Kochi: Lockdown restrictions will continue in Kochi corporation and Mulavukadu panchayat limits, identified as hotspots in Ernakulam, even after April 24 said agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar. Two entry and exit points to hotspots will be fixed. Travelling to hotspots will be allowed only in essential cases. District health officials had earlier identified Chullikkal in Mattancherry as a hotspot since a resident in the area died of Covid-19. But the state government included the whole local body limit in the hotspot category. Mulavukadu panchayat president Viji Shajan said they were yet to receive instructions from the district authorities regarding the implementation of restrictions related to hotspot. The minister said restrictions as part of lockdown will continue till April 24 in the district. Only family members will be allowed to travel on two-wheelers even after April 24. Everybody should wear mask while stepping out of their houses or face legal action. Sanitation should be conducted as per lockdown norms in houses and its premises before Friday. No actions, which will jeopardize the achievements made by the state in fight against Covid-19, will be allowed in Ernakulam, he said. Minister asked health officials to formulate guidelines to be followed at hotspot areas even after the lockdown ends. Strict vigil in Chullikkal will continue. Meanwhile, transportation of plastic waste from houses resumed in the district. The waste is being transported by Clean Kerala company. So far, four loads of plastic waste, kept at the collection facility, were transported from Chottanikkara panchayat. Forty tonnes of plastic waste are still remaining. As per Suchitwa Mission report, collection points at 25 local bodies are filled with plastic waste. The collector has provided passes to 10 vehicles for transporting them. Though no decision has been taken to open airports, discussions are under way on preparedness. A mock drill will be conducted on Tuesday, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lockdown-in-mulavukadu-corp-even-after-april-24/articleshow/75257900.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Two new Covid-19 cases found in Uttarakhand, seven patients recover||DEHRADUN: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 46 on Monday after two new cases were reported in Dehradun. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant said that both the cases had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members who were tested positive earlier this month. “Among the new cases, one is a 66-year-old man while the other patient is 29-year-old. Both had come in contact with Covid-19- positive Tablighi Jamaat members in the past,” added Pant. Meanwhile, seven Covid-19 patients have fully recovered and were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Monday. Now, a total of 18 cases have recovered in the Himalayan state. “Those who recovered on April 20 include two Jamaat members who were undergoing treatment at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, three people who were admitted to an Udham Singh Nagar facility, and two others who were admitted to Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani,” added Pant.  Uttarakhand has conducted 3,677 tests so far and over 66,000 people have been kept in quarantine at their homes or other facilities. Meanwhile, reacting to the rising number cases of abuse and violence against doctors and medical professionals in India, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Uttarakhand announced to observe a “Black Day” on April 23. “Additionally, the doctors will work with black badges on hands on April 23 if the government fails to enact a central law on violence against doctors,” said Dr DD Choudhary, state secretary of IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-new-cases-found-in-ukhand-seven-patients-recover/articleshow/75259280.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Half of city’s fresh 40 +ve cases from Koh-e-Fiza, Jehangirabad||Bhopal: Koh-e-Fiza and Jehangirabad accounted for roughly half of the 40 Covid-19 positive cases reported by the health department in Bhopal on Monday. One more death was reported in Bhopal hospital. The deceased was a laboratory technician from Shahjapur and died in a Bhopal hospital after testing positive. So far, Bhopal has recorded 254 cases and seven deaths due to Covid-19. Around 18 cases were reported from Jehangirabad area. Samples were taken in the area after two deaths were reported in the last fourth night. Lockdown was less than stringent in the area on Monday, before the new positive cases were reported. Shops and grocery stores were visibly open in the containment area. Another area where cases can increase in Koh-e-Fiza. It along with Khanugoan are one of the less guarded zones in the state capital. “Unrestricted movement of local residents is a worrying sign,” said a health worker in the area. Meanwhile, Hanotiya village reported its first case of Covid-19. The area falls under Pipariya Tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/half-of-citys-fresh-40-ve-cases-from-koh-e-fiza-jehangirabad/articleshow/75259284.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Cops on Covid-19 duty treated to stress busting music programme||Nagpur: A stress buster musical program was organized for cops posted on Covid-19 duties, jointly by Sahyog Trust, Swaraj Foundation and Nagpur police department at Ram Nagar Square on Monday. The 30-minute event was organized for cops in view of the hectic schedule and pressure these cops are going through since last over a month in the fight against coronavirus. Cops were seen clapping and enjoying the Hindi film songs being played live by flute artist Gajendra Gabhane, including from the film Hero. Local residents joined in by bringing juice for the cops, who were lauded for performing their duties like heroes in the time of corona pandemic risking their own life. Ravindra Bhusari, trustee of Sahyog Trust, said that such events for the cops go a long way in relieving their stress. Music acts as a stress buster and hence we thought of such an event for these heros, he said. Sandesh Singalkar, president of Swaraj Foundation, said they organized this event only for cops keeping precautions in mind like masks and social distancing, and with the permission of the police department. Vijay Kare, police inspector at Ambazari police station, thanked the organizers for organizing the lovely programme specially for cops. “Around 20 cops participated in this event, organized under a tree, keeping all precautions of social distancing in account. We have asked the organizers to hold more such event in the evenings, when cops go home after duty, so that the cops can really relax after their hectic duties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-on-covid-19-duty-treated-to-stress-busting-music-programme/articleshow/75260427.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||For industries resuming work, stay put clause a dampener||Nagpur: The state government’s order to restart industries in the rural areas is a non-starter. A recent clarification to the order issued by state’s chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on April 17states workers and even employers once leaving the city limits to reach their units cannot return until the lockdown ends. This is a dampener for the industries.The order had laid down a standard operation procedure (SOP) for starting the industrial activities from Monday. One condition was that arrangement has to be made for the workers’ stay at the unit or close by. Their transport to the factory too has to be arranged by the employers and the vehicle should be only to used 30-40% of the capacity.Earlier, there was an impression among the local industrialists that they could either make arrangement for the workers’ stay or transport them to the factories each day in a dedicated vehicle.Divisional commissioner (Nagpur) Dr Sanjeev Kumar told TOI any worker going to the industries in rural areas cannot come back to city limits. This will be a one-time arrangement. The transport and stay has to be arranged by the employer.The officer also clarified that the one-time condition will also be applicable to the management and promoters if they come to the factory. Travel back will be possible only when the lockdown ends.Confusion remained over another clause. It says workers from hotspots/containment zones will not be permitted to work. Entire Nagpur is a hotspot with several containment zones within it. A text message seeking clarification to the chief secretary remained unanswered.Industries wanting to start operations can give declaration at the portal that the SOP will be followed. It will be deemed as permission granted, said official sources. Some units that had filled up details on the portal were, waiting for a confirmation from MIDC’s side.Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of MIDC Industries Association at Hingna said the guidelines came at the last moment. The industrialists were informed by the district administration. This discouraged many from starting units.Nitin Lonkar, president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association, said the order was not clearly drafted leading to the confusion. The one time travel clause was clarified only at the eleventh hour. In Mihan-SEZ, units like Dassault Reliance Aviation Limited (DRAL) and Air India’s maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) depot started operations on Monday.A representative from NECO Limited said as the details have been submitted, the company will take a call once it gets permission from MIDC’s side. Explosive maker Solar Industries started operations with 10% staff. An official in a textile major that has a unit in Amravati said the operations will begin only after the lockdown ends.Central government offices too started with 33% staff. Among the offices TOI found working were GST department, AG office, and EPFO. The income tax office remained closed even as its training establishment the National Academy of Direct Taxes (NADT) resumed work.The Income Tax Gazetted Officers’ Association has written to the NADT’s director general requesting to keep the academy closed. NMC had advised NADT to reopen only in case of utmost necessity. A senior official said the NADT had gone by orders of the Ministry of Home Affairs.Sources at the Ordnance Factory said there was confusion as the factory did not come under MIDC. It may not be possible for it to upload details of workers’ names as the factory engages about 2000 workers. It has written to the collector seeking clarification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-industries-resuming-work-stay-put-clause-a-dampener/articleshow/75260417.cms||Shishir Arya
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Relief in power tariff sought for MSMEs||COIMBATORE: Several industrialists and political leaders have appealed to the state government to reconsider its decision of asking MSMEs to pay electricity charges for March and April by May 6, as industrial activity grinded to a halt in these months due to the lockdown. Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan, in a letter to state electricity minister P Thangamani, said industries have been asked to pay power charges for March and April within May 6, and as power readings were not taken for these months, they should pay tariff of the January and February cycle. Since March 25, MSMEs and power loom units have not been functioning. “Due to this, in the coming days they will have to face severe financial crisis. In this situation, asking industries to pay power tariff immediately after the lockdown ends would add to their burden,” he said. A month after MSMEs start operations, the state should hold talks with representatives from the sector and decide on whether the tariff should be waived or should be paid in instalments, he said. MSME associations from the district also have been asking for waiver of power charges for at least three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/relief-in-power-tariff-sought-for-msmes/articleshow/75260407.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||E-exhibition for architects, artists||LUCKNOW: In order to resume art and architectural activities and to assist artists in the lockdown, principal of the college of architecture and planning Vandana Sehgal launched first of its kind e-exhibition ‘#artuninterrupted’ on Facebook on Monday. Talking to TOI here on Monday, Sehgal said as of now works of eight artists of national repute have been uploaded for sale. She said that “e-exhibition is an attempt to provide a platform to artists and architects to attract buyers for their works without violating lockdown norms and maintaining social distancing.” At a time when various sectors, including education, banking and retail business, have gone digital, the college of architecture and planning decided to launch the e-exhibition for the benefit of artists and architects. “It is a smart way to enable artists and architects meet buyers online,” Sehgal added. So far, eight artists have joined the virtual exhibition, but the kind of response the FB page is getting it is expected that more artists would join it soon, the principal said. Sehgal, who has received many awards in the field of architecture and worked with several foreign universities, has recently signed an MoU with a German university for the restoration of Indian heritage buildings with UNESCO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/e-exhibition-for-architects-artists/articleshow/75261304.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Rapid tests start in sensitive zones, to cover more areas||KOLKATA: The state on Monday started rapid tests in high-risk zones like Belgachhia and Howrah and is likely to extend it to “low-intensity areas” from Tuesday. At noon on Tuesday, laboratory medical technologists from IPGMER, which has been tasked to supervise all rapid tests in Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas, arrived at Belgachhia. The team screened 15 people who had been identified and quarantined after they had complained of cough and cold and in a few cases, mild respiratory distress. “A door-to-door fever survey was conducted here. People who had been tested had complained of these symptoms in the last five days,” a source said. The samples were collected and tested at IPGMER, which is likely to share the results with the state health department. To stop panic-mongering, the state government had already said it will follow the ICMR guidelines and not immediately reveal rapid test results to those tested. ICMR has already cautioned all states that rapid antibody test is only a supplementary test to gauge prevalence of the diseases in specific zones and can be used for epidemiological studies and surveillance. Speaking to reporters, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha has indicated that rapid tests will be conducted in a few some low-intensity districts. “We have nine districts in Bengal that have not reported a single case. In some districts, which had reported cases earlier, there has not been fresh cases in the past week. The tests will be extended to some of these areas as well,” he said. Anticipating a state-wide rollout of the rapid tests The state health department has asked all medical colleges and hospitals to prepare a pool of 10-15 laboratory medical technologists from their existing pool and train them for sample collections and laboratory tests. The state also plans to set up mobile units to conduct rapid tests. Abhijit Chowdhury, a member of the medical expert committee advising the state, made it clear that the real-time PCR (polymerase chain reaction) based molecular test will be real marker, as per ICMR guidelines. “The rapid tests can only be indicative and can be effective within a week after a person develops symptoms. It will provide some critical inputs to the state to devise its intervention strategy,” he said. IPGMER will handle a bulk of the high-risk zones, including those in Kolkata and Howrah, School of Tropical Medicine (STM) will conduct rapid tests in East Midnapore and Nandigram and RG Kar Medical College Hospital will conduct rapid tests in North 24-Parganas. All 14 medical colleges have been tasked to conduct these state-wide tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rapid-tests-start-in-sensitive-zones-to-cover-more-areas/articleshow/75261301.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP to govt: Allow conversion of B khata to A||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has sought the government’s nod for conversion of B khata properties to A khata as part of its measures to increase revenue flow and ensure uniformity in the property tax collection mechanism. A proposal to this effect was mooted in the budget approved by the BBMP council on Monday. Khata is a revenue document that records details about the property, including size, location and built-up area, and makes the owner liable for payment of property tax. After the civic agency expanded in 2007, many illegal constructions in newly added areas came under its ambit and a separate register was maintained to collect tax from such properties, which came to known as B khata register. According to BBMP officials, 5.3 lakh properties are registered under B khata. The Palike hopes to mobilise over Rs 1,500 crore revenue by converting B khata properties to A khata, which is equated to a certificate for legal compliance. Officials maintain the conversion will help B khata property owners, who are finding it difficult to establish building ownership, get bank loans and civic benefits. However, a section of corporators and urban planners oppose the move, saying it’s nothing but regularisation of illegal constructions in the city. “The issue is already in court and we should not be touching this topic by giving it a different name,” said a BJP corporator. Opposition leaders in the council too said the government should not go ahead with it until BBMP elections are over. However, Palike authorities maintained khata conversion will not cover properties with building plan violations and those constructed on unauthorised layouts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-to-govt-allow-conversion-of-b-khata-to-a/articleshow/75259925.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Eight cases without contact or travel history identified||COIMBATORE: Health officials in the district are in a fix as there have been at least eight cases of Covid-19 in the last one week with neither a travel history nor a contact with a postive patient. Spread across Kinathukadavu, Anamalai and Sirumugai, the infected include two new mothers who underwent C-sections, a newborn, a patient attender, a five-year-old boy and a mother-son duo. The latest case is a sub-inspector from Annur, who tested positive and has no travel or contact history. These new cases have put the health department into an overdrive in terms of mass testing in affected areas and the Pollachi GH, which is being seen as a spread point, said sources. A day after three more people in Pollachi GH tested positive, the health department tested almost 169 people in the headquarters hospital, including doctors, patients and staff with rapid test kits. “They have all tested negative so far,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “The three people who tested positive on Sunday were at the GH at the same time when 20-year-old Revathi from Vettaikaranpudur, was admitted for a C-section and was later kept in the post- operative ward,” he said. But the source of infection in Revathi itself remains unconfirmed. Health officials said Vettaikaranpudur, where Revathi is from, is already a containment zone. They said Revathi may have got infected by her husband, who is a driver. However, her husband and mother have tested negative. The two people who tested positive are also from Sirumugai, which is a containment zone because some Tablighi jamaat attendees who tested positive live in that area. “The old lady and the young man literally live next door to some of the earlier positive cases on Sirumugai Road. We found them while testing the neighbors of all positive cases in the district,” said Dr Kumar. The contact tracing of the five-year old boy who tested positive at Kinathukadavu is not clear. “A few people who tested positive were initially housed at a wedding hall near the boy’s house. We suspect that the boy may have touched a surface that one of the positive patients touched,” said the deputy director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eight-cases-without-contact-or-travel-history-identified/articleshow/75260440.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP to foot water bill for households using up to 10,000 litres a month||BENGALURU: BBMP on Monday announced that every Bengaluru household that consumes up to 10,000 litres of Cauvery water every month will be supplied the same free of cost. Disclosing this, L Sreenivas, taxation and finance standing committee chairperson, said, “Domestic connection users with more than 10,000 litres shall pay their usual bill, while others will be supplied free water.” In order to provide free water, the Palike has made a budgetary allocation of Rs 43 crore as annual payment to BWSSB. “We want to ensure every household in the city has regular water supply without any hassles,” mayor Goutham Kumar told TOI. R Ashoka, revenue minister, said this move was intended to benefit about 2.5 lakh families, including those living in 110 villages, which were added to BBMP limits about 10 years ago. “Due to Covid-19 lockdown, the economic burden on small families is very high. So the BBMP has decided to provide up to 10,000 litres free water to all a month,” Ashoka said. Senior BWSSB officials said a nuclear family of four will consume 8,000 to 10,000 litres of water per month. According to World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, each person must be provided with 135 litres of water, another senior civic official pointed out. “People might not use the entire quota but will certainly use at least 80-90 litres of water per day and so we decided to give 10,000 litres of free water per month,” he said. Requirement patternFor an individual as per WHO -- 135 litres per day Regular availability of water for an individual -- 110 to 120 litres per day For cooking and drinking -- 15 litres per day per person For secondary and tertiary usage - 45 to 60 litres per day per person Source BWSSB||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-to-foot-water-bill-for-households-using-up-to-10k-litres-a-month/articleshow/75260092.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Online classes: Some schools say bye to Zoom app, others weigh options||KOLKATA: Safety concerns and doubts over the security of Zoom app for online classes have forced several city schools to shift their virtual classrooms to other platforms like Google Hangout, Google Meet, Skype or Adobe Connect. While Modern High for Girls and South Point High School continue to use the app with safety measures, others like Ram Mohan Mission School, The Heritage School and Ashok Hall Group of Schools have already made the shift. Some schools in Kolkata have also issued circulars expressing their concern about the platform and chalked out a plan to replace it with video-conferencing. Looking at the risks involved, the state school education department is mulling to ask schools to opt for other platforms. On Saturday, Modern High issued a letter to parents, mentioning recent advisories by the government and requested teachers to use Google Docs while sharing documents. Zoom has enabled a host of security features, including password protection for webinars, user authentication protocols, option to disallow users to join a meeting before the host, ability to lock a meeting and turn off participant screen sharing. All these measures had been adopted by schools before going ahead with the classes. At South Point,190 teachers will host 1,175 online sessions in next one week and 10,000 students will participate. “In the future, we may shift to a more viable platform if found better suited. Our teachers have also been issued guidelines and have undergone training sessions,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani. Ram Mohan Mission School has instructed all teachers to shift to Google Meet and uninstall the Zoom app. “Since certain complaints are being raised with allegations such as the app is maliciously hacked and private conversations being recorded. Thus, we shifted from the Zoom meeting platform,” said principal Sujoy Biswas. At The Heritage School, principal Seema Sapru has also written a letter to all faculty members, advising them to discontinue using the Zoom app. “Instead, they are now hosting classes on the Google Meet. We also arranged for a session and video recordings to be uploaded on Youtube for teachers to access and learn the use of Google Meet,” said Sapru. Apeejay School principal Rita Chatterjee said the classes which were being held on the platform have been shifted. Birla Bharati School is switching to other platforms in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-classes-some-schools-say-bye-to-zoom-app-others-weigh-options/articleshow/75261314.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Worried about weight gain staying indoors? Do simple chores, say doctors||HYDERABAD: Weight issues, after being under lockdown for a month, have come into focus with many people going overboard cooking and eating at home. This, doctors say, has resulted in an increase in calls to them seeking advice. “Surgery aside, I get about 20 calls a day now just for weight loss, which was not the case before,” says Dr Nandakishore D, chief of surgery, obesity and diabetes, KIMS-Livlife centre. “People initially felt like the lockdown was an extended holiday. It began with binge eating and drinking. After sometime of staying indoors, depression has also been added to this resulting in a vicious cycle.” The doctor said that lack of exercise is also a major factor. Dr Lakshmi Kilaru, who heads the nutrition department at Apollo Life, also said more queries were pouring in regarding weight issues after the lockdown began. “Irregular sleeping hours and lack of exercise is a problem. The body rhythm has become topsy-turvy with people working even odder hours and snacking all the time.” To beat weight woes, doctors say doing simple chores at home can go a long way. “Household chores and gardening over 30 minutes can help a person lose 120 to 300 calories respectively,” said Dr Nandakishore. Stressing on the need to stay fit during the outbreak, Dr Vighnesh Naidu, specialist in internal medicine, consulting with CallHealth - a health care service provider, says, “We have also seen an increase in the number of calls and cases coming in for respiratory symptoms. These seem to be higher in individuals who are either overweight or obese. The same group is also found to have higher values of inflammatory markers. This trend is not just specific to Covid-19 but also to other respiratory illnesses”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worried-about-weight-gain-staying-indoors-do-simple-chores-say-docs/articleshow/75260335.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||1,800 meter readers out of jobs, contractors helpless||HYDERABAD: The state might not be losing any income despite lack of meter readings this month as consumers are billed based on March 2019’s consumption, but about 1800 meter readers in the state have lost their livelihood and are struggling to make the ends meet. While operations and maintenance (O&M) staff and artisans in the electricity department will be drawing their full salary for April, meter readers, who are outsourced employees, will have no income. They fear that they might also not have any income for May as the lockdown has already been extended until May 7. Members of Telangana State Vidyut Meter Readers Union said that they are paid Rs 1.90 per bill in urban areas and Rs 2.50 per bill in rural areas for recording the energy consumption by consumers. “I generate bills of 3000 households every month and earn about Rs 6000,” said Gummadi Venkateshwarulu, president of the union adding that they would be submitting a representation to the state demanding to pay at least Rs 5000 each to meter readers. Contractors, meanwhile, said that they did not get any communication from the state on whether or not they will be paid this month. “If the department pays us for April, we will be able to pay meter readers,” said Dayakar Gelli, one of the contractors in the state. Officials of the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited, on the other hand, said that the onus is on contractors to pay meter readers. “The department cannot pay for all outsourced employees,” said K Ramulu, director (Commercial, DPE, Assessment and Energy Audit). “At this stage, it is also not clear if the average bill next month will be counted as one or two. It is a policy decision,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1800-meter-readers-out-of-jobs-contractors-helpless/articleshow/75260289.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayawada man dies of Covid-19 in UK||HYDERABAD: A Vijayawada man succumbed to coronavirus in England’s Reading. According to sources, Kopparapu Hanumantha Rao contracted the coronavirus after attending a gathering and died at the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading on Sunday night. Rao was working on a project with Vodafone. He was an Indian citizen with permanent residency in the UK.His family hails from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. He studied engineering in Acharya Nagarjuna University in Guntur. Rao is survived by his wife, two children and parents. Meanwhile, the Indian community has taken upon itself to collect funds to arrange for the final rite of Rao. As on Monday, 47,000 was raised on GoFundMe with contributions coming in from a large number of people. Venkata Rupanagudi, who is organising the fund-raiser, said his colleague had succumbed to Covid-19. “This campaign has been set up to collect funds to support the family through this difficult time and for their future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijayawada-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-uk/articleshow/75260229.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||No need for MF investors to panic, says IIT-Hyderabad study||HYDERABAD: The mutual funds industry may be going through a volatile patch due to the coronavirus pandemic, but there is no need for investors to panic as long as the NAV (net asset value) of their MF investment does not fall drastically in the first quarter of the financial year 2020-21, a study on the performance of the Indian MF industry by the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IIT-H) said on Monday. In the wake of the pandemic, volatility will continue to grip the MF industry because of investor concerns over the ongoing turmoil in the Indian economy, said the study by Prof Badri Narayan Rath, faculty, department of liberal arts, IIT-H. The study pointed out that though the stimulus packages announced by the Union finance ministry and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may encourage MF investors to continue investing through SIP, it poses uncertainty about their future cash flows and exposure of investment to equity assets. “Investors with a continuous flow of income, who are aiming at long-term investment horizons, should not pull out their money from mutual funds irrespective of volatility in the equity and debt funds in the short term. Instead, small investors may shift from the Systematic Investment Plan (SIP) to Systematic Transfer Plan (STP) in the medium term to mitigate the risk amid the Covid-19 outbreak,” Prof Rath said. MFs have become the investment vehicle of choice for propelling wealth and widening the choice of India’s middle class but the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown has wreaked havoc on the sector, the study said. The research analysed the performance of equity and debt funds by considering the period between January 30 to March 15, 2020 as the Covid-19 low intensity phase and from March 16 to April 15 2020 as the COVID-19 high intensity phase to explore the linkage between Covid-19 and financial performance of the MF sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-need-for-mf-investors-to-panic-says-iit-h-study/articleshow/75260244.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Educators seek pay without deduction||Coimbatore: The state government has decided to deduct Rs 2,000 as fixed travel allowance from the salary of special educators who teach differently-abled students in government schools, as they have not visited schools amid the lockdown. The salaries of special educators was increased from Rs 16,000 to Rs 18,000 in 2019. The teachers said was not categorically mentioned that the Rs 2,000 hike was earmarked as fixed travel allowance. “Now, during the lockdown, the state informed us that the amount was meant as travel allowance and we would not be receiving it with this month’s pay,” they said. There are 2,196 special educators in the state to teach students with special needs. Many of them rue the fact that they have not been regularised as even after being in service from 2002. In a crisis, they said, the state should not deduct their salaries as many of them are the only earning members in their families. P Babu, state general secretary of the Tamil Nadu samagra shiksha special educators association for differently abled students, said the Rs 2,000 hike in 2019 was just mentioned as an increment and was not allotted under a separate head for travel allowance. “Even if we want to visit differently-abled students, it is impossible now. So it’s unfair for the state to deduct the amount,” he said. Several teachers’ associations have come in their support. P K Ilamaran, president of Tamil Nadu teachers association, said the state has informed private firms not to deduct pay during the lockdown, but the pay of special educators was being deducted. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/educators-seek-pay-without-deduction/articleshow/75260429.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Exam anxiety and pandemic impact on academic schedule grip students||HYDERABAD: With the state government further extending the lockdown till May 7, students pursuing professional courses have raised concerns over the exam and academic schedule. Although online classes are being held for a majority of courses, students are wary of appearing for exams based on online mode of studies. Many state universities were set to conduct undergraduate and post-graduate exams which were then postponed owing to the Covid-19 lockdown declared by the central government. “With such gaps of knowledge, heading for exams, as soon as the colleges are allowed to reopen, will cause an irreparable loss to students. Thoughts of such loss is causing anxiety among students, who might already be going through lockdown anxiety,” said Abul Fazal, final year BTech student at Muffakham Jah College of Engineering & Technology, who recently shot off an open letter to the Osmania University seeking a suitable exam schedule. According to OU officials, all the departments have completed about 70-95% of the syllabus. In some cases, students have been given topics to work on their project reports and assignments and seek further guidance of faculty members either through email or WhatsApp. “The university is evolving a mechanism to grapple with the academic and administrative issues arising out of Covid-19. It is contemplating setting up of a committee to evolve a plan of action with regard to the conduct of examination, assignments, projects, practicals and evaluation etc.,” the Osmania University said in its statement on Monday. “It is observed that in the present situation, our stakeholders have expressed their concern about the examinations and possible delay in next academic calendar. Taking note of the genuine concerns of the students, teachers, parents and institutions, UGC has already constituted an expert committee to deliberate on the issues related to examinations and academic calendar and submit its recommendations,” stated a notice issued by UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exam-anxiety-and-pandemic-impact-on-academic-schedule-grip-students/articleshow/75260259.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||From cricket to kite-flying, no sign of lockdown in these areas||BHOPAL: In some zones of the city, it does not feel like a lockdown. Despite CCTV surveillance through the Integrated Control and Command Centre (ICCC), there has not been much of a difference in the area. Residents and those involved in emergency services admit that stricter measures are required from the district administration. A case in point is the Rs 350-crore BRTS corridor. From Roshanpura to Polytechnic Square, the stretch of road is a free for all. “Complaints do not get resolved. One side of the road comes under TT Nagar police station and another falls under Jehangirabad police station. People party and move along the street beyond midnight. It is all recorded in the ITMS cameras installed on the road,” said a local resident, seeking anonymity. From kite flying to day-and-night cricket matches, to loud music that goes beyond late night has become a norm in the area. Over the last two weeks, some miscreants have removed the iron dividers from the BRTS, he added. The area is near Professors’ Colony, which in a sharp contrast has been declared a Covid-19 containment zone. The slums and other parts of Banganga and Roshanpura are within 2 km of the zone and should be in lockdown. Residents from Ahata Rustam Khan also venture into Priyadarshni park and the BRTS. Moving ahead, entry into VIP road is only possible after a security check. However, between the entry and exit points, youngsters roam without restrictions. An ITMS camera has caught two instances of near mishaps. A teenager almost rammed into a moving vehicle while he was chasing a kite. In another instance at Khanugoan, a drone filmed a gathering of more than 25 people near a shop. Complaints to the local police station by the residents has gone unanswered. At most, a Dial- 100 vehicle moves twice a day through the by lanes of Khanugoan. “It seems there is no lockdown here,” said a local resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/from-cricket-to-kite-flying-no-sign-of-lockdown-in-these-areas/articleshow/75259298.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||PWD to start work on certain projects with immediate effect||Dehradun: In a circular released on Monday, Uttarakhand government announced that work on some specific projects will start with immediate effect while adding that rules and regulations set by the Government of India are to be strictly followed during construction. “No construction activity can be undertaken in contaminated zones and restrictions have been imposed in buffer zones as well. However, works can be undertaken in certain areas while following guidelines,” Hari Om Sharma, engineer-in-chief of Public Works Department (PWD), told TOI. According to guidelines, workers won’t be called from outside the municipal zone if the construction work is taking place in a particular municipality limit. Only the workers present in a particular place will be allowed to participate in the construction work being undertaken in that locality. However, workers from other districts of the state can be brought for work by contractors for construction work in rural areas. Also, the top priority will be given only to those projects in which 75% (or more) work was completed by March 31, 2020. This decision has been taken in view of the shortage of man-power during the lockdown. “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, there is a shortage of man-power and therefore, we have been selective in choosing our projects keeping in mind various factors, including man-power, budget, among others,” added Sharma. Meanwhile, works on Central government projects will also continue irrespective of the percentage of their completion. The Central government’s projects ongoing in Uttarakhand, include Char Dham project, Kumbh Mela 2021, national highways, and others. Sharma added that works on bridge construction will also continue as improving connectivity is also a top priority. Notably, SOP (standard operating procedures) guideline has already been issued which state all the measures that must be taken during construction work. The circular has instructions regarding maintaining social distancing, providing masks to every worker, proper sanitation facilities, registration of workers, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pwd-to-start-work-on-certain-projects-with-immediate-effect/articleshow/75259295.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||No work, no pay: 10,000 Telugu workers stuck in Kurdistan||HYDERABAD: Lives of over 10,000 Telugu workers in Kurdistan have turned upside down with no work and no pay in the last two months owing to coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown which the regional government had started implementing from as early as March 13. With very little hope of resuming work or getting their wages, the workers are desperate to come back to India. There are 4,000-6,000 Telugu workers employed in Erbil itself, mostly in the construction industry, building maintenance and small firms. Other workers used to slug it out in Sulaymaniyah and other places. “There is no work for the last two months. There are no positive signs that life will come back to normalcy in coming months. Workers won’t be paid the wages as well,” said Ramchander Rayalwar, vice-president of Telugu Gulf Employees’ Welfare Association told TOI from Erbil. Rayalwar said a majority of them want to go back. He said they used to earn 300 dollars a month. “Now, there is no hope of earning even 100 dollars a month post Covid-19 situation,” he said. Workers from Telangana have already sent a message to the state government indicating their eagerness to return from Erbil, which has reported 337 positive coronavirus cases and four deaths. The Kurdistan government said anyone who returned from India should get themselves tested for Covid-19 and asked people to not venture out due to the lockdown, which is likely to be extended beyond April 24. Around 200 Telugu workers have no food and their companies are not taking care of them. Seeing their plight, the Telugu Gulf Employees’ Association along with Ganga Raju of Priya Spice have come forward to help them. Chandramouli from the Consulate General of India in Erbil also joined the food distribution which began on April 19. Association president Alagonda Dakshinamurthi said they would continue food distribution until the lockdown is lifted. Some Telugu workers who gathered at Ankava in Erbil were given food on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-work-no-pay-10k-telugu-workers-stuck-in-kurdistan/articleshow/75260203.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 21, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Sarpanch to bear entire village’s tax burden in Chhota Udepur||VADODARA: Owing to the corona pandemic and the stringent lockdown, Union finance ministry has extended the deadline for paying taxes to give some relief to harassed citizens. But, at the same time, a handful of Good Samaritans have gone a few steps ahead and made themselves role models in society. Vishal Patel, the 32-year-old sarpanch of a village in Chhota Udepur, has done it exactly the same way. He has ensured that nobody in Handod village in Sankheda taluka that houses around 250 families will have to pay revenue tax or water tax amounting to Rs 1.5 lakh this year. Patel has decided to bear the entire tax burden from his own pocket. “I am also a farmer and my crops are also rotting on my farm. Therefore, I can understand and empathize with other hapless farmers. Waiving tax would be a burden on the gram panchayat. And so, since I have enough resources, I decided to take this step,” said Patel, who was elected around three years ago. “Our village, although small, has also been hit due to the lockdown as there are no farm labourers nor any transportation resources available to move the farm produce,” said Patel, adding that farmers’ income has been drastically reduced in face of the crisis. “The lockdown has reduced demand and farmers are not able to send the product to other states. We used to get Rs 200 to Rs 250 for every quintal of bananas, but now we are forced to sell them at Rs 50 for the same quantity,” said Patel, adding that the villagers are mainly into cultivation of bananas, cotton, groundnut, and maize. Until now, no case of coronavirus has been reported in Sankheda region of the district. But Patel has ensured that even in the worst of times, he will stand by his villagers. “God forbid, if there will be any deaths due to coronavirus in our village, the family of the victim will be paid Rs 21,000 as compensation,” Patel told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sarpanch-to-bear-entire-villages-tax-burden/articleshow/75258762.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Harish Rao reviews canal works in Siddipet, Dubbak||HYDERABAD: As the construction of another reservoir of Ranganayaka Sagar, a part of the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project, was completed, finance minister T Harish Rao directed the irrigation officials to complete the canal works in Siddipet and Dubbak assembly constituencies as soon as possible. “As the reservoir, which has the capacity of 3 tmc is ready, the irrigation department is getting ready to fill tanks and lakes in Chinna Kodur, Narayanaraopeta and Siddipet rural mandals in the first phase. Over one lakh acres would be irrigated in 28 villages under the reservoir. Nearly 140 irrigation tanks get water once pumping starts,” Harish Rao said. The minister reviewed canal works with the officials at the Chandalapur irrigation office on Monday. Harish Rao asked the officials to complete construction of canals that come under Mallanna Sagar, Ranganayaka Sagar, Tapaspally and Gandipally reservoirs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harish-rao-reviews-canal-works-in-siddipet-dubbak/articleshow/75260310.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Business||Infosys suspends FY21 outlook on uncertainty||BENGALURU: Infosys followed Cognizant and Wipro in suspending revenue and margin guidance due to lack of visibility on future deals on account of the uncertainty unleashed by Covid-19. The lockdown in the last few days of March also caused the company to miss its revenue guidance of 10-10.5% in constant currency for 2019-20. Infosys grew at 9.8%, which however is still better than TCS’s 7.1% and Wipro’s 3.9%. “There are near term challenges in the business environment and we do not feel it appropriate to provide guidance at this point of time. We are not sure of what lies immediately ahead,” CEO Salil Parekh said. The bleak forecast led to its American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) shedding about 2% in morning trade on the NYSE. The impact on its shares on the BSE will be seen on Tuesday. In Q4, the company’s revenue grew 4.5% year-on-year on a reported basis to $3.2 billion (the growth was 6.4% in constant currency). Net profit was up 1.9% to $592 million. Businesses across verticals and geographies were impacted and that will be more pronounced in the first quarter of 2020-21 as clients cut back on costs and discretionary spends. The most impacted segments in the near term will be retail, travel & hospitality and energy, the last due to low oil prices. Banking, financial services and insurance would be impacted due to lower interest rates, deferred loan payments and low premiums, while card and payments will be soft as customers spend less. Manufacturing has already been hit hard due to factory closures and breakage of supply chains. Infosys said it has already received requests from some retail clients to extend their period of payment. “There is margin pressure from the topline and cost side. But we have tremendous cost levers which we will see in due course. The travel cost, which is a large part of cost, has come down. Our strategic cost levers on automation, pyramid, onsite-offshore ratio continue unabated,” said chief financial officer Nilanjan Roy. The company’s full year operating margin stood at 21.3%, just within its guided range of 21-23%. “We will control cost with rigour. There is a concern from all industries all over the world,” Parekh added. Capital expenditure for the year, which stood at $450 million last year, will also come down. At the same time, he said, customers have shown increased interest in areas such as cloud, virtualisation, cost reduction and workforce transformation programmes as they look to consolidate their operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infosys-suspends-fy21-outlook-on-uncertainty/articleshow/75261326.cms||Avik Das
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||‘Gate-toucher’ man’s vid goes viral, many spend day sanitising homes in Nishatpura||Bhopal: A video went viral on social media platforms in the city in which an unidentified man wearing a scarf was seen going door to door at Vishwakarma Nagar in Nishatpura around noon on Sunday. The man was seen standing at the gates of the houses and touching the latch, before turning away. People in the locality were terrified when they saw the man in their CCTV camera footages and claimed that the man was trying to apply something on the latches. Several people called the police on Dial-100, but by the time, cops arrived at the spot, the suspicious man was gone. His identity could not be ascertained as he had covered his face with a scarf. Nishatpura police claimed that when police checked the CCTV footages, it appeared that the man came to beg for for alms and may have touched the gates to knock. Cops also claimed that some psychopath may have deliberately done the act to create a nuisance during the lockdown as people are terrified over the coronavirus disease. The incident sparked off terror among the residents and they were later seen sanitising their gates and doors. Talking to TOI, advocate Pramod Harvyasi, who resides in Vishwakarma Nagar, said that on Sunday, around 11.42 am, a neighbour A Pillai shared a video on the colony WhatsApp group in which a suspicious youth was seen touching the gate of his house. He had covered his face with a scarf and was seen in the video applying something on the latch. The suspicious man was seen standing outside Pillai’s house for a couple of minutes and then he went away. The suspicious man also went to another neighbouring house. Harvyasi said that when he enquired about the video from Pillai, he said that he had spotted the man standing outside his house in the CCTV, but he didn’t come out because he was terrified that he may spit on him. The suspect was seen touching the latch in such a manner that he was applying something on it. Harvyasi said that he and other colony residents called police on Dial-100 around noon, but police reached the spot in the evening. The colony residents were terrified and were themselves sanitising their doors and gates. SHO Nishatpura Mahendra Singh Chouhan said that prima facie it seems that the suspicious man was a needy person and had come for begging in the area. He was knocking on the door when people took it for something else. Police were investigating the matter further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gate-toucher-mans-vid-goes-viral-many-spend-day-sanitising-homes-in-nishatpura/articleshow/75259330.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar: 2 Jamaat members escape quarantine, 1 caught||HARIDWAR: Two members of the Tablighi Jamaat, both in their twenties, fled from an isolation ward of Gurukul Ayurvedic College in Haridwar on Monday. While one of them has been caught and put back in isolation, the other is still on the run. Their swab samples had been sent for testing, but the results are yet to come. So, it is not confirmed if the men are Covid-19 positive. One of the men is a 25-year-old from Qassaban area under Jawalapur police station. He had run away once before, when police went to his home to shift him to a quarantine facility. A case had then been registered against him as well as his mother, who helped him escape, under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). After his arrest, he was shifted to the isolation ward in Haridwar, which he fled again on Monday. This time, he was accompanied by a 20-year-old, another member of the Tablighi Jamaat quarantined at the same isolation centre as him. The latter, a resident of Gadowali village, is still absconding and couldn’t be found at his home. Circle officer (CO) city Abhay Singh told TOI, “They (the accused) broke the lock of the back door of the isolation centre and escaped. Before escaping, one of them called up his mother and asked her to meet him at Shankar Ashram Chowk, where our team managed to reach first and shifted him back to the isolation ward. The men, however, were not present at the Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. A case is being registered against both the men under relevant sections of the IPC. We are verifying with the health department if their samples were found to be negative or not.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-jamaat-members-escape-quarantine-1-caught/articleshow/75259319.cms||MS Nawaz
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand high court gives state 48 hours to decide on funds for lawyers||NAINIATAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) has given two days to the state government and Advocate General – ex-officio chairman of Advocates Welfare Fund Trustees Committee – to take a call on the issue of giving financial assistance to the lawyers in the state. The direction from the HC came as the Bench of Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari and Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) through video conferencing. The PIL filed by a group of advocates has demanded that both the Bar Council of India and Bar Council of Uttarakhand should pay the lawyers Rs 10,000 and their clerks Rs 5,000 from the welfare fund. Kartikey Hari Gupta, the lawyer appearing for the petitioners told TOI that the HC has also directed the state government to provide details of the money held in Advocates Welfare Fund. "The arguments were heard by the division bench through video conferencing. We asked the court to direct the Bars and state to release the fund which has been earmarked for the welfare of the lawyers. We also detailed the unprecedented situation faced by advocates because of the lockdown," Gupta said. The Bar Council of Uttarakhand, meanwhile, informed the court that they already sent a letter to the state government to provide financial help to the advocates. "The Bar told the court that they are concerned about the losses faced by the lawyers since the courts are not functioning and therefore they have already written a letter to the state," Gupta said. The court has given the state time till Wednesday to take a call on the releasing of funds and has listed the matter for Wednesday as well. Apart from seeking financial assistance for over 16000 registered advocates in the state, the petition has also asked the court to direct the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to form separate guidelines on movement of lawyers now that the courts have started to hear cases through video conferencing while also saying that their rents and school fee of their children should be waived off as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-gives-state-48-hrs-to-decide-on-funds-for-lawyers/articleshow/75259318.cms||Prashant Jha
April 21, 2020||Kochi||District admn asks PCB to inspect Eloor industries||Kochi: The district administration has asked the pollution control board (PCB) to immediately inspect all the industries in the Eloor-Edayar belt. This follows the reports and visuals of the continuous discoloration of the Periyar in the industrial belt. From Friday, the water in the area turned turbid and black leading to fish kill. Later, following protests from locals, the irrigation department lifted the shutters of the Pathalam regulator-cum-bridge. The pollution of the river was distinctly visible when the shutters were opened and the waters entered into the other side of the bridge. Following a meeting with irrigation and PCB officials on Monday, district collector S Suhas said that a team headed by chief environmental engineer (CEE) will conduct inspections to see if any of the industrial establishments are draining effluents or untreated waste into the river. The inspections should be done keeping in mind all the restrictions that are in place in the wake of Covid-19. PCB officials had collected samples from the area and the reports are expected in a couple of days. According to officials, earlier recording of the water samples show that the BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) at Pathalam bund upstream was 2.3 mg/L while it was 5.2 mg/L downstream and 4.8 mg/L at Edamula on April 10. The coliform count was very high at 1,800 CFU/100 ml (colony-forming unit) at the three points on the same day. They said there is an issue of dissolved oxygen depletion due to sewage sediments causing anaerobic conditions in the bottom of the river. The delay in opening of shutters also caused the fish kill as the organisms in the area are more sensitive to changes as they are marine species. While locals continued to blame the industries for pollution, PCB officials said that the environmental surveillance centre at Eloor has been monitoring the Periyar regularly and could not find any major serious violation from the industries. “Local bodies need to be cautious to prevent untreated sewage and septage from being dumped into the waters. The Pathalam bund was closed since March 30 and opened only on Satrurday. In summer, a 20-day lag is a large span as water levels are down,” official sources said. Local body representatives also said that there are around 430 small-scale industries in the area and some of them have been functioning even during the lockdown. “There are bone shredding and leather factories and a sewage treatment plant functioning with workers who are staying in the company. Officials should inspect these premises also,” said Joseph Sheri, councillor, Alupuram ward, Eloor municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/district-admn-asks-pcb-to-inspect-eloor-industries/articleshow/75257962.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Corbett staff member suffering from fever quarantined||Dehradun: A staff member of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) deployed in Kalagarh area was kept in isolation on Sunday after he complained of fever. His samples have been sent for Covid-19 test and he has been quarantined in Kotdwar in a government facility. Sources told TOI that the man was undergoing self-medication and he had gone to a private clinic in Kalagarh about a week ago. However, his condition didn’t get any better despite taking medicines. “This is a matter of concern for us. We may have to put the entire team at Kalagarh under quarantine if the health department instructs so. If that happens, there would be a huge staff crisis. This has already happened in one of the facilities in the country where all the members of a range were put in isolation,” said Rajiv Bhartari, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand. It is worth mentioning here that a significant number of forest staff members have been deployed with respective district administrations to aid the enforcement of lockdown. Therefore, if an entire range is isolated, it would be a problem for not just the forest department but also for the particular district. At present, the CTR management is awaiting test reports of the employee to decide further course of action. “The suspected person doesn’t have any travel history in the recent past. So, there is a high possibility that the man doesn’t have Covid-19 infection but he has been quarantined according to the guidelines of the health department,” Rahul, CTR director, told TOI. Meanwhile, the forest department has urged its staff members to remain very careful of their health especially those who are patrolling the two major tiger reserves — Corbett and Rajaji. Notably, Uttarakhand has already sent samples of a leopard and an elephant calf to Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly for Covid-19 test as a precautionary measure. This has been done to ensure that none of the wild animals are infected by coronavirus. Earlier, the National Tiger Conservation Authority and Central Zoo Authority had asked all tiger ranges and zoos to remain on high alert after a tiger kept in Bronx Zoo in USA was tested Covid-19-positive. The officials of such facilities were also instructed to conduct routine medical checkup of all their staff members who directly or indirectly come in contact with wildlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-staff-member-suffering-from-fever-quarantined/articleshow/75257925.cms||Shivani Azad
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Buyers of cough, cold medicine to be reported||AURANGABAD: Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pande has issued a directive on Monday asking all the pharmacy stores to mandatorily record data of people purchasing substitute medicine for cough, cold and fever. The collected data comprising of name, age, symptoms/ailment for which medicine has been sought, contact number and address of such people, is to be shared daily with the civic body. The pharmacists failing to do so would face action said Pande. “It is all being done to contain any further spread of disease,” Pande told TOI. The communication in this regard has been sent to the food and drug administration as well as to the pharmacists’ association, asking them to not only communicate the directives to the pharmacy stores but also ensure that the directives are followed in letter and spirit. Those privy to the development said that the decision in this regard has been taken after the authorities found that people opt for counter medication either due to fear of getting quarantined, admitted at hospitals or due to a lack of awareness. According to health experts, fever, dry cough, nasal congestion, runny nose, and sore throat are amongst the common symptoms for Covid-19. “As the symptoms for virus infection and common flu are almost the same, it is essential for every person with these symptoms to reach out to a doctor, instead of going for on counter medication,” said Umar Quadri, an MD (medicine). There are over 2,500 pharmacy stores in the district, out of which 1,800 alone are in the Aurangabad city limits. “Though it is illegal to sell medication for ailments, without proper prescription from a registered doctor, the pharmacists do it,” said an office-bearer of Aurangabad District Chemist and Druggist Association. Considering the ever-increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases, Aurangabad has already been marked as red-zone by the state. So far, the city has reported three deaths from the 30 positive cases reported so far. However, about a dozen people have recovered and even discharged from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/buyers-of-cough-cold-medicine-to-be-reported/articleshow/75259333.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 21, 2020||Jodhpur||These wildlife heroes ensure no animal remains thirsty in Rajasthan||JODHPUR: Unlike the lockdown heroes in urban areas who are striving hard to make it easier for the vulnerable classes through contributions or philanthropy, a team of wildlife heroes in rural areas is braving the scorching heat providing water to thirsty wildlife. Various volunteers associated with organisations like Bishnoi Tiger Force and others in their individual capacities have been making sure that there is adequate water available for animals in the parched desert areas with the mercury soaring each day. They have not only been filling the empty water tanks, repairing the broken tanks and placing new tanks of cement to ensure that the thirsty animals do not have to walk longer in search of water, but also motivating others. State president of Bishnoi Tiger Force, Rampal Bhawad said with the summer setting in, availability of water for wildlife in vast expanses of desert districts becomes sparse and animals have to loiter around in search of water. “Though, the forest department is given budget for filling the water tanks in all the ranges for wild animals, but no budget has been sanctioned so far this time”, Bhawad said. Considering this, the volunteers of the organisations have taken upon themselves the task of filling the tanks with water arranging tankers, repairing the broken tanks and placing new tanks in the water-scarce areas. “We have roped in one coordinator for 4-5 villages entrusting him with the responsibility of keeping watch on all water points in these villages,” Bhawad added. WhatsApp groups have also been rolled out, through which fund is being raised for this purpose. One such group, Mission Bhawad ka Vikas, has collected Rs 95,000 for a specific area for filling the water tanks through tankers, repairing of broken tanks and arranging new tanks. One such coordinator Prahlad Bola said he has been taking care of Black Buck Conservation Area of Luni comprising Gudha Bishnoian, Feench, Bhacharna and Rohicha. “We have been cleaning the tanks, repairing them if needed, and filling them with water, as all the small ponds in the areas, have either dried up or are on the verge of drying,” he said. Kamlesh Bhati, who is an auto parts dealer and runs Vanyajeev Premi Raksha Group, has been arranging cemented water tanks (25 and 40-litre capacity) through donations and making them available in areas where the demand has been pouring in free of cost. These volunteers have also been approaching and encouraging donors from rural as well as urban areas to contribute to this cause covering wildlife populated areas of Jodhpur, Nagaur, Barmer and Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/these-wildlife-heroes-ensure-no-animal-remains-thirsty/articleshow/75260449.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||35-year-old BAMS doctor dies of Covid-19 in Moradabad||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old doctor of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) from Moradabad, who tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at TMU medical college, died on Monday. Health officials said that the BAMS doctor was deputed at a PHC in Tajpur area and had been moving door to door, to screen Tablighi Jamaat members in the district. He was admitted to an isolation ward as he developed Covid-like symptoms eight days ago. With this, the death toll in the district rose to three. Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg told TOI, “The doctor was a resident of Ismaeel Road under Galshaheed police station and was deputed at a primary healthcare centre (PHC) under Bhojpur police station. After testing positive around 10 days ago, he was admitted to isolation ward of TMU medical college. He was kept on ventilator as his condition was critical from the start. Despite best efforts and medication, he died while undergoing treatment.” The CMO added, “Five members of his family have been quarantined. We have also started enquiring about the people the doctor may have come in contact with. Also, the tally is set to rise in coming days as the district is now on high alert and not complying with the lockdown norms, especially in hotspots, could be very risky.” As many as 18 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the district on Sunday. This includes six children under age of six, and four women. Till Sunday, the tally was 55. All the 18 people were quarantined by health department after it was known that they came in contact with Jamaat members a few days ago. According to local administration, a maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the district have been reported from Mughalpura, Azadnagar and Barvalan, among others - the areas declared as "hotspots".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/35-year-old-bams-doctor-dies-of-covid-19-in-moradabad/articleshow/75259317.cms||Maria Khan
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||HC notice to govt on no newspaper distribution diktat||Nagpur: While issuing notices to the state and others, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Monday refused any interim relief in the petition filed by associations of journalists on the government’s move to prohibit door-to-door distribution of newspapers.Also on Monday, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court took suo motu cognisance of news reports regarding the government’s move on newspapers.On Saturday, the government had cited the Covid-19 outbreak and the big spike in positive cases while issuing the notification which came into effect on Monday. The journalists’ association had demanded a stay on it.Justice Nitin Sambre has issued notices to the state chief secretary, Union information and broadcasting ministry, DGIPR, Nagpur collector and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), apart from the state government. The next hearing is slated for Thursday.The petitioners — Maharashtra Union of Working Journalists and Nagpur Union of Working Journalists — through counsel Deven Chauhan and others challenged the legality of the government’s circular of April 18 banning door-to-door delivery of newspapers across the state.While terming the government’s decision as arbitrary, illogical and unconstitutional, the petitioners contended that it’s also a violation of the fundamental right to speech and expression.Quoting the Union ministry’s advisory, the petitioners pointed out that it had directed all state and Union territories to ensure uninterrupted functioning of print and electronic media, including its printing and distribution.“In newspaper distribution, there’s absolutely no interaction between hawker and reader. On the other hand, during home delivery of groceries and vegetables through e-platforms and permitting plumbers, mechanics and food delivery service, human interference is bound to take place,” the petitioner argued. Justice Prasanna Varale of the Aurangabad bench of the HC appointed lawyer Satyajit Bora as amicus curiae and asked him to submit a PIL in the court on or before April 22.The court also issued notice to the principal secretary of the state government’s general administration department. Taking cognisance of news reports, the court observed that when the state government was permitting the purchase of newspapers at stalls, it failed to understand why door-to-door delivery had been prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-notice-to-govt-on-no-newspaper-distribution-diktat/articleshow/75260448.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||5-year-old falls in borewell, dies||Jodhpur: A 5-year-old boy died after falling into an open borewell in Jointra village under Khedapa police station near Jodhpur on Monday. \According to SHO Kesaram, rescue operation was initiated immediately after the accident and a 108 ambulance was roped in to provide oxygen to the boy. He was taken out of the borewell in about 6 hours but he was dead by then. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-year-old-falls-in-borewell-dies/articleshow/75260459.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Pharma D holders want to join Covid-19 fight||Nagpur: Pharm D graduates in Maharashtra are eager to join the medical workforce of state in fight against Covid-19. They are right now not allowed to treat patients in state. In neighbouring Karnataka and Kerala, Pharm D degree holders have been given status of ‘Pharma Doctors’ and they are taking care of patients as part of special arrangement. Doctor of Pharmacy Association in state has appealed to CM Uddhav Thackeray and health minister Rajesh Tope to allow them to join frontline healthcare services for Covid-19 patient care. “Pharm D holders are experts in modern medicines. As frontline health providers, we are highly trusted and trained healthcare professionals. We can play critical role in patient care and public health,” said Dr Vinayak Bhagwat Ghayal, president of Doctor of Pharmacy Association, Maharashtra.  There are 250 Pharm D graduates in state and nearly 80 interns. “This is ready workforce of nearly 330 trained healthcare professionals. Apart from this, 350 students of second to fifth year of Pharm D course can also work in case of emergency,” said Dr Ghayal. In fact, the state health department has started temporary recruitments of doctors, nurses, and paramedical staff to deal with Covid-19 pandemic. Graduates of AYUSH faculties are allowed to apply for posts of health officers at PHCs. But, Pharm D holders are not mentioned in it. Doctor of Pharmacy course is a practice oriented programme after 10+2 which includes five years of academic study and 1 year of internship or residency in hospitals. Those who clear this course are entitled to use “Dr” prefix. “Pharmacists are helping patients cope with pandemic. But, Pharm D holders can do much more. We have good clinical knowledge of various diseases and this can be utilized to address the current healthcare needs of the country,” said Dr Ghayal. Pharma Doctors * In Karnataka and Kerala, Pharma D degree holders are appointed at PHCs * Maharashtra has 250 Pharm D graduated and 80 interns ready to work * 1 year internship in hospitals is must for Pharm D degree holders * They get direct clinical experience during this period * They are ready to join as frontline healthcare providers for Covid-19 patient care||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pharma-d-holders-want-to-join-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75260461.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Unhappy with veg food, migrant labourers in Jaisalmer poach birds for dinner||JAIPUR/JAISALMER: Unhappy with vegetarian food, five migrant labourers staying in a quarantine centre in Nokha village of Jaisalmer district hunted grey francolin (bird), which is covered under Schedule III of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The labourers allegedly manhandled the teachers posted at the centre who criticized their action and stopped them from cooking the meat. Police reached the spot after the clash and arrested five labourers who hailed from Madhya Pradesh. Police has registered a case under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA) and assault to deter public servant from discharge of duty. In the complaint, teacher Sushil Kumar said after he opposed killing of birds, the labourers attacked and hit him with stones and sticks. SP Kiran Kang said, “Many labourers of Madhya Pradesh are staying in Shakti Nagar School under Nokh police station area, of which five hunted partridges. In-charge of the centre Sushil Kumar Bishnoi was also attacked by these labourers. We have started the investigation after lodging a complaint.” Sources claimed that the labourers were bored of eating food served by the administration and wanted to eat non-vegetarian food. Green activist Radheyshaym Pemani said the migrant labourers of other states who have been kept at various schools and other shelter homes in Jaisalmer district are killing wildlife. Villagers from nearby areas are continuously informing about their activity. “Killing grey francolin is covered under Schedule III of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and is punishable with an imprisonment of six months or fine of Rs 25,000 or both. As these birds cannot take immediate flight, hunting them using net or sticks is easy,” Pemani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unhappy-with-veg-food-migrant-labourers-poach-birds-for-dinner/articleshow/75260455.cms||Ajay Singh
April 21, 2020||Bareilly||Youth, four of his kin booked for sexually exploiting 20-year-old girl||PILIBHIT: A 24-year-old youth and four of his family members were on Monday booked for allegedly sexually exploiting a 20-year-old girl on the pretext of marriage. According to the girl’s father, resident of a village under Barkhera police station, the youth, also his neighbour, had been sexually exploiting his daughter for the past three years on the pretext of marriage, said police. In his complaint, the father stated that his daughter hid her affairs with the youth from her parents, trusting that they would get married one day, said police. “Whenever my daughter would pressure him to marry her, the youth would dodge the matter. On April 16, he refused to marry my daughter and threatened to kill her if she raised the matter again in the future. When we approached the youth’s family, they abused us and threatened us of dire consequences,” the father told police. Station house officer (SHO) of Barkhera police station Umesh Solanki said following a written complaint filed by the victim’s father, an FIR was registered against the youth, his parents and his two uncles under sections 376 (rape), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation). The SHO added that the girl was sent for a medical examination at the Pilibhit district women hospital, and her report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-four-of-his-kin-booked-for-sexually-exploiting-20-year-old-girl/articleshow/75259348.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Akhara seers angry with police & administration over Palghar lynching of sadhus, demand swift & strict action||HARIDWAR: Seers in Haridwar on Monday expressed their annoyance at the incidence of mob lynching of two Juna Akhada sadhus and their driver at Palghar, Maharashtra. They demanded ‘severest punishment’ for the culprits and threatened action if the central government failed to take immediate measures to bring them to book. Mahant Hari Giri, the mahamandaleshwar of Juna Akhada, handed over a memorandum to Deepak Rawat, officer in charge of the 2021 Kumbh Mela, who visited him on Monday to condole the death of the sadhus. In it, he demanded immediate inquiry into the incident and punishment for the cops and culprits. “It’s difficult to understand why the policemen who were present on spot did not take any action when the sadhus were being brutally attacked and cried for help,” he said. Letters with similar demands have been sent to the Prime Minister, Union home minister and chief ministers of Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, among others, by the Juna Akhada, he added. The two victims belonged to the Akhada’s Trayambakeshwar unit in Maharashtra. They were going to attend the samadhi ritual of an akhara seer, said Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Swami Narendra Giri, when they were surrounded by hundreds of men “brutally attacked with sticks and stones and killed in the presence of policemen.” “Was it not revenge killing in the name of coronavirus?” he asked, adding that “the sadhus had not taken permission for their travel. But it was a mistake made inadvertently”. He demanded an inquiry into the incident to ascertain whether the cops were also guilty, as they made no effort to protect the sadhus, he alleged. Once the lockdown is over, seers of all 13 akharas will hold a meeting with ABAP general secretary Hari Giri to decide on whether to go to Maharashtra in large numbers and gherao the chief minister to put pressure on his government for stringent action against the guilty, warned the ABAP president. An Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti spokesperson also demanded death penalty for the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhara-seers-angry-with-police-administration-over-palghar-lynching-of-sadhus-demand-swift-strict-action/articleshow/75259345.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Work resumes on key expressways||LUCKNOW: Work on major projects like Purvanchal, Bundelkhand and Gorakhpur Link expressways resumed after almost a month as the government lifted curbs on 11 industries on Monday. “We have started work on some sections of the three expressways. The government is ensuring testing of all labourers who have been roped in for work,” a senior government official said. Out of eight packages in Purvanchal Expressway, work resumed in six on Monday while work in remaining two is expected to begin on Tuesday. Against need of 10,000 labourers, the project has been started with 4,835 workers. Similarly, work has started in three packages on Bundelkhand Expressway and in remaining three work is expected from Tuesday. Work on the project is being carried out with 2,150 labourers against the required strength of 6,000. “Work on projects will begin slowly. Shortage of labourers is another issue as many have left for their villages. Despite lifting of restrictions, a lot of industries are not able to start operations. Moreover, lockdown remains in its entirety in 19 districts where there are 10 or more Covid-19 cases. In other districts, DMs are very cautious in giving permissions and passes,” an official said. Govt integrates 21 online services with Nivesh MitraOther than industrial units that have been functioning for last few days, four cement plants and a few smaller units also commenced operations on Monday. At least 21 online services of UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) and UP State Industrial Development Corporation (UPSIDC) were integrated with Nivesh Mitra, the government’s single-window system. Principal secretary, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar said: “The total number of online services being provided by 20 departments through Nivesh Mitra is 146, which makes it one of the largest single-window clearance systems in India.” The new facilities which are being made available include requests for change of project within same premises use, lease deed execution and registration, restoration of plot after cancellation, recognition of legal heir after death of allottee, transfer of plot, time extension for setting up of projects, and NOC for permission to mortgage in favour of financial institution. Minister for industrial development Satish Mahana said: “Amid the challenges of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown, the UP government is working to further minimise human interface in issuing various clearances to enterprises. This will help in kick-starting industrial units and attract investment for setting up of new industries in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/work-resumes-on-key-expressways/articleshow/75261339.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 21, 2020||Business||Freezes hiring, pay hikes||Bengaluru: Like TCS, Infosys too has suspended salary hikes and promotions because of the business uncertainties following the Covid-19 pandemic. Infosys’s increments are normally effective April 1. The company has also suspended fresh hiring, but it will honour all the commitments made to campus recruits and other hires. Infosys has made 36,000 offers to campus recruits for the 2020-21 fiscal. Company COO UB Pravin Rao also said they are not looking at Covid-related layoffs or furloughs (leave without pay) at this stage. But he said there would be performance-based exits. The annualised (consolidated) attrition rose to 20.7% in the March quarter, from 19.6% previously. Employee strength fell by 1,083 to 2.4 lakh employees. “Because of the Covid situation we have lower utilisation. It’s not a secular trend, we have deferred some onboarding. I don’t think we should read too much into that,” Rao said. Covid-19 impact Infosys said a few employees across the world have tested positive for Covid-19. The company saidIt is in touch with them and their families to provide active and continuous support to help them through the rest and recovery. Infosys has also undertaken contact tracing measures to identify colleagues, if any, who interacted with them and ensure they are appropriately quarantined. Infosys has enabled 93% of its employees to work remotely. This meant shipping over 35,000 assets to employee residences. Rao said the company plans to bring employees back to office gradually. “In the first phase, we expect less than 5% to come back to work and this will probably go from 5%-10% to 15% in 3-4 weeks. We are looking at getting people back to work in a slow and calibrated manner keeping their safety in mind,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/freezes-hiring-pay-hikes/articleshow/75261350.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kochi||HC tells govt to provide relief to street vendors||Kochi: The high court on Monday directed the state government to extend the benefit of community kitchen to street vendors in Kochi Corporation. The court also recorded government’s submission that vendors belonging to BPL category will be paid Rs 1,000 each. Justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar directed that the state government should ensure that there is no discrimination to street vendors in obtaining the government’s humanitarian aid. The order stated, “In the distribution of relief material, including financial aid, and while extending vending privileges to vendors, the street vendors shall not be discriminated, either on account of the nature of their activities or on account of their status as migrants from another state.” The court directed the immediate attachment of street vendor families already identified by Kochi Corporation to the nearest community kitchen. The government should also ensure sufficient ration and medicine to them, the court ordered. The court order came while considering a plea by Jamal KM through advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, seeking implementation of the central legislation for street vendors. In a report filed by amicus curiae and advocate KP Pradeep, it was pointed out that street vendors have lost their livelihood due to the lockdown and their families are deprived of food and other essential commodities, including medicines. The vendors are not part of any state government schemes for the lockdown period and since some of the vendors are migrants who are not included in the ‘guest worker’ category, they don’t get relief provided for that category. He suggested that street vendors should be paid a relief of Rs 1,000 each. During the hearing, additional advocate general Ranjith Thampan pointed out that it is the central government that has to act as per the respective legislation and demanded that the central government should be made a party in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-tells-govt-to-provide-relief-to-street-vendors/articleshow/75258016.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Cops provide lodging for Raj woman stranded in Mumbai||Mumbai: When a 30-year-old Rajasthan native, who had come to the city for a job interview, ended up getting stuck here due to the lockdown, the Sahar police, an Andheri-based social organization and a good Samaritan cab driver rallied to her help. The woman finally reached her relative’s home at Pen in Raigad taluka on April 17.The woman, who had arrived in the city on March 15, says she panicked when the janta curfew was declared. “I did not have enough money to continue staying in the hotel. I called up the Covid-19 helpline and I was directed to the police control room. I got in touch with Sahar police senior inspector, Shashikant Mane, who immediately stepped in to help.”“She was running short of money and had no money for food as well. We arranged for a room in a lodge and provided her two meals a day,” said Mane.When the lockdown was extended, the police again came to her rescue. They arranged for a pass so she could travel to a relative’s home. The Shaheed Bhagat Singh Vichar Manch, which had provided lodging, arranged for a taxi to drop her to Pen.In a final act of kindness, cab driver, Gurpej Singh Sandhu, a volunteer with the manch, refused to take a single penny for the ride.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-provide-lodging-for-raj-woman-stranded-in-mumbai/articleshow/75260467.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||No event in Ayodhya till lockdown: Temple trust||LUCKNOW: Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has decided not to organise any meeting or event in Ayodhya till the lockdown is lifted. “I don’t think there will be any religious leader or entity in the world to opt for any activity at the cost of the lives of believers. If someone does so, it is the individual to be held responsible and not the community as a whole. We are not in favour of organising any event in Ayodhya till the lockdown is lifted,” Ram temple trust general secretary and VHP international vice-president Champat Rai said. The statement is being seen as an indication that the construction of Ram temple will begin only after the lockdown ends. Rai said the trust will not flout the lockdown rule. “There is no way forward but to wait and watch,” he said, adding that the trust will not act irresponsibly like the Tablighi Jamaat in fulfilling its religious goals at the cost of country and lives of scores of people. VHP sources said the trust will decide another date and time for starting the Ram temple construction by convening a meeting in Ayodhya after the lockdown ends. Sources said the trust had also decided to stop the work of stone carving at Ram Janmabhoomi Karyashala until the lockdown is lifted and normalcy returns. It is only after that the trust would call a meeting of its executive body and accordingly decide the future course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-event-in-ayodhya-till-lockdown-temple-trust/articleshow/75261354.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Three farmers injured in attack over land dispute in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: A group of 20 people barged into the house of a farmer and thrashed the members allegedly over a land dispute in Ramgarh canal area of Jaisalmer.Three farmers were injured in the attack and condition of one is said to be critical. All the culprits are absconding and police have launched a manhunt to nab them, police said.According to sources, a mob led by Hussain Khan, Barkat Khan, Mole Khan and Ayub Khan attacked farmer Sukhdev Singh and his family on Saturday evening. The family locked themselves up in a room, but the miscreants broke the window and attacked them.When alerted, police reached the spot and shifted the injured to a hospital in Jaisalmer. According to sources, Hussain Khan and family have many criminal cases registered at Ramgarh police station, but no action has been taken in many cases. They often beat up farmers in nearby fields over trivial issues. SP Kiran Kang said both parties were involved in a land dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-farmers-injured-in-attack-over-land-dispute-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/75260475.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Sangeeta Kain to join as The Welham Boys’ School principal from May||DEHRADUN: City’s renowned education institution The Welham Boys’ School has appointed Sangeeta Kain as its new principal. She was supposed to join duty on March 25, 2020, but due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Kain is now expected to take charge in full capacity from the next month. Kain will be replacing Gunmeet Bindra, who completed her tenure last month. She will become the third lady principal in the history of the school. Kain, who is an alumnus of Panjab University (Chandigarh) and Barkatullah University (Bhopal), has worked in several institutions including Amity and Delhi Public School . Prior to becoming the principal of The Welham Boys’ School, she was serving in the same capacity at Delhi Public School, Jaipur. Kain has also been a volleyball player from Haryana and has headed the Him Jyoti School in Dehradun for more than two decades. Kain also has a keen interest in Hindustani vocal music and theatres. “As the new head takes office with the task of shaping new generations in these challenging times, our students will surely continue to excel in their quest for knowledge and emerge as responsible citizens in the service of the nation,” said Darshan Singh, board chairman of The Welham Boys’ School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sangeeta-kain-to-join-as-the-welham-boys-school-principal-from-may/articleshow/75259372.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Old data hits selection of hotspots||THIRUVANTHAPURAM: State government, which enlisted hotspots irrespective of colour-coded zones within districts, employed a statistical methodology that may have sorely missed real-time data, eventually resulting in flawed choices in many districts. The methodology for identifying hotspots was decided by state executive committee, chaired by the chief secretary, on Sunday in consultation with senior epidemiologists. The model assigned a weightage to positive cases, primary contacts and secondary contacts in each local body and then a fixed value was determined: which is 0.34. All local bodies with values above 0.34 were identified as hotspots. While epidemiologists agree on the methodology, it based the data on cases and contacts on Covid-19 tracker; a web-based monitoring portal where data from all districts are pooled on a daily basis. State disaster management authority – which provided technical support in determining hotspots – derived data from Covid-19 tracker. The line list kept by health department was replaced with Covid-19 tracker for data tracking and management by mid-March. The lack of proper updation resulted in data mismatch between web portal and line list. For instance, the data on positive cases, primary contacts and secondary contact (as on April 16) was taken for hotspot analysis. In many districts, the number of primary contacts and secondary contacts – as shown in the table of hotspots –differ from actual values recorded by health department (as on April 16). For instance, Trivandrum corporation had an active case from Manacaud ward, but this case had zero primary and secondary contacts as per health department records. The hotspot table showed that the patient had 80 primary contacts and 15 secondary contacts and the value for Trivandrum corporation was calculated as 1.2, making it a hotspot and extending strict restrictions across 100 wards. For a single case in one ward with no contacts, an entire corporation area with 100 wards was designated as hotspot. Varkala, which has no active cases, had 94 contacts as per the table, however all contacts had completed quarantine period days ago. Wayanad had enlisted five panchayats as hotspots considering anticipated arrival of NRKs, population density, presence of vulnerable population and the like. One of the two hotspots identified by health department is Vellamunda panchayat and table showed 47 primary and 20 secondary contacts. Actual data had far lesser number of contacts and many of them had completed quarantine period. Many contacts of cases identified in neighbouring districts were traced to Vellamunda, but still that number doesn't add up here, as per criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/old-data-hits-selection-of-hotspots/articleshow/75258055.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: FIR against store owner for supplying sub-standard ration||PITHORAGARH: An FIR lodged against the owner of a grocery store for supplying sub-standard ration to labourers staying in Tanakpur camp at Champawat district. The labourers complained to the local administration following which legal action was taken and the ration was seized. Sub-divisional magistrate Dayanand Saraswati said that on April 4, the district administration had invited tenders for supplying ration to the stranded labourers who are staying at the Tanakpur camp. Following which, Radha Goyal, owner of Taksh general store agreed to provide the ration, which includes flour, rice, dal, edible oil and some vegetables, at the lowest rate. However, after receiving complaints, an FIR was registered against Goyal under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and disaster management Act, said Dherendra Kumar, station house officer of Tanakpur. The SDM said that he has ordered the cancellation of tender and action would also be taken against the firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fir-against-store-owner-for-supplying-sub-standard-ration/articleshow/75259368.cms||Prem Punetha
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Smart thermometer to map fever clusters||CHENNAI: A team of doctors and engineers has developed a bluetooth-enabled fever thermometer to get the details like temperature and location of patients to map fever clusters. It would help targeted testing with existing test kits and identify hotspots with the help of an app.  Coronavirus live updates As of now, the state health department is testing people who volunteer. If employed, the smart thermometer would give daily updates on symptoms in vulnerable areas. “Smart thermometer is like a normal digital thermometer, but enabled with bluetooth technology. If a patient tests his/her temperature, the details including temperature, location and image of the person can be viewed in a mobile app,” said Dr Senthilvelan R, one of the medical partners of National Hub for Healthcare Instrumentation and Development (NHHID), Anna University and coordinator of the project. These details will be sent to a server and are viewable in map mode by relevant authorities. “It is not relying on individuals’ voluntary disclosure of symptoms. Wherever the fever cases are more we can conduct more Covid-19 tests. It also limits number of health workers involved in Covid-19 screening and would reduce risk of infection as it is operated remotely,” he added. The app also collects data including symptoms like cough, sore throat or shortness of breath along with fever. “With this tracker the government will be able to pinpoint the area of spread. It can also be added as additional feature in government apps like Aarogya Setu or GCC Corona,” Dr Senthilvelan said. The smart thermometer and the app was jointly developed by a team of engineers and doctors including K Gopinath ,K Omprakash and Dr Nehru. “Testing and isolating infected people or people with symptoms is the best available method to contain the virus. But, testing everyone is not possible and so the smart fever thermometer would help with targeted testing,” said professor K Sankaran, network consultant of NHHID. The smart thermometer is validated and entered into the stage of commercial production. Since it is indigenously developed, it would cost around Rs 300 per piece only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/smart-thermometer-to-map-fever-clusters/articleshow/75260463.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||IIT Rorkee launches online advanced certificate course||ROORKEE: In an initiative to let people upgrade their skills during the Covid-19 lockdown, IIT Roorkee has launched an advanced certification course on deep learning in Computer Science in association with a US-based online learning platform. The 120-day-long course will start on May 31. The course will be of use to anyone, be it an undergraduate, a research scholar or a professional with a keen interest in machine language, artificial intelligence or data science. According to IIT Roorkee officials, the institute, in association with US-based tech company Cloudxlab.com, will live stream the course every Saturday and Sunday from 8 to 11 pm for 120 days. The fee is Rs 50,000. “COVID-19 has necessitated a nationwide lockdown. This is the best time for the youth, as well as others, to upgrade their skills. The course is a fresh addition to a host of pre-existing ones including artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science and more. It will be taught by the faculty of IIT Roorkee and other experts from the industry,” said AK Chaturvedi, director of IIT-Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-rorkee-launches-online-advanced-cetrificate-course/articleshow/75259371.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Ensure docs, cops are not infected: CM to officials||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Monday asked the district collectors to ensure that doctors, health workers, police personnel and other staff directly involved in the fight against coronavirus do not contract infection. He was reviewing the situation in the state through video conferencing. He further said that no offices other than those dealing with essential services will not open in districts with severe coronavirus infection situation. In districts with moderate infection, district collectors in consultation with other members of the district crisis management groups will be able to decide on what economic activities they may allow. He further said that in any of the works allowed in proximity to Indore, workers from Indore will not be employed Additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman told the meeting that 2,000 tests for coronavirus infection are being carried out in the state daily at 11 testing centers in the state and two new labs will start testing from Tuesday. Earlier, chief minister, Chouhan announced the re-launch of his ambitious “Sambal” scheme for the poor families, that was allegedly ‘scrapped’ by the Kamal Nath government. Chouhan directed top officials to start the scheme in the state at a video conference meeting with them. The scheme announced on April-2018, in the run-up to state assembly election later that year, was discontinued by Kamal Nath government, a BJP charge denied by the Congress. The Congress said that they had only been probing “corruption” in the implementation of the scheme and not discontinued the scheme. The scheme envisaged benefits to below poverty line (BPL) families in myriad ways including subsidised electricity, insurance cover for the construction workers and linking them to welfare schemes of the state and the Union government. Chief minister said that interests of poor sections of the society can’t be allowed to be overlooked. He further said that shortage of funds won’t be allowed to impede implementation of the scheme and necessary provision of funds would be made for effective implementation of the scheme. Following media reports that “Sambal” scheme is being revised in the state, spokesperson for the PCC chief Kamal Nath, Narendra Saluja, said that the BJP propaganda that the scheme had been discontinued during the Congress rule was fake, the Congress only wished to eliminate “corruption” in the implementation of the scheme and it was being implemented by the new name “Naya Sabera”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ensure-docs-cops-are-not-infected-cm-to-officials/articleshow/75259363.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Essential services, barring pharmacies, to shut by 1.30pm||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police chief has issued directives for stricter implementation of lockdown, with all essential services also shutting down by 1.30 pm. Only pharmacies have been exempted. This means that the essential services would now be able to operate only between 6 am and 1.30 pm. About two weeks ago, the city police started imposing restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles, as well as ensuring the shutting down of all the essential services, except pharmacies, by 7 pm. However, since Friday, the restrictions were being imposed from 5 pm. On Monday, the restrictions got even more strict with fewer hours of operations for the essential service providers. Barring pharmacies, every other operation must now shut down by 1.30 pm. All vehicles found moving on the city streets during the restricted period are being seized, while those failing to justify stepping out of their homes are being slapped with cases. “Our aim is to reach the orange zone status from the current red zone status before Aurangabad can eventually be declared a green zone. We expect cooperation from the citizens during the restrictions,” said police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad. Sources said the police may start taking stricter action to ensure full implementation of the lockdown. They will also keep a check on the flow of people stepping out during Ramzan, which starts this week. A senior officer said the police are working hard to ensure that social distancing is not compromised, even during the holy month of Ramzan, when many people would step out to purchase fruits and other essentials. Another officer said that the decision to further increase restrictions on essential services (except pharmacy stores) has been taken after some of the people’s representatives, during their meeting with home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday, blamed the police authorities for being lenient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/essential-services-barring-pharmacies-to-shut-by-1-30pm/articleshow/75259358.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Couple crushed to death by garbage van||AURANGABAD: A couple was killed in a road accident at Ambedkar Chowk near Cidco-Jalgaon on Monday. The incident took place at around 7am, when the couple was heading back home on their bike after buying vegetables in bulk. They had a head on collision with the garbage vehicle. The couple is identified as Prakash Suryabhan Jadhav (35) and his wife Monika (31). Police informed that the couple had been to Jadhavwadi based Ramleela ground for purchasing the vegetables. The couple have been operating a vegetable stall near MIT college on Beed Bypass road for past few years, for making a living. Following the head-on collision with the garbage vehicle, the couple sustained serious head injuries, following which people from the locality, rushed them to Government Medical College and Hospital, where the woman was declared brought dead, while her husband succumbed to the injuries while being under treatment. Cidco police informed that an offence has been registered against driver Shaikh Hakeem, and he has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/couple-crushed-to-death-by-garbage-van/articleshow/75259389.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Life limping to normalcy in Shahdol and Rewa divisions||BHOPAL: Life started limping to normalcy in the seven districts of Rewa and Shahdol divisions as some lockdown curbs were lifted and limited economic activity was permitted from Monday. In these seven districts, not a single case of Covid-19 has been reported. The district administration in these districts gave relaxation in lockdown as per the guidelines issued by Union government. The major relaxation in the urban areas was opening of mechanic shops and allowing services of technicians like plumbers and electricians. And, in the rural areas the administration ordered that the construction works could resume, works under MNREGS would also be allowed now, and rural businesses like floor mill would also be allowed. All the four districts of Rewa division, namely Rewa, Singrauli, Sidhi and Satna have porous borders with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, while the three districts of Shahdol division Umaria, Shahdol and Anuppur share borders with Chhattisgarh. Intra-district movement of work force is permitted provided they maintain social distancing norms and guideline of the Union government. But movement out of the district is not allowed as of now. Similarly, the administration in these districts are trying to ensure that workers are provided facility for stay at the sites in case of construction works and to facilitate minor forest collection. Divisional commissioner Rewa, who is also the in-charge of Shahdol division, Ashok Kumar Bhargav said, “The borders of all the seven districts are sealed. There have been no cases so as per the guidelines some relaxations were given in the districts. Like in urban areas, essential services like mechanics, electricians and plumbers were allowed and in rural areas construction works, works under MNREGS, irrigation projects were allowed in all these districts.” Bhargav further said, “The OPD services of hospitals are still not allowed and public transport is also not allowed in all these districts. As a precautionary measure, only movement of essential items like grocery, medicines and others are allowed. We have ensured that strict lockdown is adhered to in all our districts since the beginning and so far, no Covid-19 case has been reported. But, we are keeping our vigil tight. Even in essential items where relaxation was provided social distancing is strictly being followed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/life-limping-to-normalcy-in-shahdol-and-rewa-divisions/articleshow/75259378.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown hardship for ragpickers in Kota, most managing with one meal daily||KOTA: The lockdown has caused great hardships for ragpickers. Nearly 74 such people from at least 17 families in Kota, who were involved in ragpicking in usual times, are now out of work and barely manage to get one-square meal a day. The strict enforcement of lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic has left 102 infected and three dead in Kota city so far. The ragpickers’ fate has been no different than that of other daily wage labourers, who have been confined to their rented accommodations near Murgi Farm in Nanta area of the city, without enough ration or food. “We are hardly able to manage food for one time for the family for the last 15 days, with the ration that we somehow could put aside during the usual times,” Sunita Maratha, a ragpicker and mother of four said. While narrating her plight, she said that they haven’t been able to go out to pick up rags due to the lockdown, and if at all, it’s barely available in such times. Also, the kabaadi (scrap) shops, from where they could arrange rags or scrap material, are closed these days, she said, claiming that voluntary organizations or officials of district administration have not reached them for distribution of free ration and food. “In usual times, we would make Rs 100–150 daily by selling rags and waste picked up from the roadsides at the kabaadi shop, but now, we are not able to earn even a single paisa due to the lockdown,” she claimed. “For the first 10-12 days during the first phrase of lockdown, the volunteers of social organizations distributed food packets among the ragpicker families but later, they stopped coming to the locality,” claimed Deepak Maratha (34), another rag picker from the city. Ironically, Kota district administration has issued eight helpline numbers for the people in need for food and emergency services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-hardship-for-ragpickers-most-managing-with-one-meal-daily/articleshow/75260484.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown lifts in 1 Bundelkhand district, two others to open today||BHOPAL: Lockdown orders were relaxed in only one district of Bundelkhand region — Damoh — on Monday. Of the rest, Panna and Chhatarpur will see relaxation from Tuesday, while complete lockdown will continue in Sagar and Tikamgarh until further orders. In Damoh, the city was divided into two zones — and each given a four-hour relaxation on Monday. In addition to grocery shops, outlets of agriculture equipment, seeds and fertilisers, electricity appliances shops, puncture repair shops were allowed to open. People also stood in queues to get punctures repaired and air filled in their vehicles . The collectors of Panna and Chhatarpur decided to relax the lockdown on Tuesday. No covid-19 patients have been reported from these three districts so far. Meanwhile, in the corona-affected districts of Bundelkhand region — Sagar and Tikamgarh — total lockdown continued. There are two positive patients in Sagar while one positive patient was detected in Tikamgarh. People in Sagar were hoping for relaxation, but after another positive patient was detected on April 18, the authorities decided to implement the lockdown strictly. The Sagar divisional commissioner said, “People in all the districts of Sagar division will be given relaxation from the lockdown, according to the Centre’s guidelines. We will ensure that people get relief and supply of essential commodities continues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-lifts-in-1-bkhand-dist-2-others-to-open-today/articleshow/75259391.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Dehradun||Pall of gloom in Yogi Adityanath’s village in Pauri Garhwal after his father’s death||DEHRADUN: The news of the passing away of UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s father Anand Singh Bisht at AIIMS Delhi on Monday was met with grief at the village of Panchur in Pauri Garhwal where Bisht, a former forest ranger, had been living with his family since the past few decades. Several villagers fondly remembered Bisht as “a down-to-earth person who had worked at the grassroot level as BJP’s Yamkeshwar block president in the early 1990s.” Chandra Mohan Negi, a long-time associate of Bisht, told TOI, “He never had any airs that his son was the UP chief minister. He was extremely humble and took active part in the village meetings, always giving valuable suggestions, especially on the issue of forest conservation.” Recalling her association with Bisht, Yamkeshwar BJP MLA Ritu Khanduri said, “Since he was the former mandal head of Yamkeshwar block of our party, I met him on numerous occasions and he was extremely helpful in sharing his concerns about the region. I had met him last in a school function where we discussed at length on how health facilities in the area can be improved.” Meanwhile, speaking to TOI about the cremation arrangements, Bisht’s youngest son, Mahendra, said that the cremation will take place on Tuesday. “We have taken the body to our village and the cremation will take place here on Tuesday morning,” he said, adding that “Yogiji will not be able to be present during the cremation.” Uttarakhand protocol minister Dhan Singh Rawat said that the state government is making all necessary arrangements for the cremation. In a message on Monday evening, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat also condoled Anand Singh Bisht’s passing away. Describing Bisht as a person with a distinctive personality, the CM said that the social work done by him in Yamkeshwar block will always be remembered. “His contribution in the field of education was significant. Several students are able to get an education in the college established by him for which he will always be remembered,” said the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pall-of-gloom-in-yogi-adityanaths-village-in-pauri-garhwal-after-his-fathers-death/articleshow/75258013.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 21, 2020||Udaipur||Nursing students say no to corona survey||UDAIPUR: Some 125 nursing students who were assigned the task of conducting door-to-door corona survey went on strike on Monday. The nursing students refused to go back to work until their demand of being included in the health insurance scheme for health workers is fulfilled, they said. The students were allocated the survey task from March 12 and they were going from house-to-house to find out whether anyone in the family is suffering from corona symptoms. Rajkumar Tabiyar, president of the nursing students association said, “We are at a greater risk as we are moving door-to-door for more than a month. While the government employees are being given extra allowance and the health workers are covered under health insurance scheme of Rs 50 lakh, we feel totally left out and ignored.” The students demonstrated outside the nursing college on Monday morning and refused to continue the survey until their demand is met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/nursing-students-say-no-to-corona-survey/articleshow/75260478.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Five more Covid-19 hospitals open||Sambalpur: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated five more standalone Covid-19 hospitals in Bargarh, Nabarangpur, Sundargarh, Jagatsinghpur and Angul districts on Monday. The hospitals have a total of 825 beds. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, coal minister Pralhad Joshi and state health minister Naba Kisore Das joined the inauguration programme through video-conference. While the 150-bed hospital in Angul will be managed by SUM Hospital Bhubaneswar and supported by MCL, the 200-bed hospital in Bargarh will be managed by Vikash Multispecialty hospital and supported by IOCL. The 200-bed hospital in Sundergarh will be managed by the district administration through the DMF and with the support of NTPC. The 75-bed facility in Jagatsinghpur’s Paradeep will be managed by the district administration with support of the state government and Paradeep Port Trust. The 200-bed centre at Nabarangpur will be managed by the district administration and Christian hospital, with the support of Nalco. “This is a war and we have to win,” said Naveen while praising the district administrations for successful establishment of these hospitals. He also appreciated the sacrifices made by doctors, health workers and their family members for the cause. Appreciating the efforts made by Odisha government in the fight against Covid, union minister, Dharmendra Pradhan said that Odisha is a leading state in the fight against Covid and has put in place a robust health mechanism. Pradhan also expressed confidence that Odisha will be highly successful in containing Covid. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi also appreciated the steps taken by the State Government in the fight against Covid 19 and informed that the Nalco and MCL employees have contributed Rs.2.5 crore to the Odisha CMRF. With the inauguration of the five Covid-19 hospitals, state's dedicated Covid hospitals are functional in 26 districts with a bed capacity of 5000 now. The Government Covid hospitals will provide specialised treatment to the patients free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/five-more-covid-19-hospitals-open/articleshow/75256763.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Airlines refuse refunds despite Centre’s advisory||Chennai: Airlines seem to have ignored an advisory issued by the ministry of civil aviation urging them to issue refunds for tickets on flights cancelled during the shutdown. Its been three days since the advisory was issued following several complaints from passengers that all domestic airlines are refusing refunds and have put the money into a credit shell for people to reclaim within a year. Though the shutdown from March 25 to April 14 was sudden, the airlines continued to book tickets for travel from April 15 without instructions from the DGCA or ministry that flights can be resumed. But, the shutdown was extended and these tickets too have now been converted into credit shell. Many passengers have now taken to Twitter asking airlines for refunds citing the ministry's guidelines. In response, airlines have said they are still "reviewing" the directives by DGCA and has not clarified whether money will be returned. In some cases, the airlines are also refusing refunds for tickets saying that the tickets were booked before March 25. For example, a passenger has tweeted that “My flight cancelled due to Covid-19 which was scheduled on April 22 and 27. As per guidelines from DGCA, I want full refund in bank account. But IndiGo has responded saying "As your reservation was made before March 25, a credit shell has been made for the complete amount valid for a year and can be utilised by the same passengers." Similar responses which do not commit refunds are given by SpiceJet, GoAir Vistara and Air India. Air Passengers Association of India (APAI) national president D Sudhakara Reddy said, “The ministry and the DGCA should have issued a strong order telling airlines to refund tickets. This is a guideline. That is a problem. Airlines have taken law into their hands and are holding back people’s money.” Airlines continued to accepting booking for flights after April 15 and also for flights after May 4 though the ministry has not made it clear that flights will resume. Minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri has also tweeted that airlines did not “heed advisory opened bookings & started collecting money from flyers, a directive was issued to them on 19th April restraining them from doing so.” Following this some of the airlines have not stopped taking bookings but continue to refuse refunds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/airlines-refuse-refunds-despite-centres-advisory/articleshow/75260474.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Mob most foul attacks funeral of Chennai doctor||CHENNAI: Ignorance and heartlessness were in full display in the wee hours of Monday when separate groups of residents at Kilpauk and Anna Nagar tried to deny an honourable burial for a doctor who had died of Covid-19 on Sunday. At Velangadu near Anna Nagar, a mob attacked the ambulance carrying Dr Simon Hercules’s mortal remains, injuring three people around midnight. The body was finally buried with police protection around 3am. Earlier, the corporation and the ambulance crew had to turn away from the TP Chathram crematorium as another group of residents had gathered there. Dr Simon Hercules, a neurosurgeon and managing director of New Hope Medical Centre in Kilpauk, had died in a private hospital due to cardiac arrest after battling the novel coronavirus. He was seeing several patients with flu-like symptoms, but it is not clear from where he contracted the virus. His daughter, who is a doctor, had also tested positive for the virus. Hearing about the burial, a group armed with sticks and stones gathered at the Velangadu burial ground in Anna Nagar. They damaged the ambulance that carried the doctor’s body. Two of the ambulance crew, Anand and Damodharan, and an assistant executive engineer with the city corporation, Kaliyarasan, were injured in the attack. The ambulance, with the body, went to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital to give medical aid to the injured people. Meanwhile, Dr Pradeep Kumar, a junior colleague of Dr Hercules, arrived and drove the ambulance back to the burial ground, this time with police escort. On Monday, Police booked 21 people including a woman under various charges including attempt to murder. Medical professionals across the state condemned the disrespect and cruelty meted out to a doctor. The Tamil Nadu wing of Indian Medical Association (IMA) appealed to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to take strong legal action against those who indulged in violence. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president Dr K Senthil condemned the incident and said doctors and other healthcare professions were putting themselves at risk while continuing to treat Covid-19 patients with dedication and responsibility. Doctors, nurses and other health workers of Ambur Government Hospital wore black arm bands as a mark of protest against the Chennai mob attack. Health Minister C Vijayabaskar expressed displeasure at the incident and assured that the government would stand by its healthcare workers. “He (Dr Hercules) was one of our frontline workers. It is the duty of our government to look after the welfare of our doctors and healthcare professionals. I can assure that the virus does not spread from mortal remains and I appeal to the public to be compassionate,” the minister said. Earlier, the funeral of a doctor from Nellore who had died in the city too faced similar protests from residents in Ambattur and Tiruverkadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mob-most-foul-attacks-funeral-of-city-doc/articleshow/75261380.cms||Srikkanth D
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan students stuck in Kota as government ignores pleas for transport home||JAIPUR: Locked up in his hostel room in Kota for the past one month, Durga Shankar Dhakad (17) of Jhalawar is angry that his friends have covered over a 1,000km from Kota to be united with their families in Uttar Pradesh. His anger is understandable, considering that he has himself not been allowed to cover a distance of barely 90km to go to his home. “I am happy for my friends from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Their governments have gone out of the way to evacuate them from Kota. I wonder why our government, which has extended a helping hand to all state governments, has turned a blind eye to its own students,” said Dhakad. With the Uttar Pradesh government evacuating 9,500 students, including 2,000 from Uttrakhand, in 410 buses, students from other states too have been demanding their respective governments to do the same for them. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has repeatedly said that his government would provide all assistance to states that are willing to take their students back. This has angered close to 8,000 coaching students in Kota, hailing from various parts of the state, who have not been offered any assistance by the state to unite them with their families. Hemant Sharma of Jaipur, who has been in Kota for the past one year preparing for the JEEMain exam this year, thought the lockdown would last only for a few days is regretting his decision. “My father has been contacting everyone to get permission to bring me home, but has failed. Why is our government so indifferent to us,” asked Sharma, who has only one more friend in the hostel. Similar views were echoed by Narayan Rajpurohit from village Jari in Jaisalmer. “It is becoming difficult to stay in a hostel as it has been emptied. And with every passing day, I am losing my focus on studies. I am helpless. Neither can I ask my parents from Jaisalmer to come here nor can I approach anyone,” said Rajpurohit, who has signed a few appeals . TOI repeatedly called up Om Kasera, the district magistrate of Kota, but received no response. An official requesting anonymity, said that the local administration was working on issuing passes for students from the state. They are also exploring and collecting data on Rajasthani students to arrange for their transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-students-stuckin-kota-as-govtignores-pleas-fortransport-home/articleshow/75261386.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Pollutants down, Chennai’s rivers cleaner||CHENNAI: The city’s water bodies including the Adyar, the Cooum and the Buckingham canal are cleaner than they were a fortnight ago, with no industrial effluents flowing in from closed factories. However, public works department (PWD) officials say, domestic sewage flowing through illegal inlets continues to sully the water bodies. The Adyar, which flows 42.5km from Thiruneermalai to the Bay of Bengal, is now free of effluents from tanneries and industrial units in Chromepet, Tirumudivakkam, Madras Export Processing Zone (MEPZ) that are all shut. “The channels that used to carry the effluents into the river have gone dry,” said an official. The river now carries 70 cusecs of relatively clean water and no froth is being noticed anywhere along the course due to the absence of chemicals. The Buckingham canal, which in January was getting about 20 cusecs of water mixed with industrial waste and domestic sewage, now gets just 3 to 4 cusecs, mainly containing domestic sewage illegally let in. A few tankers also discharge untreated grey water illegally, said the official. The effluent-filled water flowing from the various units at the industrial estate at Kakalur in Tiruvallur district into the Thanneerkulam, sparking protests from residents in the area, has now stopped. The flow of 60 cusecs of grey water from the units has now come down to 10 cusecs. Water from Thanneerkulam tank will flow in to the Kosasthalayar basin, said the official. It is not just the industrial units that are to be blamed for releasing untreated effluents. The scores of automobile service centres, hotels and small eateries along the various water bodies are also responsible for letting out liquids such as used oil. Now, the lockdown has put a temporary end to the flow of all untreated grey water into water bodies, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pollutants-down-citys-rivers-cleaner/articleshow/75260485.cms||P Oppili
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||Kota students screened with rapid test kits, 10,500 isolated||LUCKNOW: The state government has put in place a robust system to keep tab on every student ferried from Kota. The health department conducted their medical check-up twice, once upon their entry in state and then in their native districts. “Over 8,000 children who came back have been screened for Covid using the ICMR approved rapid test. So far, only one student in Ghazipur tested positive in rapid test, but then tested negative in the confirmatory RT PCR test,” said secretary to CM, Alok Kumar who is overseeing surveillance of the students. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said, “All the 10,500 students brought from Kota will have to serve the mandatory home quarantine for two weeks and will be tracked by us.” Tracking is being done by UP CM Integrated Grievance Redressal System (IGRS) or the CM Helpline 1076. “The contact details of students and their parents had been taken at entry point. The CM helpline is being used to track them,” Alok Kumar said. In the first round, CM helpline tele-callers are enquiring if the students have reached home safely or not, then whether they underwent medical check-up in Agra or Jhansi or not. They are being asked about their health and being told to shift to a medical facility if symptom shows up. “In case there is any negative reply, the respective district administration is alerted,” Kumar said. Health officials informed that all the students had been geo-tagged to ensure they do not breach isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kota-students-screened-with-rapid-test-kits-10-5k-isolated/articleshow/75261381.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 21, 2020||Srinagar||54 Iran evacuees in Rajasthan to be sent home in Jammu and Kashmir||JAISALMER: After TOI reported about 54 Indian students who were brought to Jaisalmer military station from Iran on March 16 were demanding to be sent back to their homes, the Union home ministry on Monday gave permission to send them to Jammu and Kashmir. They will be sent to Srinagar by a special Indian Air Force plane, most likely on Tuesday. From Srinagar they will leave for their respective homes. These students completed their quarantine period long back and tested negative for Covid-19. Indians were brought to Jaisalmer from Iran in three batches, out of which 54 students were brought in the second batch on March 16. They were tested twice and their report was negative. Their quarantine period too ended on April 1. Efforts were made to send them to their homes, but initially the Jammu and Kashmir government was not ready to take back these students due to lockdown. Later the Centre did not permit movement till May 3. The Jammu and Kashmir government requested the Jaisalmer district administration to keep the students in quarantine till the lockdown ends. The students continuously protested and even went on hunger strike for two days, after which Jaisalmer district administration sent teams twice to counsel them. On the other hand, the defence sources said that the army was also trying to send these students to their states as officers and jawans of army who had gone on leave will be coming back after the lockdown ends and they will have to be kept in quarantine. Hence, space is required for this at Jaisalmer military station. Sources said that the army was continuously engaged in efforts at a high-level after which Union home ministry on Monday gave them the green signal to send these students to Jammu and Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/54-iran-evacuees-to-be-sent-home-in-jk/articleshow/75266638.cms||Vimal Bhatia
April 21, 2020||Jammu||54 Iran evacuees in Rajasthan to be sent home in Jammu and Kashmir||JAISALMER: After TOI reported about 54 Indian students who were brought to Jaisalmer military station from Iran on March 16 were demanding to be sent back to their homes, the Union home ministry on Monday gave permission to send them to Jammu and Kashmir. They will be sent to Srinagar by a special Indian Air Force plane, most likely on Tuesday. From Srinagar they will leave for their respective homes. These students completed their quarantine period long back and tested negative for Covid-19. Indians were brought to Jaisalmer from Iran in three batches, out of which 54 students were brought in the second batch on March 16. They were tested twice and their report was negative. Their quarantine period too ended on April 1. Efforts were made to send them to their homes, but initially the Jammu and Kashmir government was not ready to take back these students due to lockdown. Later the Centre did not permit movement till May 3. The Jammu and Kashmir government requested the Jaisalmer district administration to keep the students in quarantine till the lockdown ends. The students continuously protested and even went on hunger strike for two days, after which Jaisalmer district administration sent teams twice to counsel them. On the other hand, the defence sources said that the army was also trying to send these students to their states as officers and jawans of army who had gone on leave will be coming back after the lockdown ends and they will have to be kept in quarantine. Hence, space is required for this at Jaisalmer military station. Sources said that the army was continuously engaged in efforts at a high-level after which Union home ministry on Monday gave them the green signal to send these students to Jammu and Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/54-iran-evacuees-to-be-sent-home-in-jk/articleshow/75266636.cms||Vimal Bhatia
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||54 Iran evacuees in Rajasthan to be sent home in Jammu and Kashmir||JAISALMER: After TOI reported about 54 Indian students who were brought to Jaisalmer military station from Iran on March 16 were demanding to be sent back to their homes, the Union home ministry on Monday gave permission to send them to Jammu and Kashmir. They will be sent to Srinagar by a special Indian Air Force plane, most likely on Tuesday. From Srinagar they will leave for their respective homes. These students completed their quarantine period long back and tested negative for Covid-19. Indians were brought to Jaisalmer from Iran in three batches, out of which 54 students were brought in the second batch on March 16. They were tested twice and their report was negative. Their quarantine period too ended on April 1. Efforts were made to send them to their homes, but initially the Jammu and Kashmir government was not ready to take back these students due to lockdown. Later the Centre did not permit movement till May 3. The Jammu and Kashmir government requested the Jaisalmer district administration to keep the students in quarantine till the lockdown ends. The students continuously protested and even went on hunger strike for two days, after which Jaisalmer district administration sent teams twice to counsel them. On the other hand, the defence sources said that the army was also trying to send these students to their states as officers and jawans of army who had gone on leave will be coming back after the lockdown ends and they will have to be kept in quarantine. Hence, space is required for this at Jaisalmer military station. Sources said that the army was continuously engaged in efforts at a high-level after which Union home ministry on Monday gave them the green signal to send these students to Jammu and Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/54-iran-evacuees-to-be-sent-home-in-jk/articleshow/75260495.cms||Vimal Bhatia
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Garbage chokes Walled City, triggers sanitation problems||JAIPUR: Lockdown in Walled City has created a problem of garbage disposal in many areas. Residents have been complaining about irregular garbage collecting vehicles which is leading to degraded sanitation problems. Lokesh Meena, a resident of Regaron ki Basti in Ghat Gate, said since a week, trash collecting vehicles haven’t come to his locality. He said, “As the lockdown has been extended, vehicles are not coming regularly. Our houses are filled with garbage and people have started to dump it on the roads. Due to lockdown, we can’t even go to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) office to file complaints.” Residents of Haldiyon ka Raasta near Johri Market claimed that the drains are choked. Ajay Singh, a resident of the area said, “Garbage vehicles are not regular and sewage lines are getting choked. People have started dumping garbage on roads. Drains are overflowing in many areas.” As the number of positive cases are rising, sanitation workers residing in Walled City are working and no outsiders are allowed. This has created a problems since sanitation workers do not reside in all the areas. A senior JMC official said such problems exist in areas that are sealed. “Such complaints are coming from those areas which are completely sealed. The entire city is cleaned properly especially in the time of lockdown. Sealed areas and its surrounding are facing such issue which will be solved very soon,” said the JMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/garbage-chokes-walled-city-triggers-sanitation-problems/articleshow/75260506.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt’s plan for migrants kindles hope in western Odisha families||Bhubaneswar: Premalata Putel has been constantly asking her husband, Indrajit, stranded in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor for weeks now, about when he would return home. He would not have any answer for her. On Monday, however, a day after the state government made announcements for allowing migrant workers to come back home after May 3, Premalata could hardly contain her joy. Like Premalata, thousands of people in many parts of the state, especially its western districts, are waiting for their loved ones to come back from their places of work, where they are stranded since the lockdown began. Families are awaiting the return of kin who staff brick kilns, construction companies, restaurants and textile factories across the country, especially in the southern states. Premalata, who is bringing up her two children single-handedly in Belpada in Balangir district, is yet to receive money from Indrajit in April. She said she heard about chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s plans for returning migrant workers from other residents of her village. “I hope the government will do something to get my husband back after May 3. I talk to him on the mobile whenever he gets a break from work. In spite of the lockdown, the owner of the brick kiln where he is employed is making him work. Otherwise how will he earn money?” Premalata asked TOI, adding that she was afraid that buses and trains might not run even after May 3, making Indrajit’s return to Odisha difficult. Migrant workers, too, are hopeful of seeing their families soon, with the state government making preparations to receive them and investing sarpanches with the powers of district collectors to ensure registration and quarantining of returnees. The government has also announced an incentive of Rs 2,000 for those who stay in isolation for 14 days after coming back. Bhagaban Bag of Duhita village in Padampur in Bargarh district said his daughter, son-in-law and two granddaughters had been working in a brick kiln in Hyderabad for the past six months. “We are praying for them to return home. Let them stay in quarantine outside the village, but they should come back. We don’t know how they will return but we are certain that the state government will bring them back,” said Bag. Stranded in Babunagar in Hyderabad, Bindo Rana, who has completed his portion of work in the construction of a building, said he would have returned to Cuttack, his home town, by the end of March had it not been for the lockdown. “Many of my friends here told me to walk 100km daily to return but I turned down their advice. I am sure we will be able to find some means to come home after May 3. The government is also ready to welcome us,” said Rana. According to government data, 1,40,000 labourers from the state applied for work outside through licenced labour agents. Experts however said the number would be far higher as many agents send out more labourers than allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govts-plan-for-migrants-kindles-hope-in-western-odisha-families/articleshow/75256773.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Stay home during Ramzan, Akshaya Tritiya: Collector||Jaipur: District collector Joga Ram met religious leaders on Monday and urged them to appeal to the people and their communities through social media to maintain social distance and stay indoors during the upcoming festivals and the month of Ramzan. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday had requested religious leaders to ensure that Ramzan and Akshaya Tritiya be observed within their homes later this month.He also urged them to appeal to the people to use masks and sanitizers. “The call of the religious leaders create awareness among people. They play an important role in making people mentally strong,” he added.Commissioner of Police Anand Srivastava also said the religious leaders have an important role in motivating people to maintain discipline during the festivals. “Religious events will not be allowed at religious places during lockdown,” he said.Meanwhile, administration of the Jaipur sub-division has already identified 257 migrant labourers out of 778 for employment in various services. “Once we get a green signal from the government, we will start implementing it. Many of them are reluctant now. We will try to convince them as well,” said Yugantar Sharma, SDM, Jaipur sub-division.On Monday, programme manager of World Vision India, Josiah Daniel, donated 1,000 N-95 masks and 2,000 pairs of gloves to deputy director of women and child development department Usha Sharma. These were donated for the use of Anganwadi workers, who are working as health workers. In all, 500 food packets were distributed for five days by World Vision India in Jhotwara and Sanganer area through Anganwadi workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stay-home-during-ramzan-akshaya-tritiya-collector/articleshow/75260517.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar officer writes to CM, complains against SDM||Jaipur: Sangeeta Yadav, cooperative inspector of Kherli, Alwar, on Monday wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and complained against abusive behavior of Kathoomar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Anil Singhal. She also complained that, “He threatened to get her terminated from work, mentally harrassed her and demanded a bribe in form of an air-conditioner for distribution of ration kits.”Yadav demanded that an investigation into the matter should be initiated and strict legal action must be taken against the SDM for demanding bribe, mental harassment and using foul indecent language. She also alleged other employees in the sub-division were also being mentally harassed by Anil Singhal without any reason. “I cannot do the job under these circumstances. If anything happens to me in future or any misadventure occurs, SDM Kathoomar will be held responsible for this,” she added in the letter requesting to take legal action against him.While, Singhal said the allegations levelled against him were baseless. "Charging like this while on duty during COVID-19 crisis is spoiling the atmosphere of the area," he said. Collector Inderjit Singh said after receiving a written complaint from the officer and discussing with the senior officers, an inquiry has been initiated and it has been handed over to the additional district magistrate. " TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-officer-writes-to-cm-complains-against-sdm/articleshow/75260513.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Poisoning of leopards: 2 accused secure bail in absence of lab report||Aurangabad: Two of the three suspects, accused of killing leopards by poisoning them in Kinwat taluka of Nanded district, were granted bail by a local court on Monday after spending 24 hours in judicial custody. Ramaji Namdev Barge (30), Govardhan Roopsinh Rathod (50) and his 23-year-old son Pradeep were arrested for deaths of two leopards. Barge and Govardhan managed to secure bail while Pradeep, who was also involved in theft of teakwood from the forest, is still in judicial custody. As per official detail, a young female leopard was found dead in the forest area of Kinwat taluka on April 15. Two days later, a male leopard was found dead in similar condition. A poison-laced carcass of a dog was also found around 150 metre away from the carcass of the second leopard. Shivnath Waje, divisional manager for forest development corporation of Maharashtra (Nanded), said the lab reports which could have substantiated charges of poisoning of the big cats are still awaited. "Our preliminary probe has found involvement of the three accused in poisoning. However, the same needs to be proved in the court of law using lab reports. The veterinary experts of the government are shouldered with the task of getting the lab reports at the earliest," he said. Ashwin Jayrajan, Nanded district veterinary officer, on Monday said the DNA co-relation has to be established between dead leopards and dead dog in order to establish the allegation that latter was laced with poison to kill the big cats. "Necessary tests are to be conducted at Hyderabad-based laboratories as this facility is not available in Nanded or nearby cities of Maharashtra. We have collected the samples from the carcasses and will soon send it to Hyderabad," he said. Environmentalist Kishor Pathak said the forest department must put up a strong case in connection with the death of two leopards in Nanded district. "We were expecting that lab reports would be available during today’s court hearing. The two accused in the case getting out on bail within 24-hours will definitely send a wrong message among locals. The forest department should not stop after registering an offence, but must ensure that the guilty get exemplary punishment," he said. Sharing details of teakwood theft by the third accused, range forest officer M D Gite, who is investigating the case, said Pradeep had hoarded stolen teakwood in the farm which he is cultivating on a contract basis. "Teakwood theft is also grave offence and necessary charges have been levelled against him," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/poisoning-of-leopards-2-accused-secure-bail-in-absence-of-lab-report/articleshow/75259410.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Wage employment programme starts in Ganjam||Berhampur: The Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) on Monday launched the urban wage employment programme, recently announced by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, to provide livelihood to the lockdown-hit and earning-deprived urban poor. “On the first day of the launch, we engaged 20 people, members of two women’s self-help groups (SHGs), to undertake labour-intensive work on a pilot basis,” said BeMC commissioner Chakravarti Singh Rathore. The labourers undertook wall painting in front of Town police station and dug percolation pits in Old Berhampur high school here. Being the first day of the programme, work was done from 9.30 am to 11.30 am. “We have explained the modalities of the project to the workers. From Tuesday, work will be carried out from 6.30 am to 11 am,” Rathore said. The commissioner said registration of job-seekers under the programme would start from Wednesday at the respective ward offices. Ward-level committees, headed by nodal officers, would finalise the work to be undertaken in the particular ward. Workers engaged would strictly follow regulations like social distancing and mask-wearing at the project sites, said Rathore. Naveen had announced Rs 100 crore for all urban local bodies under the initiative; of this, BeMC received Rs 5 crore. The programme will continue till September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/wage-employment-programme-starts-in-ganjam/articleshow/75256799.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Court flays delay in setting up labs at Ytl, Chanda and Gondia||Nagpur: Censuring the state government, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday directed it to file an affidavit on all its earlier orders regarding coronavirus . While adjourning hearing till Thursday, Justice Nitin Sambre asked government pleader (GP) Sumant Deopujari to explain the delay to start Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) at GMCHs in Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gondia, along with Gadchiroli. The GP was also told to reply on whether the government fulfilled all requirements as mentioned by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for setting up Covid-19 testing laboratories at all these places, except Gadchiroli. The directives came after amicus curiae Anup Gilda pointed out a TOI report published on Monday exposing how for nearly a month the government had failed to implement HC’s orders of setting up VRDL facilities at all these places. It mentioned that the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) recently issued equipment purchase orders to Haffkine Institute and it would take at least 10 days for creating necessary infrastructure for these specialized labs. Earlier, the GP informed that the proposals for VRDL at Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gondia are pending with ICMR. Assistant solicitor general (ASI) Ulhas Aurangabadkar informed that they had apprised the government of creating necessary infrastructure and setting up required equipment at all these GMCHs for getting approval. He added that the ICMR had appointed AIIMS in the city as nodal agency for granting VRDL approvals. The judge then asked government to take steps to expedite starting of VRDL at all three GMCHs in Vidarbha. On HC’s directives of providing sufficient PPEs to the health care workers, the government informed that it distributed 6,000 kits for the city. But NMC Sudhir Puranik informed that it had received only 3,000 kits. Justice Sambre then asked government to come clear on actual numbers of kits distributed in the city. The judge also directed ICMR to inform on number of rapid anti-body testing kits being provided in Vidarbha and Nagpur for Covid-19 testing before next hearing. The ASI then informed that the centre had five lakh such kits and those would be provided to the states on demand. He said guidelines in this regard were already issued to the states. HC warns govt of contempt action over Mafsu lab Blasting the government on failure to inform on starting VRDL at Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University’s (MAFSU) veterinary college, Justice Sambre asked the GMCH dean and nodal officer why contempt action shouldn’t be taken against them. Deopujari then informed that although permission was granted to Mafsu, it was yet to start functioning due to lack of infrastructure, equipment and testing kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/court-flays-delay-in-setting-up-labs-at-ytl-chanda-and-gondia/articleshow/75260516.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Three die in wall collapse near Chennai||CHENNAI: A 64-year-old house painter and his two daughters, one of who is differently abled, died after part of a compound wall surrounding a vacant plot collapsed on them at Peerkankaranai near Tambaram on Sunday night. Around 10.30pm on Sunday, police said, Rajangam and his daughters Kala, 45, and Sumithra, 32, were chatting near the spot when a portion of the wall suddenly came crashing down and they were trapped under the debris. The wall, constructed nearly 15 years ago by the owner of the plot to discourage tresspassers, was six feet high and was in a dilapidated condition, police said. Hearing the crash and the screams of the three people, some of their neighbours rushed to the spot. It took them nearly 10 minutes to clear the debris, pull the three people out and rush them to the Chengalpet government hospital, police said. All the three were bleeding profusely from the head.While Rajangam died within minutes of arriving at the hospital, Sumithra died in the wee hours of Monday and her sister Kala at 8am. Police said Sumithra, a differently abled woman, lived with Rajangam, while Kala, who was married and settled in Telangana, had come to visit them before the lockdown began and was not able to return home since then. The three usually placed a cot near the compound wall and sat on it before going to bed, a police officer said, based on accounts of neighbours. “We had warned them not to sit near the wall as it was in a poor state” said Parvathy, a neighbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-die-in-wall-collapse-near-city/articleshow/75261409.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Confusion as several shops open||Chennai: A large number of shops, including upmarket coffee shops, hardware stores and salons opened for business on Monday morning as confusion reigned over easing of the lockdown. This is because until Monday afternoon the state government had not made any announcement that the lockdown curbs will not be relaxed and will remain as strict as ever.  The Union government had issued guidelines indicating relaxation of lockdown for certain shops. Senior government officials were clueless on Sunday night when asked if the lockdown would continue under Greater Chennai Corporation limits on Monday. Traders told TOI shops in the Broadway area opened for business. Across north Chennai, residents reported that establishments selling construction material were open and that plumbers and other workmen were active. Cops told TOI that salons in Washermenpet, Tondiarpet and Royapuram area remained open. “We were also confused whether we should impose the lockdown strictly as there were no clear instructions. That’s why we took it easy today. From tomorrow, it will be strict as usual,” said a police officer. Traders association leader Vikram Raja told TOI that establishments selling construction material and hardware stores were open in the morning, but shut by 1pm. “By afternoon, it became clear the lockdown would be extended till May 3. We support the decision,” he said. This was despite grave losses to several small-time traders, he said, adding that at this moment the lives of people were more important. However, the association is going to submit a memorandum to TN government officials. “We want the government to allow traders to at least clean their shops while keeping the shutters down. We usually clean our premises every week. Since the shops have been shut down for a month, it will be a mess inside,” he said. Raja said cement shops would be the worst hit as the commodity could be damaged with lumps forming in the bags if left unattended. Raja said the association members feared that the extended lockdown would spell doom for many trades. Professionals like barbers and tailors have lost their livelihood, he said. “We have requested the government to give a one-time cash transfer of Rs 5,000 and one month’s ration to these professionals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/confusion-as-several-shops-open/articleshow/75260499.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||Palghar case: Yogi Adityanath calls up Uddhav Thackeray, seeks action||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday night and appealed for action against all the accused involved in the lynching of three persons, two of whom were associated with Juna Akhara, in Palghar district on April 16. “I spoke to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday about the murder of Juna Akhara’s Swami Kalpavriksha Giri ji, Swami Sushil ji and their driver Nilesh Telgade. I have appealed to him to take strict action against those responsible for the incident. The CM told me that some people have been arrested while the remaining are being identified and strict action will be taken against them,” Yogi said in a tweet on Monday morning. The three were travelling to Gujarat from Kandivali in Mumbai to attend a funeral and were not taking main roads to avoid blockades due to lockdown.While they were driving through Gadchinchle village in Palghar district, over a hundred villagers attacked them believing them to be thieves. Even the presence of police failed to deter the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/palghar-case-yogi-calls-up-uddhav-seeks-action/articleshow/75261402.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Industries take a wait-and-watch approach to open till May 3 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Despite the flurry of activities in the corridors of power to reopen industries, entrepreneurs decided not to reopen factories and wait till the end of the extended lockdown period on May 3 before they took a decision. They said the problems to restart factories were manifold and they cannot negotiate the chaotic situation. On the one hand, they felt that the Centre’s conditions were not practical and does not reflect ground realities. On the other, the employees can hardly be convinced to stay on at the factory premises leaving their families alone in this moment of crisis. In between, the state government, which has only limited powers, has no clue as to how to go about it though they are trying hard to do something, said an industrialist. Garment manufacturers have announced that they would wait till May 3. Similarly, handicraft makers are ready to miss business opportunities rather than reopening their factories. The gem and jewellery industry is also not operating after the district collector scotched any plan of opening the industrial zones within municipal limits. “We have decided not to reopen the units even though we are allowed to in areas like Bagru and other places which does not come under the municipal limits. Getting individual passes for employees through a complex process is also making things very difficult. Under prevailing conditions, making arrangements for their boarding and lodging facilities within the factory premises is also not possible,” said Atul Poddar of the Federation of Handicrafts Exporters of Rajasthan. While employees of companies that manufacture essential products are allowed to travel daily from home to office and back, the same system is not allowed for other industries, he said. Others drew attention to ESI hospitals dedicated to industrial workers, saying why these facilities cannot be utilised for checking workers when they enter an industrial zone gate. “There is no plan. Official orders don’t put systems in place. Everybody is struggling to understand what the government is doing because nothing is working at the moment,” said an office-bearer of the garment exporters' association. There is also criticism regarding the lack of coordination. When the collector can supersede all powers, why are directives issued without his consultation, they asked. “One department issues a set of orders which are rejected by others. There seems to be no coordination,” said another industrialist. Some even pointed out that the number of essential service providers operating are not as per the government estimate. “There is the fear of penal legal action. That’s why nobody is willing to take the risk. We have already lost a good deal of business and we do not mind losing some other opportunities but will not risk legal action against us,” said a manufacturer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industries-take-await-and-watchapproach-to-open-till-may-3-in-state/articleshow/75261407.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||BJP task force takes up problems faced by farmers, students & businessmen||Bhopal:The special task force constituted by the ruling BJP to tackle the covid-19 pandemic in Madhya Pradesh, discussed the situation through a video conference on Monday. The task force also discussed problems faced by people of different cadres of the society during the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. The task force members appreciated the government decision to revive the crop insurance and Sambal schemes. They also discussed starting operations in small industries and businesses, as per the central government guidelines, during the relaxation. It was reiterated that social distancing and lockdown norms be strictly followed by the workers, said sources. This issue was raised before the task force by the members of Malwa Chambers of Commerce and Industries. The industry has also urged the task force to ask government to give more time to pay taxes in view of impact of covid-19 on the economy. The task force also decided to make telephone calls to the farmers apart from sending SMS for the procurement of crops. It was suggested that in case the farmers can’t turn up in time, the mandi officials can invite other farmers for procurement of Rabi crops to speed up the entire process. The government has already asked the traders and local businessmen to directly purchase the crops from the farmers, informed our sources. Distribution of ration in rural and urban areas through district administration is another issue that was discussed. It was decided that social workers in the region will support the officials to locate and help the needy get ration in time. At this meet, problem of coaching students stranded in Kota and other places of Rajasthan was also discussed; there were suggestions given to bring them back to MP at the earliest. It was also suggested to check movement of migrant workers from other states and provide them with rations and ready meals while promoting the use of home-made masks across the state. The task force is also believed to have discussed the request made by wife of Indore inspector, Devendra Chandravanshi, who passed away on Sunday, battling covid-19 infection. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh and appointment of his wife to the post of sub-inspector on Sunday. However, she had urged the government to give her appointment in education department. The government will soon take a decision on her request, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-task-force-takes-up-problems-faced-by-farmers-students-businessmen/articleshow/75259403.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Sibal, Tankha object to financial ordinances, urge Prez to withdraw||Bhopal: Eminent lawyers and leaders of the Congress party Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha on Monday wrote to President Ramnath Kovind on the present situation in Madhya Pradesh where chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan alone holds fort of his government and objected to the two financial ordinances promulgated by him, terming them unconstitutional. Sibal and Tankha in a joint letter to the President on Monday accused that Chouhan without the advice of a council of ministers promulgated two financial ordinances, which goes against the provisions in the Constitution. They argued: “We wish to bring to your attention Article 163 of the Constitution which mandates a council of ministers to aid and advice the Governor in the exercise of his functions. The Governor cannot act without the advice of the council of ministers headed by chief minister. Additionally, the proviso to Article 164 (A) provides for the minimum strength of the council of ministers to be not less than 12 including the chief minister. Here the council is missing, only the head exists. The Governor has, therefore, without jurisdiction acting on the advice of Shivraj Singh Chouhan alone promulgated two Ordinances.' The two Ordinances mentioned are, The Madhya Pradesh Finance Ordinance 2020 and the Madhya Pradesh Appropriation (Vote-on-Account) Ordinance 2020.” The letter explained, “These Ordinances authorise the state government to burden the state with an additional loan of Rs 4,443 crore. It also allows for the withdrawal of Rs 1.66 lakh crore from the consolidated fund of the staffer the financial year 2020-2021. This not only has grave fiscal implications on the fiscal health of the state but gives an unconstitutional act, the colour of legality. In Madhya Pradesh, constitutional democracy has been reduced to a farce." The letter also argued, “The chief minister was administered the oath of office on March 23, 2020. No legal impediment stood in the way for him to constitute the cabinet. Since then 28 days have gone by.” “Ït is only in extraordinary circumstances that it is permissible to adopt the ordinance making power route in fiscal matters and allow for a Vote-on-Account. Here, the conditions precedent in the exercise of that power do not exist. The Madhya Pradesh assembly is in place. The Council of ministers can be constituted any day,” the Congress leaders said. Rajya Sabha members Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha appealed to the President to “withdraw the unconstitutional ordinances,”constitute a council of ministers in Madhya Pradesh and pass Vote-on-Account by following settled constitutional procedures. On Monday, the Congress leaders also wrote to the President, Ïn the midst of combating Covid19, we cannot jettison our Constitutional responsibilities. Otherwise posterity will not forgive us. Indore today is the epicentre of the spread of the virus hosting 80% of Coronavirus infections. Bhopal earlier witnessed the collapse of the health department with the hierarchy of its officers infected. In the absence of a health minister, the infected personnel continued to discharge their duties. Today, the department in Bhopal is completely dysfunctional."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sibal-tankha-object-to-financial-ordinances-urge-prez-to-withdraw/articleshow/75259418.cms||Suchandana Gupta
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Opium cultivators in Chittorgarh, Pratapgarh spend sleepless nights to save crop||JAIPUR: Baton-wielding farmers guarding a house or a farmland round-the-clock has become a common sight in the rural areas of Chittorgarh and Pratapgarh. Caught in an unusual situation, they are protecting the expensive opium crop that is stored in their houses or farmland from being robbed. The situation has arisen as the only buyer, the Central Bureau of Narcotics, is yet to start the process of purchasing it from the farmers, making their crop vulnerable to thefts. Even if a kg of opium is stolen, it means a loss between Rs 2,800 (minimum price) and Rs 6,000 (maximum price) to the farmer and gain in the range of Rs 60,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh for the robber. “My village has 40 licenced farmers including my family. We all have to guard our house and farmlands, our common group has to patrol the village the entire night,” said Ram Swarup, a farmer in Biloda village, where the vigil has intensified after three incidents of theft were reported. Another farmer, Charan Chaudhary of Thor village is having sleepless nights as the delay of a month in the sale of products has already cast its adverse effects on the crops. “The produce has started losing its weight which will hamper the quality. The price of the crop is determined by its weight quality and texture,” said Chaudhary. Surendra Singh Jadawat, a former MLA of Chittorgarh has repeatedly written to the Central Bureau of Narcotics to start the process of purchasing which takes a month, else farmers will suffer heavy losses. The state has 8,000 licensed farmers who produce an average of 60% of the country’s opium. It is used for medicines and by the armed forces during combat operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/opium-cultivators-spend-sleepless-nights-to-save-crop/articleshow/75260521.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Relief for small traders, daily wagers||Koraput: P Satish, owner of an electronics repair shop in Jeypore, was a relaxed man on Monday as he opened his store 26 days after the nation went into lockdown. So was Arjun Bhatra, who ekes out a living by working as a daily labourer with a cement dealer, as he also resumed work. Like Satish and Arjun, many small traders and daily-wage labourers heaved a sigh of relief as the state government allowed partial relaxation in certain sectors, including agriculture and construction. “I was in great financial difficulty as my shop was shut since March 25. I earn between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500 per day and hire two mechanics. Though my income was zero during the lockdown, I still paid my staff and the rent for the shop,” said Satish. After re-opening his shop, Satish received around 10 customers, who wanted their fans and mixer-grinders to be repaired. “I was out of work for the past three weeks. All my savings have dried up and I am left with no money. Now, there is some hope with construction work resuming,” Sada Harijan of Kundura block, who does road work. The relaxation in lockdown helped people carry out minor repair works at home. “I was unable to repair two of my taps due to closure of hardware shops. Now I can fix the leak,” said Balmiki Padhi, a Jeypore resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/relief-for-small-traders-daily-wagers/articleshow/75256817.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||Two women test positive, Lucknow count at 179||LUCKNOW: Two women of a family tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Monday, taking the city’s count to 179. These include 108 city residents and 71 outsiders who were tested positive during their stay in Lucknow. The two patients, aged 54 and 34, are residents of Lucknow’s Sadar area and were home quarantined after a family member tested positive earlier, said chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr Narendra Agarwal. “They have been admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science for treatment. At present, both women were asymptomatic,” the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-women-test-positive-city-count-at-179/articleshow/75261411.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Now, ‘Nightingale of Kannur’ to the aid of Covid hospital||KANNUR: Machines rush more confidently than humans who tend to be cautious. Such was the case at the Covid hospital at Anjarakkandy in the district on Monday, when a robot fearlessly entered the hospital to assist the medical and healthcare teams in treating Covid-19 patients. Health minister K K Shailaja inaugurated the service of the robot, named ‘Nightingale-19’, via video call, and also interacted with a few children undergoing treatment. The robot has been developed by the robotics centre of Vimal Jyothi Engineering College at Chemperi in the district, and the service was offered free of cost. Nightingale-19 is a lot more advanced than the one at the hospital in Wuhan, China, where Covid-19 was first reported, said the team that developed it with the assistance of health department officials. Apart from providing food and medicines to the patients, it would help interact with the patients via video, without wearing a PPE kit, said Dr Ajith Kumar, who is the nodal officer coordinating the Covid treatment in Anjarakkandy. The one in Wuhan was used only to provide food and medicine and no communication was possible. “With this facility, we could avoid going to the patients wearing the PPE kits, even for minor requirements, but we would continue the routine personal visits as part of the medical examination,” said Dr Kumar. This robot can be managed using a remote control up to a distance of 1km and after every single use it would be disinfected. It is also a relaxing presence for the patients, including children, he said. The robot can carry a payload of up to 25kg, which means it can take medicines, food and water for at least six patients at a time, said the team comprising associate professor C R Sarin, research dean T D John, research team member Sunil Paul, which developed it. Along with this, the college has also developed leg-operated sanitizer dispenser, which was presented to the Covid hospital. Using this system, the sanitizer can be used without touching the bottle by hand. When a pedal is pressed with the foot, the sanitizer would come out through a tube. Now the engineering college is in the process of developing a movable kiosk, which would enable the health personnel to reach the patient without wearing a PPE kit, they said. DMO K Narayana Nayak, surveillance officer M K Shaj and DPM K V Latheesh also interacted with the patients with the help of the robot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/now-nightingale-of-kannur-to-the-aid-of-covid-hospital/articleshow/75258069.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Husband of corona warrior nurse commits suicide||JAIPUR: The husband of a nurse who is working at SMS Hospital committed suicide in wee hours on Sunday morning. The man was working for a private company while his wife was a part of the coronavirus team. The deceased was identified as 32-year-old Anil Kumar who hanged himself at home. Sukhveer Singh, assistant sub-inspector, Moti Doongri police station said, “The deceased was staying here, though he worked for a private company outside the city. He was unable to go for work due to lockdown. We haven’t found any suicide note till now. He was found hanging when his wife returned from work. She was part of the team that was dealing with the coronavirus patients.” According to officials, they did not find anything to indicate that the couple had any serious marital issues. The official said, “They seemed to have a normal relationship like any other couple and had tiffs, though nothing very serious. They stayed in a residential building and no one heard anything suspicious. They probably had a minor argument the night before, but it was nothing that could be so serious that he would kill himself.” The family hails from Haryana and the couple’s child was staying in the village with the grandparents. “We will check the phone records of the deceased to know about the last person he spoke to. At present no one can tell us anything as no one was at home at the time of his death. We will also question his friends and family to find out the reason. As of now, the family claims that they were not aware of any issue faced by the deceased that he took the drastic step,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/husband-of-corona-warrior-nurse-commits-suicide/articleshow/75260522.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||5 from Buldhana, 2 from Ytl discharged after full recovery||Nagpur: In some good news for Vidarbha, five patients from Buldhana and two from Yavatmal have completely recovered and tested negative for Covid-19 in two consecutive tests. They were discharged from their respective hospitals on Monday taking the total number of patients recovered and discharged from Vidarbha to 30. This means the recovery rate of Vidarbha is about 22% which is higher than national (20%) and state (12%). “Five more Covid-19 patients responded well to treatment protocol and were discharged today. This brings the number of active patients down to 12 in Buldhana now. No new samples have tested positive,” said district collector Suman Rawat Chandra. At 21, Buldhana has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha after Nagpur. Of these, three were discharged last week. Now, total 8 patients have recovered in Buldhana. Altogether 12 patients are in hospital and recovering, said authorities. A 45-year-old teacher from Buldhana who died on March 28 had later tested positive. Two patients in Yavatmal also recovered on Monday. District collector MD Singh said there were 10 positive cases on Saturday. However, the second and third reports of four among the 10 came negative and those four were discharged on Sunday, which reduced the total of active cases to six. On Sunday, two tested positive making the total cases in isolation wards to eight. On Monday, one more positive report has been received making the total to 9. “At 4pm on Monday, we received the second and third test reports of two patients as negative and they were discharged. Thus, there are only seven active positive cases currently in the GMCH isolation wards,” Singh said. In Amravati, alarming jump in the number of rejected throat swab samples is raising eyebrows even as the district administration maintained that it has nothing to do with the “capability” of health staff working at the field level. The health administration came under fire on Sunday from Amravati MP Navneet Rana and her MLA husband Ravi Rana when the testing lab at AIIMS Nagpur rejected their throat swabs as these “were not being properly collected”. Sunday’s report from civil surgeon’s office put the number of rejected samples at 44 while it jumped to 82 on Monday. Navneet Rana expressed grave concern over this. She told TOI, “Government money is going waste on transport and kits as the civil surgeon is not taking proper care while sending samples to Nagpur.” “Coronavirus is very sensitive and it doesn’t survive in samples if they are not preserved under zero degree Celsius temperature. The civil surgeon here is not taking this care even as the staff is taking samples properly,” said the MP. District collector Shailesh Naval said, “The throat samples as verified by AIIMS are put to conclusion as per their expert advice which is independent of capability of health staff working at field level”. He refuted the MP’s charge and said, “There are 5 positive patients with us and four of them got report of first (test) negative. I guess the figures and performance may be verified.” A 35-year-old man, who was admitted to Covid hospital around 3am on Monday, passed away in the morning. Naval said the patient was on the last stage of TB and was brought to Superspecility Hospital from Karanja Lad in Washim district. He was admitted to Non-Ccovid ward where he died this morning His throat swab has been taken, he added. Naval said the swab report of a 69-year-old man of Badnera who died at Covid hospital two days ago tested negative. He said the swab reports of two family members and 36 contacts of a 16-year-old Covid positive boy of Noorani Square locality are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-from-buldhana-2-from-ytl-discharged-after-full-recovery/articleshow/75260523.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||No relaxation in lockdown in Beed, Latur stays cautious||Aurangabad: Even as the government has allowed relaxation in certain lockdown-related rules, Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar on Monday said nothing in the district will change without the order from the district administration. "The state government has given freedom to all district administrations vide notification dated April 17," he said, adding that the precaution aims at negating the possibility of Covid-19 spread to zero. Beed district has witnessed only one confirmed case so far with the district administration employing several proactive measures to contain the spread of the viral disease. Among different initiatives, the district administration had announced odd-even formula for towns for buying of essentials during the lockdown and also curtailed the operation time of establishments supplying essential items for only four hours. Among other districts of Marathwada, Latur has also decided to exercise caution. Latur district guardian minister Amit Deshmukh, while addressing a meeting of the district administration, asked for strict sealing of district boundaries until further notice. Deshmukh, who represents Latur assembly constituency, has also asked for increasing the check posts at the entry points in the city and at other local self-governing bodies of the district in order to keep a tight vigil on the movement of outsiders. Latur had reported eight Covid-19 patients with none of them having local roots and all were on a journey to their homes in the southern India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-relaxation-in-lockdown-in-beed-latur-stays-cautious/articleshow/75259426.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||Two private medical colleges in Lucknow tending to 50% patients||LUCKNOW: Two private medical colleges are sharing half the number of Covid-19 patients under treatment in Lucknow, as per the figures provided by district health authorities. Data shows that of total 168 patients under treatment in various hospitals till 8pm on Monday, 50% (84) were in Era’s Medical College (37) and Integral Institute of Medical Science and Research (47). Remaining patients are undergoing treatment at about seven government and government-aided medical education institutes. Maximum 61 patients (over 36%) in a single facility are at government’s RSM hospital in Bakshi-ka-Talab. RML Institute of Medical Sciences has 12 while Lok Bandhu Hospital has one positive patient. Most of the patients who are critical or have mild symptoms are undergoing treatment at two super-specialty institutes – KGMU having five patients (four with mild symptoms and one critical) and SGPGI (three patients, including one critical). However, even as the two private medical facilities are sharing 50% of the burden but are allegedly not getting any financial help from the health department. “Patients are being sent to our institute by the CMO office without prior intimation, at times even during the night,” alleged director, IIMSR, Dr Zafar Idris. He said when the first batch of patients was sent on April 17, officers came without PPE kits for hospital staff. “When we put our foot down, they arranged safety gears. However, the institute has not been provided PPEs since then,” he claimed. Dr Idris said the institute had pledged for 45 patients but at present had two more than the capacity. “We are spending on patients as well as on quarantine of health personnel in hotels from our pocket. We are not getting any financial support,” he alleged. Similar issues were raised by the staff at Era’s Medical College. Denying allegations, CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said, “Not just EMC and IIMSR, many patients have been sent to government hospital in Bakshi-ka-Talab area. When these institutes will run out of capacity, new patients will be admitted to other hospitals.” He claimed financial support and PPEs were being allocated to institutes. “We inform hospitals in advance about shifting of patients. There can be delay in communication on a few occasions when the patient influx is high,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-pvt-medical-colleges-tending-to-50-patients/articleshow/75261421.cms||Yusra Husain
April 21, 2020||Rajkot||Masks turn into cottage industry for village women||Rajkot: The lockdown period has spawned a cottage industry for the corona warriors. Sitting at their homes, the women of Bhavnagar district daily stitch 20,000 masks and have produced as many as 2.65 lakh mask so far. “There are 72 self-help groups of women and 328 women are engaged in this mission launched under the aegis of Bhavnagar district development officer Varunkumar Baranval,” said Vijaysinh Vaghela, manager of Bhavnagar district livelihood. “Sewing the masks in huge quantities, the women also get to earn a livelihood at their homes during the lockdown,”  said Vaghela. Bhavnagar district livelihood had given tailoring training to these women under the National Rural Livelihood Mission. “When the entire country is engaged in the fight against spread of Covid-19, these women are also making a major contribution in the war against coronavirus. The most essential protective gear against the dreaded infection is mask, which has come as a means of livelihood for them as well as service to the nation for these women,” added Vaghela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/masks-turn-into-cottage-industry-for-village-women/articleshow/75260535.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad on alert as people sneak in via jungle||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad, which has one of the highest forest cover in the state, is facing the challenge of preventing people from sneaking into the state using several forest walkways during the Covid-19 lockdown. Cases have been registered against about 60 persons for trying to enter the district through the forest paths, police said. District collector Adeela Abdulla said that most of the violators were residents of the district who had been working in neighboring states and were stranded there following the lockdown. She said that those attempting to enter the district through forest paths from other states will have to stay in Covid Care centres, apart from facing legal action which could invite two years in prison and a fine of Rs 10,000. “As the district has many forest paths, there have been instances of people trying to enter the district through those paths during lockdown. Following the detection, we have intensified patrol in the borders and have also asked forest watchers to keep watch on forest roads,” said district police chief R Ilango. He said that police are using technology to monitor mobile movement through forest areas, especially of people whose application for entry to the district have been rejected as there were chances of them trying to sneak in through forests. There are 14 checkposts on border roads in the district and entry of people to the district is prohibited through all of them, while transportation of goods is allowed only through Muthanga and Bavali checkposts. Authorities have warned that attempts to walk through the forests even posed danger to life as forests in the district teems with wildlife. Many people were found trying to enter the district through forest paths in Cheeral and Nenmeni. Wayanad shares borders with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu with contiguous forests which are part of the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. The forest stretch in the border areas mainly come under Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary and North Wayanad forest division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-on-alert-as-people-sneak-in-via-jungle/articleshow/75258081.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||People at quarantine centres in Jaipur complain of inhuman treatment||JAIPUR: People in the city’s quarantine centres have been calling up their relatives and government authorities on the mismanagement, especially unclean washroom and delayed supply of meals. Many also complained of inhuman treatment towards them since they are seen as suspects of Covid-19. TOI on Monday spoke to various people who are quarantined and are kept at hotels, private institutes and other places. A majority of them requested anonymity while sharing their experiences. Recently, a man at SMS hospital tried to run away twice and finally broke his leg in a desperate attempt to jump out of the quarantine centre. “There is no regular time for meals, especially lunch and dinner. Also, we expected that health workers will come and check our basic health including measuring temperatures, but nobody visits us,” said a 42-year-old man at Jyoti Vidhyapeeth. Most of them are counting their days and hoping to get released from these centres after completion of 14-day quarantine period. “Even the guards and the employees are scared to an extent that they push or throw food packets towards us. This is inhuman. Even if we are suspects, we deserve some respect,” said another man at the quarantine centre. Some of them also complained of unclean toilets and pathetic behaviour of the staff. “People here are treating us as if we have committed some crime. We have no symptoms, but brought because we were in contact with a person who was found positive,” said Anil Kumar (name changed), at Manipal University. Meanwhile, Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, energy, and nodal officer for Covid-19 control inspected a few quarantine centres and urged the authorities to ensure basic infrastructural facilities, timely food and sanitation at the quarantine centres. Sharma directed the authorities to ensure timely food, proper disposal of garbage and also for following quarantine protocol. He also urged to have PCR tests for primary quarantines. In Jaipur, 13 places including hotels, housing societies on the outskirts and educational institutes have been developed as quarantine centres in which 1,448 people are kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-at-quarantine-centres-complain-of-inhuman-treatment/articleshow/75260527.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 21, 2020||Hubballi||5 journalists self-quarantine in Hubballi||Hubballi: Five journalists from Hubballi have decided to home-quarantine themselves after they covered an event attended by P-363, a watchman of the Toravi Hakkal graveyard. The authorities said the five journalists — two each from electronic and print and one from digital media — covered Shab-e-Barat at the graveyard on April 9. Though they have not shown any symptoms of the infection, the journalists decided to self-quarantine. They are doing fine, said the district administration. Doctors at KIMS have collected their samples and the test reports are expected by Tuesday evening. Fourth positive case in Gadag Gadag district on Monday reported the fourth Covid-19 case with a 24-year-old man (P-396) from Ranganwadi area being infected. The previous three cases were also reported in the same area. The district administration has already announced Ranganwadi area as containment area. Essential materials are being supplied at the doorstep of residents as none of them is allowed to step out. Police have heightened vigil, and all entry and exit points have been sealed. The authorities said P-396 is the secondary contact of P-370 and a neighbour. The chain of infection started from P-166 who died at Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences on April 9. The family of P-396 has eight members and all their swab samples have been sent testing. Efforts are on to trace the secondary contacts of P-396.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/5-journalists-self-quarantine-in-hubballi/articleshow/75258210.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||6-month-old living with confirmed corona patients is still -ve||Nagpur: The six-month-old granddaughter of the city's first Covid-19 deceased has surprised the doctors. She is in good health and has tested negative thrice for coronavirus even after living 14 days with positive persons including her parents.On April 6, 13 family members were quarantined at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) isolation ward. Six of them were confirmed as Covid-19 positive on April 9. The infant’s parents were among the first to test positive.Parents say there were other positive patients too before they arrived but their child continues to remain unaffected. “The hospital had also given her discharge card but all family members are quarantined. So we decided to keep her back with permission of doctors. She is being breast-fed,” they said.On April 16, samples were taken again and most of them including the infant tested negative. “Usually with respiratory viruses, children tend to become more unwell than adults and are responsible for transmitting more illness. However, this doesn’t appear to be the case with Covid-19,” infectious disease expert Dr Ashwini Tayade told TOI.“We are seeing lower number of children infected compared to what we'd normally see with other respiratory viruses which is on average 0.9-2 %. And risk of complications among children is also on the lower side. It’s more of asymptomatic or mild infection,” she said.She warned that among paediatric population, infants had higher risk of complications.Well-known paediatrician Dr Satish Deopujari said that in the first six months, natural immunity is higher as babies are generally breast-fed. “The immune globulin gradually goes down in first three months and diseases start afflicting after six or seven months. The kid is likely to protected by the antibodies that come from mother’s milk to baby but a lot is still not known. WHO emphasizes on breast feeding in first six months and I believe this could be protecting the baby,” he said.GMCH has currently 33 coronavirus positive patients along with the six-month-old negative infant. Most are from Satranjipura which has become an epicentre of infection following the death of the six-month-old’s grandfather on April 5 at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hosptial (IGGMCH). The 68-year-old deceased’s sample tested positive for Covid-19 on April 6.As of Monday, 45 persons including relatives and close contacts of the deceased have tested positive for the virus. On April 13 and 14, TOI had highlighted the plight of the infant who faced uncertain future because of her parents were positive. Her six-year-old cousin, who too was brought at the GMCH, had tested negative the first time but turned positive in second test on April 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-month-old-living-with-confirmed-corona-patients-is-still-ve/articleshow/75260531.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Modified lockdown breathes some life into city, keeps cops on toes||Jaipur: On the first day of modified lockdown on Monday, a significant number of government employees with masks on were seen driving to their offices.At some areas, police had to intervene when people unnecessarily came out of their houses. Some of the eateries and more number of vegetable and grocery shops were opened across the state. However, on the highways, the opening of dhabas gave a sigh of relief to truck drivers transporting essential commodities. At some of the areas, shops selling meat and chicken were also opened.At Raja Park, some people were seen wandering on the roads. When police asked if they had any permission to come out or any valid reason, they could not give a convincing reply. “At some of the places people were seen roaming unnecessarily and were sent back by our teams,” said Pushpendra Singh, assistant commissioner of police, Aadarsh Nagar.At many places police personnel with folded hands were seen asking people to go back to their homes. “Some believed that lockdown is over. Thus we seized their vehicles as they were found roaming without any reason,” said a senior officer of traffic police.Other things which were opened included flour mills, puncture shops, and more number of grocery shops and vegetable vendors.Good number of officers came to their offices at the Rajasthan Housing Board, Jaipur Development Authority and other government offices. At a few offices thermal screening of those who arrived was also done.At the state secretariat, officers up to deputy secretary rank also abided by social distancing. At the entrance of government offices, guards offered sanitizers to employees who arrived for work.The modified lockdown also increased supply of goods in the city, especially grocery, fruits, and vegetables. “It helped us as many trucks which were stopped by police have started arriving. We got plenty of vegetables from the local farms,” said Pappu Lal Prajapat, a wholesale vegetable dealer at Mohana Mandi.However, many factories at the Jhotwara industrial area were closed due to lack of employees while service stations for automobiles were opened. “I had given my car to the garage prior to lockdown. I got it back today,” said Gaurav Sharma, a native of Jhotwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modified-lockdown-breathes-some-life-into-city-keeps-cops-on-toes/articleshow/75260530.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rain brings down temp, Ajmer hottest||Jaipur: Many places in the state witnessed mild to moderate showers on Monday due to the active upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances. The rainfall that started early morning brought a dip of almost 4°C.Ajmer remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 39.5°C was recorded, the Met reports said. In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that similar conditions will prevail in the state for the next 24 hours. People in Jaipur woke up amid showers which guided the mercury to take a dip. In Jaipur a minimum temperature of 22°C was recorded. It was followed by a pleasant afternoon when a maximum temperature of 28.8°C, almost 10 degrees below the normal notch was recorded. Throughout the day cloudy conditions prevailed when a few places witnessed scattered rainfall. Jaipur Met office further stated that mild to moderate showers and dusty winds will be witnessed in the city for next couple of days.A dip in the minimum and maximum temperatures provided much awaited relief from the heat conditions. Jaipur remained coldest in the state as its maximum temperature was below 30°C Sudden rainfall also made the farmers jittery as at many places where farmers have kept the harvested crop got damaged. At places including Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Dausa rainfall affected the harvested crop of wheat. Ajmer was followed by Barmer where a maximum temperature of 37.3°C was recorded, Udaipur 35.5, Kota 35, Jaisalmer 34.4, Sriganganagar 34.3, Jodhpur 34.2, Bikaner 33.5 and a maximum temperature of 33.1°C was recorded in Churu.In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that there is a possibility of mild showers and dusty winds in the next 48 hours. From Thursday, the mercury will start taking an upward swing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-brings-down-temp-ajmer-hottest/articleshow/75260545.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak in slum areas forces Mumbai to confront its ‘shame’: Ratan Tata||MUMBAI: Imagine 8-9 lakh people crammed into a 2.5 sq km area, and you get a population density that is perhaps the highest anywhere on the planet. That’s the unorganised sprawl of Dharavi in the heart of Mumbai, where experts fear the spread of the infection most. Referring to housing policies which have given rise to such slum-dominated neighbourhoods within Mumbai, Tata group chairman emeritus Ratan Tata on Monday described it as “a wake-up call” for planners and administrators struggling to contain the pandemic through social distancing. Tata, speaking at a virtual panel discussion on the “Future of design and construction” watched by several thousands, said the Covid-19 outbreak had served to underscore a crisis in housing which deprived lakhs of Mumbai’s residents of fresh air and open space. “We do design for high value housing and provide in the slums the residue. We should be ashamed because we have the image we want to project of ourselves and there’s a part we want to hide,” he said.“We are offended when people criticise it, but we have social responsibilities as architects and builders. The Corona issue is a wake-up call of what beholds us. What our concern is that it turns around and bites us,’’ he said. Coronavirus live updatesTata, a trained architect, expressing regret that he could not practise architecture except for two years in Los Angeles, did not mince words about the condition of the slumdwellers. Their occupants live on top of each other in a manner of speaking, he added, referring to the multi-storeyed slum structures in the precinct. “We as architects and developers have been satisfied to do (that),” said Tata. Tata, who was speaking at discussion organised by CorpGini, a global innovation platform, also questioned the policy of removing slums and shifting the occupants into narrow, high-density structures 20-30 miles away. “For the first time, the close proximity, low value structures we have built are the cause of new problems. The last few months have taught us that we are suffering from close proximity,” he said. “I think there should be re-examination of what we consider to be acceptable standards in terms of quality of life,” said the industrialist. While high value housing is put on slum land, the residue is like “putting the garbage together and calling it a community, making it difficult to survive,” in a clear reference to slum rehabilitation policies. “Perhaps, there ought to be a revision in terms of the fact that we are dealing with communities, we’re dealing with populations that need to be a part of new India. We are creating a community which we are ashamed of. We should be really driven by the desire of creating a world culture,” he said. Tata added, “In the last few months, we have been humbled to realise that a disease could run across the globe… I think we have to consider this issue as being our problem and not their problem. We need to concern ourselves with the quality of lives everywhere. We need to ask ourselves, are we ashamed of what we see or proud of what we see. We need to consider urban communities as one. We need to look at the possibility of ownership of slums rather than rentals. We need to be ashamed of what we’re doing and we need to focus on considerably being proud of what we’re doing. Mumbai and Maharashtra need to be proud of the transition that they make. And the transition needs to be real.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/outbreak-in-slum-areas-forces-city-to-confront-its-shame-ratan-tata/articleshow/75261432.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Power plant pollutants change with wind direction: Neeri||NAGPUR: It is mainly in winters that the city chokes under toxic pollution from Mahagenco’s coal-fired power plants at Koradi and Khaparkheda. Throughout the year, different areas receive pollution from the power plants depending on the wind direction. This came to fore through an analysis done by Neel Kamal, senior scientist at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute’s (Neeri) Air Pollution Control division. As per the scientific analysis, the impact of pollution from these two power plants on public health depends on the direction of wind. The atmosphere of the city receives pollutants from Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants only when the wind blows towards Nagpur, the analysis stated. “The direction of wind flow changes round the year. For Nagpur city, wind flows from Koradi to Nagpur during winter period. Hence, power plant chimney pollutants is high in that season,” the analysis added. During summer, people residing along Bhandara Road tend to suffer the most. “Summer winds blow pollutants from power plants towards south-east direction. Therefore, area along Bhandara Road might get pollution from power plants,” Kamal stated. He added that the wind direction can be studied at different heights above ground. “It may be noted that wind flow at 240m height above ground during February to April is from north-west and south-west as gathered from historical data. This causes pollutant emission from power plant chimney, which is 275 metres tall, to move away from city and moves towards Kamptee area, thereby keeping Nagpur city atmosphere free from fly ash during this period. However, monitoring of air pollutant in Kamptee may indicate relatively higher pollution during this period,” Kamal stated. Mahagenco is now setting up two more 660 megawatt units at the Koradi Thermal Power Station. According to the experts, the move will be “nothing more than an economic, environmental, ecological and climate disaster”. Said Sunil Dahiya, analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA): “Siding with coal is not sustainable on any of these parameters when we have better renewable energy option which are cheaper and environment friendly. Air pollution from coal-based power plants travels in all directions during the year depending on prevalent wind direction. Operation parameters coupled with meteorology and demography governs the impact on public health.” Stating that the most effective way to reduce public health impacts is shifting away from coal to cleaner sources of energy, Dahiya added, “As this shift can’t be done immediately, applying best available technology to reduce pollution emissions such as highly efficient electrostatic precipitator, flue-gas desulphurization and De-NOx systems is other way to reduce pollution burden of operational coal-based power plants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/power-plant-pollutants-change-with-wind-direction-neeri/articleshow/75260546.cms||Manka Behl
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Only 17,405 households in Rajasthan got work in April: MGNREGA||JAIPUR: The data on MGNREGA website shows that employment was offered to 3.1 lakh households in the state in April, but it also states that only 17,405 households were actually provided work as on April 20. The website further shows that 2.96 lakh unskilled labourers were engaged in NREGA work on April 20. Compared to this, employment provided in the state last year in March was to 12.64 lakh households, in February it was 17.83 households and in January it was 13.34 lakh households. The MGNREGA department officials osay these figures do not reflect the exact picture and the numbers would go up by April end. “We can give them work only when they demand for it. NREGA workers know it very well that their 100 days’ work is intact and they can demand for it any time during the whole financial year. We are giving work to whoever is demanding for it,” said state MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “It is true that we cannot pressurise the staff to increase the number of labourers on ground. Even they are quite conscious of the situation and are fearful of coming out. If the workers do not want to work, we can’t engage them forcibly. The number of households provided employment will get updated once they complete their work and the muster roll comes. The exact figure is not getting reflected. It will take at least 15 days and in case of delays, it will take more days,” he added. Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said, the wage rates under the scheme have been increased from Rs 199 to Rs 220 per day and for mates and artisans, the wages have been increased from Rs 213 to Rs 235 per day. ‘PWD to start work on over 2k roads’Deputy CM Sachin Pilot on Monday said public works department will start development of 2,678 roads. As per the department’s fresh roadmap, 8,590-km-long road will be constructed at a cost of more than Rs 3,700-cr. He said 13 works of National Highways covering 212-km will be built for Rs 1,056-cr. About 9 works under Central Road Fund Scheme covering 71-km will be constructed for Rs 423-cr. He said about 342 works pertaining to connecting roads to villages covering 1,140 km at a cost of Rs 403-cr will be built. Under the third phase of PMGSY, Rs 1,140cr has been sanctioned for 237 works for upgrading roads covering 2,200 km, he said. Under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) scheme, a sum of Rs 383-cr has been sanctioned for development and renovation of 699 roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-only-17405-households-provided-work-in-april-so-far/articleshow/75260548.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Mad rush for rapid testing sparks fear of virus spread||Bhubaneswar: The state government’s rapid antibody testing system here may have evoked overwhelming response in the last two days, but social distancing continues to be the cause of concern. The chances of Covid-19 spread was discernible at the Unit-I Girls’ High School where the government conducted the rapid antibody test on Monday. There was chaos and mad rush of people that included journalists, healthcare workers, sanitation workers, home delivery personnel and vegetable vendors at the school where the test was organised by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the health department. As the BMC, health department officials and police were struggling to insist people to maintain social distancing, panic gripped the place when an unconfirmed report of a man having tested positive during the antibody test started doing the rounds. A number of people, who were in queue, started deserting the place without undergoing the rapid test. “We repeatedly requested people to maintain distance in the queue. Despite our requests, people were seen chatting with each other in close proximity. We also found police hapless and not being able to streamline the crowd,” a BMC official said. Some from the crowd were apprehensive and wondered if anyone, who tested positive in antibody test, would pose a threat to others gathered at the testing camp. “I am scared after talks started doing the rounds that a man tested positive during the rapid antibody test. If this happens, such congregations in testing camps are very risky,” said Lelin Mallick, who underwent a rapid test today and tested negative. Health officials dispelled the apprehension of people. “Rapid antibody test is a serology test to ascertain presence of any virus in the body. A person, who tests positive during the rapid test, may not be detected positive for Covid-19 during Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. We will collect the swab samples of those who test positive during the rapid test,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mad-rush-for-rapid-testing-sparks-fear-of-virus-spread/articleshow/75256847.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rural Ahmedabad shows the way||Ahmedabad: Even as Ahmedabad city, with more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases is bearing the brunt of the pandemic, the rest of the district has remained relatively insulated, reporting just 14 cases and no deaths reported. Adopting a “ring strategy”, the district administration carried out an extensive surveillance and screening exercise and sealed all borders of the city leading to rural areas. While teams of the district administration blocked movement from the city into rural areas, ‘yoddha committees’ in each of the 264 villages and seven nagarpalikas ensured no movement between villages and smaller towns. “We concentrated efforts on securing the boundaries of the city, nagarpalikas and villages. It was only later that we went in for isolation and testing. We did three rounds of surveillance of the vulnerable population in the district which amounted to 3.79 lakh persons,” said Arun Mahesh Babu, district development officer, Ahmedabad. He added that at the end of three rounds of surveillance, the administration arrived at a figure of 328 potential Covid cases, who were tested. Of these, 14 were positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rural-ahmedabad-shows-the-way/articleshow/75260627.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Structural audits of dilapidated bldngs from next month||Kolhapur: Keeping in line with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s appeal to start taking preparations for monsoon, the civic administration has decided to conduct the structural audit of buildings in the flood-prone areas of the city which are more than 30-years-old and also get the storm water drains cleaned. The audit work is set to start from the first week of May. Since last week, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has already started removing silt from the major nullahs to prevent the Panchaganga river from flooding. KMC’s deputy city engineer Harshajit Ghatge said, “We are going to carry out structural audit of the buildings in the low lying areas as well as of the dilapidated buildings in other parts of the city which may easily give way during heavy rain. A public notice appealing to residents will be issued soon. We have a panel of structural engineers whom the residents or occupants can consult. It will help them minimise the damage caused due to heavy rain or floods.” The civic bodies are permitted to slap a fine of Rs 25,000 on the owners of the buildings which are more than 30-years-old if they fail to get the structural audit done. Every year, the KMC issues notices to owners asking them to get the structural audit done. However, very few owners do the needful. This time, however,the civic body is going to deploy its team of engineers to get the audit done and suggest measures to avoid damage during floods. “Currently the structural engineers have been asked to audit the structures at the toll plazas. One such structure collapsed due to heavy rain and gusty winds a few days ago. Some vehicles under it were crushed, however, there were no casualties. These structures are at all the entry points of the city. There has been no maintenance of the structures in the last seven years,” said Ghatage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/structural-audits-of-dilapidated-bldngs-from-next-month/articleshow/75259448.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New cases in state: Kannur overtakes Kasaragod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The trend of more people getting discharged than the number of positive cases reported each day is continuing in Kerala. As many as 21 persons tested negative on Monday when six new cases were reported in Kannur. Of the lot, five came from abroad and one person contracted the disease through direct contact. The total number of cases reported in the state is 407 and among them 291 have recovered. Now, Kannur has the most number of cases in the state at 52, with patients admitted in different hospitals. Kasaragod, which had the highest number of positive cases earlier, has only 25 persons under treatment. Test results of 21 persons were declared negative and 19 of them were from Kasaragod (two persons under treatment in Kannur) and two were from Alappuzha. As of now, 114 positive cases are being treated. As many as 46,323 persons are kept under surveillance, of which 45,925 are in home isolation and 398 are admitted to designated isolation facilities. Till date, 19,756 samples of suspect cases were sent for testing, of which 19,074 turned negative. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan warned people against defying lockdown guidelines and coming out in large numbers. “People are under the impression that things are under control in state. But that is not the situation. A small carelessness could prove costly. Hence, we will have to continue vigil and caution,” he said. Till date, Kerala achieved success due to the support people provided during lockdown and by avoiding mass gatherings. The situation should not go out of control and for this, the government needs your support, he added. Vijayan said Centre has supplied PPEs, N95 masks and rapid antibody test kits to Kerala. The Institute of Advanced Virology, set up at Thonnakkal in Thiruvananthapuram, has been included in the global virology network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-cases-in-state-kannur-overtakes-kasaragod/articleshow/75258150.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Kota student issue solved, focus now on migrant workers: Gehlot||Times News Network Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the issue of coaching students stuck in Kota has been resolved with states agreeing to take them home. He said after Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and other states have come forward to take their students back home. He said the state government would also facilitate the return of around 4,000 Rajasthan students stuck in the coaching hub. Gehlot said now the major issue was that of migrant labourers. He said the Centre had given permission for movement of labourers within the state, but no decision had so far been taken on inter-state travel. The chief minister said he had a telephonic conversation with Union home minister Amit Shah on the issue and he had promised to get back to him on Tuesday after discussions with the officials. The chief minister said it was not only about workers from other states stuck in Rajasthan, but a large population of local migrants who are stuck in different states and want to come home. He said Rajasthanis were mostly small businessman and could not survive a long lockdown. He said the state government was willing to provide help in a systematic way. He said they were getting restless as there was no guarantee that the lockdown would not be extended after May 3. Gehlot said the state government was facing shortage of wheat for distribution under the public distribution system. This issue will be taken up with the visiting inter-ministerial team, he added. He repeated the demand for releasing the excess reserve of grains with the FCI to the states for relief work. On intensifying the fight against the pandemic, the chief minister said the state government was setting up testing labs in every district. He said the unlike the Centre which had halved the MP area development fund due to the virus, the state had no such plans. “The MLAs will be encouraged to use the fund for health infrastructure development in their area,” he added. He asked the Centre to start online courses on Doordarshan for students particularly studying in classes X and XII as they are losing precious time in the current academic year. The chief minster reiterated that no private school will charge fees of the first quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-student-issue-solved-focus-now-on-migrant-workers-gehlot/articleshow/75260559.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 private hospitals to start Covid-19 treatment in city||Gandhinagar: Although the state government has been attempting to rope in private hospitals to take up Covid-19 patients, only three hospitals of Ahmedabad have come forward. On Monday, government issued approval to three hospitals — Sterling Cancer Hospital, Satellite; HCG hospital, Mithakhali and Narayana Multi-Speciality Hospital, Rakhial for admission and treatment of Covid-19 patients. The approved private hospitals said their infrastructure and expertise will help citizens in the war against Covid-19. “We have created a separate Covid-19 OPD, emergency and isolation rooms for suspected and positive coronavirus cases. The hospital is fully equipped to treat patients with Covid-19,” said Dr Bharat Gadhvi, regional director at HCG Group of Hospitals, Gujarat. Abhijit CP, facility director, Narayana Multispecialty Hospital, said that they had started training doctors and nursing staff about Covid-19 much before the first case was recorded in Gujarat. “The only difference for the medical staff will be to work with protective gears such as PPE kits. At the moment, we have 13 beds which could also be used for critical patients,” he said, adding that isolation zone has been created in the hospital for the purpose. Namisha Gandhi, vice-president, Sterling Hospitals, said that the state government had sought data on the trained doctors, staff and infrastructure. “We have assigned Sterling Sindhu Bhavan for Covid-19 patients so that there is no chance of cross-infection in other patients. We have about 45 beds along with a 10-bed ICU with ventilators for the purpose,” she said, adding that Dr Atul Patel, who is advisor to the state government for Covid-19, on their panel. “We will be following the international protocols where the staff will be working in six-hour shifts for seven days and then will go into isolation for next seven days,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-private-hospitals-to-start-covid-19-treatment-in-city/articleshow/75260624.cms||Kapil Dave
April 21, 2020||Goa||GoaCan raises concerns over fire incidents||Panaji: With the increase in fires in forests and cashew plantations reported during the lockdown, consumer rights group GoaCan has expressed concern, saying that such incidents could have been easily prevented. GoaCan coordinator Roland Martins said that forming of a district fire prevention coordination committee is needed, including drawing up a year-long fire safety action plan at the district levels, involving district collectors and members from travel and tourism, industries, bus owners, merchants and other stakeholders. “April 14 to 20 is observed as national fire prevention week and the increase in fire incidents is of concern. The state needs an action plan for fire safety involving local bodies and civil society organisations,” said Martins.  In most of these cases, Martins said, the persons and families involved had not put in place a ‘protection & prevention plan’ for their places of work, business and homes. “GoaCan has proposed that the directorate should hold sensitisation programs on fire safety for farmers and horticulturists,” said Martins, who has written to the directorate of fire services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goacan-raises-concerns-over-fire-incidents/articleshow/75261443.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Spike due to visitors from other cities’||Ahmedabad: People coming from overseas — around 6,000 — after the outbreak of Covid-19 were closely monitored by the AMC, but according to the municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra, the surge in novel coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad is largely attributed to those coming from the virus-affected areas like Nizamuddin in Delhi and other places like Mumbai and Indore.“As the administration was not aware of people arriving from novel coronavirus-affected areas in the country, it became difficult to track them and the number of infections went up,” said Nehra.According to the municipal chief, the virus didn’t spread much because of those coming from abroad. “We home quarantined them and ensured that they stayed indoor. As a result, we could prevent the spread of virus in a population of around five lakh,” said Nehra.He said the virus had been spreading rapidly in the Walled City. “We went into ‘chase the virus’ spree, scanned the area and isolated the corona-positive cases. That’s why you see a spike in the number of positive cases,” he added. “This way, we could save around 3.5 lakh people from getting infected,” said the municipal commissioner.“Once the lockdown ends, the challenge will be to contain the virus in open zones. It is important to find out how many infected persons are moving among the non-infected population. We still have 14 more days of lockdown and the aim should be to observe it 100%,” said Nehra. “If we wear mask, maintain social distancing and not spit at public places that will help in controlling the spread of the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spike-due-to-visitors-from-other-cities/articleshow/75260578.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Spraying people with disinfectant harmful, says DHS||PANAJI: The directorate of health services (DHS) on Sunday issued an advisory against the spraying of disinfectant on people as a measure against coronavirus infection. It stated that spraying of individuals with chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful  The advisory issued by director of heath services Dr Jose D’Sa on management of Covid-19 pandemic, stated that even if a person is potentially exposed to the Covid-19 virus, spraying of disinfectant externally does not kill the virus that has entered the body. “There is no scientific evidence to suggest that they are effective even in disinfecting the outer clothing or body in effective manner,” the advisory stated. “Spraying of chlorine on can lead to irritation of eyes, skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as vomiting. Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes like the nose, throat, respiratory tract and may also cause bronchospasms,” theb advisory further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spraying-people-with-disinfectant-harmful-says-dhs/articleshow/75261438.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka seeks Centre’s help to transfer cash to labourers’ accounts||Bengaluru: Nudged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help labourers from unorganised sectors hit by the lockdown, the Karnataka government is looking to emulate Haryana’s model where the state has rolled out direct cash transfer (DBT) scheme for daily-wage workers. The Haryana government has been transferring Rs 1,000 directly to bank accounts of beneficiaries every week. “We want to reach out to daily-wage workers and labourers in unorganised sectors, but dearth of funds is a problem,’’ said labour minister A Shivaram Hebbar. Also, the government doesn’t have complete data of labourers other than estimates of 80 lakh daily earners, including agriculture workers, domestic helps, auto and taxi drivers. He said the government will place a proposal before the Centre seeking monetary support. Soon after the lockdown was announced on March 24, the Haryana government set up a web portal for workers from unorganised sectors. Within no time, five lakh people enrolled and since then they are getting cash deposited into their accounts. The Delhi government followed suit and started paying Rs 5,000 per family. “We could have adopted the practice, but unlike Haryana and Delhi, we have a huge population of labourers and cannot afford to do so without adequate preparation,’’ Hebbar pointed out. In Karnataka, only construction labourers are getting such a benefit; they are being paid Rs 2,000 each from the Construction Workers’ Welfare Fund that has a corpus of Rs 8,500 crore. But not all 21 lakh registered workers are getting paid as most missed out on online renewal of membership when it was introduced last year. “Only, 1.25 lakh workers are covered now,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-seeks-centres-help-to-transfer-cash-to-labourers-accounts/articleshow/75259502.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zydus Cadila explores biologics||Ahmedabad: Zydus Cadila on Monday announced that the company is exploring the use of a biologic treatment, Interferon Alpha-2b, for Covid-19. This biological therapy has been used to treat Covid-19 patients in China and Cuba. The Ahmedabad-based pharma major has also approached the government of India’s department of biotechnology to investigate this treatment for Covid-19 and the company is also ready to undertake clinical trials. “Interferon alpha could emerge as a treatment option for Covid-19. In vitro (outside human body) and in vivo (within living organisms) studies suggest positive effects on Covid-19 patients,” the pharma major said. “When the human body contracts a viral infection, it produces a group of molecules called Type 1 interferons as the first line of defence. Interferon alpha is one such Type 1 interferon molecule, that not only slows down the viral replication but also helps activate the two arms of our immune system – the innate, for immediate killing of the virus and the adaptive, for long lasting immunity,” the company added. Zydus has been commercially manufacturing the biological drug since 2011 for the treatment of Hepatitis B and C with 1.5 lac doses being administered. “The drug is not yet licensed or approved for the treatment of Covid-19,” the company added. “We are working with the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) and have opened an investigational new drug (IND) filing for Pegylated Interferon Alpha-2b for the treatment of Covid-19,” said Dr Sharvil Patel, MD, Cadila Healthcare Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-cadila-explores-biologics/articleshow/75260580.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Centre’s one-size-fits-all strategy to fight virus is not very efficient: Mayaram||Jaipur: Former finance secretary Arvind Mayaram said the Centre’s one-size-fits-all strategy for lockdown and lifting it in a diverse country like India is not an very efficient move. He said the Centre should concentrate on arranging for finances through different ways for the states which are in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19 pandemic. “Tax revenues of states have fallen substantially. The states need money but they don’t have much options whereas different fiscal and monetary instruments are with the Centre can be used for providing financial assistance,” said Mayaram. He said the Centre should not get into the micromanagement of the entire country by saying which industry should start and which should not. “They should leave this to the state governments. Because every state has different circumstances. You cannot have a one-size-fits-all policy for a country as diverse as India. Therefore, they should have simply put broad principles and allowed each state government to come up with their own strategies on how to deal with the contagion and manage the lockdown and lift it. They should have asked the states to develop their own strategies,” added Mayaram. The Centre has told that states not to open liquor shops during the lockdown and excise a big revenue generator for any state. “Rajasthan is losing excise revenues of Rs 30 crore a day and it amounts close to Rs 1,000 crore a month. Now, the question is where there is a green district with no Covid-19 patients, how different it is from any other times, and why should not the shops remain open there. There is also the orange category of districts where there a few cases which can be sequestered,” explained Mayaram. Even as certain category of companies have been allowed to operate after Monday, most have preferred not to reopen because of issues related to labour, supply-chain uncertainties and the strict guidelines. “They have to manage efficiently inter-state supply chains and facilitate movement of all kinds of goods. If this does not happen, opening manufacturing units would be futile. If manufacturers don’t have a place to sell, there is no way then can produce and sustain. So inter-state supply chains have to be fully managed by the Centre,” added Mayaram. Similarly, he wants the Centre to try and push the external trade so that the industry does not face the constraints of raw material imports and exporters also does not lose out. “In my opinion, it is counterproductive for a central directive to say that every state government should follow it is not efficient. The way it is being done will only give suboptimal results. The centralization of this nature is suboptimal,” added Mayaram. The ‘Action Plan of the Task Force on Restarting the Economy of Rajasthan’ prepared by CM’s Economic Transformation Advisory Council (CMETAC), headed by Mayaram as the vice-chairman, has made several recommendations to revive the industry and the report includes suggestions from former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, ex-CEA Kaushik Basu, and ex-RBI governor Urjit Patel among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centres-one-size-fits-all-strategy-to-fight-virus-is-not-very-efficient-mayaram/articleshow/75260574.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 21, 2020||Goa||Interim HC orders in force till June 15||PANAJI: In an order uploaded on the website of the high court of Bombay at Goa, it has been mentioned that all interim court orders shall continue till June 15. "In this situation, the interim orders and arrangement continued by an order dated March 26, 2020 till April 30, 2020 shall continue further till June 15, 2020, subject to the same liberty to aggrieved party to move for vacation thereof," the court said. It is decided to continue the prevalent arrangement of taking up matters till May 5, 2020 and to hold a meeting on the administrative side to take stock of the situation on May 4, 2020, the order passed by the HC stated. Orders or decree for eviction, dispossession, demolition already passed by any court, tribunal or authority shall also remain in abeyance till then, the court stated. "Considering the prevalent shut down , we hope that the government as also municipal authorities and other agencies shall also be slow in taking coercive steps so as to drive the citizen to court of law ,” the court observed in its March 26 order. To reduce the physical presence of lawyers, litigants and court staff, the HC will hear urgent cases only through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/interim-hc-orders-in-force-till-june-15/articleshow/75261448.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Cybercrooks strike gold as online transactions increase||VIJAYAWADA: There has been a spike in cybercrimes in the state even as other crimes have come down. As banks and insurance firms are asking people to make digital transactions, cybercriminals are taking advantage of the situation and are cheating netizens. Police say that they have received information about a spike in fraudulent phone calls and advisory. Fraudsters are making calls claiming that they are from banks and digital payment wallet companies. Further, some fraudsters are making phone calls and telling people that if they wish to avail a moratorium on their EMIs, they would have to provide some details. On this pretext, they are taking details, including OTP and withdrawing money from the bank account. The latest victim was a 35-year-old man from Vizag who lost Rs 1.4 lakh while trying to update his KYC by downloading a mobile application. Like him, 12 more people have lost money by downloading some apps to complete their KYC process, as explained to them by fraudsters. With regard to the 35-year-old’s case, cybercrime police station, Vizag said that the man received a call from a person who asked him to update his KYC if he wished to continue making digital transactions. He downloaded an app called ‘Anydesk’ for the purpose and lost his money in the process. According to a police official, certain unscrupulous apps provide remote access to devices which allows fraudsters to get to know a person’s PIN, OTP and bank account details. Twenty-five cybercrimes have been reported in Vizag and Vijayawada between March 23 and April 18. Of these, 14 cases are related to financial transactions. Netizens have lost between Rs 6 lakh and Rs 8 lakh. Speaking to TOI, inspector of cybercrime police station Vijayawada, K Shivaji said, “We appeal to people to contact their respective customer care services of banks and e-wallets or other service providers for clarification,” Shivaji added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cybercrooks-strike-gold-as-online-transactions-increase/articleshow/75258156.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 21, 2020||Goa||North Goa’s migrant workers hope to find employment||CALANGUTE: The relaxation of some of the lockdown restrictions from Monday will come as a big relief for a large number of migrant labourers who reside in and around the Calangute-Candolim beach belt area. Hundreds of migrants working in both; white and blue-collar jobs are stranded without work and even money in the tourism hub which had witnessed a period of boom in construction of resorts and residential complexes in the last few years. With the nationwide lockdown, most of the workers who are hired on a temporary, seasonal basis were left without jobs. To make matters worse, many have not been paid salaries for March, and daily wage labourers are left without money to fend for themselves, with many unable to pay their accommodation rents. Fatima (name changed), a local in Candolim, who rents out two rooms, said she’s stuck with tenants; a couple from the northeast working in a resort, and a family from Karnataka who were doing odd jobs, who are unable to pay the rent. “I cannot tell them to leave or charge them rent because of the government guidelines, and because they’ve got no money, I have lent them money to sustain until they get their salaries, or find new work, out of considerion,” she said. Speaking to TOI, Candolim sarpanch Blaize Fernandes said restarting construction activity on Monday should help ease the situation. “In one way, it will be a good thing because the workers will get money. Also a lot of construction material is lying at the sites which would also get wasted if the work doesn’t resume before the monsoon begins,” he said. Real estate developers are glad much of their labourforce have remained within the state, so they can resume construction activity at their sites immediately. Similarly, opening of the Pilerne industrial estate will also bring relief as many of the workers there reside in areas around Candolim and Calangute. Meanwhile, workers who were employed in water sports activities, beach shacks, shops selling clothes and curios, resorts, restaurants, nightclubs and other seasonal tourism-related activities are waiting for travel restrictions to be lifted so they can return to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/n-goas-migrant-workers-hope-to-find-employment/articleshow/75261452.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Peculiar cases stump health dept||Ahmedabad: Jamnagar district in the Saurashtra region of Gujarat has recorded only one Covid-19 case so far, that of a 14-month-old boy. The boy had developed breathing issues after which he was hospitalized and tested, which revealed that he was positive, becoming the youngest patient in the state at the time. Three days after he was admitted to the hospital, he succumbed to the infection. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said that a team is still working on the case. “The boy’s parents and relatives all tested negative. There was no known source of the infection. How the child got the infection is still under investigation,” she said. This isn’t the only odd case. One person from Lakhpat in Kutch, found to be Covid-19 positive on Monday, had a history of travel to the UAE. “This person was put under quarantine and had completed the stipulated period of 14 days. However, he tested positive afterwards. Sometimes, the Covid-19 virus is behaving rather unexpectedly,” said the principal secretary. Health department officials also pointed out a case from Aravalli district, where a teen at a government-run shelter home tested positive. There was no apparent contact through which he could have got it, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/peculiar-cases-stump-health-dept/articleshow/75260621.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||No hearing for Goa’s mining case in SC on Tuesday||PANAJI: The crucial mining case which was scheduled to come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Tuesday has not found mention in the cases listed for the day. “Goa mining case is not listed in the Supreme Court on April 21,” advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI. TOI had reported the lack of initiative on the part of the state government to plead before the Supreme Court that the mining case scheduled on April 21 be treated as an urgent matter. Two mining companies had approached apex court to seek extension of leases till 2037.Neither the mines ministry nor the mining companies filed applications to treat the case as urgent. The mines ministry has not yet filed an affidavit in the case, a senior officer said. Earlier, chief minister Pramod Sawant had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to file a supporting affidavit before the Supreme Court in the matter so that mining can restart in the state. The state government had told the court that mining leases can be extended up to 2037 as per the mining companies’ contention, but that it would abide by the court decision. Mining in Goa came to a halt from March 15, 2018, following the Supreme Court’s decision to quash the second renewal of 88 mining leases. Earlier this year, the court allowed the export of iron ore extracted before that date. An official said that from August 2015 to March 2018, mining companies extracted ore but didn’t pay royalty. Sawant had said that currently there is 1.45 million tonne of ore for which royalty has been paid and 7.7 million tonne for which royalty hasn’t been paid.In his budget for 2020-21, Sawant projected a revenue of Rs 500 crore from the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-hearing-for-goas-mining-case-in-sc-today/articleshow/75261457.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor SI becomes first UP cop to be tested positive for Covid-19||BIJNOR: A 59-year-old sub-inspector (SI), who was part of a team which escorted nine Tablighi Jamaat followers to a quarantine facility in Bijnor after their return from Delhi, was declared Covid-19 positive on Monday, making him the first policeman in UP to be infected with the virus. Of the nine persons escorted to the facility on April 13, six were suffering from Covid-19, according to test report which arrived on Friday. Now, over 45 police personnel who came in contact with the SI have also been put under quarantine and Bijnor’s Nahtaur police station was sanitized. The other members of the rescue team, three constables and a few health department workers, were declared negative in the report, a senior government official said. Superintendent of police (rural) Sanjay Kumar said, “A group of nine persons had returned from Delhi to their native village, Bijnor’s Nargadi, on April 13. After getting the information, a joint team of police and health department went to their homes to quarantine them. A case was also registered against them for violating the lockdown. Of them, six turned out to be suffering from the disease.” “Later, the rescue team was also tested, and the report of the sub-inspector came positive. His family lives in Badaun and he lives alone in Bijnor,” the officer said. So far, 23 people, including four women, have tested positive in Bijnor district. Over 15 hotspots in the district have been sanitized and sealed by police and health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-si-becomes-first-up-cop-to-be-tested-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75259498.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 21, 2020||Amaravati||AP government keen to start work on medical colleges||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding financial constraints, the state government has decided to put setting up of new medical colleges on fast track. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the officials to identify land for the proposed medical colleges. The Centre had recently granted three medical colleges to the state under Central Sponsored Scheme (CSS). The new colleges would come up in Paderu (Visakhapatnam), Machilipatnam (Krishna) and Gurazala (Guntur). The Centre would shell out 60 percent of the project cost and the state, 40 percent. It has been estimated that each medical college would require Rs.325 crore in which the Centre would spare Rs.195 crore. During a review meeting, the chief minister asked the health department to expedite works identified under Naadu-Nedu programme to renovate and strengthen the entire public health infrastructure in the state. The CM said that works on the medical colleges should begin at the earliest as they would come in handy to handle health emergencies. The CM asked the officials to call tenders for medical college works as well as Naadu-Nedu works. “Strengthening the medical and health infrastructure is the agenda behind taking up renovation of the facilities. The works should be designed in such a way that they would withstand the needs of several generations to come,” said the CM. The health department has readied the blueprint for strengthening the hospitals including PHCs, CHCs, are hospitals, district hospitals and general hospitals. The department has estimated that it would require at least Rs.16,000 crore to complete the works. “Neglecting the public healthcare system by previous governments has pushed us into a corner during the battle against Covid-19 as we are compelled to depend on several private players. The chief minister is determined to give complete new look to the healthcare infrastructure,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-keen-to-start-work-on-med-colleges/articleshow/75258170.cms||Samdani MN
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Elders frown on Telangana government rent order||HYDERABAD: The state government had issued orders to defer the house rent for the months of March, April and May, but owners of residential properties, especially senior citizens who completely depend on house rents to pay their loans, bills and taxes, are raising concerns about the decision. In view of the hardship caused by Covid-19 lockdown, the house owners were also directed not to collect interest on rent arrears. “I have no other income other than the rent that I get from the two-bedroom house that is registered on my name in Dammaiguda. I do not have savings for three months. I will not be able to manage without the rents for more than a month,” said K Rajamma, a 68-year-old resident of Tarnaka. Similarly, P Suryanarayana, a resident of Manikonda, said, “I have an ailing wife who is diabetic and a heart patient. I used to work as a driver but due to the lockdown, I don’t have work for the last one month. We used to rely on the rent that we get every month of a small house in Bandlaguda. The family who is staying there called us after the chief minister’s order and informed that they will not be able to pay rent for the next three months.” “I do not know how I will buy medicines or pay bills in this situation. I can collect that rent after the lockdown, but what about now? What will we eat?” asked Suryanarayana. After extending the lockdown, CM it was an order not an appeal from the state government. “If any tenant is asked for rent, they can dial 100 to complain. We will definitely take action. The rent for March, April, and May can be collected later,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elders-frown-on-govt-rent-order/articleshow/75259514.cms||Moulika.KV
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Representatives hold online ‘jan sunwai’||JAIPUR: The elected representatives are turning to contemporary methods like online ‘jan sunwai’ to ensure that people are not left at the mercy of the government officials during the lockdown. They are using social media to not only communicate with the people of their constituencies about what the current problems are, but also getting their messages across to the bureaucracy and other officials. Being the first to take to social media to interact with the people of his constituency, Congress MLA from Sawai Madhopur, Danish Abrar started the online ‘jan sunwai’ which takes place on Facebook almost every day at 7pm for half an hour and on some days for an hour. Citizens join in ‘LIVE’ and talk about their problems relating to administration, health, ration, electricity, sanitation etc. Elaborating further, Abrar said, “Usually what happens is that either the ‘netas’ speak to other ‘netas’ or to the administration or they just address the public. Since we are unable to address public issues due to lockdown, we can deal with them online. People from my constituency, irrespective of which part of the world they are in, can connect with me and tell me about their issues which I endeavour to resolve. The main issues that I come across are supply of food and electricity.” During Abrar’s session, officials concerned are called at that instance and are told about the issues and their response is heard by all those who are watching it live and solutions are provided then and there. Also, the next day when the jan sunwai would begin, the previous day’s prominent issues which were solved are spoken of, to reassure citizens. Similarly, school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra utilised social media to deal with public issues and said, “Due to the lockdown, I have been interacting with people using social media. The response has been very encouraging and I will continue to use this media to ensure that people face no issues when it comes to their child’s education.” Before the lockdown, politicians were holding the ‘jan sunwai’ once a week on a rotational basis. “Through social media, I give messages for precautions as well as to deal with the problems of the people from Ajmer. I use all social platforms to be connected to people,” said Vasudev Devnani, Ajmer MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/public-representatives-hold-online-jan-sunwai/articleshow/75260591.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Meerut||UP: Father ‘sacrifices’ toddler on occultist’s advice to bring home some peace||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A two-year-old girl was kidnapped in her sleep and brutally killed allegedly by her father who believed that the “sacrifice” will bring peace at his home. Police said that the accused, Wajid, committed the murder on the advice given by an occultist, Irfan. Both worked in a brick kiln in Muzaffarnagar’s Khaikheda area and have been arrested. According to police, the girl went missing on Sunday night. Her mother searched the area thoroughly, and, after growing suspicious of her husband, went to Kakroli police station and filed a complaint against him. During the questioning, Wajid confessed to have killed his daughter. “On his tip-off, we exhumed the body of the girl from brick kiln. She was murdered with a spade, which has also been recovered,” a senior police officer said. Both the accused were booked, arrested and sent to jail on Monday, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ram Mohan Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/father-sacrifices-toddler-on-occultists-advice-to-bring-home-some-peace/articleshow/75259504.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Stranded fishermen in Gujarat cry for help||VIJAYAWADA: Around 5,000 fishermen from Andhra Pradesh, who are stranded in Gujarat due to the lockdown, have written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking accommodation and quarantine facilities. All of them hail from the north coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam. “We have been stranded for more than 20 days now without proper shelter or basic necessities. The district authorities in Somnath (in Gujarat state) are not providing any kind of help to migrant workers/fisherman,” they wrote in the letter. Earlier this month, the AP government initiated measures to rescue stranded fishermen from Veraval in Somnath district. A team of officials from Srikakulam was given an advance of Rs 10 lakh. The team visited Veraval on April 7 and provided them rice, dal, vegetables, soaps, blankets, masks etc. “Around 3,500 fishermen from Maharashtra were recently taken back to their state by sea route. We have been staying in small fishing boats under the hot sun with no water. We appeal to the government to arrange quarantine facilities for us as an interim measure,” they said in the letter, which has also been addressed to the chief ministers of AP and Gujarat, and the chief justices of AP, Gujarat and India, besides the Prime Minister. They urged the government to make arrangements to take them back to AP by sea route. “There is serious threat to our lives because of lack of food, water and extreme weather conditions at Veraval,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/stranded-fishermen-in-guj-cry-for-help/articleshow/75258199.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 21, 2020||Pune||Containment ring around Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad is ‘bitter pill’ in Covid-19 fight||PUNE: State health experts, who have been analysing the spread of Covid-19 across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, insisted the total lockdown of the two cities late on April 19 was vital to reducing the exponential increase in infection rates. The lockdown, they said, will give local administrations time to ramp up testing, treatment, surveillance and other measures. Important concerns include the high case fatality rate in the Pune region (6.8%, which is higher than the state's) and a straining healthcare infrastructure that's still unable to test good numbers of people. There are currently just seven private labs carrying out tests in the district, which has had over 756 positive cases and 50 deaths. Besides these problems, another major worry among the experts is what will happen once restrictions are relaxed. Specialists TOI spoke to said lockdowns and curfews would only "postpone" cases, which may then return — and likely rise in number — once the curbs are lifted. The technical advisor to the state government on infectious diseases, Dr Subhash Salunke described the fresh lockdown as a “bitter pill”. It had to be done because of 5-10% of citizens in both cities were violating rules, he said. "So a combination of social distancing, faster contact tracing, effective implementation of quarantine protocols and increased testing will have to be achieved to flatten the curve here," he said. This month has seen a massive surge in cases in the district, just weeks after the first Covid-19 case was registered in Pune city on March 9. As of April 20, there are over 750 cases of Covid-19 infections with over 50 dead across the district. On Monday alone, authorities registered 87 fresh cases. Dr Raju Jotkar, a public health expert, said the district's high case fatality rate suggests a need for improved triaging, case management and optimal use of resources. "The state's task force should review the situation. This lockdown seems to have come at the right time," he said, while adding that easing of restrictions should be gradual. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, the state president of the Indian Medical Association, said a fresh, stricter lockdown was the only way to stop people from breaking social distancing rules. He too added that measures such as testing and home quarantining should be pursued with renewed vigour. "Clinical testing should be should be increased across Pune and PCMC areas. In Mumbai, testing stands at 1,700 per million of population; for Pune and PCMC, it should be at least 50% of that figure," he said. Bhondwe added home quarantining has been hit as 20% of the region's population doesn't have homes large enough for effective distancing. He recommended the government take over buildings to improve quarantine measures. "Besides that, I think everyone should be given free masks." The IMA head also dismissed the idea that the infection curve is about to flatten. "The graph has been rising right from March. The number of new patients dips for a day or two, only to rise again. We can only claim to have achieved a flattening of the curve if there are no new cases for at least a week." Former additional chief secretary of health and urban development TC Benjamin said all government departments should be involved in fighting the pandemic. "This has been achieved in Kerala. And if Kerala can do it, this state can do it much better," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/containment-ring-around-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-is-bitter-pill-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75261465.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 21, 2020||Goa||All efforts on to repatriate stranded seafarers: Shripad Naik||PANAJI: External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Monday said that the government was making all possible efforts to bring seafarers back home and that embassies across the world have been instructed to extend help to sailors stranded in international waters, Union minister for AYUSH Shripad Naik said after meeting with Jaishankar. Naik also met minster of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan to discuss the issue of repatriating stranded Indian seafarers, including around 8,000 seamen from Goa alone. “Met Jaishankar to discuss the issue of seafarers from Goa and other parts of country who are stranded in different parts of world. EAM has assured me that all possible efforts are being made to bring back the seafarers to their home. Also meanwhile all the embassies abroad have been advised to extend all possible help to the stranded seafarers,” Naik said. Meanwhile, NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar on Monday said that the information collected by the nodal officer on the individual seafarers has been submitted to the chief minister’s office, and that he has spoke to chief minister Pramod Sawant over the issue. As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) finalised by the ministry of shipping, Sawant said, in the first phase, seafarers whose ships are anchored along the Indian coast will be brought back to port via the sea route. In the second phase, those whose vessels are in deep sea will be brought to shore and in the final phase, seafarers who are already on shore in other countries would be evacuated, he said. Met Jaishankar to discuss the issue of seafarers from Goa and other parts of country who are stranded in different parts of world. EAM has assured me that all possible efforts are being made to bring back the seafarers to their homes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-efforts-on-to-repatriate-stranded-seafarers-naik/articleshow/75261461.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka to pass ordinance to rein in mobs attacking Covid-19 workers||BENGALURU: The state government is set to promulgate an ordinance, based on the Uttar Pradesh and Kerala model, to protect police and frontline health workers fighting Covid-19. It is also aimed at punishing those indulging in spreading fake news and those who do not cooperate with the government in containing the pandemic. The state cabinet, which met here on Monday, decided to promulgate Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance mainly aimed at reining in those who are attacking frontline staff fighting the pandemic. The move comes in the wake of increasing attacks on Asha workers, doctors and civic workers, including the latest incident at Padarayanapura on Sunday night. Law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy said the nature and quantum of punishment for infiltrators of violence and attacks will be spelt out in detail in the ordinance. The Kerala ordinance prescribes imprisonment for a term extending to two years or a fine up to Rs 10,000 for both who violate restrictions and also those who instigate the same. The UP ordinance also seeks to recover losses caused to public property from perpetrators of violence and attacks, besides imprisonment. The state government has been under pressure to act tough against people attacking Covid-19 warriors ever since the first incident at Sadiq Nagar, where an Asha worker was allegedly heckled by a group of over 50 people while she was conducting a health survey in the area. During that time, home minister Basavaraj Bommai came under attack for being lenient. Chief minister BS Yediyuappa too had dismissed it as a trivial incident. The government was under pressure to act after the second attack at Padarayanapura, a containment zone which has reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bengaluru city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-to-pass-ordinance-to-rein-in-mobs-attacking-covid-19-workers/articleshow/75259527.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan's ‘mini-cabinet’ may be sworn in today||BHOPAL: Nearly a month after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath of office, he is likely to have a cabinet – a ‘mini’ one, albeit – on Tuesday to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak. Highly placed sources told TOI that five to six ministers – two of them from Jyotiraditya Scindia’s group – will be sworn in at Raj Bhawan at 11am on Tuesday. With an alarming surge in coronavirus cases in the state, and Bhopal and Indore turning out to be among the worst-affected hotpots in the country, the central BJP leadership has decided to go for a mini cabinet to handle key departments like home and health, which are crucial to the anti-virus mission. The most likely names are Scindia loyalists Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput and BJP stalwarts Narottam Mishra, Meena Singh and Kamal Patel. While Silawat was health minister in the Kamal Nath government and is part of the Covid-19 BJP task force set up by CM Chouhan, Rajput was transport minister in the previous Congress cabinet. In case Rajput doesn’t make the cut, it could be former labour minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia or Pradyumn Singh Tomar, who had the food and civil supplies portfolio in the Nath cabinet, say sources. There were other names doing the rounds, including senior BJP leaders Gopal Bhargava, Bhupendra Singh and Rampal Singh and former Congress veteran Bisahulal Singh. The final list will be disclosed after consultation with the BJP national leadership, said sources. Since Monday morning, there was a buzz in political circles about an imminent cabinet formation, but no one in the state government or BJP would confirm it. Late in the evening, sources in Raj Bhawan confirmed that it is on the cards. Sources said CM Chouhan spoke with Governor Lalji Tandon on the issue on Tuesday the evening. On Sunday, Chouhan had hinted to top officials that the government needed some “helping hands” to look into administrative affairs in view of Covid-19 crisis. Chouhan has been acting as a one-man cabinet since March 23 when he was appointed as chief minister. The nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi the very next day. Sources said the full expansion of the cabinet is likely to be held after May 3, if the lockdown is lifted. Recently, two senior advocates and Congress Rajya Sabha MPs Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha had sought the intervention of the President, raising concerns over functioning of the government of Madhya Pradesh without a cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-mini-cabinet-may-be-sworn-in-today/articleshow/75260606.cms||Rajendra Sharma
April 21, 2020||Meerut||Pregnant woman among 2 test positive in Meerut, tally reaches 77||MEERUT: A 31-year-old pregnant woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, sending jitters across several parts of Meerut where her husband used to sell vegetables. With the woman and another positive patient, the Meerut’s tally is 77 now. While four more persons tested positive in Bijnor and seven in Amroha on Monday. The Bijnor’s tally is 26 now, with three residents of the district admitted in Kanpur. Meerut’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Raj Kumar said, “A 31-year-old pregnant woman has tested positive for coronavirus. The case came to notice after she went for a regular check- up at Jeevan Jyoti Hospital at Begum Pul as her fever stayed for a little longer. She tested positive at the private facility on Monday. Her husband and the staff of the private hospital have been put under quarantine. Her husband is a vegetable hawker and sold vegetables at Sadar Sabzi Mandi. Contact tracing is being done and containment action plan being prepared.” Meanwhile, Meerut’s district magistrate Anil Dhingra ordered that Rajban’s Chhota Bazaar be declared a hotspot starting Monday midnight until further orders. The couple lived in the area. While in Bijnor, a sub-inspector was among four persons who tested positive for the disease. He became the first policeman of the state to have contracted the virus. Bijnor’s CMO Vijay Kumar Yadav said, “Four new patients tested positive on Sunday night. We have received report on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday.” While Amroha reported seven fresh cases. Dr Megh Singh, Amroha CMO said, “With the seven new cases, the tally of the district is 17. All of them are contacts of Jamaat followers and containment action plan is being imposed in areas from where they have been traced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pregnant-woman-among-2-test-positive-in-meerut-tally-reaches-77/articleshow/75259509.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||60-year-old held with marijuana in Daulatabad||AURANGABAD: The Daulatabad police arrested a 60-year old man for possessing marijuana during a nakabandi on Sunday. The arrested accused has been identified as Babanraoji Ujiwal alias Baba Barfani and is quite famous among the masses as a snake rescuer. He hails from Koknawadi area of Aurangabad city and currently staying in Daulatabad. Daulatabad police inspector Rajshri Adhe informed that on Sunday morning, her police team led by PSI Ravi Kadam was at the check post when they signaled the duo to stop; instead, they sped away on the bike. PSI Kadam chased them and nabbed Ujiwal, while his accomplice managed to give slip to the police by jumping a wall and fleeing away. The incident left the PSI with minor injuries. Police informed that the process of weighing marijuana and following the standard operating procedure, the process of registering an offence under relevant sections of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act was underway till late. Police have also seized the bike, on which the accused duos were carrying marijuana. The accused has the credit of rescuing several poisonous snakes in the past couple of decades, and resides in forest department premises situated opposite to Daulatabad fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/60-year-old-held-with-marijuana/articleshow/75239654.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Meerut||SI suspended for accepting bribe to spare man from criminal action||Meerut: A sub-inspector posted in Bulandshahar district was suspended for allegedly accepting a bribe. A preliminary probe initiated against him found the allegations to be true. SI Yashpal Singh had detained a man for selling contraband from his grocery store. He initially demanded Rs 1 lakh from the brother of the accused but the deal was settled at Rs 20,000, of which part payment of Rs 10,000 was made and the accused was allowed to go without any criminal proceedings, said a police officer. When a complaint was made against SI Singh, SSP Bulandshahr Santosh Kumar set up a probe under SP (rural). In his report, the latter corroborated the claims of the complainant against the SI. In an immediate action, SI Singh was suspended and the probe has been handed over to SP (crime) Shiv Ram Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/si-suspended-for-accepting-bribe-to-spare-man-from-criminal-action/articleshow/75259516.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Meerut||UP & Chhattisgarh cops join hands to ensure dead PSU worker’s body reaches ancestral home||MEERUT: Vikas Kumar Singh, 47, an employee of a public sector firm in Chhattisgarh’s Bhilai city, allegedly committed suicide on Saturday. Back home in Meerut, the traumatised family had just one wish -- to perform the last rites at his ancestral place. Still recovering from the shock, his brother Prakash Kumar Singh posted a distress tweet requesting UP Police to help him bring the body to Meerut. “My brother Vikas Kumar Singh, employee of SAIL Bhilai, Chhattisgarh passed away due to sudden death, please help us, so that we can get the body via ambulance so that we can conduct his last rites (sic),” Prakash tweeted. UP Police swung into action and tagged Chhattisgarh Police on Sunday. The action at the other end was also swift. Chhattisgarh DGP gave the direction to senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Durg district, under which Bhilai falls, to act on the request. Soon, an ambulance was arranged and the body was sent in it after completion of all the formalities. On Monday morning, Vikas’s body arrived at his home town in Meerut, where family performed the last rites. Superintendent of police (SP) of Meerut, Akhilesh Narayan Singh, said, “The body arrived in an ambulance on Monday morning. His residence is in Covid-19 hotspot, so permission was granted to only five to six persons from the family to take part in the last rites. It was performed at Surajkund.” Speaking to TOI, Durg SSP Ajay Kumar Yadav said, “Vikas committed suicide at the hostel where he was staying. His colleagues got suspicious when he didn’t show up for the regular morning shift and alerted police. As of now, no evidence of foul play has emerged as the door was bolted from inside and his body was found hanging from the ceiling. We are still inquiring to find the reason of the suicide.” The Durg SSP said that some distant relatives of Vikas completed all the formalities. "His family members in Meerut wanted to come here. But that was not possible, so we sent the body to Meerut after completion of formalities,” Yadav said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-chhattisgarh-cops-join-hands-to-ensure-dead-psu-workers-body-reaches-ancestral-home/articleshow/75259528.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kochi||No walk in the park for elephants in Kerala||KOCHI: While the restrictions on movement imposed by the lockdown have affected the exercise routine of humans, a bigger mammal is also feeling the heat. For six elephants that are cared for at Abhayaranyam, the elephant training centre at Kodanad, a 20km trek and a refreshing bath in the Periyar river on normal days has been taken out of the schedule due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Instead, they are made to walk around three kilometres inside the centre and given a pipe-water bath that is easily incomparable to a dip at the Panamkuzhy ghat of the Periyar. Assistant forest veterinary officer Acty George said they were forced to alter the elephants’ schedule to protect them from potential viral infection. “Local people still use the ghat for bathing and washing clothes. Considering the safety of the elephants, we have decided to stop taking them to the river for bathing,” said Acty. The officer said lack of exercise would pose health issues, especially diseases of the foot. Wild elephants are believed to walk at least 40 kms daily. “Once the issue is over and government permits us normal functioning of the centre, the elephants will again be taken to bathing ghat as it will allow them to get maximum exercise,” said the officer. All the six elephants are female and one among them, who was brought from Attapadi, is yet to complete her training so she has to remain in the enclosure. The eldest of the lot is 47-year-old Sunitha. Besides grass, they are fed leaves of jackfruit tree that is dried under sunlight. There are 12 mahouts at the centre, which is spread in over 80 hectares bordering the Periyar river on one side and human settlement on the opposite side. Since the lockdown came into force, the mahouts have not been allowed to leave the centre. The mahouts must also ensure personal hygiene before entering the enclosure, outside of which is sanitized with bleaching powder. There are also at least 320 sambar and spotted deers at Kodanad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-walk-in-the-park-for-elephants/articleshow/75258217.cms||T C Sreemol
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||More IAS officers roped in for relief||Gandhinagar: With growing number of Covid-19 patients, the state government on Monday appointed eight additional chief secretary to secretary rank officers on various special duties related to Covid-19 relief work. Pumanchand Parmar, additional chief secretary, agriculture & co-operation has been appointed as in-charge of monitoring of all Covid-19 patients on ventilators and coordinating with doctors. Mukesh Puri, additional chief secretary, urban development has been made in-charge of monitoring Covid-19 related activities at Ahmedabad municipal corporation’s SVP Hospital. A K Rakesh, additional chief secretary, panchayat and housing department has been given the task of all relief work like providing food, shelter to labourers etc., outside Ahmedabad municipal corporation areas. Vinod Rao, secretary, education will coordinate monitoring of all Covid-19 related health and other relief activities in Vadodara district, Millind Torwane, secretary, finance will monitor medical services in special Covid-19 hospitals. Manisha Chandra, secretary, women & child development will oversee all Covid-19 surveillance and tracking activity. Jenu Devan, managing director, Gujarat tourism corporation, will be in charge of ensuring food and other needs of labourers in Surat and Dilip Rana, commissioner, tribal development has been entrusted coordination at Covid-19 healthcare facility at Samras hostel in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-ias-officers-roped-in-for-relief/articleshow/75260625.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||No hike in colleges fees for 2020-21: Education minister||Ahmedabad: There will be no hike in the tuition fees for government as well as self-financed colleges and universities of Gujarat for the academic year in 2020-21, the state government announced today. The decision was taken on Monday by the state education department in view of growing concerns of the fast-spreading Covid-19 pandemic. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said in a media statement that the Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC), technical, had earlier urged the self-financed colleges to keep the fees unchanged for at least one year given the crisis faced by the country in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Association of Self-Financed Colleges, Gujarat came forward, accepting the FRC proposal. Other private colleges and institutions also stepped forward and requested the government to keep the fees unchanged for a year. “It’s due to the efforts of the education minister, private colleges and associations that it has been decided to continue with the same fee structure as in 2019-20,” said government sources. Students, depending on the financial situation of their parents, can pay the semester fees by Diwali, according to the press statement. Also, students can choose to pay the fee amount in instalments, it said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-hike-in-colleges-fees-for-2020-21-education-minister/articleshow/75260607.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Flats turned into temporary hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Government flats and dharamshalas in Delhi have turned into temporary hospitals to accommodate the ever-growing number of Covid-19 patients. As many as 840 corona-positive people have been shifted from hospitals to vacant government flats and dharamshala. As of Monday evening, Delhi had 2,081 Covid patients. The rising number of positive cases is a big challenge for Delhi government and a high-level meeting recently decided to “shift Covid-19 patients with mild/moderate symptoms to Covid Care Centres as per the latest guidelines”. A survey was conducted at all Covid-designated hospitals to determine which patients could be shifted to care centres. The new Covid care centres are equipped to handle corona patients in need of moderate medical care. The state government recently started shifting patients who only need medicines and medical supervision to these centres. Dedicated teams of doctors and healthcare staff have been pressed into monitoring the health of the patients. These places were initially started as quarantine centres and only people suspected of infection were kept in these places, those testing positive removed to hospitals. Now there are both in the centres, though the two categories are confined in separate blocks to ensure infection does not spread from the positive patients to the suspects. “Since the two types of patients are kept in separate blocks, there is no possibility of spread,” insisted a health official. The government survey revealed that of the 793 patients admitted in Lok Nayak Hospital, 562 had moderate symptoms. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, 150 of 195 admitted patients similarly exhibited only moderate symptoms, figure at Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital being 50 of 53 patients. “This new arrangement was made take pressure off the hospitals. An adequate number of doctors and healthcare professionals has been deployed in the care centres to ensure the patients get proper care,” said a district magistrate. The DMs of different districts are responsible for managing these care centres. The number of doctors deployed in each 11 care centres varies according to the number of patients admitted there. The centre at the DDA flats in Narela has 428 patients and the one at the DUSIB flats in Sultanpuri has 251 patients. They are being looked after by several teams of healthcare professionals. In the fight against the novel coronavirus, Delhi government is focusing on tracing, testing and treatment, with teams conducting rapid tests on people living in containment and high-risk zones and showing minor symptoms. The government eyes over 40,000 tests by the end of this week. Till Sunday, 24,387 tests had been conducted. Under its contingency plan, in case the number of infected people crosses 30,000, Delhi government will convert hotels and banquet halls into temporary medical wards to accommodate patients. In such a scenario, 12,000 patients will be accommodated in hotels equipped with medical facilities, 10,000 will be put up in banquet halls and the rest in government and private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/flats-turned-into-temporary-hospitals/articleshow/75260720.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Can’t pay staff unless Telangana pays fees of all students: School body||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA) on Monday said it was not fair for the state to ask them to pay full salaries without collecting fees or increasing it. They said that if the state is really concerned about the parents, it should be paying the fees instead of burdening private school managements. “Let the state government take over all our schools for a year and run them by offering free education. We, the correspondents, are even ready to work without any pay for this academic year,” said Yadagiri Shekar Rao, president of TRSMA, and added that it is disheartening to see private school managements being portrayed as villains. The managements said that in the wake of Chief Minister’s statement on fee hikes and payments, even those parents who can clear the dues will not pay them now. They said that only 162 schools, which include international schools and those affiliated to CBSE, ICSE, IB among other boards, in the state are collecting exorbitant fees and added that because of them nearly 10,000 schools are suffering. TRSMA members claimed that fees in budget schools range between Rs 5,000 and Rs 40,000 per annum and added they only collect tuition fees and special fees, which is hardly about Rs 100. The managements also said that just like others, they too are facing severe financial crunch and have no money to pay their loans .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cant-pay-staff-unless-state-pays-fees-of-all-students-school-body/articleshow/75259523.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 21, 2020||Goa||Industry bodies ask Goa to pay pvt sector salaries for lockdown period||PANAJI: The state government must withdraw the advisory requiring all private sector employers to pay wages during the month-long lockdown and should instead bear the salary burden of the employees, seven industrial bodies have said in a joint letter to the state government. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), Goa Hotel & Restaurant Association (GH&RA), Goa State Industries Association (GSIA), Goa Technology Association (GTA), Travel & Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) and Verna Industries Association (VIA) questioned the state government’s legal authority to ask the private sector to pay full wages while also ordering closure of operations. “The government, while drawing a stimulus or revival plan for the economy, should certainly consider subsidising the wage cost. This is an obligation of the government which it needs to discharge,” they said in the letter. Ever since the nationwide lockdown was announced, the Centre as well as state government have issued advisories calling upon employers to pay not just permanent employees, but also contractual workmen and migrant workers. The seven industry bodies said they understand the “humanitarian aspect” of the crisis and agreed that employees need to receive wages in order to support their needs. “However, there is need to analyse whether such an obligation should be that of private employers or that of the state,” said the letter which has been signed by Blaise Costabir, Manoj Caculo, Gaurish Dhond, Damodar Kochkar, Mangirish Salelkar and Nilesh Shah. “The directive issued by governments to employers to pay wages to all workmen neither comes within the framework of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act nor is backed by any statutory provision of labour or any other law prevailing under the normal conditions ,” the letter said. The industry bodies further argued that no powers have been vested with either the state government or the Central government to direct private employers to pay wages during a disaster if the employees are not working. The letter also points out that across the world, governments have taken measures to support employers and employees by announcing economic packages to alleviate the condition of the labourers. Further, they said that the failure of the Modi government to subsidise the private sector during the lockdown will result in hardships for entrepreneurs who may have to file for bankruptcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/industry-bodies-ask-state-to-pay-pvt-sector-salaries-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/75261468.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Lack of hotspot clarity creates a lot of confusion||Kannur/Palakkad: Lack of clarity over hotspots has created a lot of confusion in Kannur and Palakkad districts. In Kannur, some places that were identified as in the yellow or orange zones in an earlier list have now become hotspots while few localities that were in the red zones have been taken off the new list. As per the new list, the Kannur Corporation, Panoor, Payyannur, Thalassery, Iritty and Koothuparamba municipalities, besides Kolayad, Patyam, Kottayam Malabar, Madayi, Mokeri, Kadannappally-Panappuzha, Chokli, Matool, Eruvessi, Peralassery, Chittariparamba, Naduvil and Maniyoor panchayats are hotspots. There was also a mismatch in the list prepared by the Disaster Management Authority and this has been brought to the attention of the Health Department, said Kannur district medical officer K Narayana Nayak. Meanwhile, in the Palakkad Municipality, roadblocks using barricades without notification created a lot of hardship for people, especially patients headed to the district hospital and other hospitals in ambulances. The people who came to the Municipality in the morning after the relaxation of lockdown rules were caught unaware and were unable to come out of the Municipality as its roads were sealed off by the police. This happened after the municipality was declared a hotspot by the Central government along with three other Grama Panchayats – Karakurissi, Kottopadam and Kanjirapuzha. However, this information was not given by the district administration and as a result, a large number of vehicles came drove. District collector D. Balamurali said that all the rules of hotspot will be strictly implemented in Palakkad Municipality and the four Grama Panchayats in the district. He said that all social distancing rules will also be strictly implemented .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/lack-of-hotspot-clarity-creates-a-lot-of-confusion/articleshow/75258225.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan plans to contain spread in Ramganj through extra care||JAIPUR: Bhilwara brought laurels for Rajasthan in the fight against Covid-19 but Jaipur has done just the opposite. It was not long ago that the Centre had praised the state for Bhilwara’s ‘ruthless’ containment model, but on Monday, the Centre put Jaipur among cities where the situation is serious. For Rajasthan (Jaipur), an inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) is being sent to make on the spot assessments and issue necessary directions to state authorities for checking the spread of virus. The state would be required to submit their reports to the Centre. So far, Jaipur has recorded 13 deaths and more than 575 positive cases. The situation in Jaipur worsened after March 26, when a person who returned from Oman, tested positive in Ramganj area, which is densely populated. Since then, Ramganj reported more than 380 cases. The cases are still being reported daily from the curfew-bound areas of the Walled City. Taking immediate measures to contain the spread in Ramganj, the state government imposed curfew and also strict containment of the area has been done. Screening and testing has been done aggressively along with keeping the suspected cases in quarantine facilities. “Due to heavy population density and other issues typical of a traditional Walled City, we had to adopt a different strategy in Ramganj. Agressive containment coupled with aggressive sampling was carried out. We have tested more than 10,600 samples in Jaipur to assess the prevelance. This obviously will result in high number of positive cases. However, by providing high quality care to patients, we expect to reduce the damage to an absolute minimum,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Not only for Jaipur, Similar IMCT has been constituted for cities in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and West Bengal. “Situation is especially serious in Indore (MP), Mumbai and Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan) and Kolkata, Howrah, Mednipore East, 24-Parganas North, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri (West Bengal). According to the Centre, they have analysed violation of lockdown norms in hotspot districts and it is clear for them that the situation is especially serious in Jaipur and other such cities and expertise of the Centre needs to be used. IMCTs will focus on complaints of implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines, supply of essential commodities, social distancing, preparedness of health infrastructure, safety of health professionals and conditions of the relief camps for labour and poor people. The IMCT visiting Jaipur will focus their assessment on the compliance and implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005. They will also focus on issues like the supply of essential commodities, social distancing in movement of people outside their homes, preparedness of the health infrastructure, hospital facility and sample statistics in the district, safety of health professionals, availability of test kits, personal protection equipment, masks and other safety equipment, and conditions of the relief camps for labour and poor people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-plans-to-contain-spread-in-ramganj-through-extra-care/articleshow/75260615.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||Majority supports curfew order in ‘war’ againt contagion||Pune: Salunke Vihar Road resident Harold Pinto went back to 1971 as he walked along the near empty road on Monday morning, looking at the barricades and group of policemen stopping people and checking their identification.“I was in my late 20s then with a small family living in Rasta Peth. The India-Pakistan war was raging and Pune was under a curfew. All one could see on the roads were policemen and homeguards. Citizens went without milk and rations without complaint. We stayed indoors. It is the same feeling now. But human lives come first, and such containment was needed,” he said The sudden announcement of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad being sealed and curfew imposed has caught most citizens unawares. If there was fear and anxiety earlier in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, now there is worry and suspicion that the situation might have gone out of hand as far as containment of the contagion is concerned. There are many who feel it was needed considering the inadequate health infrastructure in the city, and the country as a whole. There are many who say that there’s a need to find a way out as people can’t go on indefinitely like this.The main concern for people was getting adequate supply of essential goods. Most citizens said they had got used to the restrictions on movement but felt that authorities should not make any abrupt changes in the settled routine, as it added to the panic and made people rush to grocers or vegetable vendors. Sugatha R Panickar, working as a teacher and residing at Kirkitwadi, said essentials such as milk, groceries and vegetables and even drinking water were a concern. “We normally buy packaged drinking water. But in the absence of it, we have to use normal water. This has affected the health of my family. The curfew is going to make life more difficult, she says.Scriptwriter and director Sandhya Gokhale called the situation a fait accompli and said people ought to obey the government’s orders. “I think it’s a time for introspection. We are isolated anyway due to all of our gadgets and streaming services. Now we are having to practise physical distancing. And this is also a natural calamity, where we feel helpless. So this is not a time for bitterness or for partisan politics,” she said. Mitalee Nipankar, senior manager at ABIL Group, said Monday’s news of complete lockdown in all areas of Pune came was “a complete shock”. She said, “This is going to make it difficult for us to get out for basic necessities. Inconviences will be caused, as there will be shortage of daily supplies. I am sure the government must have taken this decision for our safety. But we should have been made aware in advance.” Former Corps commander Lt Gen DB Shekatkar (Retd) said the curfew in Pune and Pimpri Cinchwad was the need of the hour. “People were not adhering to the government instructions. As a result, a strict decision like total curfew to arrest or improve the situation was taken.”Aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar, who lives in the Koregaon Park area, said, “I think it’s a correct decision. The positive cases in Pune have been multiplying and the city is recording high mortality too. Despite the government’s appeal to people to stay home, a section of the residents has been venturing out for reasons such as morning walks and making purchases.”Pimple Saudagar resident Mahesh Patil said whatever people had till now was a situation like a curfew only. “So there’s not much change. As long as the shops are not shut abruptly, there is not much change from the situation a few days ago,” he said. Chinchwad resident Deepak Khaire said, “The administration must cite the reason why the curfew was imposed now. The lockdown was already in place and most items are expensive. We ought to know if their strategy is working out.”Nitin Jain, a member of the Wagholi residents association, said the curfew from Monday has affected essential services. “The grocery shops are closed from morning and the consumer groups helping the residents get the daily essentials have gone into quarantine after coming in contact with a Covid-19 positive person. We are reaching out to the Pune collectorateto ensure that we get the essential items at least,” he said.Ganesh Shinde, a resident of Anand Park in Wadgaonsheri, said sealing of the city and curfew were necessary but the police should not be harsh with people.H K Mahajan, a retired state government employee, said the move to impose curfew and sealing for eight days could be justified only if the police took strict action against those stepping out on roads for no reasons. “Also, the government machinery has to ensure supply of essential commodities across the city in adequate quantity during the lockdown period,” he said. Vilas Bhujbal, leader of the traders’ association at Gultekdi wholesale market, said he was not sure how long the facility would remain shut. “Some breakthrough will be required in the days to come, otherwise the situation will become tougher,” he said. Nikhil Bhosale, a resident of Bhusari Colony, said the curfew was much necessary. “Many people were venturing out in violation of the lockdown rules. Pune has already become hotspot for coronavirus. People at least will stay at homes because of the curfew,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/majority-supports-curfew-order-in-war-againt-contagion/articleshow/75261481.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||One dead, 87 test positive in Pune||Pune: A 57-year-old woman from Kondhwa diagnosed with the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection succumbed to associated complications, while record 87 fresh cases were recorded in Pune Metropolitan Region on Monday. The woman was admitted in Sassoon hospital on April 19. “She suffered from Type-1 respiratory failure, bilateral pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with diabetes,” a doctor from the hospital said, adding her swab report came positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. With this, the total number of cases in PMR has reached 756, while total deaths remain at 51. Of the 87 fresh cases, maximum 85 positives were reported from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, followed by one each in Pune rural and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas. Pune district health officer Bhagwan Pawar told TOI that it was the highest ever single-day rise in cases because the sample testing and surveillance had been ramped up in the corporation areas. “We are testing around 400 samples in a day now as against 100-200 earlier,” he said. In Pune division, which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur, the figures have gone up to 809. Of these, 107 people have been discharged, Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said. A total of 647 cases were active in the division, while 55 deaths had been registered, he said, adding that 23 people were in a critical condition and were being closely monitored. While 756 positive patients are there in Pune, Satara has 14 such patients, while Solapur has 25, Sangli has 27 and Kolhapur has nine. In the division, 9,534 samples had been sent for testing, of which 9,010 samples had been received while results of 523 samples are awaited. Of these 8,154 samples have tested negative and 809 samples have come as positive. In the division, 42.37 lakh houses have been surveyed, covering 1.60 crore people, of which 882 have been suggested to go in for further testing. Central team in Pune to assess the situation A central team, including ministry of power’s additional secretary Sanjay Malhotra, joint advisor Dr Pawan Kumar, were in Pune to assess the situation after Pune emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot, just after Mumbai. Stringent implementation of the prevailing lockdown and ensuring that the cases do not increase were some of the points of discussion by the team members. The team also tried to pacify the people and telling them not to panic, but follow the lockdown measures. Pune divisional commissioner, in his briefing, said of the 55 deaths reported in the division, the death rate was high in the 55-70 years’ age group and co-morbidity was the main reason for the deaths. Of the deaths registered, maximum were reported from Sassoon General Hospital. Ensuring adequate supply of foodgrains to migrant workers and ration supply was stressed by the central team too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-dead-87-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75261477.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Another video criticizing Civil emerges, damage control on||AHMEDABAD: In less than 24 hours of a video showing a group of 25 Covid-19 patients waiting outside the isolation ward in Civil Hospital went viral on social media, another video of a Covid-positive patient talking about the facilities inside the 1,200-bed ‘Covid-19 special’ surfaced on Monday, putting the Civil Hospital administration in a fix. In the video, a patient, identifying himself as Bhanvar Gandhi, a cloth merchant, stated that he had tested positive on Sunday night and was shifted to the hospital. Gandhi is heard saying that there are no functional charging points in the ward. “For water, one has to go out of the ward and get it from a water container. Wouldn’t it spread the infection? The ward is also not being cleaned and trash including medical waste can be seen,’ said Gandhi in the video, adding that if something happens to him (due to the conditions), his children will be orphaned. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the issue of admission of 25 patients was a result of missing case papers. “Our senior team including our health commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare reached the spot and ensured that the persons get admitted and get the necessary treatment,” she said. In the evening, she mentioned that Milind Torawane, senior IAS officer, has been assigned to oversee the functioning of the hospital. Top officials of city police had to intervene on Sunday after a few staff members who had tested positive complained that they had not been provided beds and the ward did not have fans. A video was later shot by the Civil Hospital authorities, claiming that every issue has been addressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-video-criticizing-civil-emerges-damage-control-on/articleshow/75260628.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||25 Ruby Hall staffers test positive in a fortnight||Pune: Twenty five health workers from Ruby Hall Clinic, including 19 nurses, have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last 15 days. Bomi Bhote, chief executive officer of Ruby Hall Clinic, said the hospital had screened 1,000 staffers over the last fortnight. “It began with one case of a staffer coming from the Kasarwadi area, which prompted us to immediately swing into action. At present, there are 25 positive cases at the hospital, all of whom are asymptomatic and absolutely stable,” he said. Bhote said all these persons had been isolated from potential contacts to break the chain of spread. “One entire building on the premises has been dedicated for Covid-19 patients only. The staff members have been isolated in this building. Non-Covid patients are being treated in the other building. We have also rented 3 hotels around the hospital where our staff members are being quarantined,” he added. He further added that not a single infected staff member has been put on any breathing support system, let along a ventilator. According to health officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation Chandrashekhar Hankare, necessary care of the staff members who tested positive must be taken by the hospital to contain the spread of the virus. “All other staff members must also be tested. Those who test negative must be asked to report to work. The same procedure has been followed at Sassoon Hospital too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25-ruby-hall-staffers-test-positive-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/75261486.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 21, 2020||Jaipur||Two deaths, 98 fresh cases in Rajasthan; Newborn in Nagaur tests positive||JAIPUR: Coronavirus claimed two more lives in the state on Monday while 98 others tested positive, taking the total count to 1,576 cases. With these two deaths, the total number of casualties has risen to 25. Among the infected is a newborn in Nagaur. “He was born on April 15. Since his father had tested positive, we tested him and his mother and both of them were found infected,” said Dr Shankar Lal, principal medical officer, Nagaur district hospital. He said the pediatricians were looking after the baby. A 62-year-old resident of Nagaur, who was admitted to SMS Hospital here on April 18 and tested positive on April 19, died late on Sunday night. In Kota, a 65-year-old woman from Anantpura area, who was brought dead to the emergency unit of MBS Hospital, tested positive. On suspicion, doctors took her samples after her death and found she was infected. The doctors have alerted the health department to conduct activities in the area to which she belonged for containing spread of the virus in the area. An 85-year-old woman, who died in the hospital on Sunday night, however tested negative in Kota. The doctors said she had heart ailments and died of bacterial pneumonia. According to the health department report, out of the 98 persons who tested positive across the state, 50 were from Jaipur, Jodhpur (32), Kota (7), Nagaur (3), Jhunjhunu (2) and one each in Ajmer, Banswara, Tonk and one evacuee airlifted from Iran who is in an isolation facility in Jodhpur. Out of 50 cases in Jaipur, 29 were from Ramganj, while five were from Handipura mohalla, 10 from Ghat Gate, three from MD Road and one each from Adarsh Nagar and SMS Hand Nahri Ka Naka area. The total number of infected in Jaipur now stands at 585. With 32 new cases, the total number of cases in Jodhpur have increased to 260. In the state, 205 persons have been cured and out of those 97 have been discharged. Watch on people coming to pharmaciesTaking a serious note of patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) purchasing medicines over the counter from chemists, the health department has issued directions to drug controller to prevent it as such cases are going unnoticed. The order has been issued by Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health) to ensure proper monitoring of ILI patients as the symptoms of Covid-19 are similar to it. Directions have been issued to the chemists to take phone numbers and address of such patients coming to their shops without prescription of doctors and inform health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-deaths-98-fresh-cases-in-raj-newborn-in-nagaur-tests-positive/articleshow/75260639.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Padarayanapura violence: 54 arrested, more forces deployed||BENGALURU: Hours after mobs attacked health care workers in the area, Padarayanapura on Monday turned into a garrison with hundreds of policemen, including gun-wielding Garuda force personnel, stationed at vantage points across the ward. Police arrested 54 people including a woman in connection with Sunday night’s violence. The entire ward – which has thrown up 19 positive cases – was declared a containment zone and residents are barred from stepping out of their houses. Fifteen platoons from the Karnataka State Reserve Police and City Armed Reserve have been deployed in the area, beside over 500 from Bengaluru city police. Police are on the lookout for more suspects. Sources say trouble erupted when a team of BBMP health officials, including doctors and Asha workers, reached 10th Cross, Arafat Nagar around 6.30pm. The team was tasked with taking 58 contacts of positive patients to institutional quarantine. Fifteen contacts were packed off in the first lot, but then trouble hit. Several residents gathered at the spot and objected to officials sending locals to quarantine. Officials explained the importance of quarantine, but locals demanded that they too be taken to quarantine. The group swelled to a 60-strong crowd. They demanded Covid-19 tests be conducted on the spot and began shouting slogans against health workers, sources said. Police on the spot managed to whisk health officials and the other contacts to safety even as the mob began pelting stones. The mob then rushed to the checkpost near Sujatha Tent at 11th Cross and vandalised the area. Soon, the entire locality plunged into chaos. The 54 accused now face criminal cases. Soumendu Mukherji, additional commissioner (West), has been appointed to investigate the trigger for the violence. Police have registered cases under several IPC sections including 143 (unlawful assembly), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting), 323 (causing harm), 353 (deterring a public servant from discharging duty), and a few sections under Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Property Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/padarayanapura-violence-54-arrested-more-forces-deployed/articleshow/75259563.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||Restart mining, freeze government hiring: Econ revival panel||PANAJI: With all sectors taking a hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, the economic revival committee has recommended that the state government should support the industry by extending financial assistance and relaxation in rules and complete ban on recruitment in government service, except specialised persons. The committee recommended restarting of mining activities, immediate finalisation of tourism master plan and slashing of all the government fees for all MSME businesses, among others. The 16-member committee constituted by the state government to study economic impact of Covid-19 pandemic and suggest measures for revival of Goa’s economy on Monday submitted its preliminary report to the government. Tourism activity is the backbone of Goa’s economy and shall continue to be so. But this sector, which was down by almost 50% of its regular potential in December due to general downward trend and is then down to 50% of December figures in March to May with slack season from June to September, shall need more detailed and pin pointed deliberations. “Tourism sector revival may take little longer time and hence moratorium period should be till September 30,” the committee said. The committee headed by industrialist Shivanand Salgaocar recommended that the government encourage PPP to attract investments, disinvestment and closure of loss-making PSUs, single window facility and strengthening of Investment Promotion Board by amending the IPB Act. As far as self-employment schemes are concerned, the committee recommended that EDC should open a special window for self-employment schemes with extremely liberal terms and rate for those people who might lose jobs due to current situation. “CMRY (Chief Minister’s Rozgar Yojana) scheme may be further suitably amended to incorporate this category with lower amount of finance,” the committee said. It also recommended immediate finalisation of coastal zone management plan and resolution of the private forests issue. Complete ban on recruitment in government services except those specialised personnel which are required like health, sanitation, education, decision-making posts and civil services among others may be considered, report said. Keeping in mind small and tiny entrepreneurs, the committee recommended that the government may grant soft loan up to Rs 1.5 lakh to sustain and expand existing scope of business. The committee wants the government to focus on improvement of infrastructure by availing central funds. “Now is the time to avail these funds,” the committee said. It also called for a simplification of procedures for industry and investors. Focus on IT and knowledge-based industries, consolidation of existing industries and focus on high-end niche tourism activities were some of its recommendations. To support MSME manufacturing units, the state financial institutions such as EDC, public sector and private banks, SIDBI, Reserve Bank of India should provide additional working capital of 30% without additional security and documentation, disburse new working capital or loan with minimal documentation, it said. “EDC may extend bridge loans on concessional rates to MSME sector with interest subvention from the government and waive interest on working capital or term loans during lockdown,” the committee said. “Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) should further simplify allotment guidelines by making it more inclusive for other economic activities such as warehousing, restaurants, services attributable to industry’s needs. Transfer and sub-leasing guidelines should be further simplified and enforced. All permissions and approvals including construction-related activities should be completed on war footing in the next 21 days by GIDC,” the committee said. It also recommended establishing film city and convention facilities at Dona Paula. On real estate, the committee said all the advanced construction works of industry may be allowed to be completed and considering monsoon is approaching, repairs to the existing properties be allowed with minimal levies. “The government should give special concessional stamp duty and registration fee on all sale deeds registered till December, and should devise a special scheme to buy unsold inventory of some builders in Goa at best negotiated price for use of the government employees or encourage purchase of such built up spaces with exemption of stamp duty etc,” the committee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restart-mining-freeze-govt-hiring-econ-revival-panel/articleshow/75261483.cms||Murari Shetye
April 21, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath accuses Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan govt of oppressing farmers||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Monday alleged that farmers are being oppressed in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. In a tweet, the senior Congress leader posted a video in which a 50-year-old farmer Banshi Kushwaha is seen accusing police of beating him mercilessly when he was returning from his agricultural field after feeding his cow. जबलपुर में शिवराज सरकार की पुलिस ने एक 50 वर्षीय बंशी कुशवाह नाम के किसान की बेरहमी से उस समय पिटाई की , जब वो अपने… https://t.co/MYgsdjlIet— Office Of Kamal Nath (@OfficeOfKNath) 1587376559000@OfficeOfKNath tweeted, “In Jabalpur, police of the Shivraj government brutally beat-up a 50-year-old farmer Banshi Kushwaha. He was returning from the field after giving fodder and water to his cow.”In a second tweet, the senior Congress leader alleged, “With the arrival of the Shivraj government, oppression of farmers has started in the state. Lockdown is to be followed, but when a farmer is returning home after serving folder and water to his hungry cow, then beating him mercilessly is cruelty and barbarity.” In another tweet, Kamal Nath said, “Strict action should be taken against the culprits, government should help the family in every possible way. On the one hand, criminals are escaping and cannot be controlled by the Shivraj government and on the other hand, common man are becoming victims of police beatings, oppression and getting killed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kamal-nath-accuses-chouhan-govt-of-oppressing-farmers/articleshow/75259562.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||70% Covid cases asymptomatic, AMC worried||Ahmedabad: Of the 1,248 Covid-19 cases detected in Ahmedabad, more than 70% showed no classic Covid-19 symptoms and were asymptomatic. This has become a matter of worry for municipal health officials. On April 9, the health authorities came across 30 asymptomatic cases from just one locality, Shafi Manzil and Sharukh Apartments in Danilimda. It was only then that the challenges of Covid-19 detection became evident. This is not all, contacts of Covid-19 patients are testing positive for the virus as long as 26 and 34 days after their contact. There are five such cases, senior municipal officials said. “The major challenge we face is convincing patients who are asymptomatic that they are positive. They show us our AMC awareness literature which speaks of high fever, dry cough, sore throat etc, and say they don’t have any of these symptoms and resist us. They feel we are targeting them,” said a senior municipal official who did not want to be identified. “We have been testing aggressively and tracing contacts of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients is the only way we can arrest further infections. It is laborious, but there is no other way. We will keep testing as long as we can,” said municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra. He added, “Over 70% of patients were found to be asymptomatic.” On whether there will be a change in strategy due to the high ratio of asymptomatic patients, Nehra said, “What change in strategy should you expect? Wherever there is Covid-19 infection or a hotspot, intensive surveillance is being made to spot patients with influenza-like illness (ILI). If they test positive, we trace their contacts. This is the only way.” Senior municipal officials fear that the problem may get aggravated as a large number of factories become operational outside the side. “Most of the labourers who work there are from congested colonies, some of which have emerged as hotspots.” The curfew-bound areas account for nearly 71% of Covid-19 cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/70-covid-cases-asymptomatic-amc-worried/articleshow/75260620.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Registration offices resume services partially||Thiruvananthapuram: Registration offices have partially resumed services in districts that fall under green and orange zones in the state. While services in green and orange B zones restarted on Monday, those in orange A zone would start functioning on Friday. Registration affairs minister G Sudhakaran said the registration offices would function subject to a number of restrictions. “Several pleas reached before the government, citing the ordeals that people are forced to face owing to the abrupt halt in the functioning of registration offices. It was on the basis of such requests that government has decided to open registration offices in a phased manner,’’ he said. As many as 29 deeds were registered on the first day of reopening, the minister said. Registration service has restarted on Monday in Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Idukki, Thrisshur, Palakkad, Alappuzha and Wayanad districts. Service in districts under orange A zone category (Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Kollam) would resume on Friday. However, functioning of registration offices in places declared as hotspots within these districts would be regulated as per specific directions from the government, the minister said. Service in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts falling in red zone category would be resumed only after the completion of the lockdown period. “Even in places where the services are now reopened, officials have been given strict instructions to encourage online facilities to the maximum and put restrictions in works that warrant the physical presence of citizens,” he said. As per the restrictions, the maximum number of registrations on a single day would be limited to 10. There won’t be any restrictions in processing online applications for a number of services and certificates. Number of persons to be allowed inside the office at any given time is five and all money transactions would be via online only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/registration-offices-resume-services-partially/articleshow/75258255.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Two deaths, 98 fresh cases in Rajasthan; Newborn in Nagaur tests positive||JAIPUR: Coronavirus claimed two more lives in the state on Monday while 98 others tested positive, taking the total count to 1,576 cases. With these two deaths, the total number of casualties has risen to 25. Among the infected is a newborn in Nagaur. “He was born on April 15. Since his father had tested positive, we tested him and his mother and both of them were found infected,” said Dr Shankar Lal, principal medical officer, Nagaur district hospital. He said the pediatricians were looking after the baby. A 62-year-old resident of Nagaur, who was admitted to SMS Hospital here on April 18 and tested positive on April 19, died late on Sunday night. In Kota, a 65-year-old woman from Anantpura area, who was brought dead to the emergency unit of MBS Hospital, tested positive. On suspicion, doctors took her samples after her death and found she was infected. The doctors have alerted the health department to conduct activities in the area to which she belonged for containing spread of the virus in the area. An 85-year-old woman, who died in the hospital on Sunday night, however tested negative in Kota. The doctors said she had heart ailments and died of bacterial pneumonia. According to the health department report, out of the 98 persons who tested positive across the state, 50 were from Jaipur, Jodhpur (32), Kota (7), Nagaur (3), Jhunjhunu (2) and one each in Ajmer, Banswara, Tonk and one evacuee airlifted from Iran who is in an isolation facility in Jodhpur. Out of 50 cases in Jaipur, 29 were from Ramganj, while five were from Handipura mohalla, 10 from Ghat Gate, three from MD Road and one each from Adarsh Nagar and SMS Hand Nahri Ka Naka area. The total number of infected in Jaipur now stands at 585. With 32 new cases, the total number of cases in Jodhpur have increased to 260. In the state, 205 persons have been cured and out of those 97 have been discharged. Watch on people coming to pharmaciesTaking a serious note of patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) purchasing medicines over the counter from chemists, the health department has issued directions to drug controller to prevent it as such cases are going unnoticed. The order has been issued by Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health) to ensure proper monitoring of ILI patients as the symptoms of Covid-19 are similar to it. Directions have been issued to the chemists to take phone numbers and address of such patients coming to their shops without prescription of doctors and inform health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/2-deaths-98-fresh-cases-in-raj-newborn-in-nagaur-tests-positive/articleshow/75262846.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ajmer||Two deaths, 98 fresh cases in Rajasthan; Newborn in Nagaur tests positive||JAIPUR: Coronavirus claimed two more lives in the state on Monday while 98 others tested positive, taking the total count to 1,576 cases. With these two deaths, the total number of casualties has risen to 25. Among the infected is a newborn in Nagaur. “He was born on April 15. Since his father had tested positive, we tested him and his mother and both of them were found infected,” said Dr Shankar Lal, principal medical officer, Nagaur district hospital. He said the pediatricians were looking after the baby. A 62-year-old resident of Nagaur, who was admitted to SMS Hospital here on April 18 and tested positive on April 19, died late on Sunday night. In Kota, a 65-year-old woman from Anantpura area, who was brought dead to the emergency unit of MBS Hospital, tested positive. On suspicion, doctors took her samples after her death and found she was infected. The doctors have alerted the health department to conduct activities in the area to which she belonged for containing spread of the virus in the area. An 85-year-old woman, who died in the hospital on Sunday night, however tested negative in Kota. The doctors said she had heart ailments and died of bacterial pneumonia. According to the health department report, out of the 98 persons who tested positive across the state, 50 were from Jaipur, Jodhpur (32), Kota (7), Nagaur (3), Jhunjhunu (2) and one each in Ajmer, Banswara, Tonk and one evacuee airlifted from Iran who is in an isolation facility in Jodhpur. Out of 50 cases in Jaipur, 29 were from Ramganj, while five were from Handipura mohalla, 10 from Ghat Gate, three from MD Road and one each from Adarsh Nagar and SMS Hand Nahri Ka Naka area. The total number of infected in Jaipur now stands at 585. With 32 new cases, the total number of cases in Jodhpur have increased to 260. In the state, 205 persons have been cured and out of those 97 have been discharged. Watch on people coming to pharmaciesTaking a serious note of patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) purchasing medicines over the counter from chemists, the health department has issued directions to drug controller to prevent it as such cases are going unnoticed. The order has been issued by Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health) to ensure proper monitoring of ILI patients as the symptoms of Covid-19 are similar to it. Directions have been issued to the chemists to take phone numbers and address of such patients coming to their shops without prescription of doctors and inform health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/2-deaths-98-fresh-cases-in-raj-newborn-in-nagaur-tests-positive/articleshow/75262848.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai villagers asked not to cross over to Thanjavur||Trichy: Village panchayats in Pudukottai district bordering Thanjavur are using dandora announcements to sensitize villagers on avoiding inter-district travel. The move comes following the increase in Covid-19 cases in Thanjavur district while Pudukottai district reported its first positive case on Monday. With 10 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday alone, the total number of positive cases stands at 46 in Thanjavur district.Pudukottai has further tightened the grip on inter-district borders. There are 18 district border check posts including those connecting Thanjavur and they all have been closed. However, there is movement of villagers to Thanjavur district for personal and occupational reasons, said an official from Manjapettai village panchayat.Villages like Manjapettai, Anaivizhuthankeni, Punalkulam and Thethuvasalpatti are bordering Thanjavur. Using dandora announcement, villagers have been instructed not to travel to Thanjavur for any purpose. Even if someone travels, they are being asked to stay in Thanjavur. Pudukottai revenue divisional officer, Thandayuthapani said that inter-district borders have already been closed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-villagers-asked-not-to-cross-over-to-thanjavur/articleshow/75260649.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Amusement parks seek relief package||HYDERABAD: The Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries (IAAPI), the apex body representing the interests of amusement parks, theme parks and water parks, on Monday said the industry is on the verge of collapse due to the Covid-19 outbreak and has sought an emergency relief package from the government. The body said it would take about 8-10 months for the industry, which provides direct employment to about 80,000 people, to get back to normal. Hyderabad has some big amusement and theme parks like the ones at Ramoji Film City and Wonderla. IAAPI said while it has requested all its members not to terminate employees and pay salaries and wages of permanent and contractual labour without any deductions for March 2020 and till the lockdown ends, due to suspension of operations it is finding it difficult to meet financial obligations. The association has sought a complete GST holiday of 12 months to make entry prices economical for patrons, a six-month deferment in payment of direct or indirect taxes and statutory dues like PF and ESIC, waiver of customs duties on import of spare parts to reduce maintenance costs, a 200 basis points (2%) reduction in effective rate of interest on term loans and working capital facilities from financial institutions to reduce burden on cash outflows. It has also sought a 12-month moratorium on loan repayments, fiscal support for salaries through a support fund for 12 months and concessional pricing for water and electricity, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amusement-parks-seek-relief-package/articleshow/75259582.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Curbs to continue in Malappuram||Malappuram: Though there are no new positive cases of Covid-19 reported in the district during last one week, the district administration has decided to continue the strict measures to prevent spread of disease in the district, which is declared as red zone. District collector Jafar Malik on Monday said that all restrictions would continue until May 3 and the entire district would be considered as a highly sensitive area, as many people are going to return to the district, from Gulf countries and European countries, in the coming days. District medical officer K Sakeena said that people should be vigilant against spread of communicable diseases even after the lockdown. “Covid-19 is now under control in the district. Still, there are chances for the further spread of disease. People should wear masks when they visit public places and they should practice social distancing. Practice of washing hands and using sanitizers should be continued,” said DMO. Meanwhile, one more person who was cured of Covid-19 would be discharged from government medical college Manjeri on Tuesday. Parayil Abdul Fukkar, 42, native of Kalpakanchery, tested negative for novel Coronavirus infection three consecutive times. He had returned from Dubai on March 22 and he was admitted to Manjeri medical college on March 25. 34 more persons were brought under observation in the district on Monday. Currently 5,831 persons are under observation in the district. 30 persons are under observation in various hospitals including government medical college, Manjeri which is a Covid special treatment centre. 88 persons are under observation in Covid care centres. 5,713 persons are under observation at their homes. DMO said that the health condition of the six Covid-19 patients who are under treatment at isolation wards in Manjeri medical college, is satisfactory. A total of 19 persons had tested positive for virus infection in Malappuram. Among these 13 persons were cured of infection, including an 85-year-old man who died due to age related ailments on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/curbs-to-continue-in-malappuram/articleshow/75258290.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Aurangabad||2 more deaths in densely-populated Malegaon takes districts toll to eight||Nashik: The coronavirus-related death toll in Malegaon increased by two on Monday with a 55-year-old woman and a 56-year-old man succumbing to the infection. With these two latest deaths, the Covid-19 fatality figure for Malegaon, as well as Nashik district, now stands at eight.The 55-year-old woman who died on Monday was an unani medicine practitioner and was among high-risk contacts of a confirmed Covid-19 patient currently undergoing treatment, the authorities said.She was admitted to the isolation ward for the treatment on Friday with the complaint of high-grade fever and difficulty in breathing. Her sample was tested positive on Saturday.The 56-year-old man, meanwhile, was admitted to the isolation ward in Jeevan Hospital after he complained of fever on April 14. His throat swab sample tested positive on April 16, the sources added.The sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 patients — 85 cases and eight deaths in 12 days — in Malegaon is posing a huge challenge for the district administration in view of the density of population in the town.District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal told TOI, “The situation in Malegaon is serious. The district administration is working overtime to flatten the curve as soon as possible.”Bhujbal said that much like Dharavi in Mumbai, Malegaon is congested with families staying in small houses. This poses challenges in enforcing social distancing.“We have appointed a young IAS officer, Pankaj Ashiya, as the command officer in Malegaon, to coordinate with all agencies in Malegaon,” he said.District collector Suraj Mandhare is keeping a close watch and has visited the town to guide the authorities there. Though the administration faced some difficulties initially in conducting the medical survey, they soon roped in the local political fraternity and the chiefs of religious outfits to appeal for cooperation.“The people of Malegaon are extending their total cooperation to us. Our house to house health survey is going on smoothly in the eight hotspots. We have all the required infrastructure in place,” Ashiya said.Local AIMIM MLA Maulana Mufti Ismail said the Malegaon Municipal Corporation authorities should have been more pro-active in spreading awareness about the virus and tracing positive cases.“The civic body should have been more serious in creating awareness about the virus and tracing positive cases and their contacts. There is tremendous resentment among the people against MMC,” he claimed.Meanwhile, in Nandubar, three more people tested positive. They were all relatives of a person who was tested positive on Saturday. “All the three persons are asymptomatic and their health is stable,” collector of Nandubar Rajendra Bharud said.A fresh case was also recorded in Dhule city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-more-deaths-in-densely-populated-malegaon-takes-districts-toll-to-eight/articleshow/75259590.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||Pune lockdown: Grocers to stay shut till Friday||PUNE: Retail shops in many parts of the city will be closed for fours days from Tuesday. The closure is bound to inconvenience residents already dealing with curfew and harsh lockdown measures. The retail shop owners’ association announced the closure in Kothurd, Warje, Sinhagad Road, Uttamnagar, Shivajinagar, BT Kawde Road, Baner and Balewadi. They said citizens were not following social distancing norms and there has been an unwanted rush at their establishments defying lockdown measures. Shopkeepers will continue with home deliveries of essential items during closure to some extent to avoid inconvenience to citizens. Sachin Nivangune, president of Pune District Retail Traders Association, told TOI that 70% to 75% retailers were likely to pull down shutters in the city till Friday. “Initially, areas included for closure were around Sinhagad Road and Kothrud. But, on Monday, retailers from other parts approached us with resolutions to join the closure. Most said there was unwanted rush at their shops,” Nivangune said. There are about 16,000 grocery retail stores in the city. There are local area associations which are affiliated to the Pune District Retail Traders’ Association. Nivangune said they had no intention to inconvenience citizens. “Retailers have been ensuring smooth running of shops. But people are not following social distancing. Customers are not standing on markings made to ensure social distancing. People are rushing to the counters in numbers. This is posing a risk to them and us,” he said. Sanjay Gandhi, who runs a shop in Shivajinagar area, said people are visiting the shops to purchase one or two items. “Most shops are following the timings and set of rules announced by the administration. We have been telling people to get groceries to last for a week or a month,” Gandhi said. Some chicken and eggs shops from some areas will also be closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grocers-in-most-areas-to-remain-shut-till-friday/articleshow/75261490.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 21, 2020||Goa||How do plumbers, electricians, masons work from home? Ask the PMC||PANAJI: If the Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) had its way, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, mechanics and masons would be required to work from home during the lockdown. In a bizarre interpretation of the Union ministry of home affairs’ (MHA) guidelines, the PMC on Monday said that electricians, masons and plumbers who planned to provide services, could do so only from their homes and after obtaining a temporary trade licence. The public notice, dated April 20, was affixed at the PMC office, and is signed by its chief officer, Kedar Naik. The MHA guidelines dated April 15 allow certain activities to resume, including IT technicians, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, mechanics and masons. On April 18, the state executive committee (SEC), which is headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai, authorised chief officers of municipal bodies and panchayat secretaries to issue permits for self-employed persons providing various services, such as electricians, IT repairs, plumbers, motor-mechanics, carpenters and masons. It was based on these guidelines that PMC issued the public notice. “All the above self-employed professionals wanting to operate from their house only must obtain the permit by submitting the pre-printed application forms on payment of Rs 1,000 as processing fees for a validity till May 3,” Naik said in the notice. He further said that such tradesmen would have to produce their trade licence issued by PMC. “In the event that they do not have a trade licence, the self-employed applicants must obtain a temporary trade licence from this office on payment of Rs 3,000,” Naik said. Clearly trying to earn extra revenue, PMC also said that it would charge Rs 4,000 and Rs 10,000 for single dwelling units and residential projects respectively to restart construction activity even if the applicants had valid permissions. The notice raised a lot of eyebrows, with industry professionals questioning the logic of asking electricians and plumbers to work from home. When the public notice was brought to the notice of the state government and the economic revival committee, a dressing down followed, said sources. Given the ensuing criticism, PMC withdrew the notice, a mere 40 minutes after it was issued. “The self-employed individuals, trade and construction licence holders who have obtained the permit on making the payment/processing fees can apply for a full refund on any working day,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/how-do-plumbers-electricians-masons-work-from-home-ask-the-pmc/articleshow/75261491.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: Industries in dilemma over how to restart operations||PUNE: Scores of manufacturing units in the district and special economic zones (SEZs) around the city don’t know what the immediate future holds for them. They were hoping to resume production and organize their workforce by now, but have had to hit the pause button. Senior managers and engineers who live in the city have been told that they can go to their factories, but must stay put on the premises for the next seven days. Similarly, even IT and ITeS, which were hoping to resume partial operations earlier, are looking at a May first week date, as per e-mails sent to some employees. “Many heads of industries live in Pune city. If you tell them they can go to their plants with a one-way ticket, it is not workable. From a health viewpoint too, what if people going from the city are asymptomatic carriers?” Pradeep Bhargava, president, MCCIA, said. Not only executives, even workers need to be sourced locally, divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said on Sunday. “They are saying workers can be sourced locally in such a way that they can walk to work and not bring vehicles. This is not practical. We understand the situation in Pune and so, it is better to start effectively after lockdown,” Dilip Batwal, secretary, Federation of Chakan Industries, said. A host of industry representatives also attended a call on Monday morning with Joint Director of Industries, Sadashiv Survase, to take things forward outside of red-zone areas. “Today was the first day and people have filled up forms to start work. Industrial units have indicated how they can start work and hopefully in three or four days, some work can begin,” Alakesh Roy, chairman, CII Pune Zonal Council, said. He said the sanitization process of industrial units has begun in places like Ranjangaon and Chakan, and with the workforce available (outside the red zone of PMC and PCMC), work can start with about 25-28% of the workforce in around four days. However, with bulk of the management not being able to get to work for next fortnight or so, this will remain a challenging start for the industry, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industries-in-dilemma-over-how-to-restart-operations/articleshow/75261507.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 21, 2020||Goa||70% GPs in Goa over 65, can’t open clinics||PANAJI: The directorate of health services (DHS) has asked private medical practitioners and consultants to resume work, but over half of Goa’s general practitioners (GP) may not be able to do so as they are above 65 years of age. As per the DHS’s latest order, doctors above 65 years and those having co-morbidities have been exempted from reopening their clinics. Of the 160 GPs registered in the state, 70% are above the age of 65 years and 10% are in the 50-65 age group. Incidentally, a majority of GPs practice in villages and are heavily relied upon in their respective areas even though Goa has a decent network of primary health centres. As of Monday evening, the Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Goa, received intimation from 40 of its members that they would not able to open their clinics due to the age factor. Some expressed difficulty owing to co-morbidities. The association expects more such intimations on Tuesday. The Covid-19 pandemic has also brought into sharp focus the decreasing presence of GPs in the state’s health sector as until a week ago, government hospitals and health centres did not attend to non-emergency cases.  President of Goa General Practitioners’ Association, Dr S Samuel Arawattigi, said the number of doctors joining general practice has declined significantly over the last decade even as several ageing doctors leave the practice every year. “The trend among students of medicine is to opt for specialisation. As a result, we have few who want to do general practice. The number (of such candidates) can be counted on one’s fingers,” he said. Despite the Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, now producing 180 doctors per year, few MBBS graduates choose to take up general practice. Dr Deepak Lotlikar, a 51-year-old GP who has his clinic in Quepem, rued the fact that young doctors shun general practice in favour of specialisation. He said that besides the monetary factor, long working hours make general practice unattractive. “There appears to be more glamour in being a specialist than a GP. We GPs work from morning till evening. Although my closing time is 8.30pm, I am sometimes in my clinic till as late at 10pm,” Lotlikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/70-gps-in-goa-over-65-cant-open-clinics/articleshow/75261512.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Neglected and poorly equipped, Asha workers slug it out on field||BENGALURU: Nagalakshmi V, 43, is on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19 in Padarayanapura, where at least 19 positive cases have been reported. The Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) goes knocking on every door in the area and screens residents for virus symptoms. After visiting every house, Nagalakshmi, who is diabetic, rushes out in search of her team leader. Reason: he is the only one provided with a sanitiser in her 19-member team of Asha workers. “Sanitiser is just one of our headaches. The masks given to us are very thin and are certainly not the triple-layered ones mandated for health workers,” says Nagalakshmi. Nagalakshmi is among the over 41,000 Asha workers screening residents in every nook and corner of Karnataka. In containment zones, the residents, especially senior citizens, are checked every few hours. In Bengaluru, BBMP health officials are largely absent on the ground, leaving the likes of Nagalakshmi to bear the brunt of anti-Covid-19 duties. Asha workers are the lifeline of public health care in Karnataka. “Every Asha worker is now trained in monitoring people for Covid-19 symptoms, wherever there is an outbreak,” says Rama TC, in charge of Karnataka State Samyukta Asha Workers Association. They check every resident for travel history and symptoms like cold, fever, cough and other respiratory issues and record it all in a register. Two teams of Asha workers are on the field in Padarayanapura. BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar concedes their data management has made a huge difference in containing the virus spread. “Every team is supported by one doctor and a nurse in localities with positive cases,” says Kumar. Saraswathamma L, an Asha worker at Thondebhavi Primary Health Centre in Alkapura village in Chikkaballapura district, has now been deployed in neighbouring Hire Bidanur, where eight positive cases have been reported. “My team and I are surveying about 250 residences. We have maintained a register documenting the daily health status of each and everyone in the village,” Saraswathamma says. Saraswathamma says her family has been very supportive of her work. Nagalakshmi, however, adds, “But our neighbours expect us to spray disinfectants on our bodies before we return home. Are we lifeless entities to bathe in phenol?” These workers still recall how they were hounded out of Bengaluru when they held protests seeking better wages. “The state government’s pay of Rs 2,000 has not been credited for four-five months now,” Saraswathamma says. “The Centre is paying us Rs 1,000 as incentive during the pandemic. This needs to be increased,” says Rama. While health workers deployed in Covid-19 hospitals are being periodically tested for the virus, Asha workers are not being extended the benefit. Kumar says each of these activists would soon be provided with sanitisers and protective eyewear. “We will work towards providing health check-up for each of them,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/neglected-and-poorly-equipped-asha-workers-slug-it-out-on-field/articleshow/75259596.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 21, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Early implementation of lockdown saved our country’||By: Dr Sudarshan BallalIndia is a resilient country. She has conquered famines, plagues, droughts and floods. This country has survived her greatest challenges because her citizens (and leaders) stepped up. When there was a food shortage in 1960s due to war, families sacrificed a meal a week for the good of the nation. When terrorists attacked Mumbai, the city was back on its feet the next day. Our resilience is again being tested today. Covid-19 has managed to eclipse the devastation caused by polio, HIV, SARS, H1N1, Zika, Ebola and any other epidemics we have known in the last 100 years. We have watched it overwhelm healthcare systems across Europe and in the US. Media and governments across the globe are rightfully keeping a careful tally of the number of Covid patients and fatalities. However, there is another insidious facet to the problem – it has paralysed healthcare unrelated to Covid-19. Even in the days of smallpox and leprosy, people were still able to visit hospitals for other ailments. During H1N1, SARS, dengue and other epidemics, hospitals were full but people could meet doctors and schedule surgeries. There is a growing urgency to have the lockdown lifted so that people can get the help (medical and economic) they need. Some are even questioning whether we are saving people from corona by sacrificing them to other diseases and poverty. So, what do we do? I believe early implementation of the lockdown has saved our country. Our health services would be overrun if we had to combat the numbers seen in New York or London. It’s not ideal, but it is our best chance at saving the greatest number of people. If even just half of our population gets infected, a few million people will die (assuming a very conservative 1% fatality rate). The lockdown is a little like chemotherapy – expensive, extremely unpleasant with multiple side effects and yet necessary for survival. The intended phased-lifting of the lockdown is our best chance of restoring normalcy. When we gained Independence in 1947, we were a poor country with lofty ambitions. By necessity we have learned to do more with less. Today, we have the fifth highest GDP in the world, we have lifted millions out of poverty and when we say we are going to land on the moon, the world believes us. There are still many things we need to fix and many people whose lives must be made better, but few doubt that we are on the rise. The British may have invented the phrase “Keep Calm and Carry On” but it is we who embody it. The writer is chairman, Manipal Hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/early-implementation-of-lockdown-saved-our-country/articleshow/75259282.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lockdown: Police limit city entry-exit points to six||Thiruvananthapuram: The last minute confusion over relaxation of lockdown restrictions has troubled police and general public on Monday morning. Though relaxation was announced in the district, which comes under Orange B category, a late night update on Sunday cited that areas under city corporation limits, Malayinkeezhu panchayat and Varkala municipality are hotspots, where restrictions will continue. In order to enforce strict restrictions, police decided to restrict entry-exit points to city to just six. Maruthoor under Mannanthala police station, Vetturoad under Kazhakkoottam police station, Vazhayila under Peroorkada police station, Kundamankadavu under Poojappura police station, Pravachambalam under Nemom station and Mukkola under Vizhinjam station will be the entry-exit points to the city. The police will close other roads to prevent entry or exit into the city. It has also decided to intensify checking within the city limits after noticing increasing cases of lockdown violations on Monday. City police commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay said that all lockdown restrictions will continue in the city which is classified as a hotspot. Cases were taken against 118 persons and 93 vehicles were seized by the city police on Monday. A team led by rural police chief B Ashok registered 358 cases for lockdown violations and arrested 356 persons. Around 302 vehicles were seized. Sources in police department said that there were confusions over lockdown when vehicles started plying by the morning. Though odd-even number plate rule came into effect in rural areas, the vehicles which reached the city limits were turned back. This created huge traffic blocks in city borders such as Vazhayila. Police closed hotels, which were opened following confusion over relaxation. There was also confusion over movement through hotspots. “For some, it was impossible not to touch Varkala to go to other areas. Similarly, movement of people in area like Kattakkada was difficult without touching Malainkeezhu. So it created lot of confusion,” said a police official. Rural SP B Ashok said that the situation was under control by around noon. He said that inspection of vehicles at inter-state and inter-district borders were held as usual. “Only 13 vehicles came at Parassala border and all of them were medical cases, which we allowed after checking documents. Vehicles from Kollam side were not allowed at Kadambattukonam and Thattathumala as Kollam is in Orange A category. Some cited that they came to work in essential sectors such as banks. We will direct such institutions to allow leave for employees from other districts,” he said. DCP K Karuppasamy said that city witnessed plying of more vehicles, but all returned following intervention of the police. “When we informed that there is no relaxation of restrictions in the city, they understood and returned. We are planning to intensify inspections in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-police-limit-city-entry-exit-points-to-six/articleshow/75258754.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kozhikode||We faced unimaginable task: Top cop||KANNUR: Kochi city police commissioner IG Vijay Sakhare had an extraordinary mandate when he was deputed to Kasaragod a few weeks ago: Contain the spread of Covid-19 and coordinate policing in the district. “It is unimaginable to use police and prevent the spread of a pandemic; that is what we did, because prevention of Coivd-19 has more to do with enforcement of social distancing norms and quarantine. As there is no vaccine, these were the only options to save the people from the enemy (the virus),” he said. Enforcing home quarantine is no easy task and physical monitoring is tough. So, police tapped the potential of technology as a containment tool. “We used the potential of technology to collect details of all patients and GIS was used for the purpose by March 27. We installed Covid safety mobile app on phones of those under quarantine with their consent. With this, we were able to identify any person who moved even 50m away from his house,” he said. It raised questions over privacy. “There is absolutely no privacy violation here. We trace only the location through the app with their consent. We never peep into their lives,” he added. Lockdown was implemented at three levels. The first one was for the entire district whereas the second one was for people in containment zones. Third was specifically aimed at people who could potentially contract the disease and to prevent them from contracting it. To sensitize people, police team visited households and showed them videos from WHO, with Malayalam voiceover, on the need for home quarantine and this helped a lot. Also, Suraksha Kasaragod telemedicine app was introduced to address medical requirements of people. It received around 25,000 calls for medical assistance, he said, adding that a collective effort ultimately bore fruit. From senior IAS officer Alkesh Kumar Sharma, IG Ashok Yadav, collector D Sajith Babu, district police chief PS Sabu, DMO AV Ramdas to unknown policemen, medical teams and healthcare workers have ‘sweat equity’ in this success story, he said. We walked a step ahead: CollectorKasaragod walked a step ahead of others when it came to containment of Covid-19, said collector D Sajith Babu. “Within 10 days of first case, we set up the Janajagratha Samithis at the ward-level to face an emergency,” he said. Though district lacked proper health infrastructure, administration was successful in setting up facilities in existing hospitals and the medical college (still under construction) was readied on a war footing. A new hospital IS being built by Tata Group and it will revolutionize healthcare here, he said. The quarantine strategy in the early stage proved to be effective. “Even before the scenario became grim, we mooted the idea of ‘room quarantine’ instead of home quarantine and shops were permitted to open for six hours a day even before India went into a lockdown,” he said, adding that the quick move to set up a virology laboratory in the district at Central University of Kerala in Periya helped identify patients and thus aided containment. Now, the district administration has started community testing to check further spread of the disease. “Since we did our job in time with a clear-cut strategy from the beginning, it was easy to handle the situation later. In the present scenario, we don’t foresee further transmission,” he said. The fight against Covid-19 has turned a boon for healthcare in Kasaragod. “In three months, the healthcare here will be self-reliant and people will not have to go to Mangaluru for specialized treatment or dialysis,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/we-faced-unimaginable-task-top-cop/articleshow/75258282.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Home alone, seniors in Chennai struggle to fend for themselves||CHENNAI: A few days into the national lockdown, Mahendren Ramalingam went through the “worst nightmare” as he calls it. The 63-year-old diabetic, who lives in Adyar on his own, found himself left without any food. “A small caterer was supplying food, but after a week they stopped saying their delivery boys were finding it difficult to deliver food. The days that followed were the worst of my life. I had kanji for breakfast, and then survived for a couple of days on cucumber, tomato, onion and bread,” says Ramalingam, who in desperation, reached out to a friend who found someone down the road to give him meals till the catering service resumed operations. While many people in the city are using the lockdown period to spend quality time bonding with their families, a few others, especially seniors living on their own, are struggling to fend for themselves. With no domestic help and total isolation, they struggle to maintain their physical and psychological health. “I had a maid, a driver and was volunteering six days a week, teaching underprivileged children computers and English. Now I am at home and though I still consult for a realty firm, I miss having company,” says Ramalingam. “If I open the door, I may see the watchman or a neighbour. Also, the real challenge of being alone is that if any machine/ gadget doesn’t work – fridge, cell phone – I would not know what to do.” Kamakshi Subramaniyan, 92, who lives in Besant Nagar, feels the same. “I thrive on company,” says Kamakshi, who is also dependent on a caterer for food. “I have a maid who comes one in two or three days. My friends call every morning and evening, and get me whatever I need. The corporation also keeps a check on me, a man comes every day to see if I am hale and hearty,” she says, adding that she watches more TV to while away time. “I have cut down on watching news as it gets depressing, and watch some religious programmes for solace, though actually I love watching humorous movies,” say Kamakshi. Known to campaign for civic issues, she continues policing the neighbourhood from her balcony. “When I see people jumping into the corporation playground opposite my house, I ask them to leave,” she says. Checking out the stock market five days a week and reading is what helps D Radhakrishnan, 92, keep up his spirits. “I live with my daughter but she is away in Paris as her daughter had a surgery. My neighbours give me food, a maid comes once in 10 days to clean the apartment. Both of us wear masks as a precautionary measure. I only have a few vessels to clean and have enough clothes for two weeks, after which I use the washing machine,” he says. He misses spending time with his friends and worries about his daughter and granddaughter. ”But, in life, you have to accept situations. Once you do that, you will find ways to keep yourself occupied and busy,” he says||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/home-alone-seniors-struggle-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/75260725.cms||Priya Menon
April 21, 2020||Pune||Salary cut for Bhor teachers||Pune: The education office of the Panchayat Samiti, Bhor taluka, has decided to cut the salaries of teachers who left for their hometowns without permission following the imposition of the lockdown. The salaries of such teachers will be cut from March 17, the letter issued to the teachers stated. Block development officer of Bhor taluka, K D Bhujbal, said, "We checked on the availability of teachers around March 17 and noticed that 155 teachers did not report to their schools. We asked them all to report immediately." After the education office asked them to report for duty, some of them joined work, while 64 failed to do so. "This order will be applied to those who did not report for work," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salary-cut-for-bhor-teachers/articleshow/75261546.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 21, 2020||Lucknow||94 new cases surface in Uttar Pradesh, tally touches 1,258||LUCKNOW: A day after recording its highest-ever tally of 174, UP saw a fall in numbers with 94 new cases on Monday, taking its Covid tally to 1258. The list included 814 persons connected to the Tablighi Jamat. The day also saw a medical officer in Moradabad — who contracted covid-19 succumbing to the infection a sub-inspector in Bijnore testing positive for the infection.A Covid patient in Kanpur, too, died during the course of treatment late on Monday evening. The two deaths took UP’s Covid toll to 19. Besides, as many as 17 persons were discharged taking the overall total to 140. Etah with three new cases related to the Paras Hospital of Agra and Sultanpur with one case became the new additions to the list of affected districts in state, taking the total to 52. Agra and Kanpur recorded spike with 27 and 18 new positive cases, taking their overall tallies to 168 and 75, respectively. Agra CMO Mukesh Vats said an ASHA worker was among the other cases reported. In Kanpur, said CMO Ashok Shukla, the cases belonged to two different madrassas. Firozabad was the next with 10 new cases, taking its overall tally to 58. Besides, seven cases in Amroha took its total to 17. Amroha CMO Megh Singh said: “All seven cases are contacts of jamaatis.” Gautam Budh Nagar also hit a century with five new cases. The new patients included a pregnant woman and a breast cancer patient. Ghaziabad also recorded five cases. Lucknow recorded two cases. The total for Aligarh reached three with two new patients. One new case each was recorded in Kannauj, Sultanpur, Moradabad, Meerut, Mathura, Rampur and Auraiya. The new case in Meerut has left the health authorities in panic. CMO Raj Kumar said: “The patient is an eight-month pregnant wife of a vegetable vendor.” Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said testing would be increased further in all districts. Surveillance will continue in districts which have recorded zero active case as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/94-new-cases-surface-in-up-tally-touches-1258/articleshow/75261538.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 21, 2020||Nashik||Collection of fee begins at toll plazas across Maharashtra||NASHIK: The collection of toll fee at toll plazas across the state began from Monday following relaxation in lockdown rules by the central government. In Nashik, according to a senior National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) official, there was a marginal rise in vehicular traffic, especially the goods carriers. "Some lanes of the toll plazas have been closed as many toll plaza employees have gone to their native homes after the lockdown. Nonetheless, the rush at the toll plazas was easily managed by the available staff," the official said. "The toll plazas at Pimpalgaon, Chandwad, Ghoti and Shinde resumed toll collection from Monday with permission granted by the Centre for transportation of goods," he added. Compared to the days of complete lockdown when only vehicles carrying essential commodities were allowed to ply, there was more rush of trucks, tankers and other goods carriers on Monday. "There was no queuing at any of the toll plazas in the district as people still cannot move out of their respective houses without necessary permission from the police or district administration," the official said. Heavy traffic in KolhapurHeavy traffic was witnessed at Kolhapur’s Kini toll plaza on Monday. Police had a tough time in checking all the vehicles trying to enter the district, but the vehicles were allowed to pass only after confirming all the details. The employees deployed at Kini toll plaza wore face masks and hand gloves and also followed the social distancing norm. "The toll collection resumed from Monday. We have started only two lanes at Kini toll plaza. Adequate staff required to manage the two lanes have been deployed at the booths. They have been equipped with hand gloves and masks and are provided with hand sanitisers to avoid getting infected from coronavirus. The toll collection was smooth on first day," an official attached with Kini toll plaza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collection-of-fee-begins-at-toll-plazas-across-state/articleshow/75259645.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 21, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘We can be happy even without luxuries of life’||Bhubaneswar: Spending precious time with family after years of cricketing practice and countless matches has come as a welcome change for women’s cricketer Rasanara Parwin, who is currently at home in Balangir. “Bowling to my two-and-half-year-old nephew as he happily tosses with his plastic bat gives me such joy that I can’t describe in words,” says the 27-year-old off-spinner, who loves baby-sitting both her nephews as her mother and sister-in-law look after the domestic chores. All this has not taken her mind off her cricket practice. She maintains her fitness by working out for nearly five hours every day. Starting at 6.30am, her two-and-half-hour session ends with yoga and stretching. She repeats the same in the evening. “I am also taking more protein and less of carbohydrates. Homemade food is quite healthy,” says Rasanara, who has played in the ICC T20 World Cup (Women) and ACC Women’s Asia Cup in 2012 and ICC Women’s One Day World Cup in 2013. Currently playing in the state team, Rasanara says, “The lockdown has made us realise that we can be happy even without the luxuries of life.” The cricketer, who is also a sub-inspector in Odisha Police, helps around the house by cutting vegetables and cleaning. But it is gardening that she is passionate about. “We have very little space for gardening in my house. So I have opted for potted plants. I have 12 of them,” says Rasanara. She has planted roses, hibiscus, lemon and takes care of the aloe vera and mint planted by her mother. The de-stressing and positive vibe of a green environment keeps her going. Rasanara has also taken to writing poems, drawing and social service. She donated blood at the Balangir district headquarters hospital recently after an NGO approached her to do so for a kidney patient. “I am making the best use of my stay at home,” she smiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/we-can-be-happy-even-without-luxuries-of-life/articleshow/75249647.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
April 21, 2020||Kochi||‘Muhamma as hotspot, a mistake’||Alappuzha: Muhamma grama panchayat president J Jayalal on Monday registered a strong protest after the state government included the panchayat area as one of the hotspots of Covid-19 in Alappuzha. However, Muhamma did not see any case of Covid -19 till date. The panchayat president put up a Facebook post and said that the panchayat is not a hotspot of Covid-19 and reports in this regard are baseless. “I strongly believe that there was a mistake while fixing hotspots of Alappuzha district. Our panchayat did not have any active case. At the same time, one positive case was reported in the neighbouring Thanneermukkom panchayat and it has not been included in the list. So, I contacted health minister and all the officials concerned to inform the situation. I hope that they will rectify the mistake,” said the panchayat president. Meanwhile, two persons under treatment for Covid-19 were discharged from Alappuzha medical college hospital on Monday after samples collected from them tested negative for the disease. With this, the district has zero positive case of Covid-19 as on date. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/muhamma-as-hotspot-a-mistake/articleshow/75258337.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Helpline 108 to address shutdown stress||HYDERABAD: While the authorities are finding it tough to convince people and take them to the government quarantine after they were traced as first or second contacts of returnees of Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Nizamuddin, civic activists and lawyers are suggesting more counselling and better sharing of information to ease tensions. In the meantime, the government has set up a helpline centre (dial 108) to help people facing physiological issues and stress during the lockdown period. Speaking to TOI, Syed Sohail (39), an advocate who went to attend the TJ meeting in mid-March, said the government should set up a helpline system to give more updates to those who are in government quarantine and in hospitals getting treated for the coronavirus. “I had gone to Delhi and I was asked to be under home quarantine. After that, I was brought to a masjid in Malakpet for government quarantine along with others. We have completed the quarantine period and tested negative for the virus. But, we have not been released,” he said. Similarly, those who are in the hospitals for treatment are not getting updates on their medical condition, he said. Some of them are getting restive. “If the government can create an interface or a counselling system for patients, families and officials, am sure it will ease tensions,” Sohail said.  Dr K Shankar, director of Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), said people facing stress and other problems could call 108 to talk to experts. “During the lockdown, a lot of people are worried about their future, spread of coronavirus and their jobs. Some are getting suicidal thoughts and this helpline will be of great help to such people,” he said. About 3,000 people would be given counselling. He said 52 experts had been trained to counsel the distressed callers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/helpline-108-to-address-shutdown-stress/articleshow/75259638.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||92-year old paralytic woman wins coronavirus battle||Pune: A 92-year-old paralytic woman is among the 12 Covid-19 patients who are ready to be discharged from the Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre in Lavale after recovery.The woman, along with her four family members, had tested positive on April 8. “As per the protocol, the woman with four family members and others were tested and their reports came negative on Monday,” Vijay Natarajan, CEO of the hospital, said.He said the case of the 92-year-old woman, besides that of a 60-year-old with polio, showed that high-risk groups too could recover completely within two weeks.“She had a stroke seven months ago and had been bedridden, since then,” the woman’s daughter-in-law told TOI. She said, “My son was the first in the family to be detected with the contagion, following which all of us decided to get tested.”The daughter-in-law said her son was still admitted at Jehangir Hospital as his latest test was positive. The 12 patients had cleared the 24-hour test, but the health department logistical support and paperwork had delayed their discharge on Monday, Symbiosis hospital’s CEO Natarajan said, adding that they would be discharged by Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/92-year-old-paralytic-woman-wins-coronavirus-battle/articleshow/75261519.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 21, 2020||Trichy||1.5 lakh people benefit from 91 community kitchens in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Around 1.5 lakh people, particularly street dwellers, senior citizens and destitute have so far been benefited from 91 community kitchens established in Thanjavur district following the lockdown. Around 10,000 people have been benefiting from the kitchen on a daily basis, district collector M Govinda Rao said on Monday. After the imposition of Section 144 in the district, Thanjavur Corporation established two kitchens, Kumbakonam and Pattukottai set up one each, noon meal department set up 33, Integrated Child Development Service set up 29, Hindu religious and charitable endowments department set up 21 and volunteers established four kitchens in the district, collector added.Meanwhile, the collector has warned people violating the usage of colour-coded cards issued to restrict people’s movement. Following complaints that many have been misusing the cards, collector warned that if anyone found misusing the card would they would lose their permit. The purpose of issuing card was to avert crowd. However, some people are coming out often using the card. So, hereafter, the cardholder would be allowed only once on the prescribed day, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1-5-lakh-people-benefit-from-91-community-kitchens-in-thanjavur/articleshow/75260717.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kozhikode||KMCC sets up biggest isolation centre in GCC in Dubai||MALAPPURAM: As the number of Covid-19 patients in UAE increases, Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre (KMCC), a leading cultural organisation in Gulf, has arranged biggest isolation centre in GCC, in Dubai. The isolation facilities can accommodate around 10,000 patients are being arranged in 32 flat complexes of 20 buildings, at Warsan area in Dubai. The vacant buildings have already been handed over to KMCC and the second phase procedures to arrange isolation facilities in the buildings are progressing on war footing, said Panakkad Munawwarali Shihab Thangal, state president of Muslim Youth League (MYL), youth wing of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). KMCC is IUML’s cultural wing for expatriates. Munawwarali Thangal informed that the buildings were handed over to KMCC after organization’s office bearers held talks with director of Zabeel Palace, Harib Bin Subaih. Malappuram district president of Dubai KMCC, Nihmath Mankada said that the organization had arranged isolation facility in 10 buildings in Warsan immediately after the first report of Covid-19 in Dubai, with the permission of Dubai health authorities. As the facility helped the health authorities accommodate more than 5,000 people, the health authorities asked KMCC to set up isolation facility in 10 more buildings. “When 250 volunteers worked continuously for four days, we managed to furnish ten more vacant buildings in the area and arrange more than 5,000 isolation beds in that buildings too. The authorities have started admitting patients in the second part of the Warsan isolation area,” he said. Those who are being admitted to the isolation centre are being provided with essential items such as food, cloths, bed, pillows, tea sugar, towel etc. The isolation centre is functioning under complete supervision of health staff of Dubai health authorities, police and security officials. Munawwarali Thangal said that Dubai rulers are maintaining close relationship with the Malayali people in Naif and Al Ras areas and the rulers are playing a major role in the efforts to protect people in the region. “Amid the tough time of Covid-19, KMCC is active in charity activities with the major support including financial support from the part of KMCC leaders, eminent business persons across gulf countries, doctors, nurses, other health workers and volunteers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kmcc-sets-up-biggest-isolation-centre-in-gcc-in-dubai/articleshow/75258320.cms||T P Nijeesh
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown-hit cab companies seek bailout||HYDERABAD: With at least 2,000 of the 6,000-odd companies staring at a shutdown and over one-third of the one million workforce likely to lose their jobs, the Hyderabad chapter of All India Car Rental (AICR) group, on Monday, approached the government for aid. Ruing the fact that most firms have suffered a 95% loss in revenue over the last one month, its members appealed to the state to provide financial aid (for payment of salaries) and extend rebate on taxes, to help the travel industry. AICR comprises car and bus rental companies across India. According to official data, the city has a fleet of 35,000 to 40,000 cabs – excluding cab aggregators – that directly employ over a lakh people. The industry provides indirect employment to around 10 lakh individuals. “It has been a struggle for many companies to pay March salaries to their staff. Some have even had to borrow funds from friends and relatives, apart from cleaning out their personal accounts, for payments. At this moment, we are not sure whether we will be able to pay April salaries since business has come to a naught,” said Ashwin Jain, vice-president, AICR. He added: “Even after the lockdown, it will take a minimum of six months for us to start getting business. People are going to be apprehensive about travelling and that’s going to hit us hard.” “We have reached out all the senior officials in the transport department and are hoping to hear from them soon,” said Somik Sharma, general secretary of AICR stressing how a waiver of quarterly taxes -- for maxicabs and buses for the next two quarters -- is a pressing need as many have already defaulted on its payment. “Most companies do not have the funds to take care of such expenses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lockdown-hit-cab-cos-seek-bailout/articleshow/75259623.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Seven held for brewing arrack illegally||THANJAVUR: Seven people including a former panchayat president were arrested for brewing arrack in two separate incidents in Thanjavur district. Police also seized 710 litres of arrack which was ready for sale on Monday. Based on a tip-off, the team conducted a raid at Vallamputhur in Thanjavur during on Sunday evening and found a group of people brewing arrack in a secluded place. The team arrested five of them who were brewing the arrack. They have been identified as Rajendran, 40, Selvendran, 31, Balakumar, 30, Sarathkumar, 22, and Raja, 25, from the same locality. Rajendran is a former panchayat president of the village, police said. The team also recovered 710 litres of arrack stocked up in barrels, apart from the vessels and stove used for the preparation. In another incident, police arrested two people including an advocate for brewing arrack near Kumbakonam in the district on Monday. According to police, based on information, a team from Kumbakonam taluk limit caught the two red-handed brewing arrack in Alamenkuruchi village on Monday. The two were identified as S Rajavelu, 50, of East Street in Alamenkuruchi, and M Kesavan, 28, of Ponniyamman temple street in Thirupurambiyam. Rajavelu is practising as an advocate at the Jayankondam court. They brewed liquor at their houses, police said. The two were remanded after being produced in the Kumbakonam court, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/7-held-for-brewing-arrack-illegally/articleshow/75260730.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Goa||11 Goa government schools shut, but 9 new private ones open||PANAJI: While 11 government primary schools offering education in the Marathi medium shut down during the current academic year, there appears to be demand for regional language schools when they are run by private managements. Nine new regional language aided or unaided schools opened during 2019-20 — six in Konkani medium, two in Marathi medium and one in Urdu medium. Among privately run schools, two institutions teaching in Hindi and English mediums shut during the year, as per the educational statistics for the ongoing academic year that were released by the directorate of education this week. While new English medium schools have not been allowed to open in the state since 2012, relaxations and financial aid to each student were announced as an incentive for new Konkani and Marathi schools to be established. These schools are given permission to open even if a school already exists in the vicinity. English, however, remains the medium of preference for students. Even though there are only 246 English medium primary schools — all of them privately managed — 98,500 students, or 60-70% of Goa’s primary school enrolment, study at these schools. In comparison, the highest number of primary schools, mainly government run, are Marathi medium institutes at 774. But these have less than 20% of the total enrolment in the state from Classes I-IV. At the high school and higher secondary school level too, aided and unaided schools had more takers, with three new private high schools and two higher secondary schools beginning operations during 2019-20, as per DoE statistics. In comparison, two government high schools shut down this year, the statistics show. There are now 331 aided and unaided high schools and 72 state-run high schools operational in the state, all of which offer education in the English medium. There were six government and private management schools with Marathi as the medium of instruction at the high school level, five with Kannada as their medium and another five with Urdu as medium of instruction. In the case of higher secondary schools, there are 97 aided and unaided institutes and nine government-run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/11-govt-schools-shut-but-9-new-pvt-ones-open/articleshow/75261540.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 21, 2020||Nashik||Second Covid patient recovers, discharged from civil hospital||Nashik: A 44-year-old man from Govind Nagar became the second Covid-19 patient to have been treated and discharged from the Nashik civil hospital following recovery on Monday.A resident of Lasalagaon in Niphad taluka was discharged from the civil hospital after successful treatment for coronavirus on April 14. The Govind Naga patient, with travel history to Delhi, had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 6. The patient, the first from the city, was on anti-viral and anti-pyretic drugs and recovered within 15 days. He has been advised 14 days’ home quarantine by the medical officers. “The patient had lung infection. However, his body responded very well to the treatment and the need for ventilator did not arise,” Anant Pawar, resident medical officer of Nashik civil hospital, said. None of his close contacts, including his two brothers, two children and wife, were found Covid-19 positive, added Pawar. The patient’s first negative report arrived on April 18 and the other on April 19. The patient was discharged at a simple ceremony attended by distirct civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale, additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane, resident medical officer Anant Pawar and other officials from the district health department, besides doctors, nurses and other staff of the civil hospital. According to the officials, 13 Covid 19 positive patients have received treatment at the civil hospital till Monday. Two of them, including the Govind Nagar and Lasalgaon patients, have been successfully treated and discharged, the remaining are being treated. Medical officers reiterated that there is still no community spread of the virus in Nashik district. All the patients who have been found positive of coronavirus are those with travel history to affected places or their close contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/second-covid-patient-recovers-discharged-from-civil-hospital/articleshow/75259661.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Six Amma canteens to provide free food till May 3||TRICHY: Six Amma canteens functioning in the city will provide free breakfast, lunch and dinner to all the customers arriving at the outlets till May 3. The cost of the meals and tiffin will be sponsored by the AIADMK urban district unit. Meanwhile, the data shared by the Trichy Corporation showed an increase of 50-60 people in the number of those visiting Amma canteens during the lockdown. Six Amma canteens - K Abishekapuram zonal office on Allithurai Road, Salai Road, Thennur Uzhavar Sandhai, Rockins Road, Kalkandarkottai and Ariyamanagalam - will serve free food three times daily. An advance of Rs 2 lakh to operate the six canteens falling under Trichy west and Thiruverumbur constituencies was provided by former AIADMK MP P Kumar to the corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian on Monday. Meanwhile, from March 25 to April 17, all 11 Amma canteens in the city have sold 5.36 lakh idlis for breakfast and dinner while 94,671 people had lunch. Sale of idlis has surged by 50-60% during the lockdown period. The canteens near Thennur uzhavar sandhai, K Abishekapuram zonal office, EB Road and Salai Road have recorded maximum sales during the lockdown period owing to their proximity to the vegetable markets. Corporation officials said that sponsors have helped the homeless people have food three times a day in the canteens. Besides, sanitary workers involved in Covid-19 duty have also relied on the Amma canteens for breakfast and lunch. Interestingly, even the Amma canteens located in residential localities, far away from the arterial roads have reported good sales. “We have adequate commodities stocked with us to continue the operation of Amma canteens in the city. In-charge officials are taking stock of the working of the canteens every day,” an official source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-amma-canteens-to-provide-free-food-till-may-3/articleshow/75260737.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Cable businessman in Hyderabad races against time to feed Covid-19 warriors||HYDERABAD: If police, sanitary workers, farmers and government employees are working to keep essential services running during the lockdown, K Shashidhar Reddy, 49, of Chaitanyapuri in Dilsukhnagar, keeps them going, providing piping hot breakfast every morning. He has been doing this since March 28. Steaming hot idli, vada, upma, pongal, and tomato bath are on the menu and he himself delivers them in neat packs. For the last 23 days, he has also been providing breakfast to 100 migrants who live around Dilsukhnagar . An MBA graduate, Shashidhar Reddy got into cable TV business 29 years ago. “I felt I have to do my bit and started providing breakfast to 20 people, but now it is almost 400 people everyday,” he says. “Initially, I thought I could spend up to a certain amount of money, but having seen how much people are satisfied when I take them breakfast, I decided to continue,” he said. Some of his friends liked the idea and contribute provisions. For Shashidhar Reddy, it is a race against time everyday. He does not delay the breakfast as he knows the people he serves regularly would be hungry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cable-bizman-races-against-time-to-feed-covid-warriors/articleshow/75259649.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Help for small scale workers in Sainikpuri||HYDERABAD: The lockdown has not only affected daily wage workers but also small scale workers, who are not part of the essential services. Many of them are struggling to make ends meet. Considering the woes of many such people, residents of Sainikpuri, who have been providing for migrant workers during the lockdown, have now decided to help small scale workers such as barbers, weaves, tailors, pujaris, cab and auto drivers, mechanics and street vendors. They have collaborated with the Robin Hood Army (RHA) to identify all such people in distress and help them resolve their issues. “We have identified 14 categories of people that includes street vendors, pujaris, shopkeepers. We are collating data based on leads from various residents. Once we have it, we will be conducting an on-ground verification,” said Maruti Prasad, RHA in-charge of Secunderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/help-for-small-scale-workers/articleshow/75259658.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Residents, traders protest over implementation of curfew cards||Trichy: The corporation’s colour card system to restrict public movement implemented on Monday attracted more criticism than praise. Since one person from every house in the entire ward will come out on the particular day allotted for them, it caused crowding at neighbourhood stores in the area. On Monday, residents in ward 38 in KK Nagar with a pink pass were permitted to go out between 6am and 1pm to purchase essential commodities and vegetables. There were queues in grocery stores as the ward has around 8,000 houses. “Even as only one person from a family ventured out, there was heavy crowd in grocery shops than usual days. People in our neighbourhood thronged the same shops to purchase essential commodities,” said professor S Rajendran, a resident of Krishnamoorthy Nagar. Some of the residents claimed that they did not receive the curfew passes as people without passes were not permitted to enter the vegetable market. Corporation had printed 2.2 lakh curfew passes in five colours to allot days between Monday and Friday, while Saturdays and Sundays will be complete lockdown. Curfew passes in a common colour was distributed to all the households in the same ward. Details of the colours of the curfew passes and the corresponding wards were shared with the city police for enforcement. Residents said that the corporation could have distributed five different colour passes within the same ward instead of a common colour for an entire ward. As the KK Nagar residents can move outside only on Mondays till May 3, grocery stores and vegetable markets in the locality registered their worry over poor or no footfall of customers during the rest of the week. “The curfew pass system will impact our business as only on certain days of the week we will get business,” said Akbar Ali, a fruit trader from EB road. “I personally inspected parts of the city and felt that crowd movement has come down,” said corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-traders-protest-over-implementation-of-curfew-cards/articleshow/75260749.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 21, 2020||Pune||Newborn fawn reunited with mother deer in Purandar||Pimpri Chinchwad: A newborn fawn was reunited with its mother at Kolvihire village in Purandar taluka by the forest department and Ela Habitat on Saturday. Vivek Khandekar, chief conservator of forest(CCF), Pune, said that it is a rare instance of a fawn being reunited with its mother. "A chinkara deer had just given birth to a fawn at Kolvihire village when some labourers reached the artificial waterhole to fill it with water. Seeing them, the mother ran away. The labourers took the fawn to the Jejuri police station," he said. The forest department employees later took the fawn from the police station and handed it over to the Ela Transit Treatment Centre at Pingori village. “We kept the fawn at the waterhole around 11.30 am on Sunday last. Around 3.30pm, as soon as its parents came near the waterhole, the fawn ran towards them" said Satish Pande, the centre medical director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/newborn-fawn-reunited-with-mother-deer-in-purandar/articleshow/75261563.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 21, 2020||Kochi||IIT grads launch WhatsApp teleconsulting||Kochi: With concerns over Covid-19 pandemic resulting in low patient footfalls in hospitals, the use of telemedicine has become widespread. But the need for downloading apps and accessing cumbersome web platforms for accessing healthcare could be hard for some patients with chronic ailments. Wellnexus Technologies Private Ltd, a startup floated by BTech graduates from IIT, Madras, and registered in Kerala, has come up with a solution that lets patients consult their preferred doctors through WhatsApp. The automated telemedicine consultation system ‘Prescribe’ works with the help of a chatbot attached to the exclusive WhatsApp number of the hospital. When the patient first sends a simple ‘Hi’ message, the bot responds with a list of doctors available for consultation on the particular day. Once the doctor is selected, patient receives a payment link. Once the payment is made, they receive a link for video call along with a token number for consultation. The patient will also get a message on realtime availability of doctor and the progress of tokens by sending ‘Status’ as message. “On the side of the doctor, there is a web interface using which they can generate a digital prescription. If the patient is nearby, hospitals can deliver prescribed medicine at their doorsteps,” said Nived Narayanan, CEO and co-founder, Prescribe. “We are encrypting patient data and we take consent from patients regarding telemedicine consultation, which is mandatory. The data would be owned by hospitals and we would be acting as an intermediary,” said Narayanan. “Our service is ready and any hospital would be able to set this up in a matter of hours. We already have four clients in Malapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode districts,” Narayanan said. ‘Prescribe’ started off as an application that would help hospitals provide personalized attention to customers through different stages of hospital processes, including lab test status and insurance reimbursement. “Hospitals lose patient touchpoints once they return home. The advantage of the system is that they can maintain personalized link with the patient by sending messages on follow-up care,” he said. Other founders of the startup are Amit Kumar and Sreeshyam CA, both IIT-Madras grads, and Santhosh Satheesh, professor of cardiology, Jipmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iit-grads-launch-whatsapp-teleconsulting/articleshow/75258416.cms||Binu Karunakaran
April 21, 2020||Pune||Elderly man murdered in Baramati||Pune: Police on Monday detained a 32-year-old man with mental illness on the charge of bludgeoning an elderly man to death in Baramati on Sunday evening. The police have identified the 70-year-old deceased as Soon Jagtap of Kasba in Baramati. “Jagtap was taking a walk along the bank of Karha river late on Sunday evening when the suspect, who was following him, pushed him. He then hit Jagtap ith a big stone and escaped from the spot,” a Baramati city police officer said. Jagtap was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead. “We later detained the 32-year-old. He is currently undergoing treatment for mental illness,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-murdered-in-baramati/articleshow/75261556.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||DCM van mows down student in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A DCM van mowed down a 17-year-old who went to buy vegetables at Bowenpally on Monday. The mishap occurred due to rash driving as the driver lost control while negotiating a curve. According to Bowenpally inspector C Anjaiah, a DCM container van coming from Kompally to Balapur , turned turtle at Pension Lane near Bowenpally X roads due to rash driving. “Due to lockdown, roads were empty and the DCM driver was over speeding,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dcm-van-mows-down-student/articleshow/75259673.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Minor fire breaks out at Gandhi mkt||Trichy: A minor fire broke out in the Gandhi market here on Monday, prompting fire service personnel to rush to the spot and douse the fire in an hour. However, no casualties or property damage was reported as the market has been temporarily closed to ensure social distancing. Traders said that they noticed the fire first by around 9.30am on Monday. Fire service and rescue station in Cantonment was immediately alerted. The fire service team on reaching the spot had put out the fire that damaged the common thatched roof over the walkway in front of the eight shops in the market. “We suspect the dried banana leaves over the sheds of the market shops might have caught fire under the hot sun. The fire immediately spread to the thatched roofs established before the shops,” a fire service personnel said. Within an hour, the fire was completely doused and the adjacent shops were also sprayed with water to prevent the spreading of fire. Gandhi Market police are investigating. While fire service personnel said that the sultry weather might have triggered the fire, a few traders in the temporarily-closed market alleged that anti-social people must have caused the fire accident. Traders added that they are spotting empty liquor bottles inside the market. The worried traders said their association will be apprised to approach the district administration for increasing police surveillance in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/minor-fire-breaks-out-at-gandhi-mkt/articleshow/75260744.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||Construction projects may start soon||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) may allow developers to resume work on stalled project in a week if they are able to retain workers at the site and follow all guidelines set by the Union and state government. Civic officials said the state government gave relaxation to construction activities in non-coronavirus hotspots from Monday. But PMC has decided to adopt the wait-and-watch approach. “A review of the situation will be taken after a week, following which a decision will be taken,” a civic official said. A source said some developers urged PMC to let the construction start. “The city will be categorized after eight days. The zones where construction can be resumed with precautions, may be considered,” city engineer Prashant Waghmare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-projects-may-start-soon/articleshow/75261552.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur: With six new cases, surveillance strengthened||KANNUR: In the wake of six new cases of Covid-19 reported from the district on Monday, five of whom came from Dubai and reached here between March 19 and 22, the district administration and police have decided to strengthen the surveillance measures in the district. North zone IG Ashok Yadav would be supervising the policing in Kannur in the wake of the new situation, and new strategy would be put in place, said the officials. Apart from strictly enforcing the lockdown till May 3, because the district is in the red zone, all places identified as hotspots would be completely shut and no relaxation would be allowed here, said collector T V Subhash. “In the limits of local bodies, identified as hotspots, only one entry-exit point would be allowed and the surveillance would be further strengthened,” he said. In the backdrop of the relaxation permitted in some other districts, people came out in large numbers in Kannur as well, and this could not be permitted, said the collector, who said people should come out only if there is any unavoidable circumstance. As part of strengthening the surveillance measures, round-the-clock checking would be ensured at the checkposts at district borders, including Thalassery, Iritty and Payyannur. Further, it would be ensured that people from other districts and states enter the district with sufficient documents, said the officials. With the new cases, the total positive cases reported in the district so far is 94, of which 42 have been discharged. The new cases also include a primary contact, a 34-year-old woman from Peralassery. The other five, who came from Dubai, hail from Madayi, Iriveri, Velapuram, Cheruvanchery, and Kunnothuparamba. The Madayi native reached here via Kozhikode airport on March 19, and the Iriveri native landed at Nedumbassery airport on March 20. The Velapuram native came via Bengaluru and Kannur airports on March 22 while the other two came via Kozhikode airport the same day. “New cases are reported even after four weeks of their reaching from Dubai, which shows they were asymptomatic even after contracting the disease. There is nothing to panic as such,” said DMO K Narayana Nayak. “We have strengthened the swab testing and all those who have come from abroad are asked to undergo the testing even if they have no symptom. All the primary contacts of the people too tested positive, and hence we expect a few more cases in the next couple of days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kannur-with-6-new-cases-surveillance-strengthened/articleshow/75258401.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||80-year-old lady feeds stray dogs at Kondagattu temple||HYDERABAD: The lockdown in the state has meant that no place of worship is open to the public and hence there are no devotees at the Kondagattu Anjaneya Swamy Temple in Jagtial district. This has left the animals, who are dependent on pilgrims for food, to fend for themselves. The temple, atop a hill, is home to dozens of simians which are fed as a representation of Lord Hanuman, but the dogs are often ignored. It is in such a bleak scenario that 80-year-old Rajamma’s efforts in feeding the stray dogs is such an inspiration. Rajamma had been feeding dozens of dogs with the little she could provide even before the outbreak but now has had to redouble her efforts to feed them. Rajamma, who makes Rs 120 a day selling firewood, says she is using what little she has to feed the strays and sometimes goes hungry herself. “I carry down excess food left for the monkeys to feed other animals,” says Rajamma. When asked about her family, Rajamma looks away. She says her sons had died due to an illness, but those around her are unsure. Some think she may have been abandoned. “These animals are my children now,” she says. Bhavin Bhalodi, who first saw her, says, “When I met her, she was carrying sacks of rice on her back. I offered to give her a ride, that’s when she told us how she feeds the dogs. She made us realise we need not be millionaires to help those in need.” About his own efforts, Bhalodi says, “We just distributed 3,000 bananas to monkeys in Kondagattu and provided rice for other animals. For her, we gave 35kg of rice, dal and oil.” Sai Teja, an anti-corruption activist from the city, said, “This lady walks around 5km every day. It is an inspiring message. If she can fight age and fragility to feed strays, what is stopping us?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/80-year-old-lady-feeds-stray-dogs-at-kondagattu-temple/articleshow/75259691.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Toll collection resumes, plazas function with 50 per cent employees||TRICHY: Three toll plazas of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) operated by private concessionaires resumed toll collection in Trichy district from Monday afternoon. Staff manning the plazas have been provided with protective gears. Samayapuram toll plaza on Trichy-Chennai NH, Valavanthankottai (Thuvakudi) toll plaza on Trichy-Thanjavur NH and Ponnambalapatti toll plaza on Trichy-Dindigul NH with 50% of their staffs started collecting toll based on the directions from the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). “Since the movement of vehicles on the highways has come down during the lockdown, we can manage with available employees who reside near our toll plazas,” an official source with a concessionaire of a toll plaza in Trichy said. The toll plaza employees operate on three shifts per day. Out of the 8-12 total lanes in each of the three toll plazas, four lanes per toll plaza were opened for traffic which includes two exclusive lanes per toll plaza for FASTag payment option. Based on the volume of vehicles handled, the concessionaires said that more number of lanes would be opened in the coming days. The district administration has provided police protection at the toll plazas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/toll-collection-resumes-plazas-function-with-50-employees/articleshow/75260757.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||‘Quarantine gardening’ blossoming big time||NAGPUR: Waking up in the morning and checking on those tiny saplings, flower buds and cherry tomatoes popping out has become a routine for ardent and passionate garden lovers in the city. There is a sense of satisfaction to see the plants bloom, they feel. The lockdown period has hooked these people to what is being called as ‘Quarantine gardening’. Apart from the passionate gardeners, others too are taking up organic farming to turning kitchen into mini garden as a leisure activity. Some seem to be following the celebs who are uploading their gardening videos. Some of the ‘gardeners’ who are actively take a tour in their home, kitchen and balcony gardens. Manisha Kulkurni and Ankita Masurkar love spending time in and around greenery. The organic plant shop they own is closed now due to lockdown but they both are trying innovative ways of gardening from the comfort of their homes. “It’s an opportunity to practice gardening for my own self. It’s very relaxing,” Masurkar said. She has a beautiful and eye-catchy balcony and vertical wall garden, which has a variety of flowers, trees and saplings such as peace lily, jasmine, hibiscus, mogra etc. She also has tomatoes, egg-plants etc. “My life has always revolve around plants and the quarantine period gave me an opportunity to experiment with more. I have flowers, indoor plants and I love watering and taking care of them,” she said. For Kulkarni, the quarantine period is the best time to maintain and nurture her personal garden. She has a plant of purple cabbage, red and yellow bell-papers, broccoli, which is quiet unique. “Gardening gives me peace and I am making the most of this time. It’s very difficult to get these English plants in market now,” she said. Varsha Pranjape, a hospital administrator by profession, loves gardening and whenever possible she spends time experimenting with it. She recently converted the tank of a spare air cooler on her terrace into a small garden and planted a variety of tiny saplings. Getting all creative, she has placed plants and ornamental saplings in colourful hanging cups and pots. “I had purchased these colorful cups before the lockdown. We have a variety of flower, ornamental, hanging plants,” she said. Simran Dua, who runs a shop that provides a variety of calming and air purifying plants, has lush green plants inside her home and in her balcony. She also has a collection of herbs saplings such as basil, parsley, cherry tomatoes, rocket leaves etc. “Finally, I am getting time to spend with my plants at home. I am loving it. There are various plants, from small to big ones, some in colourful baskets, pots and on walls. The specialty are these herbs,” she said. Entrepreneur Vijay Dhole has a beautiful terrace garden having a variety of seasonal plants. “We distribute limes from a plant on the terrace among our neighbours. We also have sugarcane and sweet lime plants etc,” Dhole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/quarantine-gardening-blossoming-big-time/articleshow/75260836.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 21, 2020||Trichy||All biomedical waste has to be sent to treatment facility||Trichy: Civic bodies in central region have approached the common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) in Thanjavur for safe disposal following direction from the central pollution control board (CPCB) on handling Covid-19 related biomedical waste. CPCB, in a letter dated April 13, had stated that domestic biomedical waste such as masks and gloves collected by the local bodies have not been disposed through the common biomedical waste treatment facilities. Asking them to comply with CPCB guidelines, they were asked to approach CBWTF operators for waste collection. K Velmurugan, manager of Medicare enviro systems which is operating CBWTF in Thanjavur, said that he has been getting request from civic bodies in many districts in the central region to collect biomedical waste from containment zones. While houses have been quarantined in many districts, it has resulted in generation of biomedical waste such as gloves, mask and coveralls, which have to be collected and sent to CBWTF. On an average, 150kg of biomedical waste is being collected from government medical colleges in the central region that are handling Covid-19 cases in isolation wards. But the quantity of waste may increase manifold if the collection from civic body starts, he said. A total 13 vehicles collect bio medical waste from eight central district including Trichy to the common bio medical waste treatment facility in Thanjavur. Waste generated from the isolated wards are packed in double layered bags by the hospital and labelled as Covid-19 waste. The incinerator with pollution control equipment can handle 150kg per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/all-biomedical-waste-has-to-be-sent-to-treatment-facility/articleshow/75260775.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||2 test positive in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: A 42-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 in Kolhapur district on Monday, taking the total count to 10, with seven active cases. The woman is from the same group of illegal travellers who were caught and later isolated from the container heading for Karnataka from Mumbai on April 16. While the second case of a man is from Ichalkaranji and his travel history is being determined. The woman was travelling with a group of 30 in the container, including the driver and cleaner. Two of them have tested positive while at least 24 tested negative. The district officials the test results of the remaining four are awaited. Yogesh Sale, district health officer (DHO), Kolhapur, said on the Ichalkaranji case that the 60-year-old man has no travel history, but his son had travelled to Baramati. “We have admitted them to the isolation ward at Ichalkaranji’s Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital.” “So far, we have traced 11 close contacts of him, five of whom are his family members and six neighbours.” he said. “Their swab samples have been collected and until the test results come, they will remain in the isolation ward at Ichalkaranji,” he added Meanwhile, health department officials confirmed that the 16 nursing staff members of the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) hospital, whose swab samples were collected earlier last week, have tested negative while the reports of three other patients are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-test-positive-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/75261582.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man rammed by car to get Rs 63 lakh relief, rules tribunal||CHENNAI: A city accident claims tribunal has directed an insurance firm to compensate Rs 63.6 lakh to a motorist who suffered grievous injuries after a car ran over his legs near Red Hills in 2017. According to Shaik Abdul Sajid, 42, he was wearing a helmet and riding safely from Red Hills to Moolakadai on December 20, 2017, when a rashly driven car trailing his motorcycle tail-ended his motorbike. Shaik fell off the vehicle and the car ran over both his legs, resulting in multiple fractures all over the body. The petitioner sought a compensation of Rs 50 lakh for his injuries. In response, the car owner contended that the accident happened only due to negligent riding by the motorist and that the injury and disability were exaggerated to claim compensation. After perusing the oral submissions and other documentary evidence, the tribunal held that rash driving by the car driver resulted in the accident. The tribunal noted that the petitioner was hospitalised for three months and underwent six different surgeries. The petitioner appeared before the regional medical board, which assessed his disability at 75% permanent. The tribunal after assessments, held that the petitioner had suffered 60% permanent disability and held that he is liable for compensation. Noting that the petitioner was 42 years old and running a business at the time of accident, and that the disability had hindered him from carrying out work as a normal person, the tribunal held that a proper compensation should be arrived at. Computing factors such as loss of amenities, loss of income, medical expenses incurred and disability, the tribunal arrived at an amount of Rs 63.6 lakh and directed the insurer to deposit the amount with Shaik within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-rammed-by-car-to-get-rs-63-lakh-relief-rules-tribunal/articleshow/75260773.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||10 more test +ve for Covid-19 in Solapur||Kolhapur: As many as 10 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Solapur city on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 23 in the city. According to district collector Milind Shambharkar, all the 10 patients are being treated at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sarvopchar Rugnalaya—the civil hospital in Solapur. Shambharkar added that two patients who have tested positive for Covid-19 already had a case of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). The remaining eight patients were all close contacts of the patients who had previously contracted the infection. The district administration is on high alert as there has been a surge in the number of positive cases in the district in the past few days. Movement across the city has been restricted. Shambharkar said that they have formed six containment zones in Solapur city, where the survey was underway, to curb the spread of the infection. The zones collectively constitute around 14,000 families and around 74,000 residents. “Around 123 teams have been deployed to conduct the survey in the zones. We are hoping that the citizens cooperate,” he said. He added that from the past few weeks till Monday noon, they have tested 792 people. The throat swab sample test reports of 630 people have arrived, while results of 162 suspects are still awaited. While the reports of 605 people returned negative, 25 have tested positive for the contagion. Two people have already succumbed to the infection. “Currently, all the patients are being treated at the civil hospital. Two private hospitals have been put on standby mode in case of an emergency,” said Shambharkar. Satara police warn citizens of fake account Satara police warned citizens to not fall for fake advertisements making rounds on social media claiming to provide liquor the amid lockdown. Satara’s additional superintendent of police Dhiraj Patil said that social media users have been asked to pay 50% money in advance if they wanted liquor. When the source of the advertisement was checked, it was found that the mobile number belonged to someone in Uttar Pradesh and that it was a fake advertisment. Patil appealed to citizens not to fall prey to such types of advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-solapur/articleshow/75261567.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Pune||7-year-old boy injured in leopard attack in Sangamner village||Pimpri Chinchwad: A seven-year-old boy was injured in a leopard attack in Sangamner taluka of Ahmednagar district on Sunday night when he had gone out of his house. The boy, identified as Sunil Chavan, was attacked by the leopard at Mahade vasti in Sukewadi village, around 5km from Sangamner town, “The boy’s mother, Surekha, had taken him out to answer nature’s call around 8.30pm, when a leopard hiding in the adjacent sugar cane field pounced on Sunil and began to drag him into the field. The woman raised an alarm and nearby villagers rescued the boy. The leopard fled,” Sagar Mali, range forest officer, Sangamner II, said. Mali said the villagers took the boy to a nearby hospital and his condition was stable.— Siddharth Gaikwad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-year-old-boy-injured-in-leopard-attack-in-sangamner-village/articleshow/75261578.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh plans new export policy for renewable energy projects||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is planning to launch an export policy aimed at large-scale promotion of renewable energy projects. The policy will enable the state to export power without obligation to discoms, stated a statement by the energy department on Sunday. The projects will be designed for a combination of pumped hydro storage, solar and wind energy. The government has proposed to construct 29 pumped hydro storage projects (PSP) with a capacity of 33,240 MW both on-river and off-river sites to convert renewable energy sources into round-the-clock power and attract investments. New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation (NREDCAP) has already identified 29 locations in various districts for the projects. A feasibility report by NREDCAP states that the estimated potential for PSP projects is 33,240 MW with investment of Rs 5 crore per MW. A draft policy document has been prepared in which it was proposed that some of the projects be taken up by the government and others by private developers. AP is the first state to announce an export policy to meet the country’s renewable energy target, officials said. Secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli said a pumped hydro storage plant is the most commonly used and commercially viable large-scale electricity storage technology, accounting for 95% of storage capacity globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-plans-new-export-policy-for-renewable-energy-projects/articleshow/75258435.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Notice to civil surgeon after ASI referred to SPS hospital||LUDHIANA: An inquiry has been marked to civil surgeon Rajesh Bagga of Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman, a day after 46-year-old male, who is working as an ASI, was admitted there but nobody took care of him. It was learnt by the health department that a medical specialist at the Vardhman facility was on leave without any replacement for the same, which led to the patient being denied proper treatment, which is considered a lapse on the part of the hospital authorities. Following this, Sanyam Aggarwal, nodal officer, Covid-19, has ordered a probe in the case. Sanyam Aggarwal in an inquiry (copy of which is with TOI) states, “The patient was admitted on April 17 at 9pm and was referred to the civil hospital on April 19 at 1.30am for medical reasons. The civil surgeon had to submit a report by April 22 on who sanctioned the leave of the medical specialist of Vardhaman facility without appointing any replacement and the medical reasons necessitating his shifting to the civil hospital. Besides, why the treatment could not be given at the Vardhman hospital when both facilities had been made ready available there.” Though the ASI was again shifted to SPS Hospital on Sunday morning after complaints of lack of proper care by the doctors at the civil hospital and Mother and Child Hospital. “After repeated requests he was taken to the civil hospital after I complained of not getting proper treatment and food at Vardhman facility. But my issues remained the same and so I was later shifted to SPS Hospital,” the ASI said. Medical specialist was on leave SMO of the ESIC dispensary no. 2, who has the additional charge of Mother and Child Hospital, Vardhman, Amita Jain said, “The patient has comorbidity as he is diabetic and hypertensive patient. Though he is asymptomatic, his sugar levels increased that night in spite of giving extra dose of anti-diabetics. He needed injectable insulin after we consulted with doctors of the civil hospital and as hospital’s medical specialist was on leave. The civil surgeon instructed us to refer the patient to the civil hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/notice-to-civil-surgeon-after-asi-referred-to-sps-hosp/articleshow/75259715.cms||Mehak Jain
April 21, 2020||Trichy||48 patients discharged from Karur med college||Trichy: Total 48 Covid-19 positive patients, who recovered from the viral disease, were discharged from the government medical college hospital in Karur on Monday. Among them, two are from Karur district, 33 are from Namakkal and 13 from Dindigul district. As the recovered patients made their way out of the hospital, Karur district collector T Anbalagan greeted them with fruit baskets. C Munianathan, commissioner of Adi Dravidar welfare department and Abhay Kumar Singh, AGDP, idol wing, applauded along with other medical staffs for the perseverance of the patients, which had facilitated their speedy recovery. Previously, a total 37 patients were discharged after their recovery. They were kept under observation for 28 days and following their two successive test results being negative, they were discharged from the hospital. As on Monday, there are a total 76 patients in the isolation ward and among them, 67 are tested positive and undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, remaining nine, who have tested negative, are being kept under observation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/48-patients-discharged-from-karur-med-college/articleshow/75260790.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Small onion farmers in Trichy district struggle to sell 1,000 tonnes of produce||TRICHY: Hundreds of farmers cultivating small onions in the district are worried as they are unable to sell 1,000 tonnes of their produce which was stocked up before the lockdown began. Farmers say that Bellary onion, which is selling at Rs 30 per kg, has brought down the demand for small onion and have appealed officials to help them market their produce before it perishes. Shallots are cultivated in Pavithram, Jadamangalam, Valasiramani, Sengattupatti, Kombaikadu, Krishnarayapuram, T Pettai, Musiri, Thuraiyur and Uppiliyapuram villages coming under Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram and T Pettai blocks on hundreds of acres. They planted the crop during August and September, at a time when the entire country was reeling under acute shortage of both onions and shallots, and it matured for harvest in December 2019, when the price started declining. So, they decided to stock it up to sell them at a reasonable price afterwards, farmers said. “In December and January, traders were ready to offer only Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg. However, as they had bought the seed onions itself at Rs 120 per kg, farmers were not willing to sell them at a low price,” said KM Rajendran, a farmer from Kombaikadu. “Hoping that we can sell shallots at a higher price, we stocked hundreds of tonnes of our produce. When we were ready to sell them at a reasonable price, the outbreak of Covid-19 changed the entire scenario. Though shallot is being sold for Rs 80 per kg, the price of Bellary onions is playing spoilsport. As a kg of Bellary is being sold at Rs 30, there are no takers for shallots,” he said. He added that though the retail price of shallots is Rs 70 to Rs 80, traders were ready to offer only Rs 50. “Several members of Musiri Farmer’s Producers Company (FPC) have stocked around 700 tonnes of shallots. Several individual farmers also have stocked shallots on their own. We ourselves tried to sell on mobile vans. Even then we could not succeed,” said S Yoganathan, MD of the FPC, Thinnakkonam. “Since farmers are adopting a traditional method to stock shallots, it would preserve them only for a certain period. So, before the onions would perished, concerned authorities should take steps to safeguard farmers,” he added. When contacted, deputy director of agriculture marketing department Murugan told TOI that there was a plan to export shallots, he said. “We are considering the possibilities of exporting onions. If the farmers would contact us, we are ready to help them. Few farmer producer groups are being engaged in mobile vegetable sales. If onion farmers are interested, they can do business together. After consulting with the horticulture department, we will do the needful”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/small-onion-farmers-in-trichy-district-struggle-to-sell-1000-tonnes-of-produce/articleshow/75260783.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Changes to Rs 2,000cr tender favour big cos, alleges NGO||Chennai: The Rs 2,000-crore tender floated to lay optic fibre cables connecting 12,524 village panchayats across Tamil Nadu and provide broadband connectivity up to 1GBPS has run into yet another controversy. Arappor Iyakkam, an anti-corruption NGO, on Monday sent a written complaint to the state and central government agencies alleging that the state information technology department had on April 15, quietly published corrigenda to the tender seeking to narrow down the participants. The tender floated by Tamil Nadu FibreNet Corporation Limited, a special purpose vehicle of the state government, was earlier at the centre of a storm in January when top IAS officer and then information technology (IT) secretary Santosh Babu was transferred out of the post. Its managing director M S Shanmugham had also been shunted out. On Monday, Arappor Iyakkam released documents, which it said showed the changes in the corrigenda. For one of the packages of the tender, the bidders were earlier supposed to have a minimum cumulative turnover of Rs 405 crore over three years. Now, a corrigendum states they should have an annual turnover of Rs 405 crore for three years, Arappor convenor Jayaram Venkatesan said. The Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) should also have a net profit in the three financial years, the corrigendum states. The clause asking for cumulative experience in last three years has also been changed to experience in each of the last three years in three packages, he said. “All these clauses are aimed at eliminating system operators (smaller players) and designed to choose specific big optical fibre cable manufacturers,” Jayaram said. IT secretary Hans Raj Verma did not respond when asked to comment by TOI. Retired IAS official M G Devasahayam said he had been closely following the tender and alleged that it was being tailored to ‘compensate’ a major Tamil Nadu-based company, which the state government had penalised earlier in another regard. “It is a shame that the government has brought in tender changes when there is a graveyard like atmosphere due to Covid-19. It is an example of bad governance,” he said. The tender conditions had been vetted by 15 government secretaries on the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Development Board (TNIDB), Devasahayam said. “For any changes to be brought in, the tender should be placed before the board again,” he said. Jayaram said in its official complaint to the state government authorities, Arappor Iyakkam had named the two big OEMs which are allegedly being favoured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/changes-to-rs-2000cr-tender-favour-big-cos-alleges-ngo/articleshow/75260827.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 1,400 register to donate blood amid crisis||Kolhapur: Around 1,430 people have registered through the district collector’s web portal for donating blood in case of emergencies during this time of crisis. A few days ago, district collector Daulat Desai had appealed to people to register through the portal for donating blood in case of emergencies. Currently, the blood banks have sufficient stock which can last till one month. However, the district authorities said that the demand can go up in the coming weeks. Sanjay Shinde, the coordinator of the district disaster management authority said, “For registering one has to go to the webpage of Kolhapur collector. We have opened up a window for registering various services and voluntary works required during the crisis.” He said, “So far, around 1,430 people have registered for donating blood. They have provided their details such as blood group, contact number and address. We are going to call them whenever there is a requirement of blood. We are also coordinating with the blood banks. “The critical surgeries have been halted due to the lockdown and the blood banks have assured to make blood available at low rates. We have appealed to the hospitals to inform us in case blood is needed.” Shinde said that a digital form has been launched for formers army officers to apply for voluntary services. So far, 514 have signed the form, of which 98 have been assigned with district police administration for maintaining law and order. “These registered donors and former army officers will continue working with us even after the crisis ends. They might be asked for help in future especially in case of disasters like flood,” said Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-1400-register-to-donate-blood-amid-crisis/articleshow/75261591.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Weekly rosters planned for medics at three Covid-19 hospitals in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Six state-run hospitals are preparing weekly rosters for the medical teams that will be deputed at three hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment. Each team will comprise 10 doctors from five specialties – general medicine, paediatric medicine, chest, microbiology, ENT and psychiatry. Currently, the ID Hospital Beliaghata, MR Bangur Hospital and Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute’s second campus at New Town are the three Covid-19 hospitals, where the medical teams will be utilized for both in-patient and OPD services. Besides, a doctor and a faculty members from School of Tropical Medicine Kolkata will also be posted at the ID Hospital for a week. While NRS Medical College and Hospital and RG Kar Hospital have been assigned to send teams to the ID Hospital, SSKM Hospital and Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital will send teams to MR Bangur Hospital. Medical College Kolkata and College of Medicine and Sagar Dutta Hospital will do the same for CNCI. “The medical team will have a faculty member and a post graduate trainee from each specialty. We have been sending medical teams regularly to the Covid hospitals. But this new notification is meant to streamline the process of seven-day work and seven-day off for the doctors,” said an official at NRS Hospital. For example, a team from NRS will be deputed at the ID Hospital for a week while another team from RG Kar will be on duty the next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/weekly-rosters-planned-for-medics-at-3-covid-hosps/articleshow/75260793.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Thuvarankurichi under radar after 9 Covid +ve cases||Trichy: After nine Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Thuvarankurichi in the district, the district administration has included nine wards from the area under containment zones on Monday. The positive cases include seven positive patients and two of their family members. Ward from 4 to 12 and a part of ward 3 having 93 other families been disconnected with the other areas. People residing in the area have been restricted from stepping out of the area except for essential and emergency work. Except for essential commodities, no one is allowed to enter the containment zones.Collector S Sivarasu has also ordered for closure of four major roads – Thuvarnkurichi – Manapparai state highways, Trichy to Madurai national highways, Thuvarankurichi to Natham road, Thuvarankurichi to Nallur road. Executive officer of Ponnampatti town panchayat has been advised to permit to the vehicles carrying milk, LPG and essential commodities. The collector has advised the officers to spray disinfectants on the vehicles during entry and exit. The executive officer has also been asked to ensure the people living outside the containment area getting their essential items at their door steps with the help of volunteers as Thuvarankurichi town serves as a hub for nearby villages. Bank managers have also been instructed to depute bank correspondents to help the customers transact without visiting the bank premises.Meat shops have been banned on Saturdays and Sundays in the containment areas till the curfew is in effect. All essential shops except pharmacies have been allowed to function between 6am to 11am. Sunday has been declared holiday for all shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thuvarankurichi-under-radar-after-9-covid-ve-cases/articleshow/75260823.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake cops help pregnant woman||Kolkata: Officers of Bidhannagar Commissionerate transported a young woman, who was in her advanced stage of pregnancy, to R G Kar hospital after she developed labour pain on Monday morning. The woman had reached out to the cops for help. Kabita Sutar is a caretaker at an under-construction building in New Town CE Block. A senior member of a social welfare organization came to know about her condition but couldn’t find a car to take her to the hospital. That is when she reached out to Bidhannagar cops, who arranged for a cab from the fleet of the newly introduced ‘Sahayak Jan’ service and helped her reach hospital. “The woman gave birth to a baby girl. Both the woman and her daughter are doing fine,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-cops-help-pregnant-woman/articleshow/75260849.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two-thirds of new Covid-19 cases in crowded areas||NEW DELHI: There’s a new worry for public health officials in Delhi. Two-thirds of the new Covid cases in the capital have cropped up in high-density areas with poor urban infrastructure where social distancing is hard to implement. The city’s major hotspots are located in such areas, rendering contact tracing a much more difficult task. “The majority of the 84 containment zones in Delhi are in densely populated areas and we are detecting new cases in these areas every day,” said a South Delhi Municipal Corporation official. “Merely disinfecting these slums, unauthorised colonies and urban villages is not sufficient, more intense strategies will have to be adopted.” The five red hotspots of Nizamuddin Basti, Chandni Mahal, Tughlaqabad Extension, Tilak Vihar and Jahangirpuri are in this category. Daily analysis of corona cases indicates that both incidence and transmission rates are higher in these belts. An EDMC official remarked that while successful containment has been achieved in Dilshad Garden, there is concern about the highly vulnerable areas of Trilokpuri and Kalyanpuri where it is very difficult to enforce the lockdown. “Residents are still coming out of their homes and vendors are there on the streets. People do not seem to understand the gravity of the crisis,” an official remarked. Jahangirpuri in North district has six containment zones in B, C, H and K blocks. Madanpur Khadar in Southeast district has an identical number in Kachchi colony, Khadda Colony and Mehela Mohalla, while Sangam Vihar in South district has three. There are several containment zones withing the Walled City. Bhupinder Gupta, chairperson of SDMC’s standing committee, said that the higher number of containment zones in dense areas signified that the lockdown was not being correctly followed by the residents. “This lack of seriousness is evident in people sitting in groups in front of their houses playing cards and vegetable vendors not using masks and gloves as directed,” Gupta remarked. He added that time slots would for fixed for sale of vegetables and “civic officials will start booking the violators”. Such problem areas, as highlighted by civic officials, are Sangam Vihar, Nihal Vihar, Molarband, Dilli Gate, Brahmapuri, Kalyanpuri, Seelampur, Hari Nagar, Chandni Mahal, Sant Nagar in Burari, Sunder Nagri, Jahangirpuri, Khadda Colony Jaitpur and Kachchi Colony Madanpur Khadar. Principal scientific advisor to the central government, professor K VijayaRaghavan, has now issued separate guidelines for densely populated areas with clear norms for areas where people share communal facilities for toilet, bathing, etc. The guidelines recommend strict enforcement of face cover for everyone, foot-operated hand-washing stations, regulations for using the community toilets and other common facilities and norms to be followed in small homes. An SDMC official said that these guidelines are being studied and will soon be implemented in vulnerable clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-thirds-of-new-cases-in-crowded-areas/articleshow/75260830.cms||Paras Singh
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD-BJP councillors meet mayor over ration distribution||Ludhiana: A day after the district president of Shiromani Akali Dal Ranjit Singh Dhillon raised the matter of unfair ration distribution among the poor by ruling party leaders with party head Sukhbir Badal, the SAD-BJP councillors met the mayor Balkar Sandhu on Monday at his zone D office against this system. The LIP councilors also joined the meeting. The councillors showed dissatisfaction over ration distribution and alleged that defeated leaders of the ruling party were controlling ration distribution at their level and many needy people have been devoid of ration. Meanwhile, the mayor claimed that the system of ration distribution had been streamlined to a great extent and now administration officials, along with cops, were distributing ration in the areas after verifying everything. He said if still anybody had any issues with ration distribution, then he would clear the doubts and everything was taking place in a transparent manner. Some days back Akali Dal councillor Gurmail Singh had sat on protest against ration distribution and had even threatened to sit on hunger strike. The district SAD president on Sunday contacted former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal over video call and narrated the entire episode to him. The party leadership has asked the district leaders to fight against injustice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-bjp-councillors-meet-mayor-over-ration-distribution/articleshow/75259740.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||10 test positive in central region||Trichy: Ten Covid-19 positive cases including the first case from Pudukottai district were reported in the central region of the state. Health workers, including doctors were quarantined for treating a 14-year-old boy in Nagapattinam district here on Monday. The number of cases in the region also touched 219. A 23-year-old man, a close contact of a TJ delegate is the first Covid-19 positive case in Pudukottai district since the outbreak. Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts continued to have no positive cases till date. An asymptomatic, the patient, a native of Mirattunilai village, is undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) Trichy. The entire 5km-radius of Mirattunilai village panchayat has been brought under containment as soon as health officials were informed about the positive case. “His father, one among the 15 attendees from Pudukottai district to the TJ conference in Delhi, had tested negative. He was discharged after spending 14 days of hospital quarantine. He had also undergone 14 days of home quarantine. Now his son has tested positive,” said Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari Apart from Mirattunilai village panchayat, five adjoining village panchayats have also come under the five-km containment zone. Nagapattinam district also reported one more case taking tally in the district to 47 cases. A 14-year-old boy, a native of Virkudi village, who underwent appendicitis surgery on April 13 at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur was infected by Covid-19 and tested positive on Monday. While he was recovering from the surgery, he developed Covid-19 symptoms and subsequently kept in the isolation ward. As a precautionary measure, around 20 medical staff including doctors, nurses of Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital, who attended to the boy have been quarantined at the hospital, official sources said. Their blood samples have been sent for testing. In Tiruvarur, a 72-year-old patient, a resident of Adambakkam in Chennai, who had visited the district along with 13 Myanmar nationals for religious preaching, tested positive. He has been isolated at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruvarur. The total positive cases in the district climbed to 28. In Trichy, four more new cases tested positive on Monday, taking the total count to 50. All of them were close contacts of TJ delegates who already tested positive in the district. As many as 21 positive cases are undergoing treatment at MGMGH in Trichy. Two women aged 52 years and 22 years are from Sendurai and Royapuram in Ariyalur district and tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. They were employed in a pharmacy in Sendurai. The pharmacy owner had a travel history to New Delhi but he tested negative for Covid-19. The two were admitted to MGMGH. Officials said that the swab of the pharmacy owner who earlier tested negative was again collected for testing. The total cases in Ariyalur touched four. (Inputs: R Gokul, K Sambath Kumar, S Deepak Karthik and D Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/10-test-positive-in-central-region/articleshow/75260802.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||He ensures people, animals don’t go hungry||Trichy: Around 100 patients visit the Pudukottai government medical college hospital daily even during this lockdown period. If not for M Arunmozhi, patients and attenders would be left starving as there no shops open nearby. He has been feeding about 400 homeless people apart from those visiting the Pudukottai government hospital for the last 25 days, and equally showing compassion to stray animals. Inspired by his tireless efforts, people have come forward to contribute in person and through social media. Arunmozhi, 49, who runs a small eatery in the town has humble beginnings as a driver. He knows how it feels when one cannot afford a meal and goes to bed on an empty stomach. “Needy people may find avenues for help during normal days, but they may not manage during such testing times,” says Arunmozhi. He ensures that all the conservancy workers working in the medical college are given food packages. “While people are afraid to go near isolation wards, I don’t hesitate owing to the selfless service rendered by these workers.” There are a few locations in the town with monkey and peacock population. He ensures that the animals are fed with fruits and grains on his return after distributing food. This has become a daily routine for him for the last 25 days. While it costs at least Rs 8,000 per day for Arunmozhi to supply food packs with variety rice and water bottles daily, people have started offering their support by helping him with groceries and water bottles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/he-ensures-people-animals-dont-go-hungry/articleshow/75260809.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How these villagers have shut door on coronavirus in Shahpur Jat||NEW DELHI: The residents of the urbanised Shahpur Jat village in south Delhi, which is surrounded by the containment zones of Chirag Dilli, Hauz Rani, Malviya Nagar and Khirki Extension, have voluntarily created a containment zone to protect themselves from novel coronavirus. Since the first phase of the lockdown, the villagers have blocked one entry point and barricaded the other two to monitor the entry and exit of people, including vegetable and milk vendors and those with electronic passes. At the two entrances, thermal screening is done before anyone is allowed entry into the village. “Everyone coming from outside, right from grocers and pharmacists, are screened before being allowed entry. Home delivery boys leave the articles at the entrance and the recipients take it from there,” said Raj Kumar, a local resident. Through donations, they have purchased three sanitisation machines to sprinkle disinfectants across the village. This has given a boost to the efforts of the government and South Delhi Municipal Corporation to contain the virus. Community surveillance is being conducted in the entire village and it is being ensured that no one steps out of their homes without wearing a mask. A few individuals who had returned from abroad and were advised home quarantine have tested negative for the disease. Besides the government hunger relief centre, the villagers have started a community kitchen to feed the poor, mostly tenants and migrant labourers. After chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s appeal, many landlords waived the rent, while some deferred it. Kuldeep Panwar, a villager, said that despite being surrounded by containment zones, no positive Covid-19 case has been reported from the village. “Everyone has donated according to their capacity to fund sanitisation and feeding the poor,” he added. While some contribute dry rations, others give LPG gas cylinders to help prepare the food. “Everyone has been united in fighting the crisis and shown the true example of community living. Our community kitchen feeds 1,500 poor people twice a day. The youngsters guard the entrances to the village night and day. We are also ensuring that no gathering takes place inside the village,” said another local, Om Prakash Panwar. The villagers became tense after many areas started being declared containment zones one after the other. Locals said the village is over 500 years old and houses are built in close proximity. The population has grown significantly over the past few decades, mostly because of tenants. On April 14, the villagers wrote to police after they found that some people were not taking the lockdown seriously. Rajat Kaushik, another resident, that that a group regularly goes around the village making an appeal over a public address system for people to stay indoors. Grocery shops were asked to shut down after 7pm after some people were seen defying the lockdown measures pretending that they were going to buy groceries. South DM BM Mishra said, “The lead taken by the community in the enforcement of the lockdown has helped strengthen the fight against novel coronavirus.” Aman Panwar, another villager, said that surveillance and regular sanitisation would continue even after the lockdown is lifted to ensure that the village remains safe in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-these-villagers-have-shut-door-on-virus-in-shahpur-jat/articleshow/75260878.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Civil hospital gets new, upgraded Covid wing||LUDHIANA: The upgrading of the Covid-19 wing at the civil hospital has been taken to next level with addition of proper facilities to care of patients. A month back, the civil hospital used to treat patients at out-patient departments (OPDs) and emergency, which have been converted into a complete Covid-19 wing. With the help of three top officials, including Sanyam Aggarwal, who is the nodal officer of Covid-19, Ludhiana district, SDM (east) Amarjeet Singh Bains, who is facility in-charge, and senior medical officer Geeta Kataria, the wing has been converted and dedicated as Covid-19 building. Now, the health department and district administration are working in full swing to further upgrade the civil hospital. 150- bedded isolation ward Lord Mahavir Civil Hospital authorities have converted the emergency and OPD wing of the hospital with hardly 50 beds into a 150-bedded isolation ward in view of the increase in the number of people with Covid-19 symptoms. Certain small wards and departments have been expanded to a 150-bedded building with operational oxygen supply on 30 beds. Food menu has been standardised Health department has tied up with an NGO, Anjal Sewa Trust, to ensure that the patients, both suspected and confirmed, are getting food. The authorities concerned have made a special diet plan for patients with the help of a dietician. Patients are served three-time meal, milk and fruits. Tea and biscuits at 7am is followed by breakfast, including tea and parantha at 8.30am. At 11am, they are served seasonal fruits and at 1.30pm they are served lunch, including vegetables, dal, rice, raita and chapattis. Again after evening tea, patients are served dal, rice and chapattis in dinner and the day ends by serving turmeric milk at 10pm. Shivram Saroy, president of Anjal Sewa Trust, said, “Now, they are given healthy and hygienic diet free of cost.” Divided into red and blue zones Covid-19 wing has been divided into two zones, red and blue. They have installed a glass between red zone, where positive patients are admitted, and blue zone, where suspected cases are admitted for checking spread of aerosols. The blue zone has over 50 ventilators in various wards to create negative pressure so that aerosol do not go out. In red zones, proper PPE kits and safety measures are taken care of. However, in blue zones the staff wear green gowns and take proper precautions. 20 vehicles for dropping suspects Covid-19 wing has tied up with five ambulances of IMA, Ludhiana chapter, five city buses and 10 Ola cabs. These are for suspected patients, who were earlier left stranded and sought public transport for dropping them back home or had to call someone from home to pick them up. Five city buses have been reserved for the patients who have been admitted in the isolation ward. They have to wait till the time report of throat swabs come. The patients who will test negative will be dropped back to their places and if tested positive, then they would be admitted to a ward or some hospital, as per the requirement. Nursing station to have 16 ACs Nursing station has been made up where doctors and nursing staff have to wear PPE kits. As the temperature is rising, it is difficult for staff of isolation ward to wear PPE kits. Thus, for their convenience 16 ACs will be installed but they will be limited to single rooms only. Counsellors sessions in isolation wards Covid-19 wing has counsellors for both suspected and positive Covid-19 patients to boost them. They are being counselled on regular basis by staff of de-addiction centre. They are also available on call whenever needed. Leisure activities Leisure activities will also be provided to the patients in isolation wards as they are admitted for longer time. For this, the hospital authorities and administration have planned to install LED TVs, music system and provide them books in isolation ward for entertainment. However, there will be certain restrictions on magazines and books. Aesthetic infrastructure upgraded  Potholes roads and unmaintained parks too will be maintained this week. Authorities have deployed persons to re-carpet roads within hospital premises as there were too many potholes. Also, landscaping of parks will be done and to given an aesthetic look to the hospital. Besides, choking of sewer has been removed and bins have been installed. More needs to be done Norms of social distancing is not being followed in the flu corner. No 1m social distancing marks have been made in waiting areas and separate chairs have been installed. Patients have to wait and made to stand outside the flu corner. There should be additional facilities for testing here and report should also be given here itself. Ludhiana is a big city and geographical center of the state. It is easy for the patients to reach here. The staff in the hospital, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff and class IV employees should be provided with protective equipment. Moreover, oxygen supply and suction pumps should be provided on all beds. Separate Covid-care wards with all these facilities to meet the demand in case of surge should be prepared. Besides, civil hospital is under-staffed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-hospital-gets-new-upgraded-covid-wing/articleshow/75259767.cms||Mehak Jain
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Lessons on pursuit of perfection from Madras chronicler||CHENNAI: Though I knew S Muthiah through Madras Book Club meetings since 1994, it was only in 2000 that I got to know the chronicler of Madras when I first met him to discuss about contributing to ‘Madras 400, stories on Madras Harbour and the Civil Aviation in Madras’ that he was editing. The very first meeting was full of warmth and was the beginning of my association with him. It was in 2006 that he called me to discuss a project commissioned by the Chennai Port Trust — a coffee table book on its history to mark 125 years of its existence. I thought he would want my expertise as a marine engineer to get an insight into the subject, but was surprised when he told me that we would be compiling the book together. I was thoroughly excited and realised Muthiah was a man of integrity who made sure, he gave credit where it was due. For the book, we made three visits to the port, meeting the chairman and other officers. In every meeting Muthiah would invariably mention that I was a port specialist and that I knew the history of Indian ports. Collecting information from the Tamil Nadu Archives and Port Archives was not without hiccups. Unlike me, he would hardly be perturbed when a piece of information would not fit or was not available. Once when when I found that a year was missing from the administration reports of the port, I began to worry that I had misplaced it. When I told Muthiah he coolly asked me to get a copy from the TN archives. They had a copy that was more than 75 years old, but would not allow it to be accessed. It was Muthiah who then called up top bureaucrats and introduced me to so that I could access the original material. It was incredible to see how his knowledge opened doors, and commanded the respect of senior bureaucrats. It took us more than three months to complete the draft and while correcting it in his house, I got a glimpse of the meticulous uncompromising editor he was. The way he went about collecting pictures from various resources fascinated me. He had an extraordinary memory and connections with people in India and abroad. The British Museum helped to get some of the rare images of early construction of the port. The way he was keen on particulars was exemplary, poring over details and cross-checking facts. In fact working with him on this project gave me a lot of confidence to go for further research as well. Though he had control over every detail, he had this quality of trusting others as well. He told me that the book had to be brought out in Tamil as well and asked me to completely take over as his Tamil was not up to the mark. When the Tamil version was getting ready, his wife Valliammai was also got involved in choosing an appropriate title. She suggested ‘Ethir Neechal’ (Swimming against the current) and Muthiah got excited. Though it was good, when I suggested ‘Vetri Sadanai’ (A record of Triumph) would be more appropriate, they gladly accepted it. She was a wonderful host and each time I was with them during this project, I thoroughly enjoyed their company. Though it took several drafts before the book was completed, as Muthiah was a man of perfection, it was a learning experience for me. And a year after his passing I miss sharing this quest for knowledge with him. (The writer is a former marine engineer and history enthusiast)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lessons-on-pursuit-of-perfection-from-madras-chronicler/articleshow/75260859.cms||K R A Narasiah
April 21, 2020||Nashik||Security at Covid-19 hospitals in Malegaon increased||Nashik: A day after the relatives of a suspected Covid-19 patient, who died within hours of getting admitted in a hospital, created ruckus at the facility, police presence has been increased at every Covid hospital in Malegaon.Police said that four people have been booked for damaging public property on Sunday and that they were yet to be arrested.Arti Singh, superintendent of police (Nashik rural), said, “We have increased the security arrangements in hospitals and quarantine centres across Malegaon where patients suffering from Covid-19 and those with similar symptoms are undergoing treatment or kept in isolation. The aim is to ensure that the Sunday incident does not get repeated.”“We are taking all measures to ensure that the spread of the disease is controlled by maintaining strict lockdown. A force of over 1,200 police personnel and companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) are manning the streets,” a police officer said. “We are also using drone cameras to keep a check on people violating the lockdown,” the officer added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/security-at-covid-19-hospitals-in-malegaon-increased/articleshow/75259761.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Micro containment zones to enforce social distancing norm||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to set up micro containment zones in areas where people are not abiding by the lockdown and social distancing norms.As per this new idea, the areas will be barricaded in a way that people will remain at adequate distance and ensure gathering of people does not take place. Currently, over 60 containment zones have been marked by the civic body that comprises two to three wards each.Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, "I have ordered the fire department staff to make some arrangements at the micro level. We have decentralised the vegetable markets to ensure that there is no crowding in the main markets. Though it has helped us in reducing the number of people to a large extent, we still see that people gather around and break the rule of social distancing. I have already asked the vendors to carry out operations the whole day. Our staff will now barricade localities that will help in directing people and maintaining social distance."Kalshetti added that he has taken cognizance of the TOI’s report, appeared on April 19, that highlighted the shortcomings and inconvenience caused to the people due to containment zone. "I have asked the local ward level committees to put one of their members at the sealed spots so that the people moving out for emergency can easily get through the barricades. Also I have decided to appoint one officer each for all 44 slums where they will look after the needs of the locals," he said.While marking the zones the KMC officials claim that they had taken into account the presence of the shops selling essentials. However, at many places people are finding the barricades in their locality as obstruction to reach out to the nearest shop.Kalshetti said that the situation will improve in coming days and the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has ensured that all people in the containment zones are being taken care of by the ward committee members."We will take help from young volunteers of National Service Scheme (NSS) and assign them various tasks on the field to manage the lockdown," the municipal commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/micro-containment-zones-to-enforce-social-distancing-norm/articleshow/75261599.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Trichy||Prison bazaar offers to sell triple-layer masks for Rs 10||Trichy: Prison Bazaar at the central prison has offered to sell triple-layer masks stitched by the prisoners at Rs 10 each to individuals and organisation, here on Monday.Among the 1300 prisoners lodged in the central prison here, 21 of them provided with the tailoring training have been involved in making the triple layer masks meant for preventing Covid-19.Prison officials said that the masks made of non-woven fabric, fine melt blown fabric and elastic ear holder are being supplied to the health department and police department since the Covid-19 outbreak occurred.While reaching the production of 1 lakh masks in a fewer than one month, prison department has also made the masks available for everyone including the public. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the prison department has decided to market the masks for Rs 10 per piece at the prison bazaar. Interested people can contact the prison bazaar and get their orders supplied by paying either cash or cheque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/prison-bazaar-offers-to-sell-triple-layer-masks-for-rs-10/articleshow/75260840.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC workers lodge ‘missing’ plaint for Chandrababu Naidu||TIRUPATI: On Monday, when former CM N Chandrababu Naidu was celebrating his 70th birthday, YSRC activists lodged a missing complaint against him at Kuppam, Chittoor district. This took place moments after Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy greeted him on Twitter. Confirming the development, Kuppam urban police inspector E Basha said they received a complaint from one Feroz Basha and others that Kuppam MLA N Chandrababu Naidu was missing for several months. Speaking to reporters after lodging the complaint, the YSRC activists alleged that when the pandemic was fast spreading across AP, several elected representatives actively participated in aiding the people of their constituencies. But in Kuppam, Naidu has been missing in the action for several months now. Meanwhile, former TDP minister N Amarnath Reddy termed the ‘missing complaint’ as a ‘cheap gimmick’. “It is unfortunate that when people are suffering because of the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, the ruling party is playing dirty politics,” Amarnath Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-workers-lodge-missing-plaint-for-naidu/articleshow/75258486.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Agricultural department mulls home delivery of mangoes||VIJAYAWADA: The agricultural marketing and horticulture departments are planning to take up door-to-door sales of mango to help mango farmers hit by the lockdown. Even though some transport facilities have been revived, a majority of farmers in the Nuzvid region are willing to sell directyly to consumers to avert losses. Currently, around 60% of stalls in Nunna mango market are vacant this year on account of poor exports. Authorities of the horticulture department will identify stocks and issues cards to farmers for selling their produce in cities. “Our government is giving top priority to agricultural produce during the lockdown. We have revived transport to facilitate mango farmers. But I have asked farmers not to sell stocks on credit to unknown buyers. Instead, they can sell ripened fruits directly to the retail buyers in residential colonies. This will help them get good price,” said M V S Nagi Reddy vice-chairman of AP state agriculture mission. “This will also benefit buyers as they can get fresh, high quality fruit at a cheaper price. Mango farmers who wish to sell their produce should get permission cards from the marketing department,” Nagi Reddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/agri-dept-mulls-home-delivery-of-mangoes/articleshow/75258469.cms||Venu Lanka
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Chandanagar women shifted to Fever hospital||HYDERABAD: Daily health check-ups in the containment zones of Chandanagar cluster have helped officials in identifying two women with fever symptoms. Both the women have been shifted to Government Fever Hospital in Nallakunta. They will be tested for Covid-19. While one woman lives in a colony located within one of the nine containment zones in the cluster, the other is from a colony that is adjacent to another containment zone. “Except for these two cases, we have not found anybody with Covid-19-like symptoms in the containment zones,” said N Sudhamsh, deputy commissioner, Chandanagar circle, GHMC. GHMC officials said a door-to-door survey in the circle to trace symptomatic patients began on April 15, which will continue until the zones are declared non-containment zones. The officials said movement of residents in the containment zones, which has about 100 houses each in nine zones, is restricted. Essential items are delivered at the doorsteps of the residents. Multi disciplinary teams on Monday were also engaged in tracing the primary contacts of the 26 coronavirus positive cases that were reported from the midnight of May 18 to May 19, in GHMC limits.  While the 26 people have been shifted to Gandhi Hospital, the primary contacts are being shifted to state run quarantine centres. “Samples of the primary contacts have been collected and they will be tested. Till the results are out, the primary contacts shall remain in state run quarantine centres,” said a GHMC official. Teams also took up a fever survey in the residential areas of the 26 people,on Monday. In addition to that, activities of the 26 people were tracked, in collaboration with neighbours, watchmen and various resident welfare associations was also done. Meanwhile, the GHMC Covid-19 control room received 431 calls on Monday. Of these, five people said that their body was showing coronavirus symptoms. They were then shifted to state run quarantine centre and samples have been sent for testing. As many as nine people called authorities to provide ambulance. The remaining calls were pertaining to delivery of essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-chandanagar-women-shifted-to-fever-hosp/articleshow/75260871.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Women water warriors ensuring regular supply in Nagpur||NAGPUR: During this lockdown period, people of this country have come across a number of warriors serving society against many odds but the Orange City has been witnessing warriors of a different kind — women water warriors. These women along with their male counterparts are working on the field ensuring that people stay indoors and get proper water supply without any complaint. These women warriors working on field are Laxminagar zonal head Neelam Verma and deputy zonal head of Mangalwari zone Gausia Rahim, who are managing zonal activities like water supply, addressing consumer complaints as well as billing of entire zonal activities from the zone as well as from the field. “All women in OCW are also contributing and working to provide safe and clean water to every tap so that people of Nagpur to remain safe at their home. Our family members also understand the importance of our work. That’s why they support us in performing our duty,” Neelam Verma, mother of two girls told TOI. TOI also spotted women tanker supervisors like — Swati Gajbhiye (Reshimbagh), Lubna Ali (Bazonbagh, Gayatri Katre (Reshimbagh), Nikita Jawade (Wanjari Nagar) and Reshma Choudhari (Seminary Hills), who are handling tanker operations from critical hydrant’s locations. Choudhari said, “As a tanker supervisor, I monitor tanker movements in all slums coming under Seminary Hills. I ensure that all people should get water and stay home.” Another supervisor Lubna Ali from Bazonbagh said: “Our responsibilities have increased during the lockdown. We take utmost care while supplying water through tankers.” Likewise, Nikita Jawade, a tanker supervisor from Wanjari Nagar ESR, said, “We feel proud as we supply water to slums where there are no taps. We have been provided masks and other safety gears,” she said as NMC-OCW provides water in many non-network areas through tankers. Even customer care executives Rupali Telang, Aakansha Bhati, Jeevika Niphane and Mayuri Joshi are at present engaged in various jobs like registering complaints as well as forwarding it to respective zonal offices and providing its feedback to the consumers from various zones across city. Other woman warriors include is social welfare team like Archana Ghodeswar, Shweta Bhagat and Rupali Meshram, who creating corona awareness among labourers as well as citizens on various work sites. Safe and social distancing while working on sites and its precautions about keeping self and others safe being given by them to labourers, employees as well as people at working sites. The NMC-OCW pressed 293 tankers and all the drivers into service and similar number of helpers too have been provided with masks to stay safe while providing water through tankers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-water-warriors-ensuring-regular-supply-in-city/articleshow/75260901.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nashik||People step out expecting relaxation in lockdown||Nashik: Certain parts of the city witnessed the free movement of people on Monday in complete violation of the strict lockdown order. However, police officers said that the cops rushed to the areas concerned and took charge of the situation as soon as they received information about the violations.Residents of Trimurti Chowk, Pawan Nagar and Sawata Nagar said that while most people had stayed inside their homes for close to a month, on Monday, a large number of citizens were seen moving around on the streets freely. These areas are in the Ambad police station’s jurisdiction.The locals said that some people were maintaining social distance or wearing masks in the city markets.Kumar Chaudhary, senior PI of the Ambad police station, said there was a misconception among people that the lockdown had been relaxed and that is why they ventured out. Some also stepped out to purchase grocery items and vegetables.He said that since vegetable vendors and grocery stores have been instructed to operate only between 10 am and 4 pm, people rushed to the markets early to avoid stepping out in the afternoon heat.Chaudhary added that on getting information, police personnel rushed to the areas concerned. However, the patrolling teams had already instructed people lingering on the streets for no reason to return home.Other parts of the city, like Jail Road, Nashik Road, Panchavati areas etc. also witnessed a similar rush to the markets.Senior police officials said that the police personnel were making all efforts to ensure that people did not come out of their houses for unnecessary reasons. They added that it was also the responsibility of the citizens to adhere to the lockdown rules.The police, meanwhile, have been spreading awareness. Those now following the orders are being booked. More than 1,700 people have been booked under section 188 of the IPC for disobeying the police orders so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/people-step-out-expecting-relaxation-in-lockdown/articleshow/75259775.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Many robbed of income sell veggies to eke out a living||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 lockdown has rendered several people jobless and without income. Some among them have turned temporary vegetable traders, making money in one of the few avenues left. They sell veggies largely sourced from the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC). This may have helped stabilise vegetable prices and increased their availability, bringing relief to many. Forty-year-old N Parthasarathi of Metha Nagar was setting up a clothing boutique when lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 brought curtains down. “I switched to selling vegetables using a makeshift shop immediately as that was the only business permitted. I travel by two-wheeler or autorickshaw to buy about 100kg of veggies from the Koyambedu market,” he said. Parthasarathi was a proprietor of a call taxi firm but was sidelined after cab aggregators emerged. His competitors are small business traders owning tricycles and mini-vans, who bring vegetables to the doorsteps of people in his neighbourhood. “My daily profit has shrunk to just Rs 300,” Parthasarathi said. Hundreds of such individuals have become vegetable vendors in the city. Kannan*, 27, who was a contract worker cleaning aircrafts in the city airport, is now a vegetable vendor at Saidapet. “We purchase about 30kg of veggies everyday and sell it in the neighbourhood,” said Kannan, who has setup a roadside shop. Indeed, this has helped contain rise in prices. M A Bhavani, of Brahmin Street in Saidapet, said vegetable rates have become reasonable. “3kg of onion is available for Rs 50 and 1kg of tomato is sold for Rs 15 to Rs 20. Of late, I can find shops all over main streets,” she added. However, such mushrooming traders are leading to a surge in traffic near the Koyambedu market and causing congestion inside the premises. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said at least 50% of visitors to the market were such new traders, who have taken to the trade for survival. “They choose vegetables depending on the localities, though carrot, onion, potato and tomato were common. They purchase anywhere between 30kg and 100kg everyday,” he added. (*name changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/many-robbed-of-income-sell-veggies-to-eke-out-a-living/articleshow/75260873.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: For ‘home services’, complexes make technicians stay back||KOLKATA: From themselves turning into technicians to paying plumber and electricians double their salaries and providing them accommodation on the premises, residents’ associations at some of the big complexes have been taking steps to ensure families could avail of the services even during the lockdown. “Plumbers and electricians are the backbone of maintaining a housing society like ours. At Urbana, there’s a manpower shortage though some of them have been asked to stay back in the club. We have formed a maintenance team, including engineers, who have the knowhow of the technical job. They are overseeing plumbing and electrical job and even fixing stuff with unskilled workers,” said Sanjeev Ganeriwal, president of Urbana Welfare Association, adding they had a two-hour power failure earlier this month but thanks to the team, the generators could be operated timely before CESC repaired the fault. At Silver Spring complex on E M Bypass, residents said the water pipeline sprung leaks thrice in the lockdown period, but they were repaired as the plumbers and electricians had been convinced to stay back. “We have made arrangements for 50 of our technicians and housekeeping staff to stay in the complex. Because they were here, the leaks could be repaired or we don’t know what would have happened,” said Ashok Baid of the residents’ association. Upohar complex is paying technicians extra and making them stay back ven if their homes are a stones throw away. “Without plumbers and electricians, our daily management work will fall apart,” said Nilanjan Das, secretary of the apartment owners’ association. However, not every resident has been lucky. At Trinath Apartment in Behala, the water tank started leaking and residents have to make do with scant water supply. “Our usual plumber could not come. A local plumber gave us a stop-gap solution as all hardware shops are closed,” said Arijit Banerjee, a resident. K Ghosh, who lives in Power Towers in New Town, is getting vegetables and groceries at doorstep but when his water purifier broke down, repeated calls and messages to the company yielded no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-home-services-complexes-make-technicians-stay-back/articleshow/75259776.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Keep record of those buying cough, cold medicines’||LUDHIANA: From now on, all medical store owners in Ludhiana will have to maintain a register to collect details of customers who will purchase medicine for cough and cold from them. These instructions have been taken to keep a check on people, who could have symptoms of Covid-19 but are not approaching hospitals and rather are taking medicine from medical stores. A few days ago, the district administration, Ludhiana police and officials of health department had a meeting. In the meeting the official showed concern that there were chances that people with symptoms of coronavirus might not approach hospital or administration. Rather, they may take medicines from nearby medical store owners. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “A few days ago it was discussed in a meeting that usually people prefer taking medicines from nearby medical store owners, rather than going to doctors. So in the present situation, this would be harmful. There are chances that out of fear, people with flue like symptoms will not approach the district administration or health department, thus they could further spread the virus.” Further, zonal licensing officer Kulwinder Singh said, “Yes, this issue was discussed by the authorities concerned. Besides, on Monday, the food and drug administration has also issue directions over the same. Kahan Singh Pannu, who is commissioner of food and drug administration, has issued directions in this regard, under which all retailers of medicines have been directed to maintain registers of sale of cough and cold medicines.” “Those doing home delivery of medicines have also been asked to maintain a record. Further, when needed the department would share the details of customers with officials of health department and administration,” added Kulwinder. He added that on Monday, the directions had further been sent to different associations related to the business of medicines. In case of non-compliance, action would also be ensured against the pharmacist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/keep-record-of-those-buying-cough-cold-medicines/articleshow/75259791.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 21, 2020||Hubballi||E-pass for emergency travel started in Dharwad district||DHARWAD: The Dharwad district administration has started issuing e-passes for emergency travel. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said on Monday that the decision was taken to help people who are away from the district headquarters and want to travel due to emergencies. Residents in far-off places are unable to reach out to the district administration and fill out forms to avail passes for emergency travel. The pass is issued for medical emergency travel, to get medicines from other places and for attending funerals. Applicants can visit www.supportdharwad.in and submit their e-form. The HDMC is issuing passes to wholesale dealers, retailers, bakery owners, fruit and vegetable sellers. Applicants have to submit their Aadhaar number, passport-size photographs along with the form. Teams have been formed to scrutinise the application forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/e-pass-for-emergency-travel-started-in-dharwad-district/articleshow/75261850.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Early detection is the key, say experts||Kolhapur: As many as 31 out of 71 Covid-19 patients from Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Kolhapur districts have recovered from the infection. The region has reported five deaths so far out which two are in Solapur and Satara, and one in Sangli. According to experts, early detection has played a pivotal role in recovery of most patients, while the co-morbid condition resulted in many fatalities. Bhupal Girigosavi, district health Officer, Sangli said that the entire Islampur family has recovered now. “The early detection, the early diagnosis has played an important role in their recovery. But apart from diagnosis, the positive state-of-mind plays a tremendous part in the recovery of a patient. We had four senior citizens from the Islampur family with some of having the co-morbid conditions. They all responded well to the treatment,” he told TOI. He added that patient’s positive counselling is what played a pivotal role in their recovery. Same thoughts were also shared by one of the Islampur family members in his previous interaction with this paper.Yogesh Sale, district health officer, Kolhapur, said that getting contracted with COVID-19 is not a crime and it should not be looked in the same way. It was found out that patients were concerned and at the same time were carrying guilt that they might have infected others, which needs to be changed. “If anyone got the matching symptoms, they should report it to the closest medical fraternity, so that early diagnosis could be done. Even after the recovery, people should comply with the social distancing and strict quarantine guidelines, so that there is no relapse,” he said. Abhijeet Chaudhary, district collector, Sangli said the co-morbid condition can play a spoilsport, but an early diagnosis makes all the difference. “Those who think that they have symptoms or their close ones should immediately report it at the earliest to the nearest medical centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/early-detection-is-the-key-say-experts/articleshow/75261606.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 21, 2020||Nashik||Industrial workers sent back from checkpoints||Nashik: A number of workers who are employed with industries in Sinnar and Dindori residing in Nashik were sent back home at checkpoints by police on Monday. The workers were under the impression that the lockdown has been eased for industries in rural areas and ventured out on their own vehicles, only to be told to show permission.Police said they are not allowing anyone to cross the checkpoints unless they have a medical emergency or police permission.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Laxmikant Patil said, “The district administration is likely to come out with certain directives about allowing employees of industries in rural areas to commute between their place of residences and place of work.”“As long as there are no clear instructions about the same, no one will be allowed to commute on the city roads.” Many industries have their own transport arrangements to ferry the employees, but some workers are forced to travel on their own in the absence of company transport. With the bus and autorickshaw services still shut, the workers have no other option other than using their personal vehicles. Police officers said that the district administration will take the decision about allowing employees of industries outside Nashik to use their vehicles in a few days. So far, it is not known how many industries have resumed operations, said the officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industrial-workers-sent-back-from-checkpoints/articleshow/75259803.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 patient on plasma therapy off ventilator now||NEW DELHI: India’s first Covid-19 patient who had received plasma therapy has been weaned off ventilator and shifted to a normal room from ICU. The 49-year-old man from south Delhi, who was admitted to Max Saket (east block) on April 4, has also tested negative twice for the novel coronavirus which means he has recovered from the disease, doctors said on Monday. “Plasma therapy worked as a catalyst in speeding up his recovery. We cannot attribute 100% recovery to plasma therapy only, as there are multiple factors which helped in the recovery,” Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director of Max Healthcare, told TOI. Covid-19 has no known cure as yet. Countries across the world are exploring several experimental drugs and therapies to treat persons suffering from the viral infection and plasma therapy is one of them. Delhi, Kerala, Maharashtra and Gujarat among other states are running clinical trials to test its efficacy before it can be made a part of the treatment guideline. However, Max Healthcare said, they had to use the therapy on the patient on compassionate grounds and as a last resort. “The patient was admitted to our hospital on April 4 with history of fever and respiratory issues. Within a few days, he developed pneumonia and Type I respiratory failure, after which he had to be put on ventilator,” said a doctor. He added that the patient’s father, who was in his late 70s, was also admitted in the hospital with severe symptoms and the family, requested the doctors to do anything possible to save the two. “We had used all possible drug combinations including hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin already. So, as the last resort, it was decided that we will administer plasma therapy to save them,” the doctor added. The patient’s family arranged the donor, a Covid-19 patient who had recovered from the disease two weeks ago. “Both the father and the son received plasma therapy. But the father didn’t make it, perhaps because he was old and had co-morbidities but the son’s condition improved significantly after the therapy,” Dr Budhiraja said. The 49-year-old received plasma therapy on April 14 and four days later, the doctors said, he was weaned off the machine which assists in breathing. The patient, however, continued to be on supplementary oxygen. “He is totally out of danger and taking oral feeds as well,” Dr Budhiraja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-patient-on-plasma-therapy-off-ventilator-now/articleshow/75260992.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Medicines and nutrient-rich food helped in the recovery of patients, says doctor||Kolhapur: A combination of medicines and immunity-boosting foods and supplements helped treat the first two covid-19 patients from Kolhapur city, said Satish Puranik, the doctor who led their treatment. “Patients can recover from this disease and there is no need to panic,” he said. A 37-year-old man and his sister had tested positive for Covid-19 infection within three days of each other. Both, residents of the Mangalwar Peth area of city, were treated at the private hospital at Ujlaiwadi. While the man was admitted when he began showing symptoms, his sister had been placed in isolation as she was a close contact. She did not show any symptoms of the disease but tested positive three days after her brother. Puranik, an orthopedic who owns the hospital, said he was approached by the district authorities after the first case from the city was reported. Both the patients, who did not have any co-morbid conditions, were discharged after 23 days of hospitalisation on Saturday. He consulted doctors in Mumbai and abroad regularly to start the treatment. The patients were administered oseltamivir, azithromycin, hydroxychloroquine, zinc, multivitamins and vitamin C and vitamin D. “It is a complex disease and one needs to have good immunity to recover fast. Along with medicines, we provided healthy diet and nutrient supplements. Both patients were put in separate buildings and allowed to stay in the sun for one hour every day. It helped them to get vitamin D naturally. For vitamin C, we provided oranges. In such diseases, developing antibodies requires good amount of protein. Since both were vegetarian, we provided them plant extracted protein through milk twice a day,” he explained. The patients were also given nuts such as almonds and walnuts, which are rich in immune boosting nutrients. He added that the plasma of both patients had been collected and could be used to treat other patients. “We have advised both of them the home isolation for next 14 days. The supplements are prescribed to them for next three months. The isolation and supplements will help them avoid re-infection,” said Puranik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/medicines-and-nutrient-rich-food-helped-in-the-recovery-of-patients-says-doctor/articleshow/75261601.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Cops slap fines to the tune of Rs 69.5 lakh, seize 1,450 vehicles||TIRUPATI: With Kurnool district witnessing a steep rise in the number of positive coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the last few weeks, district collector G Veerapandian and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa have appealed to the people to remain indoors and follow lockdown guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus. However, many people continue to violate norms and so the district police carried out a special drive in the city on Monday and registered 268 cases of lockdown violations. Speaking to reporters, Kurnool DSP Baba Fakruddin said 1,450 vehicles were seized during the crackdown. ‘‘We raised 12,778 e-challans and levied fines to the tune of Rs 69.52 lakh under the Motor Vehicles Act,” he said. The DSP pointed out that despite several appeals from the state and district administrations, people continue to flout lockdown guidelines even as Kurnool as emerged as the hotspot for Covid-19, leading the chart with 174 positive cases in the state. “Following the advise of SP Fakeerappa, we will also file criminal charges against people who persistently violate the guidelines in the city as well as across the district in the days to come,” DSP Fakruddin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-slap-fines-to-the-tune-of-rs-69-5-lakh-seize-1450-vehicles/articleshow/75258523.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 21, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown choking MSMEs, industry body to approach Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami for rescue||The MSME sector does not require just a relief package or reprieves, but a holistic compassionate approach for revival to transition them back to a state of movement all over again. This is the bottom line of the ‘Corona Lockdown Impact Analysis Report for Tamil Nadu-based MSMEs’. The report will be submitted to the chief minister and the industries department on Tuesday. The study conducted by 15 people comprising economists and educationists was prepared by the Consortium for Technology Research Entrepreneurship an Employment (ConsoTree) State Tamilnadu Advisory Group for Empowerment (STAGE) among members of the Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) – in coordination with Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association. The overall revenue in the nearly 15 industries they studied had fallen by 47.7% in March as the revenues started dropping from March 10, two weeks before the lockdown. In April it further dropped to 61.3%. The study estimates the average loss in revenue for the two months at 54.5%. Among the worst hit are the building and construction, chemical, furniture, textile garments and services that suffered 100% revenue loss this month with the revenue dropping to zero. The food sector recorded 90% revenue loss in April and 61% in March. The study shows uniform pattern in the impact of the lockdown across sectors. "MSMEs in Madurai were chosen for the sample survey as the clusters in Chennai and Coimbatore are dense. Madurai is between the large and small clusters and has a variety of industries that are present across the state," says R K Jeyabalan the executive director of ConsoTree and convenor of STAGE. More than half the MSMEs lost more than 25% revenues as overhead during the lockdown, which is significant and should not to be overlooked. Overall, 40% of the average revenue was lost on overheads that have no levers to decelerate, making the lives of these business firms miserable. MSMEs especially producing goods using machinery and turnkey projects don’t have the work from home option. It makes the entire labour force unproductive. About 15% revenue is lost in this overhead. "Only 25% labourers are guest workers. The majority are skilled, semiskilled and unskilled workers from villages around Madurai," MADITSSIA president B Muruganantham said. "We are worried about retaining them once the industries reopen as they could migrate in search of jobs to run their families," he said adding that this is an issue of concern. Impact on the MSME sector that accounts for more than 50% of the GDP will affect the entire system as the micro, small and medium enterprises form the bottom of the pyramid. "It will affect production, supply chain and employability across sectors. So the government should look into the issue seriously," Muruganantham said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-choking-msmes-industry-body-to-approach-cm-for-rescue/articleshow/75260910.cms||M K Ananth
April 21, 2020||Mysuru||Govt to rope in NSS, NCC cadets to fight Covid-19 in villages||Lakshmikantha.BK@timesgroup.com Mysuru: The department of rural development and panchayat raj is roping in present and former National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) cadets to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. They will work as foot soldiers to ensure that the programmes initiated by the government reach the public. Uma Mahadevan, principal secretary, RDPR department on Thursday decided to appoint NCC and NSS cadets to work as ‘Grama Corona Sainika’ (Village Corona Soldier) to support the government in fighting and controlling the spread of coronavirus in the state. “Every village should have two youths, a male and a female, as soldiers who should be between the age group of 18 to 35 years. The youths must have smart phones and those who have NCC and NSS background should be preferred,” she said. The RDPR department, which has already set up Gram Panchayat Task Force (GPTF) and Village Task Force (VTF) in 27,000 villages in the state, has directed GPTF to select two youths in each village to serve as corona soldiers. An RDPR officer said that the selected youths will be the eyes and ears of GPTF at the village level. They will work as the foot soldiers to fight against the coronavirus in their respective villages and report to the task force everyday regarding the government programmes initiated to contain the pandemic. Santhosh, a former NCC cadet from Srirangapatna taluk who runs a cyber center in Mandya told TOI that the initiative to make use of the experience of the youths must be lauded. “During my NCC days, we were given training to handle emergency situations. NCC and NSS students are disciplined and are ready to serve for the society,” he added. ***** Box Online training programme for NSS officers NSS at University of Mysore is set to launch an online training programme on Covid-19 awareness for NSS programme Officers through Zoom app. NSS programme coordinator B Chandrashekar said the online training programme will be attended by 180 NSS officers from Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts. The programme will be attended by university vice chancellor G Hemantha Kumar, state NSS officer Gananatha Shetty Ekkar, state NSS implementation officer Poornima Jogi, chief medical officer M S Basavaraj and registrar R Shivappa on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-to-rope-in-nss-ncc-cadets-to-fight-covid-19-in-villages/articleshow/75257196.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Provide 50% blood units to Telangana hospitals: Government to private banks||HYDERABAD: Faced with an acute shortage of blood reserves in the hospitals,medical and health department has issued a directive to private blood banks to provide 50% of the whole blood units to government hospitals. The directives were issued in view of the essential requirement during lockdown period. The health department has estimated that during lockdown, 12,000 units of the whole blood units (400 units per day) will be required across the state, with Hyderabad alone needing 56% of it. The city has more than 80 labs in government and private sectors. Usually, the blood is collected by the Indian Red Cross Society thorough blood banks. In the last month, Red Cross blood banks collected 4,000 units of blood and provided them to government. In Warangal alone, 1,700 units were collected. Red Cross charges between Rs 600 to Rs 700 per 250 to 300 ml, which is one unit of blood. As per National Blood Transfusion Council norms, Rs 1,000 can be collected per unit. Private blood banks charge around Rs 2,000 per unit. The health department said all the stakeholders — government, private blood banks and IRCS — should actively involve themselves in collecting blood. District medical and health officers have been asked to draw up plans to collect blood from donors, prepare a list of donors and give them time slots to donate blood. Passes are also issued to them to reach the blood collection points. If multiple donors come forward, mobile blood banks will be organised. The vans will be sanitised as per WHO guidelines. The government asked blood banks to update it on availability of blood units with them on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/provide-50-blood-units-to-state-hosps-govt-to-pvt-banks/articleshow/75260913.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Surveillance upped, drones to keep eye on violators in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Following the reports that people were not adhering to the containment zone guidelines, security outside all the sealed zones has been intensified, while district authorities and police have scaled up surveillance using drones. The total number of containment zones on Monday increased to 84. Recently, the district authorities had found that 26 people of a family in Jahangirpuri, one of the containment zones, who tested positive for the novel coronavirus were not following the social distancing rules. Nidhi Srivastava, Central district magistrate, said at some of the containment zones, paramilitary personnel have also been deployed to ensure people strictly follow the containment zone guidelines. “We are also using drones for around 8 hours to monitor the containment zones for violations,” said Srivastava. The district has seven containment zones, including Nabi Karim, Chandni Mahal, Sadar Bazaar, Oberoi apartments and Balaji apartments. The administration has introduced Covid-19 testing mobile vans to cover larger areas and to intensify screening. The vans are designed in a way which helps avoid direct contact with the suspected persons while collecting samples. In Jahangirpuri, where people violated the containment zones guidelines, the authorities have scaled up the surveillance and deployed additional police personnel to monitor the areas. Since most containment zones cover narrow lanes and bylanes, people manage to move around and ignore the appeals made by the administration. Meanwhile, the district authorities have started second round of screening in and around the area. The authorities have been appealing to people in all the containment zones to maintain social distancing within the containment zones. “The drones work as a great deterrence in the area and help monitor narrow lanes and bylanes, which otherwise would have been very difficult,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/surveillance-upped-drones-to-keep-eye-on-violators/articleshow/75260905.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Collection of fee begins at toll plazas across state||Nashik: The collection of toll fee at toll plazas across the state began from Monday following relaxation in lockdown rules by the central government.In Nashik, according to a senior National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) official, there was a marginal rise in vehicular traffic, especially the goods carriers."Some lanes of the toll plazas have been closed as many toll plaza employees have gone to their native homes after the lockdown. Nonetheless, the rush at the toll plazas was easily managed by the available staff," the NHAI official said."The toll plazas at Pimpalgaon, Chandwad, Ghoti and Shinde resumed toll collection from Monday with permission granted by the Centre for transportation of goods," he added.Compared to the days of complete lockdown when only vehicles carrying essential commodities were allowed to ply, there was more rush of trucks, tankers and other goods carriers on Monday.“There was no queuing at any of the toll plazas in the district as people still cannot move out of their respective houses without necessary permission from the police or district administration," the official said.Heavy traffic in KolhapurHeavy traffic was witnessed at Kolhapur’s Kini toll plaza on Monday. Police had a tough time in checking all the vehicles trying to enter the district, but the vehicles were allowed to pass only after confirming all the details.The employees deployed at Kini toll plaza wore face masks and hand gloves and also followed the social distancing norm."The toll collection resumed from Monday. We have started only two lanes at Kini toll plaza. Adequate staff required to manage the two lanes have been deployed at the booths. They have been equipped with hand gloves and masks and are provided with hand sanitisers to avoid getting infected from coronavirus. The toll collection was smooth on first day," an official attached with Kini toll plaza said."We have increased police presence at Kini toll plaza anticipating the rush and to avoid any crowding of vehicles. The private vehicles including cars are allowed to ply on roads, but only with two people including the driver. We are keeping close watch on the road to ensure that all follow the rules and no person is carrying passengers from one place to another," a police officer attached with Peth Vadgaon police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/collection-of-fee-begins-at-toll-plazas-across-state/articleshow/75261608.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Nashik||Doctor booked for concealing information on patient||NASHIK: A BHMS doctor from the Ambad area has been booked by police for concealing the information of a 65-year-old woman who had Covid-19 symptoms. The doctor had continued to treat the patient until her condition deteriorated and she had to be sent to a bigger private hospital. The doctor has been booked under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other relevant sections of the IPC. Senior PI of Ambad police station Kumar Chaudhary said the woman from Sanjeev Nagar, along the Ambad link road, had tested positive for coronavirus on April 16. She was referred to the Nashik civil hospital by a private hospital in the city. Before approaching the private hospital, the woman had received treatment from the BHMS doctor for more than a week at his clinic near her residence. The woman’s two sons had returned home from Mumbai and Pune after the outbreak. Despite knowing that the elderly woman had Covid-19-like symptoms, the doctor continued to treat her instead of referring her to the Nashik civil hospital. Chaudhary said 12 other people from the private hospital, where the woman went after receiving treatment from the BHMS doctor, had to be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doc-booked-for-concealing-info-on-patient-with-covid-symptoms/articleshow/75259823.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 21, 2020||Chennai||Local bodies a wasted force in grassroots fight against Covid-19||CHENNAI: As India struggled to cope with a pandemic, co-opting its health and disaster management force, the battalion of local governing bodies were blurred dots on the Covid-19 horizon. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik did the unthinkable and vested sarpanches in gram panchayats with powers of district collectors to fight Covid. In Kerala, its network of local bodies and women empowerment programme, Kudumbashree, took the state’s battle against the virus to the community level. Tamil Nadu’s local body heroes, however, were missing in action. The state’s newly-elected councillors of rural local bodies appear to have either stepped back from the Covid arena or were kept back by the district administration. With 28 of the 37 districts identified as hotspots in Tamil Nadu, the struggle has been intense to screen, test and contain potential Covid positive cases. The local body councillors could have been an important cog in the wheel in creating awareness among the public on staying indoors, social distancing and helping the district administrations in throwing a security cordon around containment zones. The timely elections to urban local bodies could have provided the government foot soldiers at the ward level, rather than leave all the work to overworked health teams. It is the politics of governance that’s proved a deterrent for the collectors. "Every district has an equal or more number of DMK supporters who are representatives in local bodies. It would have been difficult to handle the politics if we had roped them in," admitted a collector, seeking anonymity. In villages, panchayat heads are trying hard to make their presence felt. Chairwoman of the Chekkanoorani panchayat union in Madurai Kavitha Raja said they were doing their bit in creating awareness. "We have distributed masks and sanitizers to the people, especially sanitary workers, to protect them. But the local bodies are facing a cash crunch and most of the activities are being done with our own funds," said Kavitha Raja. Some say they had spent their cash reserves on the elections and are now stressed for funds. The elected representatives say some of them are doing their might to be in the good books of the local ruling party leaders. "From distributing pamphlets and educating the public to stay at home and maintain social distancing, we have scaled up our efforts after our village was declared a red zone," said commerce graduate R Subhadra, 31, a first-time village president of Kakkalur panchayat near Thiruvallur. She created WhatsApp groups to ensure door delivery of provisions and employed vehicles to sell vegetables at doorsteps. In the case of Tiruvannamalai district, enthusiastic village panchayat chiefs are doing their best in supporting the state’s efforts. But, some see it as a photo op. "Our district collector had admonished a few of them, who had not paid salaries on time to sweepers earlier in their panchayats. He has permitted people’s representatives to coordinate efforts, but insisted they don’t attract crowds," said an executive officer of a panchayat union. In Ariyalur’s Unjini panchayat, the elected representatives barricaded the village borders to prevent outsiders from entering their village. P Kannan, the panchayat’s vice-president said they had sprayed a natural disinfectant solution made from a mixture of neem leaves paste and turmeric water in public places. But paucity of funds has indeed driven the elected representatives of local bodies indoors. "Unlike the urban local bodies, adequate funds are not available to us to roll out preventive measures," said P Kannan, vice-president of Unjini panchayat, Ariyalur district. The proactive measures taken up by his panchayat through his own spending, such as spraying natural disinfectants and distributing free face masks to the villagers, were not appreciated by the officials thus far, he said. "Perhaps, the officials in the district could have invited us for a meeting to discuss how we could contribute to check the Covid-19 spread in hamlets. We are tech-savvy. Video calls from our villages would have facilitated healthy discussions on preventive measures," said Kannan. Spraying a natural disinfectant made of turmeric and neem, and distributing Kabasura Kudineer may not kill the virus but such activities induce confidence and give hope to villagers, he said. In Coimbatore too, local representatives felt left out. "At the rural level, we could have been involved in a better way in the containment efforts," said a panchayat president from the region. Their presence could have made a crucial difference. But, with the district administration keeping them out of the Covid battle blueprint, the elected local body representatives may remain a wasted force. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan and Karal Marx)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/local-bodies-a-wasted-force-in-grassroots-fight-against-covid/articleshow/75260915.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 21, 2020||Madurai||MSMEs seek govt grant to revive business||Tamil Nadu is one of the top three states where MSMEs are very active. The lockdown has affected their wide range of suppliers and customers beyond borders. The unusual situation has led to uncertainty in the sector and the consequences are dire. Cash has been exhausted due to shut down of industries and most MSMEs have monthly payables exceeding 40% of their average monthly revenues. Due to the lockdown, their credit limits get depleted fast and businesses are struggling to mobilize funds from any source. "As the lockdown has been extended till May 3 it would take a few more weeks for operations to restart. This raises concerns of further decrease in revenues. MSMEs are operating with thin margins, and the magnitude of losses and associated risks have turned them extremely vulnerable," MADITSSIA president B Muruganantham said. To overcome the hurdles faced in the form of the lockdown MADITSSIA has requested 30% grant against cash credit limits to restart the severely affected units. This will be instrumental for the revival of the sectors that are badly hit by various factors such as demonetization, GST, and industrial slow down. They sought to waive interests and penal interests for all types of loans for six months and the employer contribution of PF and ESI for the same period and subsidizing full salaries from ‘unclaimed funds’ that are close to the tune of about 1.5 lakh crore available at government statutory bodies. They also requested deferment of collection of outstanding electricity bills for six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/msmes-seek-govt-grant-to-revive-business/articleshow/75260921.cms||---
April 21, 2020||Ludhiana||14-yr-old moots idea for automatic tracking of Covid suspects||Ludhiana: Gokul Malik, a 14-year-old student of Bhartiya Vidya Mandir School, has come up with an idea of automatic tracking of Covid-19 suspects. A few days back when he came to know about Aarogya Setu app, which the government of India has launched for alerting people about any corona patients around, so that they can safeguard themselves accordingly or can take necessary precautions. Gokul said, “It has more to it and we can add a feature to make it more practical in tracking corona suspects. Aarogya Setu is a good app but does not give us information about the persons who may be suspects.” “I have an idea by which the government can very easily track those who may have come in contact with the corona positive person in the last few days. Nowadays most of the people have Android-based phones with them, which are served by Google. Whenever any two mobile phones or multiple phones come in contact of each other, their data can be stored in some data base. Now, in case if any of the person among them is Covid positive, from that data base we can easily get the information about all persons who may have come in contact with Covid positive person in the last few days and accordingly isolate them or quarantine them.” He added, “However, this is possible if Google makes this simple addition in their existing services such as Google maps or Google search engine because these apps are by-default installed in all of the android operating system.” “With this simple addition the government can very easily track the Covid suspects and isolate them or quarantine them and for this to happen the government of India has to request Google to add such services until this epidemic is over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/14-yr-old-moots-idea-for-automatic-tracking-of-covid-suspects/articleshow/75259814.cms||Mehak Jain
April 21, 2020||Vijayawada||New high: 48 of 75 positive cases in last 24 hours are from Rayalaseema region||TIRUPATI: The Rayalaseema districts of Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur and Chittoor accounted for 48 out of the 75 new Covid-19 cases reported in the state in the last 24 hours. With 16 new cases, the overall number of Covid-19 cases in Kurnool district went up to 174, which is the highest in the state. Five deaths have been reported so far. On the upside, three patients were discharged from the hospital on Monday. State finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and district collector G Veerapandian reviewed the containment measures on Monday. They appealed to members of the Muslim community to celebrate Ramzan at home this year. Meanwhile, four new Covid-19 cases and one death were reported in Anantapur district, where the overall number of coronavirus patients is 33 now. District collector Gandham Chandrudu told reporters that the relaxations announced by the Union government will not be applicable to Anantapur district till April 25, given the rising number of cases. ‘‘The Centre has empowered the district administrations to take the final call on relaxation of lockdown. We will review the scenario once again and take a final call on April 25. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Chittoor district went up to 53, with 25 new cases being reported on Monday. Of the 53, four patients have recovered and been discharged. Addressing reporters, district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said 24 new cases have been reported from within Srikalahasti municipal limits while one case was reported from Chandragiri. He said 12 of the new patients are government employees working in various departments like police and village secretariat, but allayed fears of community transmission, stating that the patients contracted the virus through primary contracts. All contacts of the new cases are being identified and placed in quarantine with immediate effect, the collector said. The district administration also marked Nindra, Narayanavanam and Pichatur mandals as red zone on Monday. In Rayalaseema, three fresh cases were reported in Kadapa on Monday and the total number of active cases is now 21. As for Tirupati 10 out of 50 wards under Tirupati Municipal Corporation have been declared red zones. One new case was reported at Indira Nagar Colony on Monday, after which Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, municipal commissioner PS Girisha and other officials inspected the area and sealed its entry and exit points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-high-48-of-75-positive-cases-in-last-24-hours-are-from-rayalaseema-region/articleshow/75258557.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 21, 2020||Nagpur||Schools question NMC order on home delivery of MDM foodgrains||NAGPUR: Schools are questioning why Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) insisted on home delivery of leftover midday meals (MDM) foodgrains to students, even though the state’s order does not mention that. Since the lockdown in March forced an early closure of schools, the mandatory MDM service was not available for students. Hence, state education department ordered that schools must distribute leftover foodgrains to eligible students. Purshottam Panchbhai, a senior academician with almost 35 years of teaching experience, said that the NMC had exceeded its brief. “State education department’s original order says that schools must distribute foodgrains in a phased manner to students. Nowhere it says that foodgrains must be home delivered to students. But NMC’s letter to all city schools has added that clause,” said Panchbhai who is also state vice-president of the teachers’ wing of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). School managements have also expressed their displeasure with NMC’s decision. Ravindra Fadnavis, who represents school trustees, said that this decision is in violation of social distancing guidelines. “Many of the students will be living in congested areas and to go there will be very risky for our teachers. Also, many areas in Nagpur are sealed, so how will that be arranged?” Fadnavis said. He has written to the state education department questioning NMC’s home delivery clause. Panchbhai said that the entire thing can wait till lockdown is over. “There is hardly any ration left in school because we closed down in mid-March and stock for April had not been picked up. We feel that hardly 1kg of rice will be given to students. It’s not worth the risk I feel,” said Panchbhai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-question-nmc-order-on-home-delivery-of-mdm-foodgrains/articleshow/75260942.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 21, 2020||Delhi||Survival of the fittest? Differently abled in Delhi fend for selves||NEW DELHI: Sonu lost his ability to walk when he was 15 years old. Yet he has somehow managed to get on with life, even marrying and now a father of an infant child. But two and a half decades of leading a tough life, he is suddenly at a standstill. The lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 has robbed him of all means of earning a living. The 41-year-old, a resident of Sevda Ghevda in northwest Delhi’s Khanjhawala, looked after his family and his ailing mother with what he earned from his itinerant footpath stall selling old clothes. Not only are all potential buyers staying put in their houses, but Sonu himself too cannot venture out. “I earn around Rs 10,000 every month. It isn’t much because my mother frequently falls ills and requires medical treatment. I have a kid to take care of too,” Sonu said. “Now all I have is my meagre savings.” Like him, there are many disabled people who are distressed, both because they have no medicines and because there’s nobody to care for them. Sonu said there were at least 4,000 disabled people in Khanjawala who do not have anyone to look after their needs. “There are those who cannot speak and others who can barely get out of their beds. They used to have attendants, who now cannot come to their homes due to the lockdown. They also don’t have medicines,” he added. On 29 March, the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) tweeted a helpline numbers and an email contact for persons with disabilities facing problems. That helpline is abuzz with all sorts of complaints, mostly about inadequate rations. Deepa, 40, is in dire straits. Her husband had gone to another state for work a month ago and is stuck there. She has two sons, one of them paralysed and bedridden, to care for. “I myself am unable to walk and so cannot go out to buy my medicines,” she groaned. “Before leaving, my husband gave me Rs 3,000 but that is gone. I have asked neighbours for financial help but nobody has money to spare.” Arman Ali, executive director, NCPEDP, recalled Prime Minister Narendra Modi as saying that the government’s top priority during the lockdown was to save the life of each and every Indian. “It is the need of the hour that this assurance becomes the lived experience of all persons with disabilities in India,” said Ali. Ali added, “The fundamental right to life and dignity cannot be dispensed with even in a medical emergency. People with disabilities are not a homogenous, distinct group, they are to be found in every strata of society and in every aspect of life and they need to be enabled during this pandemic.” And yet Satender Singh, 45, and Chanda, 52, are definitely not feeling “enabled”. The former, a resident of Dwarka, suffers from weak kidneys, and said, “I live alone. Some days people get me food, but on other days I sleep on an empty stomach. I don’t think I will be able to survive like this for long.” Chanda lives with five sons and a husband who barely speaks and no longer walks after an accident a decade ago. “I cannot sleep at night,” despaired the resident of Najafgarh village. “My son sold old clothes at a weekly market, but now that everything is shut, there is no money for us.” In the neighbourhood, Chanda sees people seeking help and awaiting the food trucks. Reshma Kumari is one of them. She said, “The government has been distributing food to the poor. But what about those who can’t walk to the trucks? There are at least 50 people here who are not only impoverished, but also immobile.” Ali of NCPEDP admits receiving innumerable distress calls from across the city. The plea of help only proves how hard hit people with disabilities are by the corona lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/survival-of-the-fittest-differently-abled-fend-for-selves/articleshow/75260932.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
April 21, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Handful of employees back in Sector V offices||KOLKATA: The IT sector seemed to test waters on Monday, when some of the essential services, exempted from the lockdown, resumed truncated operations. While employees of all major IT companies in Sector V and New Town continued to work from home, a few BPOs and some ITEs started functioning with skeletal staff at office, where only 25% of the workforce was allowed. Most of those who attended office were provided with transport but cops on roads reportedly stopped a number of vehicles to check. “Over the past two days, we have received 25 applications from companies, seeking vehicle passes to ferry their employees so that they could resume operations. We have laid down regulations. A four-seater car can ferry two passengers other than the driver and a six-seater three,” said a senior Bidhannagar City Police officer. Nearly 750 companies, with a workforce of about 1.5 lakh, operate in Sector V. Of them 10%-15% firms started this move. BPO executive Puja Dutta was among the few who started attending office. She said the authorities had ensured only one person was ferried to and from work at a time and at office, colleagues sat apart from each other. “My employers are asking only those who stay nearby to come to work. Of the 500-odd employees, only 50 of us were present on Monday,” said Dutta. A senior official of an integrated security solutions provider also attended work on Monday. “The office car picked me up from my Dunlop home. Hardly 15% of our employees are being called to office,” said Sibaji Karmakar, standing outside his Sector V office. Employees of most of the other companies continued to work from home. “With no further communication from office, we are continuing with the arrangement,” said a Cognizant employee. A few firms are providing accommodations on their campuses. Sector V Stakeholders’ Association vice-president Kalyan Kar said, “Most firms are not disturbing the work-from-home system as the lockdown deadline is uncertain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/handful-of-employees-back-in-sec-v-offices/articleshow/75259829.cms||Suman Chakraborti
