April 22, 2020||Kolkata||I’m busy experimenting with cooking and art: Anamika Khanna||This is a time when we all are feeling kind of lost. Nobody is sure how things are going to be once the lockdown is over. But I am trying to look at the positive side of it and using this phase to grow as an individual. Till the pandemic slowed us down, life was like running on a treadmill. Now, there’s no frenzy, no rush. As for me, a lot of experiments are going on in the kitchen and with my artworks. I am spending a lot of time with family besides connecting with my designers and workers to come up with interesting designs. Though we do not know when and how these designs can be used, we’re still working on them for design’s sake. As of now, we haven't been able to produce masks as most of our staff have returned to their respective villages and cities. But, when push comes to shove, we’ll figure out a way and do something. I am happy that people have started to realise the importance of masks and there are so many out there who are using their creativity to make masks look fashionable. My son Viraj has started a collage art and my team has joined him. It’s a fun way to stay mentally occupied, which is something we all need to cope with what’s happening. Not keeping yourself busy and positive can get depressing. Currently, my absolute priority is the wellbeing of my co-workers — the karigars, weavers, tailors, office members and others. Besides financial support, I am also trying to reach out to them for their mental support in these testing times. We are still privileged to have a comfortable life, but it’s not the same for them. So, it is very important to keep the communication going. We human beings have been treating nature very selfishly all along and this is a time for us to learn and rectify our mistakes. Nothing and no one should ever be taken for granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/im-busy-experimenting-with-cooking-and-art-anamika-khanna/articleshow/75281093.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
April 22, 2020||Goa||I-League: No awards for players||Panaji: Dipanda Dicka will be happy that his former club, Mohun Bagan, have been crowned champions even though the I-League was ‘concluded’ with four rounds still left to be played. But, despite leading the goalscoring charts, the Cameroonian striker will not be rewarded with the Golden Boot. The Punjab FC striker has 13 goals in his kitty, three more than the Bagan duo of Fran Gonzalez and Papa Diawara. With Bagan opening a huge lead at the top of the table, there was no way Punjab FC would challenge them, but Dicka had set his eyes on the Golden Boot. “If Bagan can be crowned champions, why can’t they give me the Golden Boot? I have more goals than anyone else and this is something I have worked very hard all through the season,” Dicka told TOI on Tuesday. Just an hour earlier, the All India Football Federation (AIFF) had rubber stamped the league committee’s decision to conclude the league. Bagan would be champions for sure, while there are no individual awards, including the Golden Boot and Hero of the league. “There will be no individual awards this season,” a senior AIFF official confirmed on Tuesday. That is bad news for Dicka, who unlike the rest of his teammates had opted to stay in Chandigarh itself during the national lockdown, hoping the league would restart and eventually draw to a normal close. The I-League has individual awards for highest goal scorer, best player, best goalkeeper, best defender, best midfielder, best forward, best coach and fair play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-league-no-awards-for-players/articleshow/75282223.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s unsung Covid-19 warriors: Hoshiarpur women home-make masks for villagers||CHANDIGARH: In a Punjab village, women stitch masks at home to protect fellow residents, 2,000 outside workers, and food distributors from Covid-19 infection. Good with stitching, these young women of Gugwaal Haar in Hoshiarpur district’s Hajipur block started the initiative on April 6, based on production guidelines from the office of the Union government’s principal scientific adviser. Punjab principal secretary for science and technology Alok Shekhar said: “The women found the backing of the sarpanch first and then the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST) based in Chandigarh.” This department of science and technology (DST) programme for the technical empowerment of women also produces energy from rural biomass in Hoshiarpur’s Talwara block. DST secretary Ashutosh Sharma said: “The crowd sourcing of home-made masks for the general population is fast catching up with public awareness about the making and use of this protection. If local leadership continues to support us, it will slow down and break the chain of virus transmission.” The science council provides the group with raw material. Within the first 10 days, the women supplied more than 2,000 good-quality masks to four nearby villages, for labour, villagers, and small shopkeepers. Council’s member secretary Jatinder Arora said: “The women work on our grassroots projects for years. We gave them mask-making manual in the local language.” The PSCST has also created a WhatsApp group for sarpanches, local SHGs (self-help groups), women, and farmers of 30-odd villages of Talwara block. The members follow advisories of the state’s and central governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-unsung-covid-warriors-hoshiarpur-women-home-make-masks-for-villagers/articleshow/75282587.cms||Shimona Kanwar
April 22, 2020||India||69% of cases found positive were asymptomatic: ICMR||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 tests that delivered positive results in India so far show 69% positive cases were asymptomatic, whereas 31% are symptomatic representing a ratio of 1:2, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday. So far, over four lakh samples have been tested for Covid-19 in India and of these 18,601 were positive. ICMR head of epidemiology and communicable diseases Dr R R Gangakhedkar said, “There is only one study that suggests there are 80% cases. Secondly in case of asymptomatic, where the symptoms are not very clear, the chances of patient coming and reporting the case too becomes low. I am now saying for the first time that if we look at the number of tests done, so far 31% belong to the symptomatic category and the rest 69% would fall under asymptomatic...we can say that for every single case detected there would be about two cases that may be termed as asymptomatic.” More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsSeeking to address concerns over asymptomatic cases, the health ministry said they include those with mild and sometimes “very mild” symptoms and efforts are on to identify such cases through contact tracing and community surveillance. Citing observations of the WHO, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said there are three phases : purely asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic and symptomatic, and in common parlance even pre-symptomatic cases are called asymptomatic when the symptoms are mild. “We are working with a pre-emptive approach while working on community surveillance. If we find a so called asymptomatic case in a field with high risk or direct contact, then we collect even that sample for testing. In that case, when a person has even mild symptom, the test is positive. This way we can timely identify and reduce mortality,” Agarwal said. Officials said there is a probability that there are several asymptomatic persons who may not know that they carried the virus for a while, but the numbers so far are not seen to be so high as to represent a threat of undetected transmission on a significant scale. If that were to be the case, there would be a higher number of positive cases as well who needed medical attention. The official also added that the testing strategy is not static and if more attention was needed in the case of asymptomatic persons, the protocols would be revised afresh. According to WHO, pre-symptomatic period is the incubation interval for Covid-19 — between exposure turning into infection and symptom onset. This period is on average five to six days but can be up to 14 days. During this period, some infected persons can be contagious. Therefore, transmission from a pre-symptomatic case can occur before symptom onset. A truly asymptomatic case is a confirmed case in a person infected with Covid-19 who does not develop symptom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/69-of-cases-found-positive-were-asymptomatic-icmr/articleshow/75282825.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 22, 2020||India||Covid-19: WHO warns worst is yet to come, ICMR says India is doing its best||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday said India was doing the best possible as per its capabilities to combat the Covid-19 outbreak and that one must have faith in science which was making fast advances towards developing a vaccine and therapeutic interventions. The comments came in the wake of WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus alluding to the Spanish flu in 1918 as a reference for the coronavirus outbreak and saying the worst was to come in the coronavirus outbreak, raising new alarm bells about the pandemic just as many countries are beginning to ease restrictive measures. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newHighlighting preventive and pre-emptive measures taken by the government, ICMR’s head of epidemiology and communicable diseases Dr R R Gangakhedkar said by implementing lockdown and social distancing measures early, India had secured dual benefits for itself. One, it allowed time for preparedness, to create health infrastructure like hospitals to provide treatment to infected people, and two, it helped buy time while science is progressing fast to develop interventions to combat the disease which is very new. He added that while new drugs and vaccines are in the pipeline, India too will benefit from them when the lockdown is lifted, even as cases will be in control due to these measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-who-warns-worst-is-yet-to-come-icmr-says-india-is-doing-its-best/articleshow/75282828.cms||---
April 22, 2020||India||Gaganyaan: From 3D tech for space to inflatable habitats, Isro calls for experiments||BENGALURU: Reiterating that India is eyeing more than just landing a probe on Moon or sending astronauts only to low earth orbit (LEO), the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is looking at technologies for inflatable habitats, in-situ 3D manufacturing for space and among the 18 experiments from which it will choose to send as part of Gaganyaan. It is also looking for proposals in the field on human psychology for long-term missions. “The human space programme requires innovations and creative technologies for space explorations which will lead to widening of scientific knowledge, economic growth, value addition to the quality of life of a common man and thus national development. There is a need to build capabilities to derive scientific benefits from the programme,” Isro said, as part of its announcement of opportunities (AO) that will let national institutes and labs to send experiment proposals. TOI was the first to report, as early as in January 2019, that Isro may be looking beyond just sending astronauts to LEO, and that it was planning on a space station and eventually even sending humans to Moon. “Gaganyaan is only the beginning, we’re not going to stop there. We’ll continue this programme with plans to send people to the Space Station and to Moon. Work on this will happen parallel to Gaganyaan,” Sivan had said. The kinds of experiments Isro is looking to carry on Ganganyaan is in line with these plans. At present though, the space agency’s priority is to launch the Gaganyaan mission by 2022 as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and four astronaut-elects picked by the Institute of Aerospace Medicine (IAM) are currently in Russia for training. The AO call by Isro is looking at technologies that can establish long term research as well as plan for necessary facilities, human resource developments for optimal utilisations of experimental applications and technological developments for societal usage. All national research/academic institutions can send in the proposals to the space agency and the last date for submission is July 15. Among other key areas in which Isro is looking for experiments are space food and related technologies, debris management and mitigation, space bioengineering, bioastronautics and so on (see full list in below). ------- Areas of Experiments: 1. Radiation Hazards Characterisation and Mitigation Techniques 2. Space Food and Related Technologies 3. Inflatable Habitats Technology 4. Human Robotic Interfaces 5. Thermal Protection Systems 6. Environmental Control And Life Support Systems 7. Green Propulsion8. Advanced Materials 9. Debris Management And Mitigation 10. Energy Harness And Storage 11. In-situ 3D Manufacturing Technologies For Space 12. Fluid Technology and Management 13. Space Bioengineering 14. Bioastronautics 15. Simulated Gravity Technologies 16. Human Psychology For Long Term Missions 17. Space Medicine And Diagnosis 18. Any Other Relevant Technology Related To Human Space Program||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gaganyaan-from-3d-tech-for-space-to-inflatable-habitats-isro-calls-for-experiments/articleshow/75282912.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 22, 2020||India||Rajasthan stops rapid tests, ICMR asks other states to pause||NEW DELHI: With states complaining that the recently acquired rapid testing kits were delivering misleading and inaccurate results, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday advised all states to stop using the antibody test for Covid-19 for two days until its teams investigated the functioning of the kits. The council said it was investigating the issue as some states had reported huge variations — ranging between 6% and 71% — in test results from rapid antibody kits which it said was unacceptable and may need to be replaced, which will be a setback to the government's plan to use rapid tests for surveillance and tracking trends, though not for diagnostics. On Tuesday morning, Rajasthan — the first state in the country to conduct rapid tests for Covid-19 — decided to stop using the kit any further as it was found that the results were inaccurate and did not correlate with the results of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. This also triggered a reaction across the country with many other states discontinuing the testing. In a tweet late on Tuesday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: "I had earlier suggested to GOI (government of India) that a centralised mechanism with proper guidelines of quality check may be developed for the procurement of medical equipment. Unfortunately this was not accepted. Had this suggestion been accepted, failure of Rapid Test kits could have been avoided. We have written to ICMR for the same." However, well-placed sources said the tests may not be at fault and might not have been correctly used. "The kits are not faulty," an official familiar with the testing strategy said. "The use of these kits for diagnosis is at fault. The proper test for Covid is the RT-PCR test. It is possible that states may have resorted to a short-cut in seeing them as diagnostic tests," he added. Thanks to this, India’s testing rate has dropped from 35,000-odd on Monday to 27,500 on Tuesday as states are using testing infrastructure for antibody tests. ICMR is expected to issue a detailed clarification soon. There have also been reports that the temperatures needed for the rapid tests have not been observed. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe kits had arrived last week after several delays and have been sourced from three companies based in China. In the first batch, some 3,00,000 kits arrived close to two weeks after they were due. In all, 6,50,000 are to be delivered with more in the pipeline by way of domestic operations in collaboration with foreign firms and other orders that have been placed. The kits are being sent to states based on their requirements. There were complaints from states with the kits meant to be used in hotspots and red zones as a supplement to the polymerase tests that are much more reliable but take more time as it’s are a four-stage procedure to be conducted in labs. "On Monday, we received a complaint from one state about less detection through rapid antibody test kits. So we asked around three states on Tuesday and found that among positive samples of RT-PCR, there is too much variation in rapid antibody tests," said ICMR’s head of epidemiology and communicable diseases, Dr R R Gangakhedkar. "In some places, 6% to 71% of RT-PCR positive samples were positive," he added. ICMR has decided to send eight different teams for testing and validating the kits in the field over the next two days, after which it will issue a fresh advisory on the use of rapid antibody test kits. "If problems are detected in batches, we will tell the company and can ask them to replace the batches," Dr Gangakhedkar said, while asking states to halt testing through the rapid antibody kit till then. While concerns about level of accuracy of rapid antibody tests were raised earlier too, ICMR and the health ministry maintained that the tests were to be used only for surveillance and monitoring of trends. ICMR has recommended only RT-PCR tests for testing individuals who are Covid-19 suspects, which it said was the gold standard. "This is not a good thing because when such a huge variation is seen, we need to investigate further even if it is the first generation of the test," Dr Gangakhedkar said. He, however, said rapid antibody test was a new and first-generation test and would require time to develop further and perform better in new diseases like Covid-19. Highly placed sources in the government told TOI that ICMR had clarified (in government meetings) that rapid test kits show positive reports only after seven days — the period a body needs to generate antibodies that can be detected. They also said that purchases of these kits were made directly by ICMR. "ICMR was directly involved in procurement of rapid test kits from both China and South Korea. The vendors were approved by the local government," said a source. In Rajasthan, a committee submitted its report following a study conducted on rapid tests. "The SMS Medical College submitted its report to us and they found that those who tested positive in the PCR test have been found negative for Covid-19 in the rapid test. When we correlated the results of PCR and rapid tests, we found that only 5.4% were matching. Ideally, the matching should be at least 90%," said Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma. Maharashtra put a last-minute stop on using the rapid test kits. The state had received 75,000 kits and was planning to carry out tests among healthcare workers and subsequently in hotspots such as Mumbai’s Dharavi. The BMC had plans to start testing medical workers using the rapid kits from Wednesday. Dr Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner of the National Health Mission, said that they have decided to wait for 48 hours for the ICMR’s new advisory. West Bengal decided to put rapid tests on hold till it got a clearance from ICMR, Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim said late on Tuesday. Bengal had tested 78 people on Monday and another 220 on Tuesday. Punjab, which was amongst the first states to flag the issue of low accuracy, decided not to use kits provided by the central government. To check the accuracy of the kits, Punjab principal health secretary Anurag Agarwal on April 19 got a survey conducted in Mohali and Jalandhar, the worst-hit districts in the state, by testing positive cases. Random sampling among the general public was also done. In both the categories, a majority of samples collected showed false negative and positive results. In Uttar Pradesh, state surveillance officer for Covid-19 Vikasendu Agarwal said: "UP will put on hold use of rapid kits after ICMR's observation." UP had recently used the kits to screen over 10,500 children who returned from Kota. The kits were also used for surveillance in hotspots of Gautam Buddh Nagar. Gujarat too has put its use on hold. "There are two confirmatory strips — IgM and IgG — in these kits. Both are to turn positive to confirm a case. But in certain cases, only one of the two strips shows results while the other strip fails and hence the case remains inconclusive," said principal secretary (health) Jayanthi Ravi. Tamil Nadu, which ordered four lakh rapid antibody testing kits, has put its orders on hold since Saturday. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation managing director P Umanath said his team was re-negotiating the price and re-evaluating the stock required after the ICMR said the tests cannot be used for diagnostic purposes. While Assam and Haryana too have suspended use of these kits, states like Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are yet to begin using them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-stops-rapid-tests-icmr-asks-other-states-to-pause/articleshow/75283005.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 22, 2020||Business||Changes in FDI rules don’t violate treaties: India to China||NEW DELHI: A day after China’s outburst over the change in foreign direct investment (FDI) policy, India on Tuesday hit back at its neighbour, saying the amendment did not violate any global commitment as it did not bar investments from across the border but only mandated prior screening of proposals. Besides, sources pointed to a host of Chinese policies to argue that Beijing had a chequered record in following “discriminatory” policies against overseas entities. Last week, the government amended the FDI policy to mandate that all investment proposals from countries that shared a border with India would have to be cleared by the government instead of them being on the automatic route, a tool that allowed entities to simply inform the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) after getting the funds into the country. Earlier, this policy was meant only for investments from Bangladesh and Pakistan and the latest move was seen to be targeted at China, prompting it to complain that India had violated its commitment under WTO agreements. Read AlsoWalling off China: India changes FDI policy to block threat of takeoversThe govt on Saturday amended its foreign direct investment policy to put a blanket ban on investments through the automatic route by entities from countries that share a border with India. The move is seen as an attempt to ward off the threat of "opportunistic" Chinese takeover of Indian companies,Government officials, however, said there was no concern as the move would not impact goods trade and the latest press note did not fall within the illustrative list under Trade Related Investment Measures (TRIMS), which is also part of the WTO commitment. Similarly, under the services agreement at WTO, the latest move does not automatically result in any cap on equity or impose any restrictions but only requires fulfilment of a different procedure. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsOfficials said India has not violated the Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs) with either China or Nepal, which have been terminated. “The provisions only apply to investment already made into India prior to the termination of the treaty. So, no retrospective action has been taken to negate existing investments and there is no violation of the respective BITs. The same measure was there for Pakistan and Bangladesh for long and without any challenge,” an official said. In contrast, officials said China had adopted policies that restricted access of foreign investors in sectors such as financial services, telecom and media. Indian IT companies for long have complained of market access restrictions, crippling their growth through non-tariff barriers. Last December, China had also ordered state offices to remove foreign hardware and software within three years, even as Twitter and Facebook are blacked out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/changes-in-fdi-rules-dont-violate-treaties-india-to-china/articleshow/75283196.cms||Sidhartha
April 22, 2020||Business||US Senate approves nearly $500 billion more for coronavirus bailout||WASHINGTON: The US Senate on Tuesday unanimously approved $484 billion in additional coronavirus relief for the US economy and hospitals treating people sickened by the pandemic, sending the measure to the House of Representatives for final passage later this week. The bill, approved by the Senate on a voice vote in a near-empty chamber, was hurried along shortly after congressional leaders and the White House brokered an agreement. The House is expected to vote on Thursday on what would be the fourth coronavirus-response law. Taken together, the four measures amount to about $3 trillion in aid since last month to confront a crisis that has killed more than 43,000 Americans. President Donald Trump urged Congress to give quick approval to the measure, which mainly expands funding for loans to small businesses hobbled by the pandemic, leaving additional aid to state and local governments for a later bill. Previously, Washington provided nearly $350 billion in loans to small businesses impacted by the coronavirus that can turn into grants if certain requirements are met. That funding was quickly exhausted. Critics of the program said too much of the money had gone to larger, better-connected businesses. To combat that, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said, $125 billion of small business funds in the latest package would go to "mom and pop" and minority-owned stores. Noting the "crash timeline" for passing the bill, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, said it was necessary during "unprecedented times for the entire nation." The deal includes $321 billion for a small business lending program, $60 billion for a separate emergency disaster loan program - also for small businesses, as well as $75 billion for hospitals and $25 billion for national coronavirus testing. Schumer, during a short debate, highlighted the bill's funds for fighting the coronavirus, in addition to the aid for small businesses. "We can give loans to small businesses, but if there's no customers walking the streets to go into their stores, what good is that?" Schumer said. Congress already is working on a fifth coronavirus-response bill. Schumer said it could be "similar in size" to the $2.3 trillion economic stimulus enacted on March 27. With each passing week, Washington has been confronted with a deepening crisis that has prompted Republicans and Democrats to work in a mostly bipartisan way to ease the heavy human and economic toll of a pandemic that has sickened more than 795,000 in the United States and thrown more than 22 million people out of work. The US economy has been battered as businesses have closed and residents have observed stay-at-home orders intended to minimize the spread of Covid-19, the highly contagious respiratory illness caused by the new coronavirus. While Republicans initially insisted the latest bill provide new funding only for small businesses, Democrats succeeded in broadening it to hospitals and other healthcare centers and more money for coronavirus testing. Democrats were not able to convince Republicans to increase emergency federal funding for state and local governments reeling from steep revenue losses due to the virus, and infrastructure spending that Democrats have been requesting throughout the crisis. Trump, however, said in a Twitter posting that he would engage in talks on helping state and local governments and would look for ways to include infrastructure investments in the next bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/us-senate-approves-nearly-500-billion-more-for-coronavirus-bailout/articleshow/75283206.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||Trump immigration ban to last 60 days, target those seeking permanent residency||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said on Tuesday his new US immigration ban would last 60 days and apply to those seeking 'green cards' for permanent residency in an effort to protect Americans seeking to regain jobs lost because of the coronavirus. Trump plans to institute the ban through an executive order, which he said he was likely to sign on Wednesday. He said it would not apply to individuals entering the United States on a temporary basis and would be re-evaluated once the 60-day period had passed. Trump said that pausing immigration would put "unemployed Americans first in line for jobs" as the country re-opened. "It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labor flown in from abroad. We must first take care of the American worker," he told reporters at the White House. Trump said there would be some exemptions in the order and he could renew it for another 60 days or longer. The president, a Republican, won the White House in 2016 in part on a promise to crack down on immigration. Critics saw his announcement as a move to take advantage of a crisis to implement a long-sought policy goal. The order could spark legal action. A senior administration official said the administration was looking at a separate action to cover others affected by US immigration policy, including those on so-called H-1B visas. Trump confirmed that a secondary order was under consideration. The first order would include exemptions for people involved in responding to the coronavirus outbreak, including farm workers and those helping to secure US food supplies, the official said. As the country begins to open up its economy, immigration flows were expected to increase, and the administration wanted to ensure that employers hire back fired workers rather than giving jobs to immigrants at lower wages. The US Department of State issued roughly 462,000 immigrant visas in fiscal year 2019, which began on Oct. 1, 2018. The visas allow an immigrant to obtain lawful permanent resident status, informally known as a green card. The status allows a person to live and work in the United States and apply for citizenship after a five-year period. Critics viewed Trump's new policy as an effort to distract from his response to the pandemic. "I think this is a malevolent distraction," said Neera Tanden, president of the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning policy institute in Washington. Giovanni Peri, an economics professor at the University of California, Davis, said researchers generally agree that immigration into the United States has stimulated economic growth, increased the size of the economy, and created jobs. "The idea that immigration threatens American jobs is just not there in any data," he said. FANNING FLAMES Under the separate immigration action, technology industry workers with H-1B visas may need to provide updated certifications to the government that they are not displacing American workers. That was one of a handful of proposals being looked at. "As a general matter we don't have to close down legal immigration to reopen America, and that is what we are focused on: safely reopening and getting the economy going again," said Neil Bradley, executive vice president and chief policy officer at the US Chamber of Commerce. Early in his presidency Trump issued an executive order directing the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), to tighten its policies on H-1B visas, which are used heavily by the tech industry to bring in skilled workers. Critics of the visas say they have been monopolized by staffing firms that bring in workers that displace Americans, often in back-office technical jobs. But the visas are also used by the healthcare and education sectors and other businesses recruiting workers who generally have degrees. The United States has more coronavirus cases than any other country by far and immigration is effectively cut off anyway at the moment through border restrictions and flight bans. Immigration advocates scoffed at the contention that cutting off immigration was being done to protect Americans' health. Andrea Flores, a deputy policy director with the American Civil Liberties Union, which has sued over a number of Trump immigration policies, said Trump appeared "more interested in fanning anti-immigrant flames than in saving lives" with his latest proposal. The Trump campaign plans to highlight immigration again in the 2020 election battle, and the president regularly highlights progress on the construction of the wall on the US-Mexican border. The issue may have less resonance this year, however. The coronavirus outbreak has dramatically altered priorities among many Americans over the past few months, especially within Trump's Republican Party, according to a Reuters/Ipsos public opinion poll. Its latest survey, conducted April 15-21, found that the economy had replaced immigration as the most-cited concern for Republicans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/trump-says-immigration-measure-will-be-in-effect-for-60-days-will-be-evaluated-afterward/articleshow/75283236.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||After 3 months Gujarat high court agrees to habeas corpus hearing through video call||AHMEDABAD: It took three months for lawyers to convince the Gujarat high court to hear the two missing women in the Nithyananda ashram controversy through video conferencing, as the women’s proposal to address the court on a video call was rejected earlier. The HC was insisting that the women must appear in the courtroom in person to declare their wish because it is a habeas corpus petition. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has turned around the situation. The HC judges now insist on production of corpus before them through video conferencing only. On a habeas corpus petition filed by a man in November last year, his two daughters conveyed the HC that they were ready to appear before the HC through video conferencing. To give authenticity to their claims that they were not forcibly detained, they offered that they would appear before the camera in a premise of Indian embassy on a Caribbean island, Jamaica. But the HC was insisting that since it was a habeas corpus petition, they must return to India and come before the judges in person to say whether they wanted to go with their father. Three months later after many efforts by lawyers to establish that recording evidence through video conferencing is permissible in law, the HC finally agreed on March 17 to hear the women through video conferencing. But before the date could be finalized, the country was placed under lockdown. Now, the situation has completely changed in the lockdown and due to threat of coronavirus infection with all court proceedings taking place through video conferencing only, and the judges working from home. On Tuesday, a minor girl from Pipavav, who was brought back by cops upon a habeas corpus petition filed by her father, was produced before the judges through video-conferencing only. On camera, the division bench questioned the girl about her wish and took decision to give her custody to her father. On Monday, a man from Patan district filed habeas corpus petition through advocate Jaydeep Sindhi complaining that his wife was kidnapped by his in-laws during the lockdown period, and she should be brought to court. The HC has ordered police to bring the woman before the court so that it could ascertain her wish whether she wants to live with her husband or at her paternal house. But the HC ordered police to produce her through video conferencing only on April 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-3-months-hc-agrees-to-habeas-corpus-hearing-through-video-call/articleshow/75281299.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Surat||Coronavirus scare: Rs 2,000 note burnt on road||SURAT: With coronavirus overtaking all other fears, a team of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) in Puna area of the city on Monday didn’t think twice before burning a Rs 2,000 currency note to cinders. The note was discovered on the road lying in a suspicious condition. Police initiated an inquiry in the incident to find out if it was an act done intentionally to create panic. Recently, three currency notes were allegedly dropped on a footpath in Chandi Chowk area of the city by a man after applying saliva and sweat on them. The earlier incident had created a massive panic in the area. The note on Tuesday was spotted by a local resident at around 10.30 am who called up the police and placed a stone on it to prevent it from blowing away. Police visited the spot and after questioning locals they called the SMC which sent a team that first sanitized the note and later burnt it. “As per the instructions they received from their seniors the SMC team sanitized the note and burnt it. Police also registered an informal complaint and started investigation," said Puna police. Cops collected CCTV footages from the nearby spot to check if some miscreant had intentionally dropped the high-token currency note. “The offence is not yet registered since it is not clear if it is an intentional act. We are registering statements of locals to check if they noticed any person in suspicious movement,” the officer added. In recovery of Rs 500, Rs 200 and Rs 100 currency notes from Chandni Chowk, police had seized the notes from the spot and sent them for tests. However, NCH and FSL denied having any technique to check infection on any object.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/corona-scare-rs-2k-note-burnt-on-road/articleshow/75279840.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||First Covid-19 patient from Gandhinagar discharged||AHMEDABAD: Umang Patel of Gandhinagar was discharged after recovering from Covid-19 from Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad on Monday. After Patel, nine of his extended family members had contacted infection and one of the elderly members had died of the virus. Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) officials claimed that now the city area does not have any active positive case, and all other cases are in pockets of the districts. As on Tuesday evening, Gandhinagar had recorded a total of 17 positive cases, out of which 11 were discharged and two had succumbed to the infection, leaving four active patients. “Patel was the first to have been diagnosed and the last to have been discharged. His wife, brother and grandmother responded well to the treatment and were declared free of the infection before him. All are healthy now and are taking proper precautions,” said a GMC official. State health department officials said that out of 33 districts of Guajrat, 28 have so far recorded at least one case. The figure was 10 at the start of April. “However, 11 districts have less than five cases and three have only one. In such cases, the source of infection is identified quickly so that the further spread can be arrested. Testing in these districts has also been extended so that more cases can be detected early,” said an official. Experts point out that precautions for when the lockdown ends are necessary in the industrial clusters. “Massive testing will not be possible at such a scale and ways have to be devised at the unit level that persons from other parts of the state or country are screened properly to control the number of cases,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/first-covid-19-patient-from-gandhinagar-discharged/articleshow/75282228.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Diffusing corona awareness via art, creativity||JAIPUR: Artistes from across the state are displaying their talent to create awareness on Covid-19. From painters to dancers, all are using their god-gifted talent to generate awareness on the dangers of the virus and steps to prevent it from spreading through social media platforms. Phad artist Vivek Joshi has recently made a painting on the impact of coronavirus, where it originated and what are the preventive measures. “Phad is a 700-year-old art of storytelling on cotton cloth. I decided to paint about the place where it all started, educate people about social distancing and life during lockdown. My aim is to let people know about the cost of breaking the lockdown at this time,” said Joshi. Many artistes are uploading comedy videos in Marwari language with small groups cracking jokes while giving a message to people. In a recent video which went viral on social media, a person did not open his main gate to let his in-laws in due to coronavirus. At the end of the video, he requested people to remain indoors. Lockdown has taken a toll on homemakers. As family members stay indoors all day, their workload have increased. Sajini Pareek, a Rajasthani actress, recently uploaded a video – ‘Lockdown ki Lugainyaan’ giving a social message to help women in household chores. She said, “With my seniors, I have worked in creating this video of how women are overburdened with work and men in the house should start giving a helping hand instead of taking them for granted. It was a social message with good response from the public.” Folk singers are creating music videos on coronavirus asking people to stay inside and stop spreading fake news. Making these videos is not easy at the time of the pandemic. They cannot shoot outside due to lockdown and indoor shoots are done by just five-member crews. Hygiene and distancing are maintained while shooting. Many cinematographers and artists have stopped working these days. Cinematographer Baljeet Goswami said during lockdown many artistes approached him for shooting. “I have a personal studio setup at my house but have denied any request even at double the amount,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/diffusing-corona-awareness-via-art-creativity/articleshow/75282211.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Third phase of Sujalam Sufalam Jal Abhiyan started||Gandhinagar: Gujarat government launched the third phase of Sujalam Sufalam Jal Abhiyan from Tuesday to deepen lakes and other water bodies before the monsoon, amidst the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 outbreak.The campaign will be held between April 20 and June 10 and the government will undertake 14,694 works related to MNREGA and water conservation. A sum of Rs 414 crore will be spent by the government with water conservation projects being undertaken in every district.Providing details, secretary to CM Ashwani Kumar, said norms issued by the state government for ensuring the safety of people amidst Covid-19 should be followed while undertaking works under SSJA-3. “The CM has also said that the soil obtained after digging the ground under SSJA can be used by farmers, government works and other public works. Farmers can use this soil without paying any amount,” the official said. Farmers can also use fertile soil in areas where water reservoirs, check dams etc have dried out. This soil can be used free of cost by the farmers after approval from the officer concerned. In the first two phases of SSJA, farmers have dug out 23,500 lakh cubic feet of soil, which has increased water availability of Gujarat, Kumar added. The official also said that the CM has announced that purchase of wheat at MSP will take place from April 27 to May 30 at the godown of Gujarat State Civil Supplies Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/third-phase-of-sujalam-sufalam-jal-abhiyan-started/articleshow/75281357.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||HC quashes prosecution of 2 former IFIN auditors||Swati.Deshpande@timesgroup.com Mumbai: In a major win for auditors BSR Associates and Deloitte Haskins & Sells, the Bombay high court on Tuesday quashed their prosecution as erstwhile auditors of the crisis-ridden IL&FS Financial Services (IFIN). The HC held that the prosecution by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) was unsustainable. But the HC, disagreeing with auditors, upheld the constitutional validity of section 140(5) of the Companies Act under which the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) had sought a ban on the company’s auditors for five years. Significantly, the HC said these provisions, which are “remedial and regulatory” in nature, would not apply to auditors who have already resigned. In this case, BSR — which is a sub-licensee of auditing giant KPMG International and KPMG India — had resigned as statutory auditors of IFIN last June, and Deloitte about a year earlier. “CAs who defrauded the company but have completed their term & left cannot be changed and therefore not amenable to section 140(5). They can be tried for professional misconduct under section 132 or under the Chartered Accountants Act,” said the HC. The HC also held that a “disqualification or debarment” under the provision is “not as a punishment for fraud but it is a caution which Parliament felt necessary to administer to avoid delays in matters of vital importance for the shareholders and public”. IL&FS is facing allegations of fraud for constant evergreening of the company’s debts extended to its subsidiaries. Last May, the Centre directed SFIO to initiate prosecution against the company’s auditors. The HC bench of Chief Justice B P Dharmadhikari and justice N R Borkar said there appeared to be non-application of mind in the manner the Centre directed SFIO to initiate prosecution within 30 hours of a 732-page report of the agency with 32,000 pages as annexures. “The report itself indicates need for further investigation into cross linkages and transactions with other companies,” said the HC, finding the Centre’s direction to prosecute “untenable”. “It is humanly impossible to read and appreciate such a large report of the SFIO, apply mind and give appropriate directions within 30 hours. The Centre claims that two officers independently and separately read all these papers … and applied their minds within that time,” observed the HC bench. In court, there was much debate over whether the SFIO’s report was ‘interim’, as argued by the auditors, or ‘final’ as claimed by the SFIO. On a request made by the SFIO, the HC stayed its order to quash prosecution for eight weeks to enable the agency to appeal before the Supreme Court. It continued its interim orders not to take “coercive action” against these auditors till then. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had held that it had jurisdiction under section 140(5) of Companies Act to hear a plea made by the MCA for a five-year ban on the IL&FS former auditors — BSR Associates, N Sampath Ganesh, Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, Kalpesh Mehta and Udayan Sen — under the Companies Act. The ministry had made the plea after the SFIO investigated into affairs of IL&FS group and submitted its investigation report. BSR and others facing prosecution had challenged the constitutional validity of section 140(5) of the Companies Act. Only law points were argued before the HC. Section 140(5) allows NCLT to suo motu (on its own), or on an application made by the central government, direct a company to change its auditors if satisfied that the auditor directly or indirectly acted fraudulently or colluded in any fraud in the company. Such auditors are then ineligible to be appointed as auditors of any company for five years and can also be liable under section 447 to a prison term of 6 months to 10 years, or fine of Rs 10 lakh of 1% of the company’s turnover, whichever is lower. “Section 140(5) is enacted to infuse confidence in the public and in corporate sector and to prevent abuse of the position by a company to the detriment of its shareholders,” said Chief Justice Dharmadhikari and Justice Borkar on Tuesday in the judgment. They observed that the section does put at a CA at the “risk of disqualification” but held it was “absurd” to think that it would also punish a CA already subject to punishment for fraud. In the petitions by N Sampath Ganesh and BSR, the HC held that the MCA plea before NCLT against them for a five-year ban is “not tenable” as BSR resigned as statutory auditors of IFIN. There was a bunch of petitions heard jointly. Hari Sankaran, former vice-chairperson of IL&FS also had, like the auditors, challenged the MCA’s May 29, 2019 order to SFIO to prosecute him in the case of alleged fraud. The bench, headed by Chief Justice Dharmadhikari (who heard the auditors’ pleas before his elevation as Chief Justice), had reserved the matter for judgment in January after concluding a very lengthy hearing. The bench pronounced the judgment on Tuesday. In Sankaran’s case, as well as for Sampath, BSR, Deloitte, Mehta and Sen, the HC quashed the Centre’s order to SFIO to initiate criminal prosecution as “being unsustainable” and quashed the prosecution before the sessions court in Mumbai as “not maintainable”. Earlier this month, the HC had stayed interim bail granted to Sankaran by a special trial court on health grounds during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. Now the HC directed that he can apply for his release or for bail. Significantly, in one finding, the HC noted that, “SFIO admits that the trial court has yet to take cognizance of its report. In such a case, the court may not have power to remand and detention of company’s director may not be legal.” But it added, “However, we are not required to answer this question, in present matter.” The findings of the HC are that NCLT can direct change of CAs, but has not been empowered to debar or disqualify or impose any punishment on such CAs. NCLT cannot inquire into professional misconduct by the CA as it is not conferred with power to choose the nature or quantum of punishment. Its only role is to examine a need to change the CA. Section 140(5) does not in any way militate with jurisdiction of Institute of Chartered Accountants or NFRA. Parliament cannot be presumed to have created multiple agencies with same power. However, as NCLT steps in to break the unholy nexus between the company and CA, intention is not to punish but to prohibit a CA with prima facie dubious record to continue and to see that the concerned company appoints another CA of its choice according to law. A CA cannot assail the higher moral values expected of him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-quashes-prosecution-of-2-former-ifin-auditors/articleshow/75281431.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||Mask the new identity||Chennai: Wearing masks to and at work places have become mandatory. Along with this, come a host of issues, be it unlocking your iPhone or marking your attendance in offices which have installed facial recognition software to capture your entry/exit time. It takes 1,200 parameters to get your face recognised by a machine — considering the various points in the face and the ambient lighting. Wearing a face mask reduces it just 300 making, thereby making it less precise. An employee at Apple told TOI there is little one can do to unlock phones as the tech patches and support isn’t available for now. Consequently, facial recognition apps will also not work with the mask on. However on the work front, companies including Ramco Systems, Staqu, Aindra Labs are rewriting codes for their facial recognition software. “The accuracy level drops to 93% from 98% if the mask is on. We need to use a 3D modelling approach to improve it,” said Abhishek Mishra, co-founder, Aindra Labs. With a mask, the eyes, upper part of nose and cheek bones would only be visible and the systems are being trained to accept these parameters and function. The 3D models would be more accurate with visible lips but with the new data, the machine learning-based systems would be more accurate in 2 or 3 weeks from now, the company executives add. Both the enrollment and verification/recognition images have to be with masks for the algorithm to work. They have been fine tuned for this setting with reasonable restrictions on the amount of ambient light available and pose of the face when taking a photo. “Non-masked to masked face verification is still a big challenge as a masked face has far less distinctive information than a non-masked face,” adds Mishra. Ramco Systems which had introduced facial recognition for attendance a couple of years ago is now changing a code to identify a masked face. “It is in the proof of concept stage and works seamlessly just like the code does for other facial enhancements like a beard. After recognising the person it sends an alert to the employee’s email on registering the attendance,” said Virender Aggarwal, CEO, Ramco Systems. The company has also introduced thermal sensors while capturing attendance to record temperatures and trigger warnings. “One can always train the systems with the mask and identify the face based on what data is available, but that lowers the accuracy. We also have a solution, where multiple faces are generated modelled on the available patch and matched with those in the database. The accuracy level is higher,” said Atul Rai, co-founder and CEO of AI-based platform Staqu. Rai adds that this solution already exists as part of their offerings to the police force and is now seeing interest from corporates too. Besides attendance, companies are also testing the possibility of utilising facial recognition technology in monitoring home quarantine. Aindra Labs uses the AI-based face recognition and geo-fencing app that establishes the absolute number of people under home quarantine and verifies them in real time to alert any movement outside the geo fence. “We are in touch with the state governments in Tamil Nadu and Kerala to incorporate our facial recognition systems in their home quarantine apps,” added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mask-the-new-identity/articleshow/75281883.cms||Aparna Desikan
April 22, 2020||Business||Oil price slide, virus spread pull sensex down 1,011 pts||Mumbai: The troubles in the global crude oil market and the rising number of Covid-19 cases in India unnerved Dalal Street investors on Tuesday and the consequent selling pulled down the sensex by 1,011 points, or 3.2%, to 31,637. Banking and financial stocks led the slide with ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and HDFC among the top contributors to the slide. On the NSE, the Nifty closed 280 points lower at 8,981 points. According to Vinod Nair, head of research, Geojit Financial Services, as the US crude oil prices crashed, “Indian markets, in sync with global markets, traded negatively, as the extent of the impact of lockdowns and the global slowdown is becoming evident”. On Monday night, the WTI crude oil futures closed at -$37.6/barrel, its first ever negative close with sellers paying the buyers to lift their produce as storage capacities were running low. In addition to the slide in oil prices, the impact of the shutdown due to the coronavirus pandemic is also showing in corporate earnings. “Post-earnings management guidance has also not given any clear indication about the recovery path,” Nair said. Going forward, earnings of leading companies will to some extent decide the market’s direction, among other factors. The day’s four-digit loss in the sensex came on the back of a net foreign fund outflow of nearly Rs 2,100 crore with domestic institutions also net sellers at Rs 68 crore, BSE data showed. The day’s losses also left investors poorer by Rs 3.3 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 119.6 lakh crore. According to chartists, technically the Nifty has closed below the psychologically important 9,000 mark. Its next crucial support level is 8,800 and if this is breached, the index could see a sharp slide. On the upside, 9,100 could prove to be a good resistance, they said. Sebi extends IPO nod to 1-yearMeanwhile, the markets regulator Sebi on Tuesday said all the public offers including IPOs that got its nod to open between March 1 and September 30 this year can launch the offer within one year of the nod, up from six months now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oil-price-slide-virus-spread-pull-sensex-down-1011-pts/articleshow/75281519.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||HDFC cuts home loan rates||Mumbai: HDFC has cut its retail prime lending rate (RPLR) — the benchmark for all its floating rate loans — by 15 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point), with effect from April 22, 2020. The change will benefit all existing HDFC retail home loan customers. Following the revision, home loans for salaried borrowers up to Rs 30 lakh will be available at 7.85%, between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 75 lakh at 8.1%, and above Rs 75 lakh at 8.15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-cuts-home-loan-rates/articleshow/75281781.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||Crime rate drops amid lockdown: Bihar police headquarters||PATNA: With fewer people venturing out due to the nationwide lockdown, crime across the state has witnessed a sharp decline. There has been an overall drop of 26% in the total number of cognisable offences from April 1 to 15 compared to the corresponding period in 2019. A comparative data released by the state police headquarters on Tuesday revealed that murders witnessed a decline of 26% from April 1 to 15 this year. Cases of dacoity, loot, house burglary and theft also dropped during the period. According to the official figures, altogether 7,181 cognisable offences were recorded in the state between April 1 and April 15 compared to 9,749 cases during the corresponding period in 2019. As many as 82 people were killed compared to 111 during the period in 2019. Similarly, the cases of dacoity dropped to two from 10, cases of loot from 79 to 22, house burglary from 183 to 103 and theft from 1,392 to 442. There has been significant decline in the number of kidnapping cases for multiple purposes as well. Altogether 93 people were kidnapped in the state during the period compared to 492 in 2019. The rate of crime against women has also dipped. A total of 28 rape cases were registered in the state compared to 63 cases during the corresponding period last year. Likewise, the cases of atrocities against women dropped to 73 from 217 in 2019. The cases of atrocities against people belonging to the scheduled caste and the scheduled tribe have also dropped to 201 from 242 in 2019. Moreover, road accidents have reduced by 66% in the state during the period. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar attributed the reason for sharp drop in crime across the state to stepped up vigil during the lockdown period. “Both interdistrict and interstate borders have been sealed and vehicle-checking drives undertaken extensively. This has proved helpful in lowering the crime rate during the lockdown period. Moreover, we are tracking down all suspicious movement. The incidents of theft have come down as everyone is at home,” Kumar said and added that at some places, drones had been roped in to track movement on the streets. Another senior police officer said, “The number of road accidents has dropped significantly as fewer vehicles are on the roads during the lockdown period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-hq-crime-rate-drops-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75279165.cms||Ramashankar
April 22, 2020||Patna||Poor without ration cards to get Rs 1,000: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said all those poor families without ration cards and identified as eligible by the self-help groups of Jeevika would be provided financial assistance of Rs1,000 per family soon. “There should be no confusion over the issue,” he said at a review meeting with state chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials. While taking feedback on the transfer of Rs1,000 per family in the bank accounts of ration card holders, Nitish asked the chief secretary to tell the secretary, food, supply and consumer protection department, district magistrates and sub-divisional officers that all the families without ration cards but identified as eligible would be provided financial assistance of Rs1,000 per family. “After that, the administration will take necessary steps to issue ration cards to them after conducting proper inquiry,” Nitish said. He also made it clear that such families without ration cards and living in urban areas would also be provided Rs1,000 per family after their identification through a proper survey. “The urban development and housing department should complete this survey through the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) as early as possible,” Nitish said. The CM further asked the officials to ensure that the foodgrains being distributed through the public distribution system (PDS) shops are of good quality and their weight must be correct. “Stern action should be taken against the officials concerned if any complaint regarding the quality and weight is received,” Nitish said. He further asked the officials to extend at least by a week the date for filing claim for input subsidy against the crop loss due to untimely rains and hailstorm that took place in the month of February and March this year. The farmers who have so far not applied due to any reasons could make online application for that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-without-ration-cards-to-get-rs-1000-nitish/articleshow/75279510.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||People in Patna expect lockdown extension beyond May 3||PATNA: Several people, including doctors, teachers and residents are expecting another extension of the lockdown, which has been imposed till May 3 to contain Covid-19 spread. However, the poor and daily wagers are expecting some relief from home isolation to start working again for livelihood. Ashiana-Digha Road resident Ayush Kumar said the lockdown should continue till a vaccine for the virus is found. “Ending lockdown is like inviting death. I am hoping for another lockdown extension,” he said. Paediatrician Dr Vivekanand said the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing at rapid pace. “Only one Covid patient can transmit the virus in tens of hundreds of people and the government should not take any risk. Moreover, there are many hidden cases taking more than usual time to develop the symptoms. Hence, the authorities should lift the lockdown only in a staggered manner,” he said. Schools are also in favour of extended lockdown. International School director Farhat Hasan said the lockdown might affect the students but at least it is keeping them safe. “I hope the government finds some alternative plans to keep the students safe and away from getting infected. As far as studies are concerned, we are providing them with all necessary study materials online. Besides, proper online classes are being conducted for all students,” she said. Trade and industry bodies and economists also raised concerns over the increasing number of cases in the state and country. They, however, said any further extension would affect the country’s economy badly. “We definitely need another extension and it seems the government is preparing us for that because it will be very difficult for them to handle cases if we enter the third stage of the pandemic,” said Mukesh Kumar Jain, vice-president of Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries. Talking about the lockdown impact on industries, he said most of the workers have returned to their native villages and they are not even ready to come back. Aviral Pandey, assistant professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said the extent of losses will depend on the lockdown extension. “Both aggregate supply and demand have been impacted by Covid-19 pandemic. The state government’s focus now is on animal husbandry and agriculture as the lockdown has somewhat impacted these sectors adversely,” he said. Pandey said the pandemic might end up bringing a change in the mode of production. “The dependency on workers, especially migrants, might decrease with an increase in automated ways in several sectors in the coming times,” he said. Meanwhile, daily wage workers, especially autorickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers, are hopeful that the lockdown will end on May 3. “We have not received any help from the authorities and we are not even expecting anything now. We just hope the lockdown to end on May 3 and go back to work,” said Rinki Devi, a woman autorickshaw driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-expect-lockdown-extension-beyond-may-3/articleshow/75279532.cms||Archi Rani
April 22, 2020||Business||Oil in negative zone: MCX buyers face Rs 410 crore fund dues||MUMBAI: The negative closing for WTI crude on the Nymex on Monday night has caught a large number of Indian buyers of crude oil contracts on the MCX here on the wrong foot. These investors are now together expected to pay about Rs 410 crore to the sellers. This being a rare event that was not anticipated, most investors are finding it difficult to meet their obligations to settle the trades, commodity market players said. Some of the brokers who are on the losing side may even move court. The situation arose because, according to MCX’s rules, the WTI closing price for crude oil contracts will be the official settlement price of MCX crude futures contracts as well. Everything was fine till 5 pm on Monday when MCX closed trading according to the truncated trade hours due to the nationwide lockdown. However, about six hours after MCX closed, the WTI crude prices — for the first time in its history — entered the negative territory and closed at -$37.6 per barrel. At Monday’s close, the MCX crude for April was trading at Rs 965/barrel with one lot of the contract having 100 barrels. Initially MCX, due to some reason, announced a provisional settlement price of Re 1 for its crude contracts. However, there was hectic lobbying by brokers from both sides — those who were to pay Rs 410 crore in total, and those who were to get this money — throughout Tuesday to push their case. Finally, after Sebi intervened and said that the contracts’ conditions were sacrosanct, MCX announced the final per contract settlement price at a negative Rs 2,884. There were about 11,500 lots to be settled. At the changed settlement price, and a conversion rate of Rs 76-per-dollar, the total settlement amount that the buyers were to pay jumped from Rs 110 crore to Rs 410 crore, market players said. An MCX official, however, said that the provisional price was announced for the ease of calculation initially since it was for the first time the exchange was calculating with a negative price. “The final price was announced in the evening after the exchange had a detailed discussion internally and also with the regulator,” the official said. MCX officials were confident that all the brokers will pay up and there was no chance of any default. Sources said the commodities broking arm of Motilal Oswal group had the biggest payment obligation. A spokesperson for the group said that many of its clients had exposure in MCX crude contracts and were fully covered till the price was zero, and even little lower. Total due from the clients was about Rs 80 crore and there were no proprietary positions. “However, since this kind of unforeseen movement and settlement occurring nearly 400% lower than the last traded price, there was no way any broker could have ample cover to take care of such risks. But we are confident of fully recovering the money from clients,” the spokesperson said. “We are helping them with all the possible legal recourse. We hope the regulator will also look into this issue in the right perspective. The stand taken by the exchange is incorrect, illogical and unprecedented from the overall commodity derivative market ecosystem perspective.” On the other hand, those who are set to gain from this unusual price movement said that about 10 years ago, when crude prices had jumped to $150 level, they had taken their losses and paid up their dues without any protest. This group is also gearing up to protect their interests in case this lands in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oil-in-ve-zone-mcx-buyers-face-rs-410-crore-fund-dues/articleshow/75281415.cms||Partha Sinha
April 22, 2020||Chennai||60 Tamil Nadu infected have no source, experts flag community spread||CHENNAI: The curious case of some 60 people, mostly in Chennai, having tested positive with no trace of the source of infection has led public health experts to point to community transmission of Covid-19, though the TN government denies this. Out of the 1,596 cases so far, state officials could not trace the source of infection of more than 60 people. Most of them were from Chennai, including a patient who tested positive more than a month after the suspected primary source was found infected. Coronavirus live updatesAs state health officials continue to say that the spike in the number of cases was due to increased screening and rise of secondary infections, medical experts say these cases could be a sign of community transmission. Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, said the Chennai patient testing positive a month after contact with an infected person was a clear indicator of community transmission. He said the Chennai patient would have got the disease from some other infected person, as the virus has so far exhibited an incubation period of a maximum of only 14 days. “This particular virus is not that catching. Only a certain proportion of the people who come in contact with a case get infected. This person must have got it from somebody else. It is a very good example of what a community transmission looks like,” he said. Chennai has recorded the highest positive count in the state, with 358 cases as on Tuesday. “Most of the cases are related to that single cluster (Tablighi Jamaat). Without that, Tamil Nadu would have been in a better position. I am sure Chennai is also affected due to the same reason,” said Dr Abdul Ghafur, infectious diseases expert. Earlier this week, health minister C Vijayabaskar said there was no community transmission in the state and that the high numbers were due to the increased screening among asymptomatic close contacts and those with influenza-like illnesses. But experts blame it on a weak testing strategy. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of school of health systems studies, TISS, said the rising number of hotspots and locking down of neighbouring areas is itself an indication of community transmission and that the government is only uncovering the cases that had already existed as it has extended testing outside the cluster. He blamed the rising number of cases both in the state and the country to a weak testing strategy. “In Chennai, they are doing more tests because it has hotspots. They are testing influenza like illness and all symptomatic cases whereas it is not done in other places. There is a sense that if there is community transmission, Tamil Nadu will be in great danger. But the reality is, it was always there and once you cross 100 cases, it is more or less likely to be there. It is a phase in the way an epidemic spread,” he said. “The whole idea of community transmission has been tweaked into ridiculous levels. The government should admit to the existence of the problem and manage. We won’t blame them for that, but denial is very dangerous,” he added. He said it is time for the government to start managing the disease through proper public health approach instead of extending lockdown measures. Adopting a strategy to test all people with respiratory infections, isolation, good disease surveillance system, home quarantine of contacts and good ICU centre for treatment are ways to combat the disease after the lockdown is lifted. “Perhaps, lockdown is simpler for government because they do not have the confidence to do complex things that they need to do. Lockdown is not going to eliminate the disease. They should lift the lockdown because the disease will anyway come back,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/60-tn-infected-have-no-source-experts-flag-community-spread/articleshow/75282213.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 22, 2020||Patna||Patna: A N College students make masks||PATNA: With N95 and other surgical masks flying off the shelves following coronavirus outbreak, people in the city are largely dependent on cloth masks. In a bid to help officers of the First Bihar Artillery Regiment-Patna, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets of Anugrah Narayan College are busy stitching homemade masks these days. The students, who have made 250 masks over the last couple of days, said more masks would be stitched for the regiment officers. Some students of A N College doing this novel work are Adarsh Kumar, Rajneesh Raj, Avinash Kumar, Meenu Kumari, Soni Kumari and Abhishek Kumar. Abhishek Dutt, caretaker officer of NCC unit of the college, supervises the work. A N College principal S P Shahi said the NCC cadets of the college were earlier deployed at Mithapur vegetable market to help people maintain social distancing. “After the government’s advisory that homemade face masks are suitable for use, the NCC cadets started stitching masks,” he added. Lieutenant Shailesh Kumar Singh and college professor said cadets Soni and Meenu had some experience in stitching masks. “With their help, other cadets also learned the art of making masks. They are now working to provide homemade masks to the regiment to which our NCC unit is affiliated. The regiment will provide masks to its officers and other needy people,” Singh said, adding the cadets maintain social distancing while making the masks. Cadet Adarsh said he found this task very interesting. “We are happy to contribute something to the society,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-n-college-students-make-masks/articleshow/75279625.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Chided for video game binge, teen kills self in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Upset over his mother scolding him over continuously playing video games on mobile phone, a 13-year-old boy jumped to death from the eleventh floor of his apartment. The deceased, a Class 7 student and resident of Madhapur, jumped from his room’s balcony when his parents were asleep. “The family came to know what happened only after the watchman alerted them. We found no suicide note in the room,” said Madhapur inspector Venkat Reddy. According to the police, the boy had committed suicide in the wee hours of Monday. “His mother had recently scolded him for spending too much time on the smartphone playing games and took away the phone from him. We suspect that the boy was upset over this incident and committed suicide,” said police. The boy sustained a severe head injury and both his legs and ribs were broken. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. The deceased’s father is a general physician at a hospital in Patancheru. A case of suspicious death was registered at Madhapur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chided-for-video-game-binge-teen-kills-self/articleshow/75282820.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Only milk, medicines in several Pune areas for 2 days||PUNE: The city police have imposed additional stringent restrictions in areas severely affected by Covid-19 from 6am on Wednesday till Thursday midnight. The order, issued by joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve, states that only the sale of milk will be allowed in these areas from 10am to 12 noon over both days. However, medical stores can stay open round-the-clock. These areas come under the jurisdiction of 10 police stations in the city. The sale of all other items, including essential commodities like groceries, vegetables, fruits, poultry, mutton and eggs, as well as deliveries through e-commerce sites, will not be permitted in these areas. The order, issued under section 144(1)(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code late on Tuesday night, applies to the entire areas coming under the jurisdiction of the Khadak, Samarth, Faraskhana and Kondhwa police stations. The areas under the first three police stations constitute the central parts of the city. The order also applies to some areas coming under the jurisdiction of six other police stations — Swargate, Bund Garden, Dattawadi, Yerawada, Khadki and Wanowrie. These areas include Gultekdi, Maharshinagar, Dias Plot, Tadiwala Road, Janata Vasahat, Parvati Darshan, Shiv Darshan, Gadital, Khadki Bazaar, Kasai Mohalla, Patil Estate slums, Vikasnagar, Sayyednagar, Ramtekdi, Chintamaninagar and Handewadi. Speaking to TOI, Shisve said the additional restrictions were necessary to restrict people from coming out of their homes and to further maintain social distancing. He said most of these areas to which the order applies were highly congested. Shisve said the number of positive cases was high in the Pune municipal limits and described the rise in the last 10 days as “alarming”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-milk-meds-in-several-city-areas-for-2-days/articleshow/75282821.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 22, 2020||Surat||Meal from five-star hotel for Covid-19 patients at New Civil Hospital||SURAT: Eating out at the five-star hotels has become a dream, even for the Surat’s elite during the lockdown. But this is not the case with some 250-odd Covid-19 patients recuperating at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) here. These patients undergoing treatment at NCH get food prepared by city’s five-star hotel. Mariott Surat at Athwalines has come forward to feed the patients after they came to know that those admitted at NCH were unhappy with the quality of food being served to them. Few days ago, Majura MLA Harsh Sanghavi was flooded with complaints from the NCH patients regarding the quality of food. Talking with TOI, Sanghavi said, “I contacted the management of Mariott Surat for their help and they readily agreed to feed the patients with hygienic food twice a day starting from Tuesday.” According to Sanghavi, a city-based NGO, Shree Laxminath Seva Samiti has come forward to feed about 271 patients with suspected symptoms admitted at the isolation ward of NCH with quality meals twice a day. A Covid-19 positive patient at NCH on condition of anonymity said, “For the last many days, the quality of food had deteriorated. The rice would be half-cooked and the rotis were stale and stinking. The quality of food from the five-star hotel is awesome. This is first time that I am eating food from five-star hotel.” A senior doctor at NCH said, “Some NGO was supplying food packets to the patients at the Covid-19 hospital. However, patients were unhappy with the quality of food.” Amit Mehta, general manager, of Mariott Surat told TOI, “The meals cooked for the patients is balanced, nutritious and made in consultation with the doctors at the hospital. We will continue to serve two meals a day to the patients as part of our contribution in the fight against coronavirus.” Mehta added, “We are also feeding the police and hospital staff at the SMIMER hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/meal-from-five-star-hotel-for-covid-19-patients-at-nch/articleshow/75280096.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Surat||Covid spreads in three more south Gujarat districts||SURAT: Valsad, Tapi and Navsari joined the list of districts infected with Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Three persons, all less than 30 years in age, tested positive in Valsad on whom one succumbed while one case each was registered in Navsari and Tapi. Of them 21-year—old Sufiyan Kadri, who had brain tumour, died in Surat’s New Civil Hospital (NCH). Kadri was admitted since April 19. His mother, however, tested negative for Covid-19. Being a patient of brain tumour, Kadri had visited several hospitals in the past few months. "He went for a health check-up at NCH and due to symptoms, he was tested for Covid. He was under treatment after testing positive," said a health official in Valsad. Sagar Mangela, 30, a resident of Dehari in Umargam taluka, is the first case of Valsad to test positive on Monday night. Mangela, a fisherman, has no travel history and had returned from Mumbai around a month ago. One of his neighbours had returned from Mauritius around a month ago. Yash Patel, 22, a gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawan, working with Dungri police station and posted on highway checkpost for vehicle checking also tested positive. His brother, employed with Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd in Surat and travels daily between Dungri and Surat, tested negative on Tuesday. “In all the three cases, it isn’t clear from where the patients got infected,” said a health official. Valsad collector has declared three km area around Dehari, Asura and Dungri villages as containment area and restricted the movement, while an area up to seven km around these three villages was declared buffer zone. Woman tests positive in TapiSurat: Tapi police were a worried lot on Tuesday after a 35-year-old woman, whose house in Maypur village was raided for liquor two days ago, tested positive on Tuesday. The local crime branch (LCB) team had raided the house of Kansa Gamit on April 19 and booked her under sections of Prohibition Act. Police had recovered 10 litres of country liquor from her house. Eight policemen including two gram rakshak dal jawans have been put under home quarantine now. Tapi collector R J Halani said samples of her husband, son and daughter have also been taken along with those of the eight cops who raided her house. Six teams of health department are camping in the Maypur that has a population of around 1,131. First positive case in NavsariSurat: Navsari registered its first Covid-19 case on Tuesday when a 42-year-old man from Hansapore village of Jalalpore taluka tested positive. The patient Dinesh Halpat tested postive during a community sampling drive undertaken by the health officials in the talukas and villages across the district. Halpati works as a helper on a fishing boat. He had returned from Okha a few days ago. Sources said that Halpati is believed to have come in contact with positive patients from Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-spreads-in-three-more-south-gujarat-districts/articleshow/75280050.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Academics raise concern over appointment of vice-chancellors||PATNA: The recent action of the chancellor’s secretariat of appointing officiating vice-chancellors (VC) has been criticised by academics. Allegations have been levelled that most incumbents are being handed over the reins of the universities in utter violation of the statutory provisions. Only Patna University (PU), Magadh University, Veer Kunwar Singh University, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (BRABU) and Nalanda Open University (NOU) have full-fledged VCs. All others are being administered by officiating VCs, who have been given additional charge of other universities. Sources claimed that PU VC Rash Bihari Prasad Singh would complete his three-year term in 10 days and the VC of Patliputra University or NOU was likely to be given the additional charge of PU. PU English department’s former head Shiv Jatan Thakur told this newspaper, “Such a practice is gross violation of the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976, according to which the pro-VC of a university is empowered to perform the duties of the VC in his absence.” Thakur recalled that the Supreme Court, in its August 10, 2013 order, had directed that the seniormost teacher of the university may be appointed as the acting VC in the event of non-availability of both the VC and the pro-VC together. Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha also urged the chancellor to ensure that the statutory provisions for the appointment of acting VCs are implemented and the confidence of the academics towards transparency in governance is restored. However, refuting the allegations of academics, governor’s principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad said, “The governor has been making these appointments strictly according to the provisions of the Act and there is no aberration anywhere in recent appointments.” Meanwhile, the chancellor’s secretariat has advertised the posts of VCs of PU, Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU), Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University (BNMU), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) and Jai Prakash University (JPU) and the posts of pro-VCs of PU, TMBU, BRABU, LNMU, KSDSU, BNMU, JPU and Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/academics-raise-concern-over-appointment-of-vcs/articleshow/75278998.cms||B K Mishra
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bar Council of Gujarat gets 9,861 applications for financial aid||AHMEDABAD: As the Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG) has received 9,861 valid applications for financial assistance from young and struggling lawyers, a group of BCG members on Tuesday urged it to reconsider increasing the amount because the lockdown period has been extended from 21 to 40 days by the central government. The BCG has announced to pay Rs 5,000 amount towards support for the needy lawyers because court proceedings came to a standstill due to the lockdown. A section of lawyers including BCG members Paresh Vaghela, Gulabkhan Pathan, Mukesh Kamdar and Ranjitsinh Rathod has reiterated their demand to increase the assistance from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000. They said that the Bar has allocated Rs 5 crore for financial support of the struggling advocates and this fund should be increased. This section in BCG reiterated their demand after the deadline of making application for financial assistance. The BCG has received 18,823 applications online from across the state. After scrutiny and discounting repetition, there were 13,037 applications made properly by the lawyers. However, the Bar has provided for eligibility criteria including that of the family income, ownership of four-wheeler, government job of the spouse etc. The scrutiny further eliminated requests by ineligible advocates from a section of 47,000 lawyers, who enrolled with the Bar after 2006. There were 9,861 applications found to be valid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bar-council-gets-9861-applications-for-financial-aid/articleshow/75281333.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Catching bootleggers can’t ensure liquor-free society’||AHMEDABAD: The objective of a liquor-free society cannot be achieved merely by putting people in dungeon, as it is also not a “quick fix” solution. It requires a “deeper cleansing of minds, thoughts and souls” to achieve the Gandhian ideal, a local court observed about the state’s prohibition policy. The state of Gujarat always ascribes its liquor prohibition policy to the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi which the state follows because it is the homeland of the Father of the Nation. Granting bail to an alleged bootlegger, a city sessions court on Saturday said that to make society free of the vice of intoxication, merely spotting bootleggers and placing them in jail will not serve any purpose. Society requires much more than criminal action. Additional sessions judge S D Dave wrote, “This court is of the opinion that the concept of state intervention in prohibiting consumption of liquor draws inspiration from Gandhian thought on abstaining from vices of intoxication among others. That thought is subtle. It is not a quick fix shortcut solution and can neither be achieved by thrusting people behind bars. It involves a deeper cleansing of minds, thoughts and souls.” The court further posed a question to itself on the efficacy of criminal action against those involved in bootlegging, “Can we achieve that dream of Mahatma Gandhi by spotting these individuals – either alleged petty vendors or persons allegedly ‘caught’ with liquor? Liquor products must not only be strongly disapproved of but may not be seen secluded from factual backdrop in which these individual cases arise and the law of bails.” The case involved a Chandkheda resident, Santoshsinh Chauhan, who was booked and arrested along with others by the city crime branch earlier this year, when a large haul of liquor was caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/catching-bootleggers-cant-ensure-liquor-free-society/articleshow/75281273.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Groom refuses to marry online, bride’s father filed police complaint||BAREILLY: While the world frets over rising domestic violence cases among couples during lockdown, for one family in Bareilly, the threat has extended to even before the couple has tied the knot. And contrary to norm, the “victim” is the groom. The family of a Bareilly bride requested the groom, caught in Punjab due to the lockdown, to solemnise their marriage over a video call. When he refused, they approached police and lodged a complaint. Luckily, police haven’t registered an FIR in the unusual “case”. According to police, the groom’s family is ready for the marriage, but following all rituals, only after lockdown restrictions are lifted. It may be noted that with the current wedding season interrupted by the lockdown, there have been many instances of couples tying the knot over video calling. This incident was reported from Karua Sahabganj village in Kuladia area of Bareilly, where Shamsul Hasan had fixed his daughter Farjana’s marriage with Irshad Hussain. Irshad is stuck in Punjab and couldn’t return to Bareilly on, April 19, the wedding day, and he refused to marry over video call. On Monday, Shamsul approached Kuladia police station and demanded registration of an FIR against Irshad and his family for not turning up to marry his daughter, citing unmet dowry demands. Sub-inspector Vilak Ram has been entrusted the charge of investigating the complaint. The Bareilly additional SP (crime) told TOI, “Initially, the bride’s father alleged the groom hadn’t turned up because he had failed to meet dowry demands, but during the probe, it was found that he was stuck in Punjab due to the lockdown. Both families later agreed to compromise after the groom’s parents paid a compensation to the bride’s family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/groom-refuses-to-marry-online-brides-father-filed-police-complaint/articleshow/75279980.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 22, 2020||Surat||Covid spreads in three more south Gujarat districts||Surat: Valsad, Tapi and Navsari joined the list of districts infected with Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Three persons, all less than 30 years in age, tested positive in Valsad on whom one succumbed while one case each was registered in Navsari and Tapi. Of them 21-year—old Sufiyan Kadri, who had brain tumour, died in Surat’s New Civil Hospital (NCH). Kadri was admitted since April 19. His mother, however, tested negative for Covid-19. Being a patient of brain tumour, Kadri had visited several hospitals in the past few months. "He went for a health check-up at NCH and due to symptoms, he was tested for Covid. He was under treatment after testing positive," said a health official in Valsad. Sagar Mangela, 30, a resident of Dehari in Umargam taluka, is the first case of Valsad to test positive on Monday night. Mangela, a fisherman, has no travel history and had returned from Mumbai around a month ago. One of his neighbours had returned from Mauritius around a month ago. Yash Patel, 22, a gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawan, working with Dungri police station and posted on highway checkpost for vehicle checking also tested positive. His brother, employed with Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd in Surat and travels daily between Dungri and Surat, tested negative on Tuesday. “In all the three cases, it isn’t clear from where the patients got infected,” said a health official. Valsad collector has declared three km area around Dehari, Asura and Dungri villages as containment area and restricted the movement, while an area up to seven km around these three villages was declared buffer zone. Following the positive cases, the health department collected 421 samples for testing comprising family members, neighbours and people who may have come in contact with the positive persons. Of the samples tested, 45 results are pending while others have turned out to be negative. “Only movement of 108 ambulance is permitted in these areas while distribution of essential products will be done under supervision of district administration,” said district collector C R Kharsan. Meanwhile, five fresh positive cases were recorded from rural areas in Surat district on Tuesday, taking the total tally of positive cases to 15. Health officials said that two cases each from Umarpada and Kamrej taluka and one from Choriyasi taluka. The patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of the NCH. FIRST POSITIVE CASE IN NAVSARI Surat: Navsari registered its first Covid-19 case on Tuesday when a 42-year-old man from Hansapore village of Jalalpore taluka tested positive. The patient Dinesh Halpat tested postive during a community sampling drive undertaken by the health officials in the talukas and villages across the district. Halpati works as a helper on a fishing boat. He had returned from Okha a few days ago. Sources said that Halpati is believed to have come in contact with positive patients from Surat. A senior health officer said, “The entire village has been declared containment zone. People have been asked to stay indoors and supplies of essential goods will be taken care of by the administration.” Official sources said about 7.5 lakh houses have been surveyed in Navsari for suspected cases. About 164 people have been fined Rs 70,000 for spitting in public places. tnn WOMAN TESTS POSITIVE IN TAPI Surat: Tapi police were a worried lot on Tuesday after a 35-year-old woman, whose house in Maypur village was raided for liquor two days ago, tested positive on Tuesday. The local crime branch (LCB) team had raided the house of Kansa Gamit on April 19 and booked her under sections of Prohibition Act. Police had recovered 10 litres of country liquor from her house. Eight policemen including two gram rakshak dal jawans have been put under home quarantine now. Tapi collector R J Halani said samples of her husband, son and daughter have also been taken along with those of the eight cops who raided her house. Six teams of health department are camping in the Maypur that has a population of around 1,131. The village has been declared a containment zone and entry and exit from the has been stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-spreads-in-three-more-south-gujarat-districts/articleshow/75279734.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Surat||Two more die in Surat city, 43 test positive||Surat: The death toll due to Covid-19 in Surat climbed to 12 while 43 more tested positive on Tuesday.Taheera Abdulrazak Malek, 62, a resident of Banu Mansion at Khatkiwad in Lal Gate, died in New Civil Hospital (NCH) on late Sunday night. She was rushed to NCH after she complained of severe breathing problem. She also had diabetes, heart trouble and kidney disease. Malek died few hours after testing positive.Another 55-year-old woman Manju Raval, a resident of Padmanagar, Maan Darwaja tenement, who was admitted in NCH on April 18, succumbed.Meanwhile, majority of the 43 positive cases detected during the community sampling drive were from Maan Darwaja in Limbayat zone.Sources said that Khushal Parmar, 54, a volunteer of an NGO involved in the distribution of food packets in Rander, was infected. He is a resident of Shanti Kunj at Palanpur Jakatnaka.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani again asked citizens to maintain social distancing and wear face masks/ "Highest number of foreign travellers had come to Athwa zone area but only 7 positive cases have been reported till now from there. The highest number of cases have been reported from Limbayat zone. We must understand the important of social distancing,'' Pani said.In all, 41 teams are actively involved in surveillance in Limbayat which has turned into Covid hotspot.SMC has appealed to caterers in the city to come forward and provide their wash basins to public places like medical stores, grocery shops and other places where large number of people visit. Wash basins can be a major tool to break the chain and hand washing is an important practice. “Some NGOs have donated wash basins and I appeal people to provide wash basins and install them with liquid soaps so that people can wash their hands,” Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-die-in-surat-city-43-test-positive/articleshow/75279782.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||Direct sellers take biz online amid lockdown||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Direct selling — a model which works on personal relationships, including sizeable gatherings and one-on-one interactions — has not escaped the Covid-19 pandemic’s impact. However, direct sellers are finding ways to ensure business continuity. Amway India has witnessed a significant shift towards online orders, which have increased from about 34% in February 2020 to 100% now. The company is scaling up infrastructure to handle the load shift to its website. These orders are from Amway direct sellers and their customers with an approximate split of 50% each. It is working to re-instate last-mile connectivity. Amway India Enterprises CEO Anshu Budhraja said, “Our team is monitoring the evolving situation 24x7, and we connect daily with our partners and key stakeholders to review the developments and response strategy. We are leveraging digital technology by conducting all the important meetings and training programmes with direct sellers online. A total of 350 online training sessions have been conducted in the last seven days across regions. And since the platform is digital, we can cover a much larger number of direct sellers. So far, we have engaged with 50,000 direct sellers through online training programmes.” Direct selling engages micro-entrepreneurs and homemakers and is about skill-building. Companies expect that these will resonate even more in the future. Tupperware India is innovating with digital formats and platforms and encouraging its direct sellers to embrace technology and host virtual meet-ups and gatherings to drive sales. Tupperware, which entered the retail and e-tail market in August 2019, and has its products listed on leading market places, is empowering its salesforce to use social selling to generate demand. It is also extending rental support to franchise outlet owners during the lockdown. Tupperware India MD Deepak Chhabra said that the company underwent a strategic transformation from a direct-selling model to opening multiple channels of sales to serve latent demand. “Communication has been intensified with our direct sellers/customers via virtual media — both formal and informal. We continue to support our Tupperware Independent Reps as they turn to WhatsApp and Facebook for online businesses under the lockdown and staying home to avoid social gatherings. We are supporting them by highlighting products that provide solutions to numerous families, like how to make fresh food last longer, how to preserve bulk buying, create quick and easy meals and great ideas for family time while everyone is home together,” said Chhabra. Indian Direct Selling Association head Chetan Bhardwaj said the direct selling industry has been clocking a CAGR of 16% over the last four years. The size of the industry is over Rs 13,000 crore, with about 5.7 million direct sellers. “Direct selling is one sector which grows even during an economic downturn. Since a person does not require funds to join direct selling, more people come to this industry during a downturn. We are telling our members that once we are out of the current restrictions, we have the potential to outgrow our past numbers,” said Bhardwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/direct-sellers-take-biz-online-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75281327.cms||Namrata Singh
April 22, 2020||Business||New tools to help India Inc battle pandemic||Chennai: Sensing a business oppurtunity, consultancy firms are readying a range of cost management tools to help companies battle the pandemic. These have gained importance, as corporates shift focus from growth to being solvent.And the industry is calling it the new normal. Top consultancy firms like Bain, EY, Deloitte and Kearney are helping Indian companies to negotiate this new normal with specific products focussed on these needs. “We are helping clients simultaneously pursue “Act Now” or ‘Protect’, which relates to actions for business continuity and “Plan Now” or ‘Recover and Retool for the new normal’. The “Plan Now” model incorporates multiple tools such as scenario planning, consumer behaviour and channel insights, e-commerce acceleration and digital marketing, supply chain reinvention, M&A and partnerships” etc. In the new normal scenario, corporate leadership is interested in “securing the current” even as they think “deeply” about future “possibilities”, said Joydeep Bhattacharya, partner, Bain & Company. The common themes that top OEM and supplier priority list are immediate liquidity, people safety and the supply chain. “The linear nature of traditional supply is bothering everyone in the industry due to the Tier-2 & Tire-3 challenges of survival, whilst on the other side of the spectrum OEMs and Tier-1 suppliers will mostly be resilient,” said Vinay Raghunath, partner and leader, automotive sector, EY India.Already consultants are offering specific help with this. Take Deloitte which is assisting an industrial products company crank out a flexible supply chain model that’s less dependent on mid-sized companies who are under severe strain in the lockdown. The solution, said PS Easwaran , partner and leader supply chain, Deloitte India, is a “focus segmented supply chain model”. EY, will work with organisations to set-up control towers for better visibility of the supply chain, flow of products, inventory status, etc. which will enable companies to “make informed decisions to ensure||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-tools-to-help-india-inc-battle-pandemic/articleshow/75281852.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 22, 2020||Business||Swiggy to fire up to 1k kitchen staff||TNN Bengaluru: Online food delivery startup Swiggy is expected to lay off a significant part of the workforce in its private kitchens business, which includes brands The Bowl Company and Homely, according to sources briefed on the matter. The number of layoffs could run as high as 800-1,000 employees and is expected to be done from next month. The kitchens business has 3,000-4,000 employees, including some on contract. The development comes as the food delivery business has taken a significant hit due to the Covid-19 lockdown, with business falling 70-80%. Right now, only about two-thirds of the workforce in kitchens has shown up for work, said one of the persons mentioned earlier. The source added that, given social distancing norms, it is unlikely that kitchens will be able to operate with full capacity. Swiggy confirmed the development and said that it is renegotiating rents with landlords and even shutting down others. “We are evaluating various means to stay nimble and focused on growth and profitability across our kitchens…This will, unfortunately, have an impact on a certain number of kitchen staff who will be fully supported during this transition,” said a Swiggy spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-to-fire-up-to-1k-kitchen-staff/articleshow/75281379.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Closure of restaurants, sweet shops hits dairy industry hard||Jaipur: As restaurants, sweet shops and other consumers of milk stay shut during the lockdown, dairy industry in the state is facing the brunt as the demand for milk has declined as a result. The small and medium dairies are suffering huge losses and gallons of milk gets wasted every day. While dairy farmers are adopting methods to store milk, it cannot sustain for long. Ramdheen Gujjar, who was supplying 100 litre of milk before says, “There is an immense problem of storing the milk. All these days, we have been extracting ghee, but now, we have a storage problem.” During summers, milk production dips and demand goes up. However, the dairy owners are facing a difficult situation. With supplies taking a hit, there is hardly any demand for milk products. Ratan Singh, a farm owner near Alwar says, “In our area, many farmers survive on livestock business, as there is an immense demand of milk. The government should ensure that milk is collected from the farmers at minimum price, as feeding cattle is also costly.” As the distribution channel is affected, Rajasthan Cooperative Dairy Federation (RCDF) has reduced its milk collection from dairy owners. In Jaipur district, as many private owners have shut down milk booths in the state capital, Jaipur dairy is struggling to deliver milk and other products even as demand has increased manifold. In the absence of distribution channels, the supply of milk in Jaipur has been reduced from 8.25 lakh litre to 7 lakh litre per day. An official said, “After witnessing reduction in milk collection during the lockdown, the problem of distribution arose...As distribution channels have been disrupted, the collection has been decreased deliberately to 8 lakh litre per day now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/closure-of-restaurants-sweet-shops-hits-dairy-industry-hard/articleshow/75282216.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||Birla holding co Pilani to raise Rs 1,000cr||Kolkata/Mumbai: Pilani Investment & Industries, the holding company of some of the Birla group of companies, is raising Rs 1,000 crore by issuing commercial papers (CPs), a type of short-term corporate bonds, the company told the exchanges on Tuesday. According to company sources, Pilani Investment, controlled by Kumar Mangalam Birla with a 59% shareholding, the fund-raising is aimed at investing in group companies, including to increase stakes in those entities. In the past few years, Pilani Investment has raised stakes in Vodafone Idea and Kesoram Industries. The shareholding of Pilani Investment has been a matter of litigation for about two decades as Birlas are at loggerheads with Harsh Lodha, whose father was bequeathed a substantial stake in this company by a Birla family heir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birla-holding-co-pilani-to-raise-rs-1000cr/articleshow/75281764.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||Patna: Lockdown relaxation a boon for technicians, daily wagers||PATNA: The partial lockdown relaxation has provided a sigh of relief to workers in unorganised sector, technicians, daily wagers, dhaba wallahs and farmers, who have resumed work after nearly four weeks. Ravindra Kumar, a technician from Mithapur locality in the city, said he received several calls from people regarding problems they have been facing in their devices. “I attended only one customer on Monday as he was in urgent need. Keeping the current situation in mind, I wear mask and gloves while leaving home. Besides, I maintain distance from customers and suggest them to stay at least three feet away from me,” he said. A tea seller at Zero Mile, Shanti Devi, was quite elated to resume her business. “I was running short of money following the lockdown. The partial relaxation has come as a boon for me and other tea sellers and daily wagers, who work day and night to meet their basic necessities. Even though the number of customers is much less than what it used to be earlier, I am still happy as something is better than nothing,” she said. Some others, however, said they are facing hassles in resuming work. Fateh Alam, an electrician from Exhibition Road said he was stopped by cops at several places on Monday. “Despite showing all the documents of the vehicle and even my tools, I was not allowed to move on the roads. I had been at home for 28 days with no income. Last week, when it was announced that electricians will be allowed to go to houses for repairing electronics and other devices, I thought my problems would end from Monday. However, the kind of treatment I received from police personnel was disappointing,” Alam said. Banti Kumar, owner of a dhaba on Bailey Road, he has applied for vehicle pass. The animal and fisheries resources department has also issued passes to poultry owners and non-vegetarian shops. District animal husbandry officer Anuranjan Kumar Gautam said at least 40 poultry shop owners have got vehicle passes. “The shopkeepers have been asked to follow safety measures,” he said. Road construction department engineer Sumit Kumar Rai said he follows all the guidelines issued by the government. “We are taking all precautionary measures like maintaining social distancing, calling the staff on alternate days, wearing face masks and using sanitizers, while at work. As several infrastructure projects have resumed, we are trying our best to complete work by following all safety measures and maintaining hygiene,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-relaxation-a-boon-for-technicians-daily-wagers/articleshow/75279558.cms||Archi Rani
April 22, 2020||Business||WhatsApp ups video-call user limit to 8 from 4||BENGALURU: Popular messaging application WhatsApp is doubling the number of callers that can participate in group video conversations to eight people from the existing four as the communication mode sees a significant uptake across the world during lockdowns. The update is already available to some customers, with a broader rollout expected in 1-2 weeks, said a source briefed on the matter. WhatsApp, which has over 400 million monthly active users in India, did not respond to an emailed query on this matter. Earlier in the month, WhatsApp had told TOI that it has witnessed a rise in messaging, voice and video calls in general during the lockdown. The Facebook-owned platform has been making changes amid the pandemic when people are spending more time on its app. Earlier this month, WhatsApp put new restrictions on users who can forward messages to just one person or group at one time once it has been previously forwarded 5 times or more. The latest development comes at a time when the home ministry’s Cyber Coordination Centre said that “Zoom is a not a safe platform”, advising government employees to not use it because of security concerns and privacy lapses. The US-based Zoom, which is also being used to conduct school classes besides for work, and Houseparty, which is used by friends and family, are seeing increasing traction, as TOI reported on April 15. “With everyone locked in, there is no better time to roll this out, when people are working from home and one wants to talk to people (at work or family/friends). WhatsApp’s vast majority of users are consumers (individuals), while Zoom is primarily a corporate solution and its issues do have a direct impact on corporates,” said Rahul Matthan, partner at Trilegal, who heads technology practice for firms and authored a book on data privacy. According to Matthan, security is not a major concern here when WhatsApp has said its platform has end-to-end encryption, meaning a third party cannot access it. “Even for Zoom, most of the problems are caused when people are not using security features.” Monthly downloads of video-calling application Zoom have increased 17-fold from 500,000 in February to over 8.7 million in March, topping the Google app store in the country. Similarly, Houseparty saw active users increase about 16 times in the same time period. Right now, Zoom allows up to 100 participants in its basic plan, while Houseparty limits it to eight people. Several Indian companies offering a similar service have also seen a consumption spike in their products. Bengaluru-based startup Airmeet, which does conferences online, has seen time spent on its platform jump from 500 minutes per day in February to 500,000 minutes per day now. The nine-month-old startup, backed by venture capital firm Accel, has seen members of NITI Aayog and Data Security Council of India host events on the platform. “Browsers are mature software and do not allow unchecked access to users’ local data. We are fully browser-based and require no downloads — this is much better for security and safety,” said founder Lalit Mangal. Zoho, India’s largest software-as-a-service company based out of Chennai, has also been seeing a jump in downloads for its application Zoho Meeting. The company said that it also has data centres in India to ensure security, and is seeing traction in the education sector as well. “Zoho Meeting has seen a 700% increase in daily new users in March and it has crossed 1440% in April already. DAU (daily active users) based on the usage has increased by 240% and MAU (monthly active users) by 247% in March,” said Rajendran Dandapani, director of technology, Zoho.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-ups-video-call-user-limit-to-8-from-4/articleshow/75281464.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 22, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar too finds faults in rapid test kits||PATNA: After the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked states on Tuesday not to use “faulty” anti-body rapid test kits for two days, Bihar health department too said there were defects in the kits recently received from the Centre. As of now, real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method is used to conduct Covid-19 tests in Bihar. The ICMR asked the states not to use rapid test kits after Rajasthan complained about faults in them. “We conducted trials of the kits at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. The results of the tests conducted even on Covid-19 positive cases came negative. We are of the view that the accuracy of these kits is doubtful and we have communicated the same to ICMR as well,” Sanjay said. Sanjay had issued a statement on April 18 about supply of 6,240 rapid test kits to Bihar by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. “It’s an antibody-based kit. The department is formulating a comprehensive strategy for its use,” Sanjay had tweeted. Meanwhile, another senior official in the health department said the ICMR has developed a portal on which the state governments can register their test centres and label the rapid test kits for proper documentation. “The states will get two days to complete these formalities,” the official said. ICMR, the apex medical body in India, had announced the introduction of the antibody-based rapid test kits for Covid-19 on April 4. These kits can be effectively used for conducting blood tests on people having influenza-like symptoms in Covid containment zones, border entry and exit points and large gatherings. Well-known physician from Muzaffarpur and an expert in studying acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) cases, Dr Arun Shah said rapid test kits cannot be very effective in diagnosis of Covid cases, but they are useful for screening those who have recovered from the infection. “A rapid antibody test is conducted to diagnose presence of two antibodies – IgM and IgG. If a person is infected with any viral or even bacterial infection, his body initially develops IgM antibody. The same happens in the case of Covid-19 virus. The antibody IgM can be detected from the seventh day after contracting the virus. IgG, on the other hand, is developed after a person recovers from the viral infection. Thus, such rapid test can be effective in screening the individual with history of infection and the ones who develop natural immunity for the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-bihar-too-finds-faults-in-rapid-test-kits/articleshow/75279485.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 22, 2020||Patna||Private hospitals resume operations in Bihar, rue lack of safety gears||PATNA: After 28-days of the lockdown, private hospitals, clinics, diagnostic centres and pathology labs resumed services in the state on Tuesday following the health department’s order on Monday directing such establishments to restart services for general patients. However, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Bihar, has expressed concern over this order to private health care facilities to resume services amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The association has demanded that the state government provide safety equipment, including N95 masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) kit – gloves, surgical suit and mask— to private hospitals at subsidized rates. Dr Sunil Kumar, secretary of IMA Bihar, told this newspaper on Tuesday that the private establishments have resumed the services, and the doctors and medical staffs are willingly working, but they need protective gears and other facilities for their safety. “The state government should follow a safety protocol before issuing such advisory,” Kumar said. He added, “Many private hospitals do not even have microbiology lab, physicians and experts for Covid-19 testing of samples. Even if some hospitals have that facility, they need rapid test kits for dedicated Covid-19 testing. The doctors and health teams need protective gears because they can’t know if the patient visting is a carrier of the virus.” Several hospitals and private clinics are worried about their ability to treat patients with current hospital resources. Dr Ranjan Kumar, who runs a private clinic in Kakerbagh, said most of his staff are unable to join as they are from hotspot zones. “There is low supply of N95 masks, PPE kits and sanitizers. So, there are chances of virus contraction from asymptomatic patients and I would put many people at risk,” he said. Another surgeon, Dr Sudhir Kumar, also expressed the same concern. “On an average, we receive 20 patients who come for chest and breathing problems. If any of them are asymptomatic Covid-19 patient then the whole hospital staff and their family members will get affected. The district administration then will seal our hospitals as well like they sealed other hospitals on Bypass road,” he said. He added, “The number of cases would go up. We want to work because it is the only source of income for us but we also need protective gears.” Dr BB Bharti, director of a private hospital at Khemnichak said, “The OPD, ICU and emergency services have resumed today but the number of patients is low because of no public transportation. We are also facing many difficulties in getting precautionary items due to the lockdown,” he said. Health department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said on Tuesday that private establishments are being asked to take care of only non-covid cases. “Private establishments must provide treatment of non-covid cases in the larger interest of the society. We have said that as soon as they suspect anyone having symptoms of Covid-19, they should inform the civil surgeon and everything will be taken care of thereafter,” Sanjay said. Kumar added, “When the government can procure these equipment from the market, the private hospitals can also procure on their own. They never take permission for procurement of other equipment,” he said. He added: “When the private practitioners are running the hospitals, they need to take care of safety measures and follow the guidelines of Centre for Covid- 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospitals-resume-operations-rue-lack-of-safety-gears/articleshow/75279461.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 22, 2020||Surat||City docs demand law on violence against healthcare workers||Surat: About 3,500 doctors in Surat will join nationwide protest to demand enactment of a central law on violence against healthcare workers. The doctors will observe 'white day' on April 22 and 'black day" on April 23 demanding protection of healthcare workers against growing incidents of violence and discrimination during coronavirus outbreak across the country. Dr Parul Vadgama, president of Surat IMA, said "Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers have been denied entry into housing colonies and harassed. Funeral of a doctor in Chennai, who was suspected to have been infected with Covid-19, was obstructed. Thus, we demand a law to protect healthcare workers." Dr Vadgama added, "Doctors will work wearing white apron on April 22 and black ribbon on April 23 as a part of the protest."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/city-docs-demand-law-on-violence-against-healthcare-workers/articleshow/75279812.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||Hotel to provide accommodation to corona warriors||Vadodara: A city-based hotel has taken up the task of providing accommodation to people at the front of the war against Covid-19. The gesture will come as a major relief to many, particularly those who are at high risk and may not want to go home and put their family members at risk. Across the country, there are examples of doctors staying away from home as they are handling Covid-19 patients. A doctor had even stay put in his car for a few days in Bhopal before he was provided accommodation. Nazarmohammed Sheliya, managing director of Hotel Furatt International in Sayajigunj, said 25 rooms in his hotel will be blocked for officials. “We are coordinating with district collectorate, city police, SSG Hospital and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to ask them to use the facility.” Sheliya said doctors and other officials were working overtime to handle the situation. “This is our gesture to recognize their efforts,” he said. Sheliya’s uncle Kammarali Sheliya said he will be taking care of the guests and look into their needs. “Other hotels of our relatives have taken up similar initiatives in north Gujarat,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hotel-to-provide-accommodation-to-corona-warriors/articleshow/75279962.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 more trips for Kankaria-Bhimsen parcel train||Ahmedabad: The Western Railway will run two more trips of a parcel special train between Kankaria and Bhimsen.Train No. 00939, the Kankaria–Bhimsen parcel special train, will leave Kankaria at 10pm on Wednesday and reach Bhimsen at 5pm the next day. Train No. 00940 will leave Bhimsen on Saturday at 12.40am and reach Kankaria at 7.30am the next day. The train will halt at Anand, Godhra, Ratlam, Ujjain, Maksi, Bhopal, Bina, and Jhansi on both journeys. The WR has made available a dedicated 24X7 helpline, 9004490982, for any queries regarding the transportation of essential goods. An email ID has also been created: cmicccg@gmail.com.According to railway officials, on Monday nine parcel special trains departed including Ahmedabad-Guwahati, Surat-Bhagalpur, Porbandar–Shalimar, Bandra Terminus–Ahmedabad-Ludhiana, Okha–Trivandrum, Kankaria–Sankrail goods terminal, Bhuj–Dadar, Bandra Terminus–Okha and Okha–Bandra Terminus. Besides these parcel special trains, one milk special rake was also dispatched from Palanpur to Hind Terminal.Officials said that between March 23 and April 19, thirteen milk special trains were run by Western Railway, with a load of more than 9,000 tonnes. The 100% utilization of the wagons generated a revenue of Rs 1.58 crore. Four indented rakes carrying 1,864 tonnes were run with 100% utilization, generating revenue of more than Rs 77 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-more-trips-for-kankaria-bhimsen-parcel-train/articleshow/75281316.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||RBI approves City Union Bank appointment||Chennai: The RBI has approved the re-appointment of N Kamakodi MD&CEO of Kumbakonam-based City Union Bank, till 2023.Kamakodi had joined the Bank as DGM in 2003, and was elevated to the post of GM in 2005. He later held the position of Executive Director in 2006. He took charge as MD & CEO of CUB from May 2011.He is a Bachelor of Technology in Chemical Engineering, an MBA from Chinese University of Hong Kong, PhD in e-Banking and a CAIIB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-approves-city-union-bank-appointment/articleshow/75281905.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Wedding blues in lockdown time||JAIPUR: Due to lockdown, all the weddings that were to be held in March and April have been cancelled. The marriage garden owners, caterers and beauticians, however, are not returning the advance amounts received leaving their clients helpless. Deepshika Meena’s marriage was scheduled for April 11 in Jaipur which is now cancelled without any return from the marriage garden owners. “We paid Rs 1.5 lakh for a day to the garden owners in Mansarovar. He is not ready to pay back, but assuring us that they will adjust it in whatever next date will be suitable to us. For the next six months, we cannot organise any event and there will be advance bookings for other people in November and December. How are they going to adjust us?” said Deepshika. Thousands of marriages were cancelled due to the pandemic. Marriage gardens, beauty salons, caterers and decorators – most of them are unwilling to pay back their clients. Nikita Mehta from Ajmer had Rs 3 lakh stuck in this situation. Her family booked a nearby community hall for the mehndi ceremony and the councillor is not ready to pay back. “The community hall is under the local councillor, but he has refused to pay us back. There is no definite date of wedding any more. We want the government to intervene and take action in this regard,” Nikita said. The government is yet to take any decision in this regard and no announcement has been made yet. The Rajasthan Marriage Garden Association, however, said they will return the money to the people who demand and adjust it for those who are ready to wait. General secretary of the association Bhawani Singh said, “We had a meeting and have decided that we will return the money to people who want it back. And also we are ready to adjust the booking amount for the next date. Any person facing any such issue can approach us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wedding-blues-in-lockdown-time/articleshow/75282207.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Business||Exporters face losses on forward dollar contracts||MUMBAI: Many exporters who have sold their anticipated dollar revenues in the forward market are staring at a crisis as they risk losing millions. While the dollar’s market rate has soared compared to the rate at which they were sold, the lockdown has stalled exports. Small businesses are worried of the cash loss they will suffer when banks debit their accounts for the difference in the dollar rates when they fail to deliver. Exporters sell a large part of their expected revenues in the six-month or one-year forward markets. By doing so, they are not only guaranteed an exchange rate but also earn a small premium as the dollar is expected to be worth more in future. Now that many export shipments are stalled either in factories, warehouses, in transit or even at the destination port because of the Covid-19 lockdown, they are not earning dollars. As against the 72-levels at which the forward contracts were struck, the greenback is now inching towards Rs 77. The Apparel Exporters Promotion Council (AEPC) has written to the RBI, highlighting the big loss that exporters would suffer because of the penalty that banks are charging on cancellation of forward cover and the exchange rate differential that they are asked to pay. “It is requested that the charges for the exchange rate fluctuations and cancellations are waived for the period of which export orders have been cancelled due to Covid-19,” said AEPC chairman A Sakthivel in the letter to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. According to K N Dey, founder of United Financial Consultants, which advises firms on forex, banks can help exporters tide over the situation by giving them 90 more days to deliver the dollars at the same price as the existing forward cover. “If the banks allow the exporter to deliver after 90 days at the forward cover price, they will earn a decent premium and avert a crisis,” said Dey. If the client does not realise the dollar earning even after 91 days, the bank will automatically reverse at the last day and debit the loss amount. “If this is allowed, it will be like a stimulus package for exports which are major employers,” said Dey. Currently, the rupee continues to be under pressure because, while importers are covering their requirements, the exporters are out of the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/exporters-face-losses-on-forward-contracts/articleshow/75281428.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 22, 2020||Business||ICICI’s $100 million loan at risk, stock falls 8%||MUMBAI: Shares of ICICI Bank crashed 8% on Tuesday following news that it had a $100-million exposure to a trading firm Hin Leong being investigated by Singapore for irregularities, including hiding its losses. The private bank on Tuesday confirmed the exposure, stating that it is taking steps to protect its interest. On Monday, news agencies had reported that ICICI Bank was making attempts to impound two tankers belonging to a unit of Hin Leong after news of the losses emerged. The trading firm owes global banks almost $4 billion.  According to a court filing, HLT’s founder and director Lim Oon Kuin had directed his firm not to disclose hundreds of millions of dollars in losses over several years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icicis-100m-loan-at-risk-stock-falls-8/articleshow/75281630.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Head constable’s booze video goes viral, arrested||SURAT: Rander police arrested a head constable on Tuesday for allegedly boozing while on duty in Adajan. A video of the cop drinking liquor went viral on social media based on which an offence was registered. Police arrested Raju Gadhvi, head constable, for consuming liquor while in uniform, sitting in a welding and refrigeration shop near Prime Arcade. The video was shot and shared on social media by some local resident. Based on the video, police conducted preliminary investigation and found the contents to be true. After gathering details police registered an offence against Gadhvi. “The accused has been arrested. We are now investigating into who arranged the liquor for him and who else was involved in it,” said an official. Meanwhile, Lalji Pandor, assistant sub inspector of State Reserve Police, whose video on thrashing a boy with a stick went viral, was suspended by his senior on Monday. Pandor was on patrolling duty in Pandesara when he thrashed the boy on Monday afternoon. The incident was shot on a mobile phone camera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/head-constables-booze-video-goes-viral-arrested/articleshow/75279867.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar cabinet okays recruitment of over 33,000 schoolteachers||PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday gave its sanction to the education department’s proposal to recruit 33,916 teachers in the secondary and higher secondary schools being opened in panchayat areas that did not have these schools until recently. The 33,916 teachers to be appointed include, 32,916 teachers for secondary schools, and 1,000 computer teachers in the higher secondary schools. The cabinet also cleared the proposal to bring the issuance of ration cards and also the new ration cards issued by the food supply and consumer protection department complying with the Food Security Act under the purview of the state’s Right to Public Services Act (RTPS) Act, 2011. The decision has been taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic because of which free quota of rice and pulses was being provided to PDS ration card holders. The government has also decided to provided food quota to non-ration card holders to comply with the Food Security Act. Further, the cabinet also cleared the resolution adopted by the government to provide food to ration card holders in compliance with the food security Act in the situation arising from the coronavirus pandemic. The cabinet gave its nod to the government’s proposal moved by the finance department to make payments to contractual staff and the external agencies, which have been pooled in to execute assigned works in the context of the coronavirus outbreak. The cabinet also gave its clearance to Rs 45.09 crore worth of schemes prepared by the water resources department for carrying out anti-erosion work between Bali Tola and Sabalpur Pachhiyari Tola along the left bank of the river Ganga in Saran district. Besides, the government’s proposal to provide piped drinking water supply in Rafiganj Nagar Panchayat of Aurangabad district. While the project was moved by the urban development and housing department for the 2020-21 financial year, its execution would entail an expenditure of Rs 38.63 crore. In another proposal from the same department, the cabinet also gave its sanction to the release of Rs 130 crore worth of state’s share to be used on the execution of projects under the AMRUT scheme during the 2020-21 fiscal. That apart, the cabinet cleared the government’s proposal to refinance South Bihar Gramin Bank and North Bihar Gramin Bank, which would be paid Rs 33.52 crore in tune with their needs pertaining to 2019-20 and 2020-21 financial years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-oks-recruitment-of-over-33k-schoolteachers/articleshow/75278961.cms||Abhay Singh
April 22, 2020||Patna||Goons’ bullet kills Patna youth standing in his balcony||PATNA: One Sunny Kumar (24) was killed at Noon Ka Chauraha under Khajekala police station in Patna City around 8pm on Monday. The incident happened when Sunny was standing in his balcony while the NCC cadets were trying to convince some antisocial elements to maintain social distancing. The irritated goons opened fire and the bullet hit Sunny, who succumbed to injuries in a private hospital. Four persons had been arrested in the case, police said. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the locals told the police that NCC cadets had reached the spot and tried to make some youths understand the importance of social distancing after which the incident took place. “There is a vacant plot of land where some antisocial elements had gathered. The antisocial elements probably did not take the cadets seriously and got involved in hooliganism during which one of them opened fire in the air and the bullet accidentally hit the youth standing in the balcony of his residence situated in the narrow lane,” the SSP said. Sharma said Sunny was initially rushed to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for treatment after which his family shifted him to a private hospital where he died during treatment after midnight. “Five persons have been named in the FIR lodged with Khajekala police station. Four of them, including two brothers and their parents, were arrested. One of the brothers is still evading arrest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/goons-bullet-kills-youth-standing-in-his-balcony/articleshow/75279024.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||Government assistance eludes several migrant workers outside Bihar||PATNA: Many migrants workers from Bihar are stuck in Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan due to nationwide lockdown. However, a few of them turned lucky while many others are to yet get any financial help from Bihar government. Asha Devi (35) of Basopatti in Madhubani district is also stuck in Delhi’s Nayi Basti Kishanganj locality. She is among dozens of migrant workers from Bihar waiting for the state government’s help. Her husband Saroj Yadav (40) used to earn over Rs400 daily by selling consumer items on roadside. Now, her family has been pushed to the brink of starvation. “We have already exhausted our savings. Now we are surviving on the meal served to the people at a nearby community kitchen run by an NGO. How long we will survive on this?” Saroj asked. On the contrary, disaster management department’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said around 17 lakh people have already registered themselves through aapda.bih.nic.in website launched for migrant workers. Of them, over 11.5 lakh have been provided Rs1000 each and the remaining are in the pipeline. “The amount will be transferred in their bank accounts soon,” he said. According to the DMD authorities, the department’s helpline received 1400 to 1500 calls every day. Around 200 quarantine-cum-relief centres were operational in the state to accommodate nearly 70,0000 migrants workers who returned from different states after the lockdown. “Now the state government has decided to provide relief to them on the pattern of flood victims,” Amrit said, adding that inhabitants of relief camps would be provided sari, dhoti, utensil, soap and toothpaste among other things. Demand to bring back migrant workers: Rajya Sabha member-elect AD Singh has urged the Nitish Kumar government to take urgent measures to bring back stranded Bihari migrant workers. In a statement here, Singh said, “The lockdown has rendered lakhs of Bihari migrants jobless. They are daily wagers and have run out of cash for lack of work. Help from authorities in states where they are stuck is erratic and woefully inadequate.” Singh has been elected to the Rajya Sabha on RJD ticket. He said while voluntary organizations are helping the workers, they cannot be expected to ameliorate the plight of the self-respecting Biharis. “It is high time the state government took steps to coordinate with the Centre and other the states to bring our people back. Their return can be organized while ensuring social distancing norms,” Singh said. He said the trauma of joblessness and being away from home and without alternative safety net poses serious risk to the mental health of the migrants. He also said the state government should call an all-party meeting to plan the return of Bihari migrants stuck in other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-assistance-eludes-several-migrant-workers-outside-state/articleshow/75279075.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||Earth Anthem video set to be released on Wednesday||PATNA: Nalanda-born poet and diplomat Abhay Kumar, who has a number of globally acclaimed poems and books to his credit, will make another contribution in spreading awareness about mother nature as a video on ‘Earth Anthem’ penned by him will be released on the occasion of golden jubilee celebrations of Earth Day on Wednesday. The video has been produced by violin maestro and composer Dr L Subramaniam and sung by Kavita Krishnamurti Subramaniam and Bindu Subramaniam. A 2003-batch officer of Indian Forest Services, Abhay penned the Earth Anthem in 2008 in St. Petersburg, Russia inspired by the ideal of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ from the ancient Indian texts and the blue marble image of the Earth taken from space by the crew of Apollo 17. “The global spread of coronavirus has proved our interdependence once again. Whichever country we come from, we cannot remain indifferent. Similarly, environmental pollution, biodiversity loss and climate change affect all of us,” Abay said. Maestro Dr Subramaniam said, “We are dependent on nature and we are part of nature. We are not the masters of nature. It doesn’t belong to us. We have to co-exist with mountains, oceans, trees and all living beings and so we cannot afford to harm the planet in any way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/earth-anthem-video-set-to-be-released-today/articleshow/75279104.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: FIR fear deters industrial units||AHMEDABAD/VADODARA: Even as several units have been granted approvals to resume operations from April 20, many are going slow in reopening thanks to confusion and the fear of prosecution. About 250 firms in the Sanand Industrial Estate near Ahmedabad have received the nod for starting operations but barely 10 have done so since Monday. Ceramic manufacturing units in Morbi are yet to begin production. According to industry associations, there is a fear among factory owners that an FIR will be filed against them if a positive case of Covid-19 is reported at their units. Morbi Ceramics Association (MCA) and Sanand Industries Association (SIA) had recently made representations to the district collector and other state government authorities regarding their concern. The government of Gujarat, however, clarified that no such clause of filing FIRs against factory owners has been included while permitting industrial units to resume operations. “Only if there is a case of deliberate negligence reported or found, where a coronavirus positive case surfaces in an industrial unit, will appropriate action be taken,” said M K Das, principal secretary, industries and mines department, the Government of Gujarat. “The state government has taken no decision to file an FIR against factory owners if a case is reported. In fact, detailed guidelines have been issued by the state government for maintaining hygiene and social distancing, by introducing standard operating procedures at the units.” Concerned over stringent norms and the fear of FIRs, Nandesari Industries Association (NIA) in Vadodara district on April 20 informed the local administration about its intention to not run the units. However, it revoked the decision after a clarification from the local authorities. “Office-bearers of NIA had made a representation on Monday terming the guidelines stringent,” confirmed Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal. “But on Tuesday, it submitted another representation stating that operations had started. They were under the wrong impression that if any worker is found infected with Covid-19, an FIR will be lodged against the owner of the premises.” She went on to say: “We have made it clear to them that as per the new notification, there is no provision of an FIR if any worker is found positive.” In Vadodara, the district administration has granted permission to 531 units in the district to restart their operations, of which 136 units are of Nandesari. Meanwhile, SIA president, Ajit Shah said that less than 5% units have resumed operations in Sanand industrial estate over the fear of prosecution and other issues related to arranging transportation for workers. Nilesh Jetparia, the president of MCA, said, “We had raised the issue before the Morbi district collector as well as the industries and mines department of the state government.” Jetparia went on to say: “However, we were assured that there is no question of prosecuting industrial unit owners. A few other issues remain and once the confusion is cleared, we will resume operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-fear-deters-industrial-units/articleshow/75281201.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Now, 28,000 industrial units functioning||GANDHINAGAR: The state government said on Tuesday that 27,800 industries started functioning on the second day of the lockdown relaxation in areas outside limits of municipal corporations and municipalities. Ashwani Kumar, secretary to CM, said 27,800 industries have been granted permission and have begun functioning. “Over 1.80 lakh workers and labourers have resumed their duties in these industries,” the official said. He also added that around 1.34 lakh quintals of grain have been traded at the 120 APMCs which resumed operations from April 15. The CM had a telephonic conversation with the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh to assure him complete support for the stranded fishermen of Andhra Pradesh in Veraval amidst the lockdown. The state government will take care of their food, accommodation and health safety, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-28k-industrial-units-functioning/articleshow/75281235.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Busting myths about bats: Much misunderstood friends||CHENNAI: The Indian Council of Medical Research’s declaration that bats in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and another state were found carrying the virus may have strengthened the theory that living around them is dangerous, but independent researchers say nothing can be farther from the truth. Rohit Chakravarty of Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research, Berlin, Germany says he ad handled 1,200 bats in his eight years of study and never contracted any disease. Pointing out that bats are gentle animals that have co-existed peacefully with humans for centuries, he adds: “Please do not push for removing bats from your neighbourhood. Don’t let unverified news about a virus outbreak end our peaceful coexistence with bats.” Jayanthi Kalam, executive director of Bengaluru-based Avian and Reptile Rehabilitation Trust whose centre got 15 calls after the Covid-19 outbreak wanting bats in many neighbourhoods translocated, says they are extremely important for the ecosystem and that no attempt should be made to disturb their life pattern. Almost all researchers agree that translocation of any species does not solve the problem. Arguing against any such move, Rohit said bats are important indicators of a healthy ecosystem. Any attempt to move them from housing complexes or parks to another place will put them under extreme stress. A stressed bat population is likely to contract diseases and spread pathogens. Forcible eviction will reduce their immunity and increase transmission of disease among them, he warns. There have been a few such attempts made in Australia and other countries but with no success. The practice is also resource-intensive with no actual benefit. Jayanthi says the benefits of having bats living among humans are immense. “Fruit-eating bats pollinate flowers of various plants including mangroves which form our first line of defence [against natural disasters] along the coastline. A few bat species eat a lot of insects that are pests in rice fields. They also eat mosquitoes,” she says. Another researcher says a single bat can devour 600-1,000 mosquitoes in an hour. Virus ecology and evolution is a complex phenomenon and research is still underway on the origins of Covid19 and how it has spread across the globe, researchers say. The infection has generally seen to be spreading from humans to humans and all the countermeasures should focus on how such transmission can be stopped, they add.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/busting-myths-about-bats-much-misunderstood-friends/articleshow/75281375.cms||P Oppili
April 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Academics chalk out plans to Covid-proof school campuses||MUMBAI: Schools across the state are staring at a long break from the academic year due to the ongoing coronavirus crisis and have begun to look at ways to create safe campuses for children when they eventually return. A group of academicians and school heads has drafted suggestions that schools could follow while welcoming children back to class. A think tank has devised a standard operating procedure that schools could follow and shared the document with the Maharashtra education department, the ministry of human resource development, and CBSE and CISCE boards, “Parents’ anxiety levels post the Covid-19 lockdown might remain high. Hence, schools have to start incorporating changes on campus and innovate structures that enable them to function with a blended learning education model (school, online and home) if they wish to retain the trust of parents. They have to ensure campuses are safe,” said Francis Joseph, co-founder of School Leaders Network, the think tank. The group collaborated with school heads, management representatives and school architects to draft their suggestions. These include screening of students, staff and visitors for body temperature, creating safe spaces for those with other medical needs, cancelling large gatherings for the rest of the academic year, dispersing and assembling students in small batches, conducting parent-teacher meetings online, and making available school computer laboratories to children who cannot attend online classes from home. The group has also suggested that schools run in shifts and offer a mix of online and classroom learning to ensure social distancing. Explaining a scenario, the document stated: “Assuming that the number of students in a 500-square-foot classroom is 40, half of the students can attend school on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and online classes on other days when the next 20 attend school. Classroom desks can be reduced and each set six feet apart.” These models, though, will require a lot of extra effort on part of teachers. “These are suggestions (not guidelines) as context will vary from school to school. But what remains is the fact that schools have to start thinking of Covid-19-free campuses,” said Joseph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/academics-chalk-out-plans-to-covid-proof-school-campuses/articleshow/75280004.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Retailers return 2.5 lakh litres’ milk over limited sale timings||PUNE: Retailers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad returned at least 2.5 lakh litres of milk to the dairies in the 24 hours till Tuesday morning due to the limited operation hours, triggering fears of a shortage in the coming days. Milk dairies and retailers told TOI that the 10am-2pm window for sale of grocery essentials, especially milk, was impractical. Retailers said they did not have enough cold storage facilities or space to store the milk packets especially now when the summer is at its peak. Traditionally, milk deliveries begin after 3am and retail outlets get their supply by 5am or 6am. By 10am, a good chunk of the milk packets is already sold to customers. The latest operation window, however, has hindered delivery and the lack of cold storage facilities at retail stores has added to the wastage of milk. Prakash Kutwal, secretary of the Maharashtra Milk Producers and Processors Association and owner of Urja Milk, told TOI, “There have been instances when the police did not allow milk delivery men and tempos to move freely in the morning hours. If retailers are to sell within the four-hour window, they must get the milk before 10am, but there have been problems in doing so. In the 24 hours till Tuesday, at least 2.5 lakh litres of milk were returned to the diaries after retailers refused to take in stocks, citing a very short sale period.” Kutwal said retailers generally get milk stocks by 6am and sell a bulk of packets till around 8.30am. The remaining packets are refrigerated and sold throughout the day. “Since retailers do not have huge cold storage facilities, they may opt for fewer packets which may create a shortage for consumers,” he said. Sachin Nivangune, president of the Pune District Milk Distributors’ Association as well as the Pune District Retail Traders’ Association, confirmed that distributors were not being allowed to deliver milk early in the morning. “This is resulting in spoilage as milk cannot cannot stay without refrigeration for long, till 10am for example. At least 10% distributors associated with us have cancelled orders,” he said. Vivek Kshirsagar, treasurer of the Doodh Utpadak Prakriya Vyavsay Kalyankari Sangh, said, “People usually buy or receive milk early in the morning for their tea and coffee. Retailers too sell a bulk of their milk early in the morning to preclude the possibility of spoilage and bulk refrigeration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retailers-return-2-5l-litres-milk-over-limited-sale-timings/articleshow/75282822.cms||Neha Madaan
April 22, 2020||Goa||In lockdown, transgenders fight hunger & discrimination||For Payal, life as she knows it has come to a halt. The Covid-19 lockdown has made sure of it. Groceries are scarce, work is suspended and fear is at an all-time high. Unlike daily-wage workers and other migrants, there is no one coming to the rescue of the Payals of our society. She has no bank account, no Aadhaar card and is a transgender person. Diana Budiyal, a transperson who works for the advocacy and civil rights of the community told TOI that most transpersons stay on rent since their families have disowned them. They have basic awareness about coronavirus and understand the precautions they must take but she’s reaching out to them via telephone to make them truly aware of the gravity of the pandemic. The Goa government may have announced that landlords are to relax rent, but this is not being implemented in places where transpeople live. “My landlady has threatened to evict me if I don’t pay the rent for March,” said Pallavi Mane, who is a transperson. She is managing with the ration handed to her by Wajood, an organisation run by Budiyal. During this time of uncertainty however, she fears she will be devoid of a home if she doesn’t pay rent. “In times like these, we are grateful for even a little bit of help from people,” Mane said. But with jobs few and far apart, the question remains how long will they survive on their meagre savings. “With no Aadhaar card or bank account, members of this community are not even accounted for. They require urgent help for food provisions or the community will be left with no choice but to beg,” she said. Akshara Shetye begs on trains for a living. Since the lockdown she has been unable to accumulate enough money to sustain herself. “I’m not educated nor do I have a job which is why I have had to resort to begging. Owing to prejudice the transgender community faces, I have no means to make a living,” she said. There are transpersons who are employed in Goa as daily-wage workers and lack proper networking to reach out to higher-ups to provide them with ration. However, some are not educated enough to understand the hierarchy so that they can go to the collector if there is no help from the local municipal council or panchayat. “There is no encouragement from the government’s side either to come forward,” a member of the community said. After sorting out food for their stomachs and a roof for their heads, their worries don’t stop there. The next biggest concern is hormonal medication. Some of them are mid-transition and have been under hormone therapy to prepare for a sex change. Budiyal said, “The flow of medicines has stopped because of shortage at medical stores and in some cases transpeople cannot purchase them because of lack of money.” Living in isolation and with sparse resources is its own daily challenge, but add to that erratic medical supply. This is enough to take a huge toll on the mental health of transpeople. Compared to testosterone, estrogen is a much more powerful hormone. According to those who have already transitioned, its irregular intake could result in side-effects including mental stress, depression, mood swings and loss of appetite. “The transmission is a three-year procedure wherein it is mandatory to go for sexual reassignment surgery in the third year after hormonal therapy. It will be problematic if the process is abruptly stopped.” Budiyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-lockdown-transgenders-fight-hunger-discrimination/articleshow/75282824.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Doctors can’t take food, toilet breaks wearing PPE kits||JAIPUR: Doctors, who are using Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) while working inside Covid-19 ward or on the field, are finding it difficult to adjust to the new situation. Soaring temperature, no food, water or loo break during the shift are further making their task tough. There are 550 Covid-19 patients in the special ward at SMS Hospital for which around 150 doctors are working in six-hour shift every day. Senior Professor (medicine) at SMS Hospital Raman Sharma said once a doctor wears PPE kit, he cannot remove it. “We wear gown, head cover and gloves as none of our body parts should be exposed. We change our kit every day after coming out of ward and once we remove the kit, it cannot be re-used. We cannot eat, drink or take toilet breaks,” explained Sharma. Covid wards do not have air conditioners and doctors say that at first they were finding it difficult to work. Senior Professor (medicine) Ajeet Singh said, “It was difficult initially as I was sweating a lot and had trouble breathing inside. Slowly, we got used to it. We eat heavy meal and drink limited water at least 45 minutes before the shift. The conditions are such that we cannot talk to our family members as well during our shift or in case of any emergency at home,” said Singh. Condition of doctors and medical team going on field every day for screening people in the city is more difficult. In scorching heat, medical team wearing PPE kit carrying bag of instruments have taken a toll on health of officials as well. At present, 15 teams are regularly doing field job and visiting quarantine centres. Narottam Sharma, CMHO said he gets information of medical teams having low blood pressure. “They sweat continuously on field and loss of water from body creates problems. We do not give them long hour shift. Maximum three hours and a new team takes charge. We provide them enough water. This is a highly contagious disease and we have to be careful,” said Sharma. Authorities at SMS Hospital have made sure to give relaxations to doctors or medical staff who have any serious health problems or have to breast feed the newborn babies. Despite trouble, doctors say that their passion to treat people keeps them going. Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal & controller of SMS College said, “It is our passion and duty towards our nation. Every doctor is given one-week duty at the Covid ward and one-week of isolation thereafter. No one is going home and we have provided food and lodging at some hotel. Times are difficult and we won’t work in solidarity we can never defeat this virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-cant-take-food-toilet-breaks-wearing-ppe-kits/articleshow/75282220.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Divisional commissioner, DIG inspect Shyamganj markets to check violations||BAREILLY: After receiving reports of repeated violatons of lockdown rules in Shyamganj and adjacent market areas, divisional commissioner Ranvir Prasad and deputy inspector general (DIG) Rajesh Kumar Pandey on Tuesday visited the market areas and streets to take stalk of the situation. The senior officials inspected Shyamganj wholesale market and adjacent areas, where shopkeepers were directed to open their shops only during the stipulated time. Strict instructions were given to ensure that people do not assemble outside shops and roads and maintain social distancing. Locals spotted in the area were sensitized about the need for complying with the lockdown guidelines and follow social distancing. Divisional commissioner Prasad told TOI, “After repeated failure in implementing the lockdown near wholesale grocery stores and vegetable markets, particularly in Shyamganj area, a random inspection was carried out there and adjacent areas. The inspection was conducted in the morning hours earmarked for operation of markets. During the inspection, the situation looked better than previous days and the area was less crowded. Only people who had to purchase necessary household items or medicines were allowed to visit shops in the area while following social distancing.” Prasad added, “General merchants were directed to ensure that they do not let people gather at their shops or market areas and maintain social distancing. Besides, locals spotted on the road were sensitized about adhering to lockdown norms and need to wear face masks and gloves when they are outdoors. They were also asked not to venture out unless it is very necessary.” Last week, hundreds of people thronged the roads in Shyamganj and nearby areas and violated lockdown rules after the district administration allowed shopkeepers to keep their premises open for an extra two hours on the demand of vyapar mandal, The decision was later withdrawn by Bareilly administration. Meanwhile, Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar said no relief would be granted during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/divisional-commissioner-dig-inspect-shyamganj-markets-to-check-violations/articleshow/75280024.cms||Maria Khan
April 22, 2020||Goa||Morjim sees highest ratio of turtle hatchlings||Panaji: Morjim recently saw one of the highest ratio of turtle egg hatchlings in recent years. Of the 135 eggs laid at the nesting site, as of April 18, wildlife officials from the range forest office at Morjim recorded the release of 116 turtles into the sea. Officials are attributing this success to minimal public interference since people are no longer venturing into the protected area due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown. “This is one of the highest ratio of hatchlings as compared to the previous years,” said chief wildlife warden, Santosh Kumar. “Maybe less biotic interference during the lockdown has had a positive impact on the hatchling activity.” Each year, the forest department creates hatcheries on Morjim beach. Once nesting is completed, the turtle hatchlings are released into the sea. This season, wildlife officials were the only ones present when the turtles hatched and later ventured into the sea.  This year’s casualty rate too, 11baby turtles didn’t survive, hasn’t been grave, Kumar said. The general failure percentage stands at 20 to 25% since many eggs do not yield any hatchlings.  An official said it has also been advantageous to them as there has been less stress on the forest staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/morjim-sees-highest-ratio-of-turtle-hatchlings/articleshow/75282827.cms||Nida Sayed
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Kitchen garden: New trend in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Vegetables are one of the most essential items to run the kitchen. But, buying vegetables during lockdown period has become difficult. However, not many are worried about the purchasing vegetables during this period as they have turned into their kitchen gardens. Love Vijayvargiya, a businessman in Tilak Nagar area, is dependent on his kitchen garden. “I can’t think of going to a shop to buy vegetables during lockdown. I simply walk up to my kitchen garden to grab some vegetables.” To avoid contact with the outside world, many residents in the city have started growing their own vegetables at home. Few have developed kitchen gardens on their terraces, while some are growing it in open areas of the house that remain unutilised so far. Gunjan Jain, a resident of JLN Marg, said, “Growing vegetables at home at this time is safe and utilization of time. As there is a possibility that virus might spread during transportation of veggies, we are growing it at home for the time being,” she said. In 2016, the JMC proposed to frame bylaws for mandatory terrace farming using grow bags. The project was, however, shelved due to protest for house owners. The trend is once again catching up in the city. The civic body had proposed a plant growing kit comprising light-fibre grow bags which could be utilise for developing a kitchen garden. A variety of vegetables, including leafy ones, tomatoes, brinjal and chillies can be grown on the terrace with the help of the kit. Shakti Ram Singh, who owns a shop to sell these kits, said, “Though the shop is closed during lockdown, we are receiving lots of queries about grow bags. People are even ask how to make this kit at home. I believe, even after the lockdown is over, people will shift to grow veggies at home, like few decades ago,” Singh said. A senior JMC official claims, as making terrace vegetable farming mandatory is in larger interest of public the proposal will be considered again. “We cannot impose it on people, however, by-laws will be formed and it will be kept optional. Incentives could be provided for people who opt for it. Earlier, under smart city mission, there was proposal to frame bylaws, but it was shelved as all councillors did not agree,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kitchen-garden-new-trend-in-city/articleshow/75282232.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 80-plus & leading from the front in Covid-19 fight||Even as many young, affluent and employed individuals are penny-pinching for a rainy day, three senior citizens in TN, all aged above 80 years, have shown why fighting coronavirus is everyone’s battle, and how each of us can contribute to it in our own little ways. S A Palaniammal, 82, a retired school teacher in Coimbatore, has donated Rs 1lakh from a trust run with her pension corpus and that of her late husband’s to buy personal protective equipment for frontline workers battling Covid-19 in Coimbatore, while A Shanmugam, 85, of Erode, has distributed ‘kabasura kudineesr’, a herbal concoction, to more than 9,000 people, and 86-year-old Ramamoorthy of Dindigul has handed over his entire monthly pension of Rs 26,378 to the CM’s relief fund. Palaniammal, who retired in 1996 after teaching Science and English at a government school in Sulur near Coimbatore for 37 years, and her son Senthilnathan, a doctor, manage the ‘Arundhavapasu SAS Trust’. “We use the interest amount from the trust fund to support our philanthropic work,” the octogenarian said. “Every August, we give Rs 10,000 to 60 underprivileged government students who have scored well in Class XII. This year, too, we would help students from Coimbatore and Pollachi,” she said. After the pandemic broke out, she decided to donate money to the CM’s fund to buy protective gear for frontline workers. “It’s sad to see people stepping out even when a lockdown is in place. If people follow lockdown guidelines and stay at home, the spread can be controlled,” she said. While Palaniammal wants to protect the Covid-19 warriors from the outside, social worker A Shanmugam of Erode, is worried about the inner wellbeing of people. He has distributed more than 9,000 packets of ‘kabasura kudineer’ in the district. Most poor people don’t know about it. Even if they do, they don’t have the money, he said. “I was procuring them from medical stores. Each herbal packet cost me Rs 140,” said the man who travels 12km every day to hand it over to the poor. But after health officials, who heard about his service, advised him to get it from the government siddha hospitals and clinics, the social worker has been getting them in bulk packs and repacking them into smaller ones of six-grams each. On Tuesday in Dindigul, meanwhile, 86-year-old retired teacher Ramamoorthy walked 5km from his residence in Nagal Nagar to the Dindigul collectorate to hand over his pension of Rs 26,378 to the CM’s fund. His contribution followed many others, including children, who donated money to the CM’s relief fund for the Covid-19 crisis in the district. Dindigul district has received funds to the tune of Rs 1.29 crore for the CM’s relief fund so far. Collector M Vijayalakshmi said Ramamoorthy’s gesture showed his commitment to the wellbeing of society even at this age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/80-plus-leading-from-the-front-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75282248.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: 80-plus & leading from the front in Covid-19 fight||Even as many young, affluent and employed individuals are penny-pinching for a rainy day, three senior citizens in TN, all aged above 80 years, have shown why fighting coronavirus is everyone’s battle, and how each of us can contribute to it in our own little ways. S A Palaniammal, 82, a retired school teacher in Coimbatore, has donated Rs 1lakh from a trust run with her pension corpus and that of her late husband’s to buy personal protective equipment for frontline workers battling Covid-19 in Coimbatore, while A Shanmugam, 85, of Erode, has distributed ‘kabasura kudineesr’, a herbal concoction, to more than 9,000 people, and 86-year-old Ramamoorthy of Dindigul has handed over his entire monthly pension of Rs 26,378 to the CM’s relief fund. Palaniammal, who retired in 1996 after teaching Science and English at a government school in Sulur near Coimbatore for 37 years, and her son Senthilnathan, a doctor, manage the ‘Arundhavapasu SAS Trust’. “We use the interest amount from the trust fund to support our philanthropic work,” the octogenarian said. “Every August, we give Rs 10,000 to 60 underprivileged government students who have scored well in Class XII. This year, too, we would help students from Coimbatore and Pollachi,” she said. After the pandemic broke out, she decided to donate money to the CM’s fund to buy protective gear for frontline workers. “It’s sad to see people stepping out even when a lockdown is in place. If people follow lockdown guidelines and stay at home, the spread can be controlled,” she said. While Palaniammal wants to protect the Covid-19 warriors from the outside, social worker A Shanmugam of Erode, is worried about the inner wellbeing of people. He has distributed more than 9,000 packets of ‘kabasura kudineer’ in the district. Most poor people don’t know about it. Even if they do, they don’t have the money, he said. “I was procuring them from medical stores. Each herbal packet cost me Rs 140,” said the man who travels 12km every day to hand it over to the poor. But after health officials, who heard about his service, advised him to get it from the government siddha hospitals and clinics, the social worker has been getting them in bulk packs and repacking them into smaller ones of six-grams each. On Tuesday in Dindigul, meanwhile, 86-year-old retired teacher Ramamoorthy walked 5km from his residence in Nagal Nagar to the Dindigul collectorate to hand over his pension of Rs 26,378 to the CM’s fund. His contribution followed many others, including children, who donated money to the CM’s relief fund for the Covid-19 crisis in the district. Dindigul district has received funds to the tune of Rs 1.29 crore for the CM’s relief fund so far. Collector M Vijayalakshmi said Ramamoorthy’s gesture showed his commitment to the wellbeing of society even at this age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/80-plus-leading-from-the-front-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75290476.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||People to be scanned at JMC headquarters||Jaipur: Now, people will be screened by thermal scanner before entering into Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) headquarters. The scanners will be used by the guards. Currently, there are three scanners and the civic body is planning to buy more for the zonal offices. As positive cases are rising, the JMC building is not open for any outsider without special permission from the commissioner. Birth and death registration centre where public in large numbers was present is now closed and people have been asked to apply for certificates online. A few officials in JMC said there are many other doors to enter the premises apart from main gate and scanning should be done there as well. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-to-be-scanned-at-jmc-headquarters/articleshow/75282225.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Journalists, police brace for personal battle with Covid-19||CHENNAI: The peril of doing duty during a pandemic has dawned on the state’s policemen and journalists as several of them have waded into the grip of the virus. At least two policemen and several mediapersons have contracted the infection so far, sending police and the media fraternity into a tizzy. Given the nature of their duties they can neither stay away from scene of action, nor underestimate the further spread they could trigger. While bandobust duty near quarantine zones and facing road users put police personnel at risk, journalists visiting hospitals for information or attending press conferences of health ministers and officials exposed themselves to infection risk. Television journalists and camera persons are most vulnerable in that regard. Depending on their duty spot, police in the city have been categorised as most vulnerable, vulnerable and least vulnerable. Those posted near government hospitals or in the vicinity of corona wards and quarantine blocks are identified as most vulnerable. Those on traffic regulation duty come under vulnerable and ministerial staffs doing office duty are the least vulnerable. Police commissioner A K Viswanathan said, “We are giving priority to those working at the most vulnerable places.” He ensured rapid test was done for policemen at all police stations in the city. He designated all assistant commissioners of police as nodal officers to coordinate with assistant engineers and junior engineers at corporation zonal offices for the purpose. On his part, Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash instructed all his subordinate officials to conduct the rapid test for Covid-19 for police personnel immediately. The first case of a journalist turning positive for Covid-19 was reported on Saturday, and since then groups of journalists are attending special testing camps organised by the state health officials. Besides the testing centre at a city college, PCR was done for about a dozen journalists covering the Madras high court proceedings, at the Rajiv Gandhi General Hospital. They were asked to take the test after a junior assistant at the government pleader’s office, who tested positive, had mingled with lawyers and journalists during a court proceeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/journalists-police-brace-for-personal-battle-with-covid-19/articleshow/75281381.cms||Selvaraj A
April 22, 2020||Agra||First Covid-19 death in Aligarh, 14 JNMC staff, including doctors, quarantined||AGRA: A day after two men tested positive for Covid-19 in Aligarh, one of them died at AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) on Tuesday. All 14 health workers, including five doctors and four nurses of the medical college, who came in contact with the deceased, have been quarantined. The 55-year-old patient was admitted on the recommendation of Anjum Mirza Chughtai, an associate professor of medicine, who has been suspended for gross negligence, after it emerged that the patient was initially treated in the emergency general ward, in violation of all protocols. Officials said the patient, with suspected covid symptoms, was admitted to the general ward without following protocol on the directions of Dr Chughtai. Even hospital authorities were kept in the dark about it. Talking to TOI, JNMC’s principal, professor Shahid Ali Siddiqui said all 14 health workers including five doctors, four nurses and five technical staff, who were on emergency duty on Sunday night, have been quarantined, as they were exposed to the patient before he was shifted to the covid isolation ward, where he later died. All 33 staff members of the isolation ward, who attended the patient on Sunday and Monday, have also been asked to go on 14 days “passive” quarantine. Aligarh DM C B Singh told TOI, “We will lodge an FIR against the doctor for not following protocol. He neither informed hospital authorities nor the health department about the admission of a suspected covid patient in the medical college.” State president of Janhit Manav Adhikar Association, Vinod Pandey, who lodged a complaint with UP chief minister against the suspended AMU doctor, told TOI that the patient, who died from the novel coronavirus, was first treated by the doctor at a private nursing home, which is allegedly owned by his relative. Dr Chughtai had even sent him for an X-ray to a diagnostic centre in the city, before directing medical college staff to admit him in emergency general ward, even after knowing the patient’s infection status. The administration also cancelled the license of Mittal Diagnostic Centre for violating protocol and conducting X-ray of a suspected covid patient. Pandey urged the administration to also cancel the medical registration of the doctor, as he had put several lives at risk with his negligent act. Talking to TOI, chief development officer Anunaya Jha said 23 samples of primary contacts of both the covid positive patients had been sent for testing, of which, eight were found negative for the infection. The reports of the rest are awaited. He said Dr Chughtai and his wife have also been home-quarantined, while other contacts are being traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/first-covid-19-death-in-aligarh-14-jnmc-staff-including-doctors-quarantined/articleshow/75280060.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 22, 2020||Agra||AMU VC launches online teaching prog for faculty||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has launched a four-day online teaching-training programme for AMU faculty which will eventually be extended to two-weeks subject refresher course and three-week orientation programme for assistant professors. The course is organised by the UGC Human Resource Development Centre in technical collaboration with the MNF Computer Centre, AMU. About 820 teachers are enrolled for this course which includes deans of faculties, principles of colleges, directors of centres, chairpersons, professors, associates, and assistant professors from diverse streams. In his inaugural address, vice-chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor reiterated the need for online teaching for the AMU faculty in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak and nationwide lockdown. He said, “While we are taking all the necessary precautions to keep the pandemic at bay, we must adapt to the new and innovative teaching methods for the benefit of our students and save us all from loss.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-vc-launches-online-teaching-prog-for-faculty/articleshow/75280039.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Cops send man to steal seized booze in Chennai||CHENNAI: Non-availability of liquor is not driving tipplers alone to desperation. Some policemen are as much vulnerable. Two policemen have been placed under suspension for persuading a previous offender to enter a storeroom at the New Washermenpet police station and steal seized liquor bottles. Police said Murugavel, 54, a head constable and Muthu, 36, a constable, both posted at the police station, decided to steal the bottles when they were on night duty on April 14 as there would be no other guards. They were on duty from 9pm to 6am. When other personnel reached the police station on April 15, they found at least 50 bottles of 180ml quantity missing. Police usually keep seized items in lockers and keys are kept with the station house officer. The bottles were seized during a raid at New Washermenpet and kept at the police station to be produced before a court later. Several such raids were conducted at the area after police received complaints about liquor bottles being sold in the black market. They also heightened security at Tasmac shops in the locality. Meanwhile, officers from the intelligence wing reported the matter to higher-ups who ordered the transfer of Murugavel and Muthu to two different police stations. While the former was transferred to Puzhal police station and the latter was sent to Red Hills police station. Muthu, is a resident of Old Washermenpet while Murugavel resides at Thiruvottiyur. A detailed probe was ordered into the matter to trace the liquor bottles. During inquiries police found that the two persuaded Aravind, 24, a previous offender, to open the lock of the storeroom using some tools and steal the bottles. They did not leave the lock open as it would raise suspicion and made Aravind to leave it as it was. Police said they did not sell the bottles and used them for personal consumption. They also gave some of the bottles to Aravind so that he kept mum. Police have not booked Aravind in the crime. Soon after a report was submitted, the two cops were placed under suspension. Police are yet to register a theft case against the two, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-send-man-to-steal-seized-booze/articleshow/75281388.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Employee of ration shop in north Delhi found Covid-19 positive||NEW DELHI: Days after the father of a food and supplies officer died of Covid-19 in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar area, a helper at a fair price shop in north Delhi has tested positive for the the novel coronavirus infection in the capital. The department staff and the people managing 2,000-odd fair price shops have been working on the frontline to provide dry ration to over 17 lakh beneficiary families under the public distribution system (PDS) and lakhs of others who have applied for the same during the lockdown period. The helper of the fair price shop in north Delhi’s Roop Nagar reportedly got himself tested at a private facility on Sunday after he developed some symptoms of Covid-19. The test reports confirmed the infection on Monday and he has been admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. District magistrate (Central) Nidhi Srivastava said that while his contacts were being traced, the shop and the areas around it had been sealed. More than 1,600 ration card holders are assigned to this shop. The helper carries out clerical responsibilities and closely interacted with a large number of beneficiaries and a few department officials in the last few days, said a source. “He must have got infected at least a week earlier. The fair price shops at the time witnessed huge rush of beneficiaries queuing up for their quota of wheat and rice. He might have passed on infection to many others,” said Saurabh Gupta, secretary of the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Association. Though the food and supplies inspector whose father died of Covid-19 last week has tested negative for the virus, he moved around at several shops and schools under his jurisdiction to monitor the distribution of ration. More than 700 people had been told to go into quarantine after that incident. Delhi food and supplies commissioner Ankita Mishra Bundela said her department was quite “careful and vigilant”. “Everyone has been asked to strictly observe social distancing norms. Though the food inspector has been tested negative for Covid-19, his first contacts have been advised to stay in home isolation,” Bundela said, adding that masks and sanitisers had been provided to all officials and fair price shop staff. PDS Welfare Association president Shailender Kumar, however, alleged that all shops hadn’t got masks and sanitisers. He also demanded that the families of those working at ration shops should also be given a compensation of Rs 1 crore by Delhi government in case he dies of Covid-19. “The government should also bear all treatment costs,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/employee-of-ration-shop-in-north-delhi-found-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75282256.cms||Atul Mathur
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot demands centralised procurement of testing kits||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday demanded that test kits and other equipment to treat coronavirus patients be procured by a central agency and distributed to the states. He said centralised procurement would save the states a lot of time. The chief minister was interacting with a five-member team of the Centre visiting the state through video-conference on Tuesday. Gehlot raised the issue of migrant labourers, demanded a relief package from the Centre to all the states and aid for reviving business and ensuring social security of people. Gehlot apprised the team of the precarious financial condition of the state and demanded that the Centre announce a package for the affected states. “The state government had put in all its resources in the fight against the pandemic and the lockdown has dried up all its resources,” Gehlot said. He said the RBI had increased ways and means advance to 60% but is not interest free. He demanded that such advance should be made interest free. The chief minister demanded a three months’ moratorium on debts of the state government from central financial institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-demands-centralised-procurement-of-testing-kits/articleshow/75282239.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Ration to be distributed via Aadhaar card from May||Jaipur: In a first-of-its-kind initiative to make the ration distribution system more effective and strong, wheat will be distributed through OTP by registering an Aadhaar card number instead of the ration card number from May. Siddharth Mahajan, secretary, Department of Food and Civil Supplies, elaborated that several important steps have been taken during the lockdown to distribute ration to the public in an easy and transparent manner. He said that under the National Food Security Scheme, ration distribution from the POS machines is being done with OTP in place of biometric verification to prevent coronavirus infection. At present, ration is being distributed by registering ration card number to generate OTP. He added that it will be mandatory for the beneficiaries to bring Aadhaar card with them to avail ration. Door-to-door delivery has also been arranged.Mahajan said that so far licences of more than 288 ration shops have been suspended and 94 FIRs registered for non-compliance of advisory issued regarding prevention of coronavirus infection and irregularities during inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ration-to-be-distributed-via-aadhaar-card-from-may/articleshow/75282245.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Agra||IT-dept urges taxpayers to share ideas to revive economy||AGRA: Income tax department has made an appeal to the taxpayers to share ideas as to what can be done to restore the economy. In the letter, Agra’s principal commissioner of Income tax II Jayant Misra wrote, “In times of crisis, the IT department stands in full solidarity with the taxpayers are the backbone of the nation. The department is in the process of carrying out analysis of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) for revival of the economy. “We urge the taxpayers and trade associations to share their inputs for SWOT analysis which includes bottlenecks being faced by traders, industrialists, wishlist of trade unions which includes policy changes, regulations and ideas for revival of the economy,” he wrote. The letter was desginated for Agra, Firozabad, Etawah, Jhansi and Lalitpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/it-dept-urges-taxpayers-to-share-ideas-to-revive-economy/articleshow/75280070.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Congressman Jitendra Deshprabhu passes away at 64||PANAJI: Two-time Congress MLA from Pernem constituency and business man Jitendra Deshprabhu, who was detected with pneumonia, passed away after a brief illness on Tuesday at Goa Medical College. He was 64. A rapid test for Covid-19 that was conducted on him showed a negative result. The confirmatory test is awaited. Deshprabhu was rushed to GMC in a breathless condition at noon from a private hospital in North Goa “He was given ventilator support. He died at about 4.30pm,” GMC dean S M Bandekar said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted that “he was shocked to learn about the untimely demise of the former legislator”. Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat said Deshprabhu was a “studious legislator and an excellent orator. He was a staunch Congressman. His passing away is great loss to the party.” GPCC president Girish Chodankar said he will always be remembered for his contribution towards the party’s growth. “He was an outstanding legislator whose speech had depth and boldness,” Chodankar said. Deshprabhu contested the state assembly election on the Congress ticket from Pernem constituency helping the party to win 21 seats in the 40-member house in 1999. He was re-elected in 2002 on the Congress ticket and despite his resourcefulness, his political graph did not achieve expected heights. Deshprabhu was among the very few legislators who showed courage and determination to take on the Manohar Parrikar-led regime. He made his contribution on several House committees. He joined NCP in 2009 and contested the Lok Sabha seat from North Goa. He lost the seat to Ayush minister Shripad Naik by a thin margin of a little more than 6,000 votes. That was Naik’s most closely fought contest. Deshprabhu rejoined Congress, but was not very active. He was among the first voices to come out in support of Mopa airport nearly two decades ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congressman-jitendra-deshprabhu-passes-away-at-64/articleshow/75282829.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad: Five who attacked health staff, cops test positive for Covid-19||BAREILLY: At least five of the 17 persons arrested for allegedly attacking a team of health staff and policemen in Moradabad’s Nawabpura locality on April 15 have tested positive for Covid-19. Following this, the entire Nagphani police station was quarantined. Senior superintendent of police Amit Pathak told TOI, “It is really a setback to us. All policemen, including the station house officer of Nagphani, had come in contact with the accused while arresting and shifting them to jail. They have been quarantined.” According to police sources, at least 73 policemen have been quarantined. Meanwhile, the five attackers, who tested positive for novel coronavirus late on Monday, are kept in a temporary jail set up at a public school on Delhi Road. According to health officials, 15 fresh Covid-19 cases, including a doctor and nurse working at a quarantine centre, have surfaced in Moradabad, taking the tally to 69. The district has witnessed three deaths so far. Among the new cases is an inmate housed in the district jail. He was arrested on April 11 for stealing a car. Mainather police inspector (crime) Paan Singh said, “The accused were arrested on April 11 and sent jail the next day. Their samples were sent for testing and one of them has been found positive.” Seven policemen, including the Mainather SHO, have been placed under quarantined. A young woman, who is a Delhi University student and had come home to Moradabad after lockdown, also tested positive on Tuesday. Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said, “Of 58 samples, 40 tested negative while 15 are positive for Covid-19. We have sent the remaining three for a repeat test. Among 15 positive cases, three are women, a 5-year-old kid and 11 men. We have now 69 active Covid-19 cases in Moradabad.” The CMO said that a 70-year-old Rampur resident, who was diabetic and already quarantined at Teerthanker Mahaveer University, succumbed to the pandemic on Tuesday. Notably, two persons, including a government doctor and a private nurse, had died of Covid-19 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-who-attacked-health-staff-cops-test-covid-positive/articleshow/75280089.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||State reports highest Covid cases in single day, total count at 1,735||Jaipur: Rajasthan reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 159 persons testing positive and one person falling prey to the virus in Jaipur. So far, 14 people have lost their lives due to the pandemic in the capital city while the total death toll in the state stands at 26. The total number of infections rose to 1,735, while 274 have recovered. A 64-year-old man, resident of Babu Ka Tiba of Ramganj, who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital on April 18, died on Tuesday. Health department officials said that the patient had comorbidity as he was suffering from bronchial asthma. Out of the 159 cases, 72 were from Jaipur and 35 from Ajmer. The other districts that reported cases were Jodhpur (16), Nagaur (10), Dausa (7), Bhilwara (5), Hanumangarh (5), Jaisalmer (2), Kota (2), Sawai Madhopur (2), Tonk (2) and Jhunjhunu (1). “It is relevant to mention that test results of the backlog 4,000 samples sent to a private laboratory in Delhi have started coming in and these are being captured in the report issued of positive cases today. Hence we expect a rise in number of positive cases today and tomorrow as the results of 4,000 tests will be available and will be entered in the database,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). In Kota, a 55-year-old constable, posted at Makbara police station, and a 47-year-old home guard from Mokhapada area , tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 108. “Following the positive report of the constable, entire staff of Makbara police station has been quarantined,” said Devesh Goyal, who took charge of Makbara police station on Tuesday. In Jaipur, the total number of cases reported till date have increased to 657. Health department has deployed senior medical officer Dr Sunil Singh here to assist Dr AN Mathur, in-charge of Jaipur on Covid-19. Dr Singh had played his part in preventing the swine flu outbreak in 2015 and Zika spread in 2018. Dausa reported seven positive cases, including a priest of a temple , taking the total cases to 20. The health department has started preventive activities around the temple. “The temple is closed. We are conducting activities to find out how many people came in contact with him in past few days. He belongs to Gangapur City originally,” said Dr PM Meena, chief medical health officer, Dausa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-highest-covid-cases-in-single-day-total-count-at-1735/articleshow/75282251.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Hungry stray dogs and monkeys locked in fight over limited food||VADODARA: Over last few days, the streets of Vadodara have been witnessing a rare fight that not many had expected. Since lockdown was enforced last month to contain the spread of coronavirus, movement of citizens has been restricted in public areas. With not many people on roads to feed them, stray dogs in many areas are going hungry. Consequently, monkeys and stray dogs are having a duel in different areas over food in case they are able to find it. “There is limited food as there are not many people on roads to feed the dogs. And even the monkeys are looking for their share of food as they too aren’t getting fed by citizens,” said Nidhi Dave, range forest officer (RFO), Vadodara. “So, both monkeys and stray dogs flock to the spots where some food is available and it is causing conflict that is also getting violent,” Dave told TOI. In last few days, forest department has got nearly a dozen calls of monkeys getting injured by dog bites. Stray dogs attack in packs to scare away the simians who sometimes put up a fight. Animal activist, Neha Patel said stray dogs aren’t getting enough food and it is making them aggressive. “Monkeys and dogs usually get into a fight but the shortage of food has aggravated the problem,” she said. Patel has been feeding hundreds of stray dogs in the city since the lockdown was enforced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hungry-stray-dogs-and-monkeys-locked-in-fight-over-limited-food/articleshow/75280043.cms||Tushar Tere
April 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Shunned & forgotten, 45 families face hunger||PUNE: Rupali Kale lives in the open grounds in a makeshift tent in Shikrapur with at least 45 families of her nomadic tribe. The lockdown has been harsh on her, and the others, and they hardly know how they will survive these difficult days. The family has no ration card, pays Rs 10 for every utensil of water they fill from the tankers that pass by, and is shunned by villagers when they go begging for food. A few days ago, Ajay Kale from the community, had gone to the village seeking rations. When he was turned away, he created an obstruction on the road, and was beaten up by the villagers. NGOs and other organisations working in the sector feel the needs of nomadic communities are not addressed by the state government in the current lockdown. “We survive by selling tamarind and other produce. Some of us sell scrap. But the lockdown has robbed us of work. We have no ration card and we do not know how to get one. At the beginning of the lockdown, some people gave us some rice and pulses. But that is over now. When we go to the village grocer, they tell us not to come near them. Some people told us that we will get the ration at home, but nobody came,” 23-year-old Rupali Kale told TOI. Water is also a paid commodity. “For one handa (a big pitcher) the tankers that pass on the road charge us Rs 10. We used to get water from a pump nearby but villagers banned us from going there,” Kale said. Lekha Nair, director of Sevastha Foundation, said they help the families get some ration. “There needs to be a concrete action plan to help the most marginalised sections like these nomadic tribes. They must get three meals ,” she said. Most nomadic people have no documents. They survive by selling toys and sundry items at traffic signals. Some are street performers. “They have camped on the outskirts of rural Pune and are often shunned by the villagers making it difficult for them to get food and water,” Nair said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shunned-forgotten-45-families-face-hunger/articleshow/75282263.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 22, 2020||Agra||Perform Taraweeh at home: AMU Nazim-e-Deeniyat||AGRA: A day after Aligarh’s chief mufti appealed to the community members not to hold Ramzan prayers in mosques, Aligarh Muslim University’s Theology department director (Nazim-e-Deeniyat) has urged all Muslims to perform Taraweeh (special night prayers during Ramadan) at their homes during the lockdown period and abstain from going to mosques during the holy month in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. Mufti Khalid Hameed had said that Islam is a practical and flexible religion and one should not be of the notion that Taraweeh prayers can only be held in mosques. “These prayers can also be held in the privacy of one’s home,” he said. Director of Theology department professor Mohammad Saleem said, “Islam puts premium on saving lives during exigencies and since Taraweeh prayers are not compulsory, it can be performed individually at home with the help of memorized verses of the holy Quran.” Theology director said that the governments of several Islamic countries, including Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Islamic Republic of Iran, have also urged people to perform Namaz-e-Taraweeh at home during Ramadan this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/perform-taraweeh-at-home-amu-nazim-e-deeniyat/articleshow/75280091.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Radico Khaitan donates Rs 1 crore to UP Covid care fund||RAMPUR: Rampur-based Radico Khaitan has donated Rs 1 crore to Uttar Pradesh Covid Care Fund to help the state government fight the spread of novel coronavirus. Director, operation, Radico Khaitan Ltd, KP Singh said the firm had, so far, contributed more than Rs 1.5 crore in Covid-19 relief activities, including the daily supply of food packets, face masks, aprons, bleaching powder and other needful items. Singh said they were supplying 500 litres of hand sanitiser (worth Rs. 1.5 lakh) to the district administration daily. “Radico has so far supplied about 17,000 litres of hand sanitiser (worth approximately Rs 30 lakh) to the Rampur district administration and several other districts of Uttar Pradesh. The firm has also donated Rs 21 lakh to the Rampur district’s Covid-19 relief fund,” said Singh. Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “We welcome every contributor who donated money to help fight Covid-19 pandemic. Radico has played a vital role in this fight. Till now, the contributors in Rampur have donated Rs 70 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/radico-khaitan-donates-rs-1-crore-to-up-covid-care-fund/articleshow/75280121.cms||Nazar Abbas
April 22, 2020||Agra||With 39 fresh corona cases, Agra district tally rises to 306||AGRA: The number of coronavirus cases is steadily rising in Agra district. In the last seven days, the number of coronavirus patients has doubled. Till Tuesday evening, 39 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra. With this, the district's tally has increased to 306. According to health department records, from March 2 to April 13, a total of 149 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Agra district. However, over the last seven days, 257 cases have surfaced. Chief medical officer, Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats, said, “We are taking all possible steps to stop the spread of coronavirus. Massive sampling is taking place to identify all the Covid-19 infected patients and isolate them. So far, 26 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital." The new cases include eight linked to a private hospital in the Rakabganj locality and three cases related to family members of a healthcare worker who tested positive earlier, One ward technician of the pathology department of SN Medical College also tested positive. Another three cases are contacts of people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. An emergency medical technician of the 108 ambulance service who was ferrying Covid-19 patients over the past 28 days also tested positive. Two contacts of the wholesale medicine shopkeeper tested positive, two kidney patients and a patient admitted at the district hospital having a respiratory problem tested positive. The remaining patients are contacts of people who had tested positive earlier. The patients who were found to be positive on Tuesday, are from Tajganj, Hariparwat, Chhipitola, Devri road, Khera Mod, Shardha Vihar in Dayalbagh and Trans-Yamuna area. CMO Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people.” On Tuesday, Firozabad reported six new coronavirus positive cases, taking the tally to 69, including one patient who died. According to the health department sources, of the six patients, three had contacts with Tablighi Jamaat while two are linked to a private hospital in Agra, which has now been sealed after Covid-19 cases were detected there. Meanwhile, district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh of Firozabad removed SDM of Shikohabad Ekta Singh, after local media highlighted scores of poor people staging a protest on the road on Tuesday for not getting any ration or food. In neighbouring district of Kasganj, 11 residents of Nagla Baini village were quarantined on Tuesday, after a Nepalese who had left the area on foot on April 13, was caught in Budaun and tested positive there on Saturday. The Nepalese was working in a local company based in Kasganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/with-39-fresh-corona-cases-agra-district-tally-rises-to-306/articleshow/75280116.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||‘Rs 47cr water treatment plant for Amthane’||Bicholim: PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on Tuesday said that Rs 47 crore have been sanctioned for installing 10 MLD water treatment plant on a plateau at Amthane Dhumase village in Bicholim. Pauskar was in Bicholim to review the water scarcity problem in the taluka. The residents of Bicholim had to face acute water shortage continuously for 12 days due to breakdown of water purification pump at Padocem water treatment plant which supplies water to the Bicholim taluka. Pauskar first visited Padocem water treatment plant and later, at Bicholim PWD office, discussed the water shortage issue. During the meeting, PWD officials informed the PWD minister that the old pump at Padocem plant has been repaired and the new pump has also been arrived. However, there is no chance for its installation due to the current lockdown as it requires technicians from Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-47cr-water-treatment-plant-for-amthane/articleshow/75282830.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hubballi||Indian girl in Brazil offers her savings for PM’s fund to fight coronavirus||RAICHUR: Moved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for monetary support to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, a 10-year-old Brazil-based Raichur girl requested the Prime Minister to divert her Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana savings to the PM-CARES fund. Lahari Rangarao Desai, who is residing with her parents at Curitiba, the capital of the southern Brazilian state of Paraná, says she was deeply touched by the Prime Minister’s appeal in this hour of crisis. Lahari’s father has been depositing money in her Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account under the Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme (SSS), which she is aware of. Lahari is pursuing her fourth grade at Colégio Positivo Internacional in Curitiba. SSS is a small deposit scheme for the girl child, launched as a part of the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign. The account will be functional till a girl turns 21, and up to 50% withdrawal of savings is allowed for education purposes, when a girl turns 18. This means with the existing clause, she cannot contribute money from her account to the PM-CARES fund. Lahari said, “I am requesting the Prime Minister to relax regulations, for the government to withdraw the entire sum deposited as savings in my SSS account. There is Rs 5,000 available in it. With this I want to do my small bit for India, in its fight against Covid 19.” Lahari also recorded a video message in which she said, “I am with you in the fight against coronavirus by staying at home. Now I want to give money to the PM-CARE fund. But I don’t have money with me now. Can you take money from my Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account? My father puts money in my account for my future. I feel my future is secured with you as the Prime Minister. Bharat Mata Ki Jai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/indian-beti-in-brazil-wants-to-contribute-savings-towards-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75273529.cms||Shreyas HS
April 22, 2020||Pune||Experts stress rapid tests in lockdown time||Pune: Lockdown and its extension without rapid testing will only delay the spread of Covid-19 and not prevent it completely, said scientists working on an India-specific epidemiological model for the contagion. Developed by “Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid” (ISRC), the model is called INDSCI-SIM. “The model could be used to plan health resources and interventions at the city-, district- or state-level. The model also allows comparison of the effects of different types of interventions like lockdowns, quarantining, increased testings to alter the evolution of the pandemic,’ said an official release. The mathematical modelling component of the work is being led by SPPU scientists Snehal Shekatkar and Bhalchandra Pujari and Centre for Modeling and Simulation’s Mihir Arjunwadkar.We have taken an approximate nationwide data and written the mathematical model to run the simulation. It shows lockdown and testing are interrelated. Lockdown is a good time to rapid test people, find out the infected, treat them and quarantine the contacts. This will avoid transmission when the lockdown is lifted,” Shekatkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-stress-rapid-tests-in-lockdown-time/articleshow/75282265.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 22, 2020||Pune||Help for tribal villagers||Pune: The Poona Merchants Chamber has decided to distribute dry ration among tribal villagers in the district. Popatlal Ostwal, president of the chamber, said, “We have got information that many tribal people are not getting ration due to various reasons. The chamber has decided to help them by distributing dry ration that should last for a month.” The chamber will distribute kits comprising 5kg rice, 5kg atta, one kg each of sugar, edible oil, tur dal and salt and a masala packet to each family. “The kits will be given in selected villages in Junnar, Ambegaon, Bhor and Velhe tehsils,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/help-for-tribal-villagers/articleshow/75282272.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Food delivery executive stuck in travel pass tangle||PUNE: For food delivery executive Naseem Shah, the simple job has become akin to taking a walk on the wild side ever since the curfew was imposed in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Shah holds a pass issued by the Pune police but his work area is at Bavdhan, under the jurisdiction of the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate. At Bavdhan, the pass is of no use to Shah anymore. Stuck in the conundrum, Shah’s daily earning are getting affected. “Since the lockdown, I have been working in Bavdhan everyday but I did not face any problem. Since Monday, however, the officers have started asking for the pass required for the Pimpri Chinchwad area,” Shah said. Assistant commissioner R R Patil of the Pimpri Chinchwad police explained that the police have stopped issuing passes. “Now, all passes are being issued by the municipal corporation,” Patil said. Shah, a Bopodi resident, has been working as a food delivery executive in Bavdhan for several years. “I chose Bavdhan because I had worked there with a courier company and I know the area,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/food-delivery-executive-stuck-in-travel-pass-tangle/articleshow/75282268.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 22, 2020||Salem||Man murders father-in-law, surrenders||NAMAKKAL: A 42-year-old man hacked his 73-year-old father-in-law to death over a family dispute and surrendered before police near Tiruchengode here on Tuesday. Police identified the deceased as K Rajamani, of Modamangalam village. A farmer, he is survived by two daughters, who have been married off. An investigation officer said Rajamani had recently gifted his elder daughter some jewels and cash. “He hardly gave anything to his second daughter, which irked her husband Nallamuthu.” The officer said Nallamuthu used to pester his father-in-law, demanding cash and jewels for his wife. “On Tuesday morning, he once again approached Rajamani and demanded jewels and cash. When he refused, Nallamuthu suddenly hacked him with a sickle and fled,” the officer said. Meanwhile, Nallamuthu surrendered before the Tiruchengode police, who registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-murders-father-in-law-surrenders/articleshow/75282274.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man extorts traders under guise of govt official, held||PUNE: The crime branch of the city police on Monday arrested a man (45) from Sus Road for trying to extort Rs1.25 lakh from a trader and taking cigarettes worth Rs40,000, besides Rs20,000 from another shopowner by posing as a member of the Union government’s consumer protection council. The police have seized the car of the impostor, Nishikant Dhumal, which had a Union government sticker on it. Sub-inspector Nilesh Mahadik of the crime branch said Dhumal had approached Mangilal Chaudhary, the owner of a grocery shop, and told him he was the member of the consumer protection council, under the Union home ministry. “He alleged Chaudhary was charging his customers more. He asked for his shop act, food license and if his camera was functional,” he said. Dhumal threatened to seal Chaudhary’s shop and lodge an FIR. He demanded Rs1.25 lakh for not taking any action. “Chaudhary became suspicious and approached the anti-corruption bureau,” Mahadik said. The suspect was handed over to Chatushrungi police for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-extorts-traders-under-guise-of-govt-official-held/articleshow/75282279.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Ayush app to identify citizens above 50 years||Kolhapur: The district administration is working on the ‘Ayush’ mobile application that will be made available to Asha workers and anganwadi sevikas for keeping a tab on citizens aged above 50 years and those with comorbid conditions across the city and the district. According to officials in the district administration, the mobile application is under the development phase and is likely to be completed in the next two to three days. On Tuesday, district collector formed the ‘Ayush’ committee under the chairmanship of district health officer (DHO) Yogesh Sale. The committee will suggest the possible remedies to increase the immunity among those falling in the high-risk category—-mainly those with comorbidities. The committee has been asked to provide recommendations on boosting immunity within the next two days. When contacted, Sale told TOI that the application would be made available to the Asha workers, who will keep a tab on the citizens who are aged 50 years and above and have comorbid conditions. The workers will fill in all the details and update relevant information accordingly in the mobile application on a daily basis. He said that the Ayush committee would look into all the possible remedies available in Ayurveda and homeopathy to boost immunity among senior citizens. “We will be exploring different possibilities. Experts from different fields have been roped in this committee to provide their insights,” said Sale. According to him, over 11 lakh citizens would be surveyed to identify those who are above 50 years or have any medical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ayush-app-to-identify-citizens-above-50-years/articleshow/75282273.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 22, 2020||Pune||Online admissions for Pune zilla parishad schools||PUNE: The Pune zilla parishad (ZP) has released school admission links for each taluka in the district for parents to fill in the details of their wards. This is a maiden attempt at conducting online admissions for classes I-VIII in 12 talukas of the Pune district, which has a total of 3,651 schools run by the ZP. “We have publicized taluka-wise form links, which the parents can even fill up remotely for seeking admission for the wards,” Pune ZP education officer Sunil Kurhade. Every year, some Zilla Parishad schoolteachers go door-to-door for admissions. However, due to he lockdown this time around, this has not been possible. Kuhade said there might be parents without access to the internet to fill forms. “For such parents, they would have the option of filling the forms at the respective schools once the lockdown ends,” he said. Kuhade added that even private schools in the district have been instructed to conduct online admissions so that parents do not gather at the schools defeating the purpose of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-admissions-for-zp-schools/articleshow/75282277.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Wheat procurement centre in charge booked for corruption in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Centre in charge of government procurement agency UP Upbhokta Sahkari Sangh Limited in Bahadurpur village under Puranpur tehsil Abdul Sheikh Mohammad was on Tuesday booked for allegedly procuring wheat at a price lower than the minimum support price of Rs 1,925 per quintal, following a complaint lodged by UPSS district manager Shivautar Kushwaha. Kushwaha lodged a complaint after he received a video purportedly showing Abdul procuring wheat at a price of Rs 1,825 per quintal instead of Rs 1,925. Kushwaha soon brought the matter to the notice of district food and marketing officer Avinash Jha and assistant registrar of cooperative societies Veer Vikram Singh. Following which a panel of three officers cross-examined the matter with Jadonpur Gahluia village pradhan Mohammad Hasim-ul Rahman, who was also visible in the video, said Kushwaha. “Rahman told the panel that Abdul asked a farmer that he would procure his wheat at a price of Rs 1,825 per quintal, but make an entry of Rs 1,925 in the official record,” said Kushwaha, adding that Abdul was earning money through corrupt means. Puranpur kotwali SHO Suresh Kumar Singh said Abdul was booked under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, but he was yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wheat-procurement-centre-in-charge-booked-for-corruption-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75280135.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Health department begins screening of policemen for Covid-19 in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: The health department has initiated the screening of police personnel deployed at all 14 station houses across Pilibhit district for novel coronavirus infection, following the directions of district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav. The department has formed seven teams for the screening and check-up of the policemen, which are collecting random samples at community health centres. Additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr CM Chaturvedi said superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit told him that there were nearly 2,000 policemen in the district. The screening would continue till all cops, especially those who have been deployed on the lockdown duty, were examined properly, said the ACMO. “Health teams are collecting blood samples as well as nasal and throat swabs of those who are showing any preliminary symptoms of Covid-19, besides collecting random samples of normal policemen. The samples will be sent for a lab test to King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow,” said the ACMO. The ACMO added that the health department had sent as many as 301 samples to KGMU till Monday evening, of which 235 were tested negative while the results of 66 were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/health-dept-begins-screening-of-policemen-for-covid-19-in-pilibhit/articleshow/75280155.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Pvt firm donates 31 PPE kits to police||Nashik: The directors of a Satpur-based private company donated as many as 31 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to city police on Tuesday. The PPE kits will be used by police personnel to keep a check on quarantined patients without the fear of getting infected. Police inspector (crime branch) Seetaram Kolhe said, “In order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 patients, the health department is keeping the close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients in quarantine centres for around two weeks.” He added, There is always a possibility that they may try to run away. Hence, as per instructions from commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare Patil and deputy commissioner of police Pournima Chauguleh, a squad has been formed to keep continuous watch on quarantined people.” The officer said that the PPE kits would be extremely useful for members of the aforesaid squad. Apart from this, the police have taken up various preventive measures to ensure that police personnel working on the field do not get infected by Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-firm-donates-31-ppe-kits-to-police/articleshow/75280153.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Over 90% university students in UP happy with e-learning, reveals study||BAREILLY: New research, conducted by faculty of two state universities, show that students hold a positive opinion about their social relation with their teachers in e-learning classes. The study — ‘Social relations between teachers and students in higher education during e-learning practices: A study of students’ perspective during Covid-19 pandemic’ — was conducted by Meenakshi Dwivedi, assistant professor at the department of education in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University, Bareilly, along with professor Amita Bajpai, dean and head, faculty of education, Lucknow University. The researchers focused on how online learning — a new experience for both students and teachers — had been affected by the novel coronavirus pandemic, especially students’ perception of their social relations with their teachers during e-learning practices. From different higher educational institutes across UP, 415 students were surveyed on four dimensions of social relation — cooperation, intensity, individualised attention and socio-emotional connect. The survey revealed 89.8% students claimed teachers encouraged them to actively participate in e-learning classes, 91.7% students said teachers encouraged them to continue studies without fearing the Covid-19 pandemic, 91.7% students alleged teachers were taking part in online discussions too actively, 89.2% students said teachers are guiding and assisting in technical issues, and 64.5% claimed teachers kept a check on their presence/absence in e-classes. The study also stated that 39.4% students felt teachers were in a hurry to complete the syllabus, while 47.7% students agreed teachers restarted or repeated the content if any student joined late. Dwivedi said, “Majority of the respondents found their social relation with their teachers quite intense. They reported that on communicating about their stress, dread and strains due to the pandemic, their educators consistently made positive and empowering comments and persuaded them to continue their studies with the similar enthusiasm as before.” She added, “We concluded that most students agreed they share positive and supportive relationship with teachers, which increases the sense of belonging, inspiring them to actively participate in online classes. Apart from academic support, teachers give social and emotional support by trying to reduce the stress and anxiety of students regarding Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-90-university-students-in-up-happy-with-e-learning-reveals-study/articleshow/75280189.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Admins find difficulty in tracing source of infection for +ve cases||Kolhapur: A number of Covid-19 positive cases that have emerged in the region have left the district administrations quite baffled as because those who died of the infection either did not have a travel history or the source of infection could not be found while contact tracing. Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar told TOI, “The first case in Solapur was of a 62-year-old man. The man died despite having no travel history. Even his family members tested negative for Covid-19. While tracing the close contacts of the deceased man, we came across a nurse who tested positive for the contagion. Even her family members tested positive for Covid-19.” “There is a possibility that the man may have contracted the infection from the nurse and not otherwise as he had gone for consultation to the private clinic where the nurse works and was later admitted to the civil hospital,” said Shambharkar. When asked from where the nurse could have contracted the infection, the district collector said they were tracing all those who had come in contact with her. “Besides our health teams finding out the close contacts, we also use modern technology for verifying the authenticity of the information provided by the patient,” he said adding that if the patients and their family members provided genuine information in the very first instance, it saved the administration a lot of time. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said that though not getting a clue about the infection of the source may be a matter of concern, the administration’s contact tracing team works round the clock. Hence, one should not derive any conclusion without authentic information. Chaudhary said that in the recent case of a banker’s death in Sangli, the district administration has sealed the branch where the deceased used to work. His secondary contacts have been traced and checked for Covid-19 symptoms. Even the CCTV footage has been checked to find out who all came in contact with the banker. District health officer, Sangli, Bhupal Girigosavi said they were yet to find the exact source from whom the banker contracted the infection. They are relying on call record data and thorough investigation. Satara’s district health officer Aniruddha Athalye said they too have such positive cases where they are finding difficulty in tracing the source of the infection. The case of a 10-month-old boy who tested positive for Covid-19 is baffling everyone. His parents tested negative for the contagion. The contact tracing of another patient, whose throat swab sample tested positive for Covid-19 on April 15, was also turning out to be a diffilcult process. According to Athalye, people who are the contracting infection without having a travel history or without coming in contact with affected patients were posing a challenge to the district administration. “Recalling something two-days’ ago is difficult for an average person. Getting information from positive patients as to whom did they visit is proving to be a real challenge for us,” said Athalye.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/admins-find-difficulty-in-tracing-source-of-infection-for-ve-cases/articleshow/75282290.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 22, 2020||Goa||Setback of 6 months for completion of Zuari bridge||PANAJI: The unexpected lockdown of 40 days owing to the coronavirus pandemic has set back the work on the new eight-lane Zuari bridge by six months, the work contractor Dilip Buildcon told TOI. The state government had earlier announced that a four-lane section of the new bridge would be opened for use by December 2020, which now seems highly unlikely. Work on the project is hit as transportation of non-essential materials is yet to be freely allowed across states and factories manufacturing construction materials are still not operational. “Work on the bridge has resumed, but it cannot be full-fledged as a lot of material has to come from other states. The construction material is procured from across India, but mainly from Maharashtra and Karnataka. Still a lot of factories have not opened and material transportation is also an issue,” vice-president, constructions, Atul Joshi said. He said that besides the lockdown, four months starting June would be lost to the monsoon season. “The deadline for completion of the bridge will definitely be pushed ahead. Already there has been more than a month of lockdown, besides the issues of material availability, the monsoon approaching. The work will be pushed ahead by another six months. There were some works, completion target for which, was before the onset of the monsoon,” Joshi said. He said that the uncertainty over how long the lockdown may have to continue in the country will also make it difficult to expect completion of the bridge work as scheduled. The latest deadline announced by PWD minister Deepak Pauskar for completion of the ambitious project was April 2021, now an unlikely target. The new Zuari bridge is an ambitious Rs 1,403 crore project funded by the Union ministry for road transport and highways, which will be the third longest cable-stayed bridge in Goa. The work presently being carried out is minor in nature like plastering of the structures and concreting of the four-lane approach roads on either side of the bridge. “A lot of material is required, if it does not come then we cannot carry out the work, which is on but at a very slow pace,” said Joshi. Already experts from China and France had to cancel their scheduled travel to Goa due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The experts were to oversee crucial work on the superstructure of the bridge. The new Zuari bridge project’s four-lane approach road will begin near the Bambolim Cross on the northern end and lead upto Verna industrial estate, covering 13.7km, including the new bridge. Bhopal-based Dilip Buildcon, along with a Ukrainian company Mostobudivelnyi Zahin Ltd, was awarded the contract for construction of the bridge in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/setback-of-6-months-for-completion-of-zuari-bridge/articleshow/75282838.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 22, 2020||Pune||Trains stay off tracks, crime cases down to 0 in 3 weeks||PUNE: With all trains remaining suspended and the stations wearing a deserted look, the Government Railway Police (GRP), Pune, has not registered any criminal case for over three weeks since the lockdown began. The GRP, Pune, comprises six divisions — Pune, Daund, Ahmednagr, Kurduwadi, Solapur and Miraj — with each having one railway police station. The prime responsibility of these units is to keep a check on the crime happening on-board trains, on railway tracks and at station platforms. On an average, the six railway police stations under GRP, Pune, register about three-four cases of mobile thefts, two-three body offences and an equal number of luggage thefts a day. It registers a robbery case once in two days. “With the train services remaining suspended, there are no passengers and people are not visiting the railway stations. All activities at the railway stations are at a standstill and the police stations have not registered any crime in the last three weeks. As the trains are stationary, there is no crime on board or in running trains,” superintendent of police, GRP, Deepak Sakore told TOI. GRP officers said over 200 long-distance trains travel through the Pune division and the busiest railway station of Pune records a footfall of about 2.5 lakh a day. Sakore said the Pune — Daund track and Daund — Solapur track was notorious for the robberies. “The robberies take ambush near the railway tracks where a train changes tracks and halts for couple of minutes. The robbers use this time to either barge into the compartments to take away the passengers’ valuables or steal gold chains through the windows,” he said. The GRP’s Pune railway division registers about 600-700 accidental death cases per year. AD In the last three weeks, police have not registered any such case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trains-stay-off-tracks-crime-cases-down-to-0-in-3-weeks/articleshow/75282287.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Health survey of cops aged over 50 to put them off bandobast||Nashik: The Nashik city police have checked their personnel aged over 50 years to check if they are facing any medical problem during the course of duty. If the police personnel inform of any such problem, they would be given duty at spots where they would have minimal contact with the public. Senior police officials said there are close to 3,000 personnel, which is around 15% of the city police force, who are above the age of 50. The control room is making calls to these police personnel to enquire after their health. Deputy commissioner of police (HQ) Pournima Chaugule said, “The survey is almost complete now. There are two objectives -- one is to keep watch on the health of police personnel and assign them duty accordingly and other to take their medical history” “People suffering from certain heart diseases, diabetes, are vulnerable to catch Covid-19. Thus, if at all, the disease spreads more in the city, we will remove these personnel from the front line,” she added. On account of Covid-19, the deployment of the police personnel on the city roads and internal lanes has been stepped up to ensure that there is complete lockdown. More than 86 nakabandi points have been set up in different parts of the city and police personnel are also patrolling the lanes and by-lanes of the city. Senior officers said they were taking precautionary steps to ensure the personnel do not catch the infection while on duty. Most policemen are on the streets in the scorching heat, adding to their health concerns. The police personnel on duty have been given masks, sanitizers, health supplements and other facilities to protect them from the infection of the virus. “If the police personnel inform about any health issue, their immediate unit head would be instructed to shift those cops to some other place of duty. Their interaction with the general public is reduced and thereby the chances of catching the infection,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/health-survey-of-cops-aged-over-50-to-put-them-off-bandobast/articleshow/75280198.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Guv Mishra bats for tribal districts||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra has directed the administrations of seven tribal dominated districts to provide essential services at their doorstep during a review meeting held through the video-conferencing on Tuesday. The meeting was attended by the district collectors and officers from Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Pratapgarh, Jalore, Sirohi and Rajsamand.Considering the scale of poverty among tribals, Mishra asked the officials to make provisions to engage them in their traditional economic activities. The tribal population has been at the receiving end as their forest-based economic activities have been suspended and most of them who work as construction labourers or as daily wage labourers have no work for the past one month.The officials apprised him about the preparedness for Covid-19 in these district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-mishra-bats-for-tribal-districts/articleshow/75282304.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Power snag halts Selaulim water supply for 18 hours||QUEPEM: Taps in almost entire South Goa went dry for nearly 18 hours after a transformer, located between Xeldem and Xelpem power sub-station, that provides electricity supply to the main Selaulim pumping station was burnt following gusty winds and rain on Monday night. Power was restored at 2pm on Tuesday at the main Selaulim pump house by the Sanguem electricity department, after which the PWD commenced pumping operations. Executive engineer, PWD (division XII), Srikant Gaonkar told TOI that after the electrical restoration work was completed, they immediately started the pumping process.  “It took us the entire night to clear the trees fallen on electrical lines. When we restored the power there was a blast at the potential transformer. Both the insulators failed at the same time, as a result, we were unable to provide supply to the main pump house,” assistant engineer K M Shashi said. Normally, during incidents of power failure, only one insulator gets burnt or damaged and the supply can be restored to the pump house through the other insulator, however, both insulators burnt simultaneously for the first time, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-snag-halts-selaulim-water-supply-for-18-hours/articleshow/75282853.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Doctors’ body demands armed security around hospitals||Nashik: The Maharashtra Gazetted Medical Officers Association has appealed to the rural police to take stern action against those attacking medical staff, who are putting their safety at risk in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. In a memorandum presented to the Nashik rural police, the office bearers of the association said that recently, there have been two instances in Malegaon following which medical officers and staff are working in government hospitals in fear for their lives. On March 25, medical officers and staff were assaulted by a group of people.Though the police have plunged into action and arrested the suspects, one person in the case is yet to be arrested. The office bearers also brought to the notice of the rural police the second incident which occured on April 19 where in the kin of a deceased person vandalized the hospital, while the doctors and the medical staff had a narrow escape. The office bearers said that if the situation did not change in the future, doctors and paramedical staff would continue working under an atmosphere of fear and that the association would be left with little option but to take stringent measures. The office bearers have demanded round-the-clock armed security at the hospitals. It further demanded strict security at various windows and departments of the Malegaon general hospital. The memorandum bears the signatures of association president Arvind Mahulkar.and joint secretaries Pradeep Jaibhave and Sanjay Pawar. Meanwhile, superintendent of rural police Arti Singh said that strict bandobast have been deployed at the Malegaon general hospital, other hospitals and quarantine centres where Covid-19 patients were being treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doctors-body-demands-armed-security-around-hospitals/articleshow/75280212.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Deer dies in stray dogs attack||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A spotted deer was found dead in the heart of Ooty town on Tuesday. The postmortem report said it was bitten by stray dogs, said Saravana Kumar, assistant conservator of forests, Nilgiris division. The carcass of a female deer, aged around two years, was found with external injuries near an ATM in Charing Cross complex, a forest official said. The postmortem was conducted by Dr Sugumaran at the Ooty veterinary hospitalDuring the lockdown wild animals, including leopard, sloth bear and gaur, were spotted in the hill town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/deer-dies-in-stray-dogs-attack/articleshow/75282315.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||City raises alert level as upward curve of positive cases continues||Vijayawada: Despite measures taken by the district administration and the civic body, the number people testing positive for Covid-19 in the district is increasing every day. The number touched 83 cases on Tuesday, causing worry to higher authorities. Vijayawada city is on high alert due to the high number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last five days. Around 65 positive cases were registered in the city and authorities are facing difficulty tracing the source of infection for a few patients. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz announced that, in all, 16 mandals and 10 municipal areas in the district have been demarcated as red zone. Relaxation from lockdown is give only in the green zone areas and local tahasildhars and sub-collectors were given powers to take decisions related to relaxation. All the roads in Krishnalanka Satyam Hotel centre were closed after a person residing in the area tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. Ayodhya Nagar continued to be a red zone, after another person living in the area tested positive for Covid-19, after two weeks. The number of people suspected to have the virus kept under quarantine centres is increasing every day. Over 11,000 rapid testing kits reached district collectors office on Tuesday. District medical and health officer Dr Ramesh trained health officials to use the kits. Officials started tests at red zones across the city on Tuesday evening. Persons identified in the door-to-door survey conducted by ward secretaries, volunteers, and health workers will be tested first. Meanwhile, makeshift vegetable markets across the city reopened from Tuesday with the directions of joint collector Madhavi Latha. The directions came after residents fumed over the authorities closing markets without prior intimation on Monday. Agriculture marketing authorities convinced stallholders and restored all 20 makeshift vegetable markets. Officials said that around 600 quintal of vegetables was sold in a single day. “Markets were closed due to a small miscommunication. I have directed the marketing department to reopen all makeshift markets. Similarly, there has been a huge response to mobile vegetable markets in the city. Altogether, 105 mobile markets were introduced in the city and around 2,688 metric tonnes of vegetables were sold through these markets,” Madhavi Latha said. Special focus was kept on the red zones, she added. “All containment zones in the city are being strictly monitored through our surveillance. All shops and establishments except milk booths have remained closed in these areas. Mobile markets will go to the red zones during relaxation time so that residents can purchase quality vegetables at an affordable price,” she added. The city’s residents welcomed the move. “Us daily labourers have lost our livelihood with the lockdown. Local vegetable sellers are looting us and rythu bazaars are only hope left for us. We are happy that city buses carrying vegetables came to our area this morning and we purchased vegetables. Price is very affordable,” said M Nagasai, a daily labourer residing at Machavaram hilltop. Authorities of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) deployed volunteers at mobile markets to ensure the public maintained social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-raises-alert-level-as-upward-curve-of-positive-cases-continues/articleshow/75280227.cms||Venu Lanka
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||A ‘nikaah’ within lockdown norms that also fed the poor||Nagpur: The lockdown had compelled many to reschedule their marriage plans but the Qazis of Bande Nawaz Nagar thought differently. Instead of postponing their elder son Mohsinuddin’s ‘nikaah’ to Nasrin, they used the opportunity to set an example of how to follow all the norms of social distancing, personal hygiene and avoiding even the permissible gathering for marriages. At the same time, they showed generosity by donating 3,000 kg rice for hungry souls whom they had never even met. They families later completed the wedding rituals in the most simple fashion under the guidance of a maulvi on April 18. Mohsinuddin’s marriage was fixed on April 5 but the lockdown compelled them to call it off for the time being. They were anticipating normalcy in latter part of the month. As the Covid-19 scare continued, the families of Mohsinuddin and Nasrin decided to go ahead with the wedding but by strictly remaining within the lockdown norms. Mohsinuddin’s younger brother Moinuddin said three main issues were decided between the families to complete the formalities. “We decided that only five people would be present from each side including the bride and the groom,” he said. He said everyone was using sanitizers, gloves and also masks during the nikaah. Moinuddin said preparations and purchases were already made for the feast (Walima) on the day following the ‘nikaah’ but now it was not possible. “When we realized our guests would not be able to make it to our place for blessing the couple. We decided to distribute the foodgrains to the needy people and seek their good wishes instead,” he said. Moinuddin said he had already spotted Ghulam Ashrafi and Moshu Ashrafi’s Young Force group distributing food to 1,500 people twice daily. “We decided to donate 3,000 kg rice to the group. They could prepare it and take it to the poor people whose blessings will help our family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-nikaah-within-lockdown-norms-that-also-fed-the-poor/articleshow/75282318.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers mow down banana plantations||Vijayawada: With the lockdown hurting banana business in a big way, farmers are cutting down their plantations across Nellore district. The district boasts of a massive banana cultivation spanning across 20,000 acres of land. Due to drop in demand, the farmers are now mowing down their banana fields using tractors in a bid to stop further losses. Addressing the media, Sudhakar Reddy from Yenamala village who owns 18 acres of banana plantation, said that the farmers have been facing almost Rs 1 lakh in loss due to lack of sale. “Since hotels are shut and no exports, we are left with no takers for the produce. The tenant farmers have taken a bigger beating as they are unable to pay their rents let alone invest more in cultivating them,” Reddy said. Farmers make around Rs 70,000 to Rs 80,000 investment in cultivating banana fields and on top of that, they are also required to pay Rs 35,000 to Rs 60,000 as rent for the land. “We demand that the horticulture department take cognisance of our plight and provide some form of respite to all our farmers during the crisis,” Reddy pleaded. The hotels stand as a bigger business client for the banana cultivators as they also make a business of sending banana leaves to states like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. On the other hand, vendors are stuck with huge stocks without sale. “I am saddled with the responsibility of taking care of at least four farm labourers. My clients are with small time catering businesses who deal with marriages and functions. Since, all of it has been halted, I am forced to see the produce rot in front of my eyes,” Krishnaiah told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-mow-down-banana-plantations/articleshow/75280243.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||How a two-year-old girl in Gujarat defeated coronavirus||VADODARA: A two-year-old girl from Bodeli, who was the second person to test positive for coronavirus in Chhota Udepur district, was discharged from GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri on Tuesday. Aayesha Khatri had contracted the virus from her 60-year-old grandfather who too was discharged from the same hospital last week. During treatment, Khatri was tested a couple of times and her reports were negative due to which she was discharged after 13 days. However, her mother, who was taking care of her, too tested positive and is still undergoing treatment at the hospital. The girl was sent back home with her father. “We are happy that after my father, my daughter has won the fight against coronavirus. We are now waiting for my wife to get discharged,” said the girl’s father, Ahmedullah. Doctors at the hospital said that Aayesha had very few symptoms of the dreaded virus and she was treated as per the protocols which yielded results. Until now, five patients, including the little girl, have been discharged by the hospital. Four other patients including her grandfather were above 50 years of age. Doctors said that all patients who have been discharged so far were of high risk due to their age and also two patients had diabetes and kidney-related ailments. Chhota Udepur district has now five active cases, four of which are from Bodeli and one from Chhota Udepur town. Except for the Aayesha’s mother, the other patients from Bodeli are undergoing treatment at isolation ward in Chhota Udepur while the patient from Chhota Udepur town is undergoing treatment at a private hospital on Waghodia Road in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-year-old-bodeli-girl-defeats-virus-discharged/articleshow/75280078.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Arunachal CM thanks Nashik police chief for helping students||NASHIK: Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu has expressed gratitude towards Nashik police commissioner Vishwas Nangare Patil for the timely help to the students of his state amid the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Arunachal CM complimented Nangare Patil through a tweet on April 18 while also thanking Suhas Warke, IG of Kolhapur, for the same gesture. Nangare Patil had instructed his team to check the number of students and provide them with necessary help. He confirmed that the move followed a call from a member of the IPS Association. Pema Khandu also thanked other senior officials across Maharashtra for the help extended to the Arunachal students, like providing them with necessary essentials for survival during the lockdown. In a reply to the Arunachal chief minister, the Nashik city police also thanked him, saying that it was part of their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/arunachal-cm-thanks-nashik-police-chief-for-helping-students/articleshow/75280234.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor blames Mundhe for spike in Covid-19 +ve cases||Nagpur: Mayor Sandeep Joshi on Tuesday blamed municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for the growing number of corona positive patients in the city. “Quarantine rules are being brazenly violated. All the suspected patients are brought together to the MLA Hostel. The inmates openly chat and enjoy meals together despite chances of one of the inmates testing positive for coronavirus,” Joshi said in a letter to Mundhe. TOI has highlighted the issue of mixing of suspects with untested inmates at quarantine centres among other violations of social distancing there. All suspected patients whose reports are awaited are expected to stay in separate rooms. On the contrary, no such restrictions are being followed at MLA Hostel, he said. The mayor also alleged that officials were unable take corrective steps due to fear of Mundhe. “This is a serious issue and doesn’t augur well for the city. Instead of taking preventive measures, the civic chief is busy in patting his own back,” the mayor said. With over 80 patients, the civic administration believes the situation is under control but continuous rise in number of patients in institutional quarantine centres exposes poor management. The mayor also suggested to tie red (for infected people) and green tags (for suspected cases but tested negative and needing quarantine) to differentiate persons. “Strict measures are a must to break the chain of corona spread,” the mayor stressed. Mundhe, however, ruled out the violations and claimed that quarantine guidelines laid down by the state government, central government and the World Health Organization are being followed religiously. “Most of those who came in contact with positive persons have been quarantined. So far we succeeded in breaking the chain.” He pointed out the need of the hour is to fight Covid-19 together than making allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-blames-mundhe-for-spike-in-covid-19-ve-cases/articleshow/75282330.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Assessment of Class XII exam papers from April 23||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education is set to begin its Class XII public exam assessment work from April 23, after it received permission from the state government, board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said. When the lockdown was announced, the Class XII exams were nearly over, except for three subject papers. The pending assessment work for the papers that have already been answered will begin in a phased manner from April 23, Samant said. “Teachers who attend the assessment work will mandatorily wear face masks and it will be ensured that they use sanitisers and follow social distancing norms. The board will also take up work of sanitising both the assessment work camps before starting work,” he said. Last week, the board had said that the rescheduled dates for the three Class XII public exam papers will be announced five days prior to the exam. Similarly, the new schedule for the Class X exam will be announced 10 days before the test. The Board had also said that the new dates for the Class X and XII exams will scheduled ‘after keeping all aspects related to entrance exams and admission dates in mind’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assessment-of-class-xii-exam-papers-from-apr-23/articleshow/75282878.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Delhi||With humans inside nests, 3,000 herons mate in freedom||NEW DELHI: Last week, there was news of almost a quarter more than the usual number of the lesser flamingo painting the creeks of Navi Mumbai Pink. The colour of the season in Delhi is grey. A large number of birds, among them the white and grey black-crowned night heron, have made nests on the banks of the Yamuna. Officials of the Yamuna Biodiversity Park put the number of the heron nests at 3,000 at the least, and said that the anti-Covid lockdown was positively influencing the influx of migrant birds as well as the success rate of their breeding. The light grey and white heron with a slash of slate across its head — a migrant that becomes a resident bird in the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in the summer months — usually nests from March to May, favouring the forest of wetland reeds (phragmites) and Tamarix shrubs along the 1.8km stretch of the river in north Delhi. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the biodiversity park, explained that lack of human activity, including at the park which has been shut down for the lockdown period, is helping the birds nest. Khudsar was clear that a reduction in noise pollution across the city was helping the birds mate. “Noise level of over 20 decibels hurts birds. With little to no noise at this time, the birds’ vocalisation and mating calls are not distorted. This helps them discover partners more easily, ” the expert said. He added that absence of human interference in the biodiversity park has meant grass has grown more luxuriantly than usual and there is no movement or sound inside the park to disturb the avian species. A couple of officials visit the area during the week to check on the nesting. “We estimate there are over 3,000 nests at the heronry here, though the number could actually be close to 5,000,” said Khudsar. Also present are the purple sunbird, little egret, little cormorant and the grey heron. “We are recording a lot of shikras too,”said Khudsar, talking of the falcon-like but smaller raptor. After the breeding grounds of the black-crowned night heron were destroyed a decade ago, the park developed a nesting site for the species in 2003. Large numbers now come and leave Delhi in September, dispersing to different locations across the country. “This is perhaps their largest congregation ever in Delhi,” said a delighted Khudsar. “It will be interesting to see how other birding hotspots in Delhi and NCR are faring during the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-humans-inside-nests-3k-herons-mate-in-freedom/articleshow/75283294.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Architecture student commits suicide||Nashik: A 22-year-old architecture student from Raver in Jalgaon district, who had been studying in Nashik, committed suicide on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. While it was earlier assumed that the student ended his life as he could not go home due to the lockdown, the police later said prima facie it did not appear so and the case is being investigated. The deceased has been identified as Rupesh Bharat Patil. PI Rakesh Hande of the Satpur police station said Rupesh and his elder brother Mayur had been residing in a rented apartment at Gulmohar Vihar, along the Pipeline Road, since the past six months. While Mayur is an architect, Rupesh was studying architecture in a city college. On Monday night, Mayur had gone out to stay at a friend’s place overnight, while Rupesh was home alone. When Mayur returned on Tuesday morning, he found Rupesh hanging from a ceiling fan. He immediately rushed Rupesh to the Nashik civil hospital, where he was declared dead. After conducting the panchanama, Rupesh’s body was handed over to his brother. Rakesh Hande said the body has been taken to Jalgaon by his brother. The Satpur police said they found no evidence that Rupesh committed suicide due to lockdown frustration or that he was upset due to not getting permission to go to his native home. The suicide could be from personal reasons, which is being investigated, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/architecture-student-commits-suicide/articleshow/75280274.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Bank branch sealed, secondary contacts traced in Sangli||Kolhapur: The Sangli district administration has sealed the bank branch where the banker, who succumbed to Covid-19 recently, worked. The officials also traced more than 100 secondary contacts, who too will be checked for symptoms. According to the health department officials, after the 47-year-old banker’s death, the Sangli administration is on high alert. Though the city, or even the district, has no active cases at present, the administration is trying hard to curb the virus spread. Sangli district health officer Bhupal Girigosavi said the close contacts of the deceased have tested negative. “We had checked 42 close contacts and most of them have tested negative. The source of infection has not been ascertained yet, but as a precautionary measure, we will be testing the throat swab samples of the close contacts once again in a few days,” he said. Girigosavi hoped that by Wednesday, they might be able to trace the source of the banker’s infection. The officials are checking CCTV footage and call records to get an idea of the persons who might have come in contact with the deceased. Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI that the administration is working tirelessly to find out the source of the infection and contact tracing is also underway. “We cannot rule out any possibility,” he added. The Vijaynagar area has been cordoned off and the containment zone has been declared there. It will continue to remain so until further instructions, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bank-branch-sealed-secondary-contacts-traced-in-sangli/articleshow/75282333.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Parcel trains carry 452 tonnes essentials||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada railway division has transported 451.7 tonnes essential commodities through special parcel express trains during the lockdown period. According to railway officials, the division also carried 4.5 tonnes essential medicines to various stations on priority. Commodities such as lime, iced fish, eggs, ghee tins, mangoes, and other essentials—including 4.5 tonnes medicines—were transported to various destinations from Vijayawada, Rajahmundry, Eluru, Gudur, Nellore and Anakapalle. Outside the division, trains coming from Secunderabad to Kakinada, Howrah, Mumbai and Chennai transit through Vijayawada. The division accounts for almost 30% of the total goods transported within the South Central Railway (SCR) which stands as the second highest parcel traffic on Indian Railways. The largest essential commodity transported by the division is fish, 203 tonnes of which weighs was transported. Other significant contents transported by the division include 26.65 tonnes of fruits, 39.47 tonnes of eggs, 63.22 tonnes of lime and 12.57 tonnes of ghee tins. Fish and eggs mostly originate from Vijayawada to Howrah, while a part of the load is also booked to various other stations like Khurda Road. Vijayawada is also supplying some of the green products like betel leaves, limes and other vegetables to cities like New Delhi, Guwahati, Jhansi, Agra, Bhopal, Ahmedabad, Surat, Bhavnagar and Anand. “For the convenience of rail customers, train movement details and information have also been fed along with train numbers on the National Train Enquiry System (NTES) to keep track on the live status of the special parcel trains,” a railway official said. Additional stoppages along with revised timings were provided to the special parcel express as per the request and convenience of merchants and aggregators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parcel-trains-carry-452-tonnes-essentials/articleshow/75280273.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Act tough against rule violators: SP||Tirupati: Officials of the district administration and the police department inspected various red zone areas at Srikalahasti in Chittoor district, where over 30 cases of coronavirus were reported recently. Inspector general of police N Sanjay, Tirupati SP A Ramesh Reddy, district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta and other officials held a review at the Srikalahasti municipal office on Tuesday and discussed the measures taken by the district medical and health department to prevent the further spread of the novel coronavirus in the constituency. Speaking to reporters after the inspection, Tirupati SP A Ramesh Reddy expressed concern on the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases reported at Srikalahasti. “Despite appeals from the Union and state governments, people continue to violate lockdown guidelines at several places across the Tirupati urban police limits. We shall enforce the lockdown in a more stringent way in Srikalahasti from now on. People in the red zone areas should strictly remain indoors and the district administration will ensure provisions, medicines, vegetables, and the like will be delivered to their doorsteps,” the Tirupati SP warned. “People are still coming out to procure provisions. The police department should act tough and seize vehicles of lawbreakers who flout the lockdown guidelines,” district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/act-tough-against-rule-violators-sp/articleshow/75280297.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur registers 5 more cases, Satara 3||Kolhapur: Solapur has registered five more Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 30. Of the five cases registered on Tuesday, one patient had passed away on Monday morning, however, his swab result arrived on Tuesday night. The deceased was a 75-year-old Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patient and was admitted on April 19 at the Solapur civil hospital, where he passed away on April 20. His swab sample was collected as a precautionary measure. Solapur collector Milind Shambharkar said that of the five cases identified on Tuesday, four are SARI patients and one had contracted the infection from an earlier positive patient. With this, Solapur district now has registered 30 positive cases till date, of which 27 are active. Meanwhile, Satara district also registered three more Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday to take the tally to 17. Of the three, a 38-year-old man and a 25-year-old youth were earlier admitted in the Karad-based Krishna Medical College as suspects, while a 17-year-old boy was admitted in the Satara district hospital as a suspect. Amod Gadikar, Satara district civil surgeon said that Tuesday’s positive patients had contracted the infection from the earlier positive patients and they are all close contacts. All the positive patients are stable and are being treated as per the protocol at Karad and Satara. According to the health department statement, as many as 68 new suspects have been admitted to the district hospital in Satara, Krishna Medical College, Karad, sub-district hospital Karad, sub-district hospital in Phaltan, and a rural hospital in Koregaon. Their swab samples have been collected and sent to the B J Medical College, Pune. The total positive cases in Satara until Tuesday stands at 17, while the active cases are 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-registers-5-more-cases-satara-3/articleshow/75282358.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Over 1 crore people will get free rations: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Over one crore people who have been hit by the extended lockdown will be given free rations by Delhi government. On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said 2,000 food coupons will be given to each MLA and MP for distribution of ration among the needy who don’t have any identity documents in their constituencies. Around 71 lakh public distribution system (PDS) beneficiaries and 30 lakh people who have applied for ration cards online are being provided free rations. Since a large number of people are unemployed, the CM said that when the distribution of rations for the month of May begins at the end of April, people will also be given a kit containing essential items like salt, chickpeas, sugar, turmeric, edible oil, soap, spices and daliya. Many people, particularly migrant labourers who had come to the city for a few months to earn money, have got stuck due to the lockdown. “To ensure free rations to such people, Delhi government has decided to give 2,000 food coupons to each MLA and MP across all political parties. Each coupon will entitle the holder to get 5kg free rations. The MPs and MLAs can give these coupons to people who do not have a ration card or any ID proof,” said Kejriwal. Sixty new ambulances have been ordered to cater to the rising number of Covid-19 positive cases. An analysis of the Covid-19 deaths has revealed that 80% patients were above 50 years old. “This shows that senior citizens are more at risk. We also found that 83% of the deceased patients had co-morbidities, like diabetes, hypertension, kidney disease, cancer, etc,” the CM said, urging people to take care of the elderly. The volume of rations was also increased by the government after the lockdown. “We have given 7.5kg free ration this month to 71 lakh ration card holders and 5kg to 10 lakh non-PDS beneficiaries. We have received nearly 38 lakh applications from non-ration card holders. Around 2 crore people reside in Delhi and we will be giving free rations to half the population,” Kejriwal said. Meanwhile, in a review meeting on Tuesday, LG Anil Baijal asked officials to ensure effective management of containment zones, food centres and night shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-1cr-people-will-get-free-rations-cm/articleshow/75282400.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||85-year-old woman among five discharged in Anantapur||Tirupati: An 85-year-old woman was among the five Covid-19 patients who got discharged on Tuesday in Anantapur district, which has been witnessing a spike in the number of positive cases recently. The old woman was discharged from the KIMS-Savera district hospital in Anantapur, and was taken home by her grandson. All five discharged patients are contacts of a 60-year-old Mecca returnee, who died on April 4 while undergoing treatment. The deceased’s 85-year-old mother, his 29-year-old son and 32-year-old driver all tested positive for the novel coronavirus on April 5 and were under treatment at the hospital since then. Two others, who tested positive after coming in contact with the Covid victim’s driver, were also discharged along with the family’s other members. Doctors, paramedic staff and others at the hospital cheered for the discharged patients during an emotional send-off at the hospital in the evening. Officials of the district administration handed over fruits and a financial assistance of Rs 2,000 to all the discharged patients. Meanwhile, 48 suspects who tested negative twice for Covid-19 were discharged from quarantine facilities in Kurnool district on Tuesday. Officials said 1,259 suspects had been placed under isolation at 23 quarantine facilities across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/85-year-old-woman-among-five-discharged-in-anantapur/articleshow/75280324.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Police nab 6 migrants who fled from camp||Aurangabad: The escape bid of six men, hailing from Madhya Pradesh and kept at a shelter home in Cidco N-7 area of the city, was foiled by Harsul police on Tuesday. According to police, these men escaped from the shelter home in the wee hours, but were caught by policemen at a check-post in Harsul. They were later handed over to Cidco area police station and brought back to the shelter home at around 3am. After learning about the incident, deputy commissioner of police (zone-II) Rahul Khade along with a team of civic officials rushed to the shelter home and personally counselled the workers. "These men were brought to the shelter camp around 25 days ago when they were caught by a police team while walking back to their native homes," a police officer said. "When the migrant workers were quarantined, they were assured of being released on April 14. But much to their dismay, the lockdown has been extended till May 3. They are asking us the exact date of their release. But a decision in this regard will be taken by the government," he added. Cidco police inspector Ashok Giri told TOI, "People living in the camps are nervous and worried. We are making every effort to boos their morale and counsel them." Citing humanitarian grounds, police ruled out the possibility of registering offences against them. However, the police have warned them against fleeing the camp. A total of 61 migrant workers are currently lodged in the shelter home in Cidco N-7. Police said that nervousness in all these migrant labourers is increasing with every passing day. "To ensure that the migrants workers do not get violent, police officers are regularly visiting the camps and interacting with the inmates," a senior police officer said. Taking serious cognizance of the incident, vigil across the camps has been increased. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad has also asked the police officers to have increased interaction with the people residing in camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-nab-6-migrants-who-fled-from-camp/articleshow/75280328.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||R’seema adds 19 more cases as AP’s +ve tally jumps to 757||Tirupati: Rayalaseema districts, except Chittoor, reported 19 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Of the 757 cases reported so far in the state, 319 are from the Rayalaseema region, comprising Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur and Chittoor districts. Ten new cases were reported from Kurnool district, brining up the district tally to 184. While five deaths have been reported in the district so far, four patients have been treated and discharged. The total number of active cases undergoing treatment in the district is 175. Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy declared the Government General Hospital at Kurnool as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Following the decision, government, GGH superintendent Dr Ramprasad directed heads of all medical departments at the hospital to shift in-patients to 12 private hospitals in Kurnool city. The finance minister later held a meeting with elders of the Muslim community at the district collectorate and appealed to them to celebrate Ramzan at home this year, in view of the rising number of cases in the district. In Kadapa district, six new cases were reported, the total number standing at 46 of Tuesday. Nineteen patients have been treated and discharged while 27 cases are undergoing treatment. Anantapur district reported three cases on Tuesday. The district has 36 cases and has reported three deaths till date. Two patients were earlier discharged. District collector Gandham Chandrudu told reporters that a few more patients who have recovered will be discharged from KIMS-Savera Covid-19 district hospital on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rseema-adds-19-more-cases-as-aps-ve-tally-jumps-to-757/articleshow/75280355.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Health department revises list of hotspot areas in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Based on the inputs from the district disaster management authorities and under the recommendation from the state disaster management authority, the health department has revised the hotspot list in the state. The revised list also has 88 hotspots. As per the new list, Palakkad municipality has been avoided from the list. Two more local bodies from Kannur; Chembilode and Pappinisseri have been declared as hotspots as confirmed cases are reported from there. Mulakkuzha and Thannermukham panchayats in Alappuzha district have been included in the list. Chengannur municipality and Muhamma panchayat in Alappuzha district have been removed from the list. The Vellamunda grama panchayat in Wayanad has also been removed from the list. Thrissur has only Kodassery panchayat as hotspot. In Kollam, the city corporation, Nilamel and Thrikkaruva panchayats have been declared hotspots. The first hotspot list was published on Sunday evening by principal health secretary Rajan N Khobragade. The government has imposed severe restrictions in the identified hotspots. All borders of the hotspots will be sealed and no one will be allowed to enter these local bodies as per the directive from the disaster management authority and the state health department. Relaxations in the green and Orange-B zones from April 20 will not be applicable for hotspots. Even hotspots within the green zones like Kottayam and Idukki will have same kind of restrictions. Kottayam and Idukki were put under green zone since there were no active positive cases. Now, Thrissur, Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram have also joined the group with no active positive cases. Hence the district disaster management authorities will have a review in the coming days and is likely to submit a list of local bodies where hotspot classification can be lifted. Accordingly, a fresh list of hotspots will be declared by the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/health-dept-revises-list-of-hotspot-areas-in-state/articleshow/75279034.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Ambulance driver happy to serve||BERHAMPUR: Ambulance driver Brajabandhu Nayak continues to ferry suspected Covid-19 patients from their homes to the City Hospital despite the threat of being infected looming large. Since March 27, he has driven eight such cases from Hinjili. “Though I fear infection, I don’t mind ferrying the patients,” said the 30-year-old Brajabandhu from Hugulapeta village near here. Brajabandhu makes sure that he takes all precautions like wearing personal protective equipment that includes jackets and gloves. “The vehicle is sanitised every time after a suspected person is transported. I also maintain a distance from the patients,” he added. But he has a tough time convincing his ageing parents, who are jittery after coming to know that doctors elsewhere have got infected. “They are pestering me to return home,” said Brajabandhu, who has not gone home since the 21-day lockdown was imposed. While Brajabandhu is responding to his calling, villagers are fearful of helping the suspected Covid-19 patients. Like Brajabandhu, around 27 ambulance drivers are ferrying suspected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ambulance-driver-happy-to-serve/articleshow/75279012.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 22, 2020||Goa||Goa University, college admin resume with minimum staff||PANAJI: Administrative offices of colleges across the state became operational on Tuesday. Goa University (GU), which also began functioning, did so only with bare minimum administrative office staff. Teachers will not be reporting to work as they are on summer break. GU will organise its staff into batches to ensure that not more than 33% work from the office on any given day. “The respective sectional/divisional heads shall prepare a work roster of group C employees to ensure that not more than 33% attend work on any given day. Others shall work from home on alternate day basis. The group A and B employees shall attend office on a daily basis. This is applicable to non-vacation staff only,” university registrar Y V Reddy stated in a circular. Staffers with children below five years of age can continue to work from home, the university said. It also said that those working from home should be available on telephone and other electronic means of communication. Those attending office have been told that they have to wear face masks while on duty. “The staff are requested to remain at home if they have symptoms like cough, cold, fever or if they are short of breath, etc, and are advised to take appropriate medical care through government doctors,” the circular stated. The doctor’s advice and prescription are to be made available to the office digitally for information, in such cases, the registrar said. On March 30, the varsity had issued a circular stating that its offices will remain shut up to April 14. Meanwhile, colleges opened their offices with only principals and non-teaching staff. However, in some cases, other staffers like counsellors employed by colleges were asked to report to work by a few college heads, even though neither teachers nor students are attending college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-college-admin-resume-with-min-staff/articleshow/75282901.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||House control room to help stranded Odias||BHUBANESWAR: To reach out to the distressed migrant workers and others who are stuck in various states due to the lockdown, the Odisha assembly will set up a control room to receive the list of such people from the MLAs and MPs and extend all possible help to those stranded outside. The development came following the advice of Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, who on Tuesday held a videoconference with the speakers of all legislative assemblies across the country to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country. “As advised by the Lok Sabha speaker, the control room at the Odisha legislative assembly will start functioning from tomorrow. All MPs and MLAs are requested to submit the list and details of distressed migrant workers, students and others, who are stranded in different states. We will send the list to the Lok Sabha speaker and also the speaker of states concerned to reach out to such people at this time of crisis,” said assembly speaker Surya Narayan Patro after emerging out of the videoconferencing. Patro said even as the state government has set up a control room and appointed nodal officers to help the people stranded in various states in coordination with the local administrations, reports said many such stranded people are not even able to get access to basic needs. Though the state government has no concrete information on number of Odia people stuck in various states due to the lockdown restrictions, unconfirmed sources said the number could be around 5 lakh. Maximum Odia people are stranded in states like Gujarat, Delhi NCR, Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. The assembly speaker has also directed to take stringent action against those chewing paan, supari and gutkha in public utility areas and working areas of the state assembly. Patro said any assembly employee found drunk during duty hours will be sacked. Based on Covid-19 regulations of the state government, assembly secretary Dasarathy Satpathy has issued an order strictly prohibiting spitting in public utility areas and premises of state assembly and other areas. Spitting is a punishable offence and fine up to Rs 500 can be imposed on violators, said Satpathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/house-control-room-to-help-stranded-odias/articleshow/75279042.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 fear haunts park guides, say tourism should not be opened||Nagpur: Even as guides and Gypsy drivers have become unemployed due to closure of tourism in tiger reserves, national parks and wildlife sanctuaries and buffer zones amid lockdown, they are wary of reopening the parks fearing Covid-19 blast from urban tourists. Deprived of daily income due to closure of tourism in parks from March 17, plight of guides is miserable and they are crying for some long-term help from the forest department, which has supplied them food kits enough only for a week. Most of them are indoors and many of them are hunting for alternative jobs in nearby towns. “Guides earn minimum Rs10,000 per month but coronavirus shattered entire tourism economy. Most of the guides are landless and those having marginal land holdings are not interested in farming due to lack of sustained income. Crop damage due to wildlife is huge,” said Umred-Karhandla guide Vidhyadhan Uikey. “More than reopening of parks we are concerned about some long-term measures from department by engaging us in protection work. Now tourism should not be restarted for at least six months due to Covid-19. Tourists here come from cities like Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, where cases are high. Spread of corona from outstation tourists will be dangerous for rural people who are safe till now,” Uikey said. Similar views were echoed by Navegaon-Nagzira guide Sanjay Sahare, who feels, “With zero income our condition is very bad. Yet, I feel parks should not be reopened even after lockdown is withdrawn on May 3. Here most of the tourists come from urban areas and department has no mechanism to know the medical history of tourists. If coronavirus spreads in areas around parks it would be disastrous. Our employment can be retained by utilizing our services for fire watch, patrolling and monitoring. Here is where local communities can play a key role. There are 100 guides in NNTR.” “During training we are told that guides are brand ambassadors and eyes of the department but except a small food kit no major help has come from the department. Our demand to pay ex gratia of Rs5,000 has also not been accepted,” said Sahare. “The Tadoba tiger foundation has lakhs of rupees in accounts towards cancellation of tickets by tourists, which is not refunded. This money can be used to bail out guides and Gypsy drivers. However, the park management has not yet stepped out to help the guides. The only gesture that was done was by Dr Ramakant Panda from Asian Heart Institute, Mumbai, and resort owner Dhananjay Bapat and his friends,” said a section of guides. Guides in Tadoba are still better placed as 60% of them own farm land and can do agriculture. But stakeholders like Ashish Choudhary from Pench have nowhere to go. “I have a Gypsy vehicle 50% financed by Pench Foundation and 50% by private finance. I’ve to pay Rs14,000 per month as loan instalment. How will I pay when there is no tourism? We need extension to pay loan instalment till regular tourism is in place. We don’t expect the park to reopen this summer,” said Choudhary. There are guides like Swapnil Bondre from Bor tiger reserve who are hunting for alternative employment as it is not advisable to reopen the park till October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-fear-haunts-park-guides-say-tourism-should-not-be-opened/articleshow/75281564.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Govt staff in Jalna denied travel passes for red zones||Aurangabad: Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya has refused to issue travel passes to government employees for Aurangabad and Buldhana districts, where Covid-19 cases are rising fast. “The restrictions are also meant for police personnel as well as citizens, including businessmen and other professionals, because these districts are hotbeds of coronavirus cases,” added the officer.The government has already marked Aurangabad and Buldhana districts as red zones. Jalna, however, is in the orange zone category as it has reported only one Covid-19 positive case so far.“Government employees have been asked to make arrangements for accommodation in the two districts, where they have been posted,” said ChaitanyaThe two districts share borders with Jalna district on the northern and north-western sides.Sources said that the decision in this regard was communicated to all the government offices in Jalna on Tuesday.“The communication had to be issued after several government offices started reaching out to police with requests for travel pass,” said a police officer.With the state government along with the Centre has slowly started easing lockdown restrictions in comparatively safer areas, government employees started resuming duty from Monday. Moreover, industrial as well as trading activities too have been allowed to an extent in orange zone areas, due to which more and more people are seeking travel passes to these two districts, which have close trade, commerce ties with Jalna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-staff-in-jalna-denied-travel-passes-for-red-zones/articleshow/75280385.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schools can call 33% staff per day, says education department||PANAJI: State education director Vandana Rao, in a circular issued on Tuesday, said that government, aided and unaided schools should ensure their employees are called to work on an alternate day basis, with not more than 33% working on a particular day. This will be valid till May 3. In the case of most schools, however, only administrative staff are expected to begin work from this week. Many teachers said they have informed the heads of their institutions that they have already completed work pertaining to assessments and results at home, as per previous instructions from the directorate of education. “The zonal offices of the directorate are to work with restricted staff. Group A and B officers shall attend. Staff belonging to Group C and the level below that may attend up to 33% of strength, as per requirement to ensure social distancing. However, delivery of public services shall be ensured, and necessary staff shall be deployed for such purpose,” Rao said. The staff will report at staggered timings — 8am to 12noon, 8.30am to 12.30pm and 9am to 1pm. “Those officials who are working from home should be available on telephone and electronic means of communication at all times. They should attend office if called and if any exigency of work demands,” Rao said. The directorate said that institutions should not convene meetings unless they are essential and that students, parents and others should not visit institutions. “Institutions are requested to instruct their staff to remain at home if they have symptoms like cough, cold and fever or if they are short of breath and are advised to take appropriate medical care through government doctors. The doctor’s advice and prescription should be made available to the head of the institution digitally for information,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-can-call-33-staff-per-day-edu-dept/articleshow/75282907.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nashik||NMC permits construction at few building sites||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has given its approval to start the construction of certain buildings by following few guidelines put across by the civic body. Only those buildings, which have been earlier permitted by the town planning department, will be able to carry the work. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has issued an order in this connection following the centre and state government’s decision to give relaxation to certain activities out of containment areas. The construction activities were completely stopped in the city after the government announced the lockdown in the country following the outbreak of Covid-19. They will have to apply online for getting permission for construction activities. “This is only for those builders or owners who have already got permission for the construction of the buildings or houses. But they will have to follow all the conditions set by the municipal corporation. The action would be taken against those who are found violating the norms,” said an NMC official. The builders can keep a maximum of five workers at the construction sites and they will have to provide them accommodation at the construction site. Moreover, these labourers will have to maintain social distancing guidelines of at least one metre from each other while doing the work. Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) Nashik has welcomed the decision of the municipal corporation. There are many projects, which had already received approval from the municipal corporation to start construction, but they could not due to lockdown. “Some had to stop the work in mid-way. Now, such projects having pre-permission may start constructions. Some sites which already had workers staying there have resumed work,” said Umesh Wankhede, president, CREDAI Nashik. He added that although the exact number of projects starting construction is unknown, but they are taking feedback from the members and the date on the same would be available in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-permits-construction-at-few-building-sites/articleshow/75280373.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Cloth masks by SHGs for residents’||Vijayawada: The Krishna district administration is making necessary arrangements to supply around 30,000 masks to the residents in the next five days. Authorities of Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) on Tuesday handed over masks manufactured by women’s self-help groups to Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz. As per the state government’s direction to give three cloth masks to every citizen, Krishna district administration directed MEPMA and district rural development authority (DRDA) to engage women self-help group members to stitch the masks. “Masks can help reduce the spread of novel coronavirus. Women’s self-help groups are manufacturing masks at an affordable price with good quality. Andhra Pradesh State Weavers Handloom Cooperative Society popularly known as APCO supplied around 2.74 lakh meters cloth for us to manufacture the masks,” Imtiaz said. MEPMA had identified around 26 manufacturing units in the district with around 2,765 sewing machines to stitch the masks, he added. “We have received around one lakh masks from MEPMA and distributed them to the residents living in red zones at Vidhyadharapuram, Machilipatnam, Jagiahpet,” Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cloth-masks-by-shgs-for-residents/articleshow/75280379.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||5 suspended for diverting govt funds||Tirupati: Anantapur district collector Gandham Chandrudu on Tuesday suspended five staffers on charges of diverting government funds in the district. The collector issued suspension orders to an animator and community coordinators for allegedly diverting funds meant to be disbursed to women self-help groups (SHGs) in the district. According to Anantapur district administration, during an enquiry by the DRDA-Velugu project director, it emerged that five persons had connived and diverted funds to the tune of Rs 1.67 crore since 2014 meant for disbursal to 27 SHGs at M Cherlopalle village in Raptadu mandal. Meanwhile, show cause notices were issued by the district collector to Raptadu mandal coordinators J Ravi and G Sivakumar Reddy on charges of negligence in performing duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/5-suspended-for-diverting-govt-funds/articleshow/75280400.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Central team inspects Kolkata markets during two-hour visit||KOLKATA: The five-member inter-ministerial committee team (IMCT) started its Kolkata tour on Tuesday with a two-hour drive through several areas of south Kolkata. The team that left the BSF regional headquarters only at 3.45pm, travelled through Gariahat and took a stop at Santoshpur market to check how the lockdown and social-distancing norms were being enforced in the state. The market was totally closed. The next stop was Mukundapur market off EM Bypass. There were few people around the market in the afternoon. Senior Kolkata Police officers then escorted the team towards Prince Anwar Shah Road from where they took the Lake Gardens flyover to reach Rashbehari and Kalighat junction. It was evening then and there were too many people at the crossing. The team then went to New Alipore via Chetla that has slums. The markets were empty. The team members didn’t get down from the car. They witnessed the situation from inside and moved towards Mominpur and then to Hazra. The team took note of the empty roads as they headed for Elgin Road. The trip ended at 6pm when the team returned to the BSF regional headquarters. There was not much the IMCT team could do on Tuesday afternoon since it was late. The team had moved out of the BSF office with a BSF escort at 10.50am on Tuesday. But they were stopped by the police on their way towards Park Circus prompting them to return to BSF office. The next three four hours were spent in official conversations with the Centre and the state government after chief secretary Rajiva Sinha couldn’t get time to meet them at 11am. It was only after the chief secretary went to the BSF office and held discussions with the team for about 40 minutes at 3 pm that the team could go on area visits. The IMCT team called on the NICED Kolkata director the day before on Monday to take stock of the tests done so far and the findings. The Centre had sent the teams to do an on-the-ground survey of the containment zones, examine how the lockdown and social distancing norms are being enforced. The teams were also sent to interact with the state administration and help states out over their need for PPE, medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-team-inspects-mkts-during-2-hr-visit/articleshow/75281561.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Minor girl tests +ve, mother staying with her in Covid-19 ward||NAGPUR: Though Covid-19 is a highly contagious disease, parents are not letting children who have tested positive to stay alone in quarantine. An 11-year-old girl from Satranjipura tested positive on Monday, while reports of her 35-year-old mother are awaited. However, the woman is staying with her daughter in the Covid-19 Isolation Ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The minor girl was among 10 members of a family traced, examined and quarantined at MLA Hostel in connection with the 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, the city’s first and only Covid-19 death. They are neighbours of the deceased. Samples of the minor girl, her mother, father, two siblings and other family members were taken on April 18. The reports of the minor girl came positive on Monday. Reports of the remaining family members are awaited. When a team of NMC and GMCH personnel reached MLA Hostel to take the girl to be admitted in GMCH, the mother insisted on accompanying her. As her daughter is a minor, NMC and GMCH allowed it. For last over 24 hours, the mother has been with the girl at GMCH. The father of the minor girl told TOI, “We had no option but to decide that my wife will be with my daughter, as she is only 11. It is very strange that reports of my daughter came early though all our samples were taken on April 18. Reports of the entire family should come at a time so that there is no confusion and problem,” he said. TOI has reported three such instances in the past. Despite recommended discharge on April 11, two persons from Khamla and Jaripatka continue to be with their daughters at the Covid-19 Isolation Ward of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). Both the daughters were continuously testing positive. Samples of the two persons — manager (Khamla) and assistant (Jaripatka) — at the shop of Khamla businessman who tested positive came positive on March 26. A day later, the 16-year-old daughter of the manager and 12-year-old daughter of the assistant too tested positive. The two persons had tested negative twice later, and were recommended discharge on April 11. But the two decided to remain with their minor daughters. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande told TOI, “Reports of the two girls were negative on Tuesday. Now, we will take another sample on Wednesday morning. All four will be discharged in the evening if they test negative,” he said. Thus, the two persons have been staying with their daughters who were positive for last 10 days. Another patient, Iskcon member from a housing society in front of Gandhisagar lake, had also tested positive on March 29. The person was also testing positive regularly. His samples finally tested negative on Tuesday. He will be discharged if he tests negative in second sample on Wednesday. Till now, 12 positive persons have been discharged, of which one is again in quarantine for not maintaining home quarantine. TOI had also reported about the daughter and son-in-law of Satranjipura deceased keeping their six-year-old daughter with them at GMCH even though they were positive and child was negative. After a few days, the child too tested positive. In another case, the son and daughter-in-law of the deceased are keeping their six-month-old baby daughter with them even though they tested positive and she is negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minor-girl-tests-ve-mother-staying-with-her-in-covid-19-ward/articleshow/75282409.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 22, 2020||Rajkot||RMC screens city’s vegetable vendors||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) started thermal scanning of the vegetable vendors in the city on Tuesday. The civic body’s decision comes after some of the vendors in Ahmedabad tested positive for Covid-19. The health officials of RMC along with a team of 26 doctors examined 145 such vendors on Tuesday. Eight vendors with cough and cold and were sent to health centres for further testing. Health officials also advised them to use masks and keep distance from customers. Meanwhile, two more persons from hotspot Jangleshwar tested positive on Tuesday. This included a 65-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman. With this, total 41 people from Rajkot district have tested Covid positive. RMC commissioner said that they will start testing of suspects using rapid testing kits from Wednesday. Results can be obtained in 15 minutes using these kits. The current testing system requires 5-6 hours. Talking to media, RMC commissioner Udit Agrawal said, “The government will provide 1,200 rapid testing kits for Rajkot, of which RMC will get 600 by Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-screens-citys-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/75279055.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Agri board creates database of farmers to help states buy onions||Nashik: Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB) has created a database of over 750 onion farmers and traders with their contact numbers, which will be shared with various states so that direct procurement can take place. The board officials said that they have come up with this initiative as auctions at the wholesale onion markets have become erratic due to Covid-19 pandemic. The database is updated every week with addition of new farmers and traders in the list. Around 600 farmers, farmers groups and farmers producer companies are from Nashik district, while the remaining are from Pune, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. The database includes their location, contact numbers and also quantity of onions they have. These farmers and farmers’ producers companies have stock of 50 to 1,000 tonnes of onions. “Considering the lockdown and requirement of onions in some states, we have made a database of onion farmers and traders who have adequate stock available. The database has been circulated to all the states,” said Chandrashekhar Bari, senior official from MSAMB, Nashik region. Bari added that the state can directly contact these farmers and get the onions. “Our main objective is to provide a marketing platform to farmers and create links between buyers and sellers. The database has also been uploaded on the web portal of the marketing board,” said Bari. Presently, onions arriving in the market are summer crops which have a shelf life of six months. Farmers prefer storing onions with a hope of getting better price. They sell their produce as per their requirement of money. “An initiative by the marketing board to create database of onion farmers and share it with other states will definitely benefit them as they will get better price as there will be no middlemen,” Khanderao Mapari, a co-ordinator for a Nashik-based farmers producing company, said. This company has over 500 onion farmers as members of the farmers producers company. “I am getting good number of enquiries. In the past two weeks, we have supplied 17 containers (29 tonnes each container) of onions,” he said. Anil Shevale, director of another farmers producers’ company from Deola taluka of Nashik district, said they are a group of over 700 onion farmers and they can supply two containers daily with total 60 tonnes daily if there is requirement from any state or any parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/agri-board-creates-database-of-farmers-to-help-states-buy-onions/articleshow/75280418.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||Hyena attacks cow in Karelibaug||Vadodara: The lockdown has given a free run to the wildlife around Vadodara. In a surprising incident, a hyena ventured into the city on Tuesday afternoon. The hyena wandered in Vishwamitri River's ravines and reached Jalaramnagar in Karelibaug where it attacked a cow. "After injuring the cow, the hyena disappeared in the ravines again. We found the pug marks of the hyena," said Nidhi Dave, range forest officer, Vadodara. "We have even kept a trap in the ravines," she added. Hyenas rarely come to close to urban areas. “Due to lockdown, people are off the roads and hence such animals are now able to wander in urban areas in search of food," Dave told TOI. In 2017, a hyena was found killed in Sevasi village on the outskirts of the city. The forest officials are trying to ascertain how the hyena entered the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hyena-attacks-cow-in-karelibaug/articleshow/75280106.cms||Tushar Tere
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Agricultural activities pick up amid lockdown||Kolhapur: Moderate rainfall in the past few days coupled with relaxation in lockdown rules from Monday has led to increase in agricultural activities across the district. Farmers have started the process of tilling and mixing the soil for kharif crops. However, many of them are worried about lack of manpower to carry out the activities in the farm. Dnyaneshwar Wakure, district agricultural officer (Kolhapur), said, "Since lockdown has been imposed on March 24, there has been no interruption in some agricultural activities like procuring vegetable and fruits, irrigating the farm and supply of agriculture produce to the market as it has been included in the list of essential activities. The activities that can be done by the farmer alone were not stopped by the government." He added, "After the notification was issued by the central government, the farmers will be now allowed to take up agricultural activities related to kharif season like tilling the land, using tractors and other activities like procuring fertilisers and deploying workers on the fields." According to the notification issued by the central government, people and agencies procuring agri products will be allowed to operate. Shops related to the agricultural machinery, spare parts and repairs will also be allowed to operate. "We have already granted permission for distribution of fertilisers to the retailers concerned," Wakure said. "Farmers who are living in cities and town and want to move to their villages for carrying out agricultural activities will have to apply with us for a pass. After getting approval of the village-level committees, they will be allowed to travel to their villages," he added. The official said that number of such farmers is meagre. "Of the total 9.50 lakh farmers in the district, only 600 farmers have applied for the pass," he said. Sandeep Arun Belgudri, a farmer from Gadhinglaj taluka, said, "As the government has relaxed some norms on our movement, we are planning to deploy tractor in our farm for tilling the land as a part of preparation for kharif crops."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/agricultural-activities-pick-up-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75282384.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||854 Kolhapur industries set to lauch ops: MIDC official||Kolhapur: A total of 854 industries based in MIDC areas of Kolhapur district have sought permission for resuming operations and they are likely get the green signal, said an official on Tuesday. “There are 2,500 industrial establishments in Kolhapur district. The MIDC has received 854 online applications for starting operations,” said Dhananjay Ingle, regional officer, Kolhapur MIDC. According to MIDC officials, there were technical glitches while uploading the applications on the MIDC website and the issue was sorted out late on Monday night. The state government has decided to allow industries from green and orange zones to start operations. However, they could not submit their applications on Monday due to technical problems. “The applications of these industrialists will be scrutinised online by an MIDC team and approval will be auto-generated online on the MIDC website,” said Ingle. District collector Daulat Desai has appealed to industrialists to follow the social distancing norm after resuming operations. “Permission will be granted to the industries that have made arrangements for stay and food for the employees. The industrialists should start their units with minimum workforce and ensure that they follow the social distancing and other rules,” he said. Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce president Sanjay Shete said that almost all types of industries in Kolhapur have accommodation facility for employees and get approval to begin operations by Tuesday. “They have already started preparation for starting the operations and have launched a cleanliness drive and repair/overhauling of machines,” added Shete. Kolhapur District Lorry Operators president Subhash Jadhav said the resumption of industries will help truckers to start their operations. “The situation will be better as truckers will get business in terms of carrying raw material and finished goods from MIDC to other parts of the state and the country and vice-versa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/854-kolhapur-industries-set-to-lauch-ops-midc-official/articleshow/75282411.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Medicos skipping clinics, hospitals warned of action||Aurangabad: District collector Uday Choudhary on Tuesday warned private medical practitioners of strict action if they continue to keep their clinics closed or skip visiting the hospitals. The warning came after some people’s representatives pointed out that several private hospitals and clinics have either shut down or cut down on their OPD timings under some or the pretext. The issue was also raised during the review meeting held by home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday at the revenue divisional commissioner office. Even mayor Nandkumar Ghodele claimed that due to the alleged change in approach of medical practitioners, patients having other ailments are being forced to suffer. "We have already issued a communication in this regard to all private hospitals and clinics in the district. Those found skipping practise, would not only face action under relevant sections of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and National Disaster Management Act, but also face cancellation of their registration," Chaudhary told TOI. He added that in current scenario those belonging to the medical fraternity are expected to walk an extra mile in shouldering the responsibility to curb the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. Due to regular surge in Covid-19 positive cases, several areas of Aurangabad city have been marked as containment zones in the past fortnight. "At a time when the entire administration is fighting to keep a check on the spread of this infection, the private doctors should take care of the other patients," MP Imtiaz Jaleel said. The circular issued has warned of strict action against the medical practitioners, while stating that, "It was brought to our notice that some of the private medical practitioners are skipping their clinics, hospitals and OPDs, eventually causing inconvenience to the commoners and ending up shifting burden of patients on the government setups". Authorities informed that people may bring it to the notice of the health department or district authorities, if they come across hospital, clinics that are not operating as per the timing they had been operating until outbreak of this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/medicos-skipping-clinics-hospitals-warned-of-action/articleshow/75280471.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 22, 2020||Kochi||Palakkad records four more cases||Palakkad: Four more people tested positive for coronavirus in the district on Tuesday, taking the total number of infected people to 12. Out of them, six have been tested negative and have been discharged from hospitals. Of the four who tested positive for the disease, one man had returned from Sharjah and another one was a guest worker from Uttar Pradesh. The two others who have been infected are a lorry driver who came from Salem and one from Vilayur grama panchayat, district medical officer Dr K P Reetha said. She said efforts are on to prepare a route map and identify the first contacts of these people. Though Palakkad municipality was taken out of the list of hotspots on Monday, district administration strictly imposed lockdown rules in the area on Tuesday. The roads were opened for traffic but police have been checking and restricting the movement of vehicles. Four grama panchayats have been included in the list of hotspots: Kanjirapuzha, Thirumittakode, Kottopadam and Karakurissi. Strict lockdown rules have been imposed in these regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palakkad-records-four-more-cases/articleshow/75279098.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Technical colleges shut till May 31, essential staff to work||PANAJI: All institutes under the purview of the directorate of technical education, including engineering and pharmacy colleges, will remain shut till May 31. However, the essential bare minimum staff can be called to work to carry out accounts and other related work, the director of technical education Vivek Kamat has said in a circular. “Heads of institutions may requisition the services of bare minimum staff to carry out essential administrative and accounts related functions, by adhering to all the norms of social distancing at the work place,” Kamat has said. All other staff can work from home and should be available over the phone or other electronic means of communication for any exigencies at work, the circular stated. Usage of masks has been mandatory while on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/technical-colleges-shut-till-may-31-essential-staff-to-work/articleshow/75282909.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS to use robots for minimal contact||NEW DELHI: The All India Institute of Medical Sciences is planning to deploy robots at its Covid-19 facilities in Delhi and Jhajjar, thus reducing the risk of infection to humans. The mechanised helps will be tried out for two purposes: contactless monitoring of the admitted patients and for disinfecting and sanitising the rooms without human intervention. Consumer robotics firm Milagrow, which has supplied the two robots for the Covid-19 facility set up at AIIMS Trauma Centre, said the first robot, Humanoid ELF, is designed to look like a human being. Milagrow founder chairman Rajeev Karwal told TOI, “This robot has a 3D camera that can record and transmit video from the isolation ward. This will help in routine surveillance. The doctors can also interact with patients via the robot.” Humanoid ELF is 92cm tally, has a battery life of eight hours and can moved about 2.9km per hour. It has more than 60 sensors, a 3D and HD camera each and a 10.1-inch display screen. Karwal said the other robot being deployed in the institute is called iMap 9. “It is a floor disinfecting robot that can navigate and sanitise the floors without human intervention. Additionally, the robot can do zoning, virtual blocking of avoidable areas and sequential cleaning of zones based on specific needs,” he elaborated. AIIMS officials confirmed that these robots will be put to the test at the hospital. Another set of robots developed by a Gurgaon-based company called Hi Tech Robotic Systemz will be similarly employed at AIIMS’ Jhajjar facility, where 68 Covid-19 patients are admitted at the moment. They can be put to use serving food and medicines to patients, officials said. Countries such as the United States, China and Italy have successfully implemented artificial intelligence-led robots at health facilities to minimise human presence in treating Covid-19 patients. In India, some hospitals in Rajasthan, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have deployed robotic technology for conducting trials on surveillance and actions such as delivery of food and medicines to patients. The doctors involved with the experiment said this could reduce the risk of viral transmission among healthcare workers. “Also, if routine surveillance can be done via robots, we may be able to cut down on use of personal protective equipment kits, which are available in limited numbers, and make them available for healthcare workers entering the Covid-19 wards,” one of the doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-to-use-robots-for-minimal-contact/articleshow/75282440.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Units in 2 industrial estates within Nashik limits to start operations||NASHIK: Factories in MIDC’s Satpur and Ambad industrial estates — which fall within the jurisdiction of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) — are expected to start operations in a day or two. The district administration has permitted the industrial units to start operations in the areas outside the containment zones in the district. There are five containments areas in the city and Satpur and Ambad are both outside such zones. Accordingly, around 2,500 small and large industrial units in both the industrial estate including Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M), ABB Ltd, CEAT, Crompton Greaves are likely to start operations soon. The industries here may start operation after submitting self-declaration online and following all the conditions of self-distancing and workers' transportation, said Nitin Gavli, regional officer, MIDC, Nashik. “There had been some technical glitches in the web portal, but all the issues have been sorted now and the portal is functioning smoothly. Over 1,350 industries in the district have submitted their self declaration online. They get auto permissions after submission of the self-declaration,” said Gavli. “The industries in both the industrial estates are allowed to start work provided that they obey all the conditions required to start operations,” said Bhagwat Doifode, resident deputy collector, Nashik. “We will apply for permission shortly. We are checking the possibilities of getting spare parts from our vendors. We are also in talks with our suppliers,” said sources from M&M. The M&M sources said their Igatpuri engine plant has already received permission. “This is a relief for the industries in Satpur and Ambad. Many large industries are thinking about starting work, but they are concerned about some strict norms,” said, Deepak Kulkarni, chairman, North Maharashtra zonal council, CII. “Each industry concerned will be held responsible if any worker in the factory is tested Covid-19 positive. All the industries will take precautions, but there is a need for some relaxation in the strict norms,” Kulkarni added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/units-in-2-industrial-estates-within-city-limits-to-start-ops/articleshow/75280441.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 22, 2020||Rajkot||Shiyal Beyt to get its first-ever PDS shop||Rajkot: Cut-off from mainstream society, 5,096 residents from 832 houses in Shiyal Beyt, a tiny island off the coast of Jafrabad in Amreli district, are already living in isolation, thanks to their natural habitatHowever, on Tuesday, for the first time, people witnessed winds of change in the island’s history, since Independence. They got their own PDS distribution shop on the island. All ration card holders, till now, had to go to Jafrabad in boats to get their monthly ration and other supplies. However, owing to the lockdown and with all boats off water, the people were running short of supplies. Thankfully, the state government approved a PDS shop for Shiyal beyt, enabling the islanders to get commodities at their doorsteps. “The district administration stocked 20,500 kg wheat, rice, pulses and sugar and distributed it among 748 ration card holders. It was a challenging task as the goods were first transported from the godowns of Jafrabad and then to the jetty and then by boats to the island, said S U Pathan, talati-cum-mantri of Shiyal Beyt. “This is truly historic for us. While receiving the goods, residents took special care of maintaining social distance,” said Bhanu Shiyal, sarpanch. “During the lockdown, we are literally marooned as boat service has been suspended and labourers are jobless. We sincerely appreciate the service,” said Hamir Shiyal, a local leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shiyal-beyt-to-get-its-first-ever-pds-shop/articleshow/75279090.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Squalls bring down temperature in Kolkata, doctors warn of fresh viral attack amid pandemic||KOLKATA: Two successive squalls in less than 12 hours since Monday evening brought the mercury down by nine degrees in Kolkata, raising fears of fresh viral attacks in the Covid 19-hit city. Doctors warned that the sudden temperature plunge could activate a range of viruses, including rhino, human meta-pneumo and influenza that have symptoms similar to Covid-19. While a squall struck Kolkata around 9pm on Monday, another lashed the city around 5.25am on Tuesday with a wind speed of 56 km/hr. The squall on Tuesday was followed by a steady drizzle in some parts of the city that remained cloudy and windy throughout the day with a maximum temperature of 26.6°C, nine notches below normal. It pulled the minimum temperature down to 20.5°C , six degrees below normal. Even as the Met officials predicted more thunderstorms over the next two days, the unexpected chill could lead to illnesses, said doctors. Since the temperature is likely to start rising again from Friday, acclimatizing to the fluctuation may be difficult for many people. Such temperature variations help viruses to multiply, especially when the mercury slides up, they explained. “Most common viruses like rhino, human meta-pneumo and influenza viruses die out in cold. They start multiplying when the ambient temperature and humidity rises. If the mercury shoots up suddenly, it fails to gear itself to the alteration, making us vulnerable to viral attacks,” said AMRI Hospital consultant, Debashish Saha. This early summer temperature fluctuation could not have come at a worse time, said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences consultant Arindam Biswas. “A low-pressure trough from Uttar Pradesh to Bengal triggered the nor’wester. The system has been drawing moisture from a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal. Since the conditions still persist, we expect another thunderstorm in next 48 hours,” said RMC director GK Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/squalls-bring-down-temp-docs-warn-of-fresh-viral-attack-amid-pandemic/articleshow/75281595.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 22, 2020||Kozhikode||More & more Gulf-returnees test positive in Kannur||Kannur: With 51 cases of Covid-19 reported in the past 15 days, 10 cases alone on Tuesday, Kannur Covid-19 cases stood at 104. The scenario is puzzling; no secondary contact has contracted the disease and majority of the cases are those who came from the Gulf. Cases showed an upward trend after health authorities and district administration decided to test all Gulf-returnees, who were under home quarantine and also primary contacts of persons who had tested positive earlier. The new round of sample collection that started on April 18 is expected to end by April 24-25, and new cases are likely to be reported as all samples thus collected are being tested. What worries authorities is that positive cases are being reported among Gulf-returnees, which means the virus is still found in their body even after 28 days of quarantine. "This was an expected scenario. Authorities decided to expand testing to more people anticipating such a possibility as some people tested positive after 28 days of quarantine," said junior administrative medical officer in Kannur Dr Santhosh B. Till date, no secondary contact was infected and this indicates that there is no community spread, he added. "Since this is a new disease, we are yet to study the infection and it is possible that if the level of infection is low in a person, it might take more time to show symptoms. Some people may not show symptoms," he said. In this scenario, it would be good to test the blood to ascertain the presence of virus in the body, said Rajendra Pilankatta, who heads the biochemistry department at Central University of Kerala in Kasaragod. "The 14-day quarantine period was fixed considering the pattern of spread of other viruses but here we have seen it even after 28 days, which means we have to study if the virus remains dormant for a period in some people and then returns," he said. Also, this is the indication that individual growth curve may vary from person to person and hence this calls for wide random survey, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/more-more-gulf-returnees-test-positive-in-kannur/articleshow/75279078.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Two youths & a 40-year-old test Covid-19 positive in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Two youths from the Samtanagar area and a 40-year-old man from Bismillah Colony confirmed positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 17 in the city and the tally of positive cases to 35. The confirmed positive patient from Bismillah Colony is the son of a woman in her 60s, who recently succumbed to the infection. The possible source of infection from whom the two youths contracted Covid-19 could not be ascertained till late Tuesday evening. Moreover, two patients who had been put in isolation for 14-days have again tested positive for the contagion during the second round of testing. Hence, they will continue to remain in the isolation ward. Sharing details about the new confirmed cases, district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said that the two youths testing positive for Covid-19 should ring as a warning bell for others in the same age group. “While one youth is 18-years-old, the other is 20 years. The source of infection for the duo is still not known. We are checking their travel history. Two youth from the same locality contracting the infection at the same time should be a message for youngsters to strictly follow the lockdown norms,” said Kulkarni. He added that the man from Bismillah Colony, who has contracted the disease from his mother, was stable and receiving the treatment as per protocol. Notably, on Monday, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel visited a few localities where reportedly a large number of youths are not complying with the lockdown norms. While ardently appealing to the youngsters, Jaleel asked them not to step out of house unless extremely necessary. “Remember that you have parents back home.. they will face irrevocable loss if you meet any unfortunate tragedy,” said the MP while visiting different areas. While the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise gradually in Aurangabad, six other districts in Marathwada seemed to have brought the spread of the infection under control with no new cases post April 16. Nanded is the only district where not a single positive Covid-19 cases has been reported. Till Tuesday evening, there were total 50 cases in Marathwada.Meanwhile, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Tuesday announced a special task force to trace people who have come in contact with confirmed as well as suspected cases of Covid-19.A release issued by the civic administration stated that the task force would be led by senior civic authorities. It would be responsible for tracing tracking such contacts and sending them to quarantine facilities if they show symptoms of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-youths-a-40-year-old-test-covid-19-positive-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75280435.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj Singh Chouhan's Covid-cabinet has five ministers, no portfolio yet||BHOPAL: Nearly a month after CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath of office, Madhya Pradesh got a ‘covid-cabinet’, but still no health or home minister. The ‘mini-cabinet’ has just five ministers — none with a portfolio. The chosen ones are Narottam Mishra, Kamal Patel, Meena Singh, Tulsi Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput. Silawat and Rajput are Scindia loyalists and were ministers in the Kamal Nath cabinet. They played key roles in the breakaway from Congress, which led to the collapse of the Nath government in March. No portfolios have been allocated yet, but the ministers have been put in charge of two divisions each to manage the fightback against Covid-19. For health minister, Chouhan had a choice of two Mishra and Silawat have handled the portfolio earlier but the state will have to wait till after the corona lockdown is lifted to know if any of them gets it. For nearly a month after being sworn in as CM, Chouhan ran a one-man show tirelessly, without a council of ministers, triggering criticism from the opposition. The buzz is that a tug of war between factions in BJP — including Scindia’s — for plum portfolios was delaying formation of the cabinet. On Tuesday, when Governor Lalji Tandon administered oath of office to the five ministers at Raj Bhavan, there was anticipation that key portfolios would be allocated, but that wasn’t to be. Chouhan said: “The cabinet is small but balanced, and effort has been made to give representation to all sections of society. Whatever is left will be taken care of in the next expansion after the lockdown is lifted.” Silawat has been put in charge of Indore — MP’s corona hotspot — and Sagar divisions. Mishra has been given charge of Bhopal and Ujjain – the other two red zones of MP. Patel will handle Jabalpur and Narmadapuram divisions, Rajput gets Chambal and Gwalior and Meena Singh will look after Rewa and Shahdol divisions. The CM said the ministers would keep watch on the situation in the districts under their charge and, in consultation with local public representatives, officials and public at large, would formulate strategies to overcome the menace. How many days will this government run, asks Kamal NathFormer CM Kamal Nath criticized the mini-cabinet, saying it was a “mockery of the people of Madhya Pradesh”. “During this time of Corona pandemic, BJP has made fun of the 7.5 crore people of the state. A cabinet has been formed after a month, that too with only five ministers and no allocation of department,” Nath tweeted. In a second tweet, Nath took a dig at BJP, and said: “It’s clear how much internal conflict is on in BJP. How many days will this government run? Let’s wait and watch.” Many top state BJP leaders have been left out, including former LOP Gopal Bhargava and several powerful ministers in the previous Shivraj cabinet -- Bhupendra Singh, Yashodhara Raje Scindia, Sanjay Pathak, Rajendra Shukla, Vijay Shah, Surendra Patwa, Rampal Singh and Paras Jain. Political observers feel the covid-cabinet was more of a “ritual” to silence Congress, coming as it did just a day after Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha petitioned the President not to approve two financial ordinances promulgated by the Shivraj government since there was no cabinet in madhya Pradesh. What stands out in the mini cabinet, however, is that all sections have been represented -- Brahmin, Thakur, OBC, Dalit and tribal. And, except for Mahakaushal, so have all regions of MP. Narottam Mishra is undoubtedly No. 2 in the state BJP now, as indicated by the order of swearing-in, and his getting a cabinet berth came as no surprise. The two candidates from the Scindia camp were also obvious names, but Kamal Patel and Meena Singh were indeed a surprise for many in BJP and outside. Talking about Patel, who had been in political oblivion for a long time after his sons were accused of serious criminal activities in his hometown Harda, a BJP leader said: “Kamal Patel has been with Kailash Vijayvargiya and his comeback could be attributed to him.” Meena Singh, a tribal MLA from Manpur in Shahdol, may not be a high-profile leader in the saffron party but her influence is palpable in the tribal belt of Vindhya. A five-time MLA, she was a minister in the Shivraj cabinet once.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-covid-cabinet-has-five-ministers-no-portfolio-yet/articleshow/75282428.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid positive docs fight for their rights||Ahmedabad: On Sunday, three doctors with private practice volunteered for Covid-19 test when they came to know that their patients had tested positive. They were asymptomatic. However, they decided to undergo the test in order to stop the infection to other patients. Shockingly, three of them tested positive. “The trio was shifted to the general ward of SVP Hospital. There was no issue of VIP treatment or privilege. They were practising doctors, and they observed that there were many symptomatic patients in the ward,” said a senior member of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA). “With no symptoms, they requested the authorities that as asymptomatic positive patients, they should be shifted to another ward. Moreover, there were both men and women in the same ward,” said the AMA member. The doctors also made a representation that they should be shifted to the ward earmarked for the government doctors. However, their request was turned down. The association then had to intervene and take the matter to the state government, where it made a representation for the treatment of the trio doctors in a private sector hospital. AMC president Dr Mona Desai said that the issue they raised was not about privilege but about parity. “The doctors mentioned that it was a case of not paying heed to their requests. We had no other option but to shift them to a private hospital on Monday,” she said. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), had told media on Monday that the doctors could choose where they wanted to be treated. AMA and Indian Medical Association (IMA) office-bearers and members said that so far close to 50 doctors in both public and private sector had either tested positive or were in quarantine after coming in close contact with the positive patients. The experts said that the number could rise rapidly and there should be separate arrangements for the health workers turning positive. Dr Bipin Patel, former national vice-president of Indian Medical Association, said that the government should protect and safeguard the lives and moral of the doctors in such times of public health crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-positive-docs-fight-for-their-rights/articleshow/75281744.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nashik||Vegetables & groceries to be sold only between 10am & 4pm||Nashik: The Nashik district administration has issued a new notification allowing outlets selling essential items, including fresh vegetables and groceries, to operate only between 10 am and 4 pm. Medical stores, clinics and hospitals have been exempted from these new time limitations. Though government guidelines had not set any time limit for essential service operations, the district administration decided after finding that many people were violating social distancing and other lockdown norms. On Monday evening, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game had issued an order for the city, lifting time restrictions on vegetable vendors, egg and meat shops etc. However, on Tuesday, after finding people crowding the vegetable markets and violating social distancing norms, Game issued a revised order for the vendors selling vegetables in the municipal corporation limits. He directed the vendors to sell vegetables only between 10 am and 4 pm. The order issued by the district collector on Tuesday applies to all essential item sellers. The orders will be enforced across the district, excluding the containment areas. Although the sale of vegetables and grocery shops will be allowed between 10 am and 4 pm, the milk vendors have been given some relaxation in timing. Milk vendors will be allowed to sell milk between 6 and 7.30 in the morning and between 4 and 5.30 in the evening. The Nashik Municipal Corporation has identified 105 locations across the city where citizens can buy vegetables in time slots given to citizens. The civic administration has identified these locations in order to help the residents buy the required vegetables in their respective areas. Of the 105 identified locations, 14 are vegetable market buildings, while the other 91 are roadside locations where vendors can sell their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vegetables-groceries-to-be-sold-only-between-10am-4pm/articleshow/75280489.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||No new patients in rest of Vidarbha, many test negative||Nagpur: Tuesday was a good day for Vidarbha region, barring Nagpur. No other district in the region reported any new positive cases of Covid-19. In a major relief to Amravati district and health administration, four Covid-19 positives, all relatives of the April 2 patient who died, tested negative in their 14th day test on Tuesday. Collector Shailesh Naval told TOI, “We will retest them as a matter of precaution on Wednesday and then discharge them from the hospital on either Thursday or Friday to begin home quarantine period.” Naval also said that 18 of the 36 contacts of the 16-year-old positive patient too tested negative on Tuesday while 18 test reports are awaited. The 18 negatives included the family members of the positive boy, he added. Naval said the health administration today received 40 swab reports from AIIMS and all of them were negative. Re-survey in Amravati: Taking into consideration the proliferation of coronavirus cases, the district administration on Tuesday relaunched health survey in the city and district as well. Collector Shailesh Naval said that priority is being given to areas in containment zone and buffer zone, and people will be checked for coronavirus and breathing trouble symptoms. Yavatmal is all set to get out of the coronavirus shackles in the near future as there is a sustained decline in positive patients admitted in isolation wards of GMC here. On Tuesday, only six patients remained positive in city, with one testing negative. On Tuesday, total 19 swab samples were sent to Nagpur and a total of 20 test reports are awaited, said collector MD Singh. There are 108 presumptive cases in institutional quarantine while 793 are kept in home quarantine. Chandrapur, Wardha, Gadchiroli and Bhandara continue to have zero Covid-19 patients even on Tuesday. By 5pm on Tuesday, 84 out of 85 samples sent from Chandrapur tested negative. From Bhandara, 178 out of 211 samples have tested negative till date. In Wardha, 151 samples were tested till date and all are negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-new-patients-in-rest-of-vidarbha-many-test-negative/articleshow/75282432.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Couple struck by Cupid, then by cops||AHMEDABAD: A Jodhpur-based man and his girlfriend, who stays in Vastrapur, could not meet for about a month due to the lockdown. While the lockdown has prevented Covid-19 from striking, it could do nothing about Cupid, and the the lovelorn couple decided to meet. However, the couple were also struck by cops, who booked them for violation of the lockdown notification issued by the state home department. The incident took place on Tuesday morning when the man, 30, an online namkeen products trader, and his girlfriend, 40, a resident of Vastrapur, were talking to each other in a car under a mango tree on the AES ground near the TV tower in Bodakdev. A Vastrapur police team was patrolling the area at around 9.30am when they saw the car and approached it. They found the man and the woman inside and asked them what they were doing there, states the FIR filed by Vastrapur police. The couple told the cops that they had come out to give milk to stray dogs but police did not consider this reason valid and booked them for violation of the notification. They were taken to Vastrapur police station where they told the cops about their relationship. “They said they are going to marry and are in a relationship. As they could not meet ever since the lockdown was ordered on March 22, they decided to take a chance and meet at a secluded spot at the AES ground in Bodakdev,” said an official of Vastrapur police. They were released on a bail from the police station, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-struck-by-cupid-then-by-cops/articleshow/75281741.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Rajkot||Cook found murdered in Gandhidham||RAJKOT: A cook working at the family of a senior official of a private firm in Gandhidham was found murdered on Monday. Police said the deceased, identified as Narendra Rathod (20), bore severe injury marks on his chest and stomach inflicted by sharp edged weapons. “Rathod had come to stay with his parents in Rotary Nagar after the lockdown was imposed. His body was found from the bushes behind Rotary Nagar,” said an official from Gandhidham B division police station. “As there is no CCTV cameras installed near the spot of the crime, our investigation has become difficult. However, we are checking the call record details of Rathod to find out to whom he had spoken last,” said the official. “We are also making a list of history sheeters in the area to get a clue of the suspects,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cook-found-murdered-in-gandhidham/articleshow/75279132.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Quepem municipality pays staff labourers||Quepem: The Quepem Municipal Council finally paid the salaries and wages of its staff and labourers on Tuesday clearing a backlog of two months. TOI, in its edition dated April 17, had reported their plight of not being paid their dues since January 2020. In all, 70 staff members, 36 contract labourers who collect door-to-door garbage, eight contract labourers and 10 drivers were paid wages for two months, whereas 21 fixed staff was paid for only a month. All the 11 councillors were paid one month salary. After TOI reported the matter before director of urban development Tariq Thomas, he immediately called QMC chief officer, municipal engineer and accountant to his office for discussion and subsequently released Rs 25 lakh for payment of dues. Deputy collector of Quepem, Rohit Kadam, who is also holds charge as QMC chief officer, told TOI that the remaining wages will be paid soon after citizens start paying their house, trade and garbage taxes to the municipality. He said that around 33% staff on duty will collect only taxes from citizens apart frm any emergency work, but public will not be entertained for any other work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-municipality-pays-staff-labourers/articleshow/75282911.cms||Johnny M
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Critical Patients Likely To Benefit From Treatment||Vijayawada: The state government is awaiting the Centre’s nod to start plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients. The state health department asked officials to counsel those who have recovered from Covid-19 about convalescent plasma therapy at the time of discharge from the treating facilities. They have been directed to collect the address and phone numbers of patients for contacting the latter for plasma donation. As part of the therapy, the antibodies of a recovered Covid-19 patient will be administered to the patients. Dr Madhusudan Babu, former superintendent at King George Hospital and senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals, said there is no specific treatment protocol for Covid-19. “The body’s immune system develop specific antibodies in the fight against the pandemic. The plasma of the recovered patients carry these antibodies. So the convalescent plasma will be collected from the recovered patients and transfused to the Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment. The therapy is generally used in severe cases,” said Dr Madhusudan Babu. The individuals opting for plasma donation should have recovered from Covid-19 and should not have any symptoms for at least 14 days prior to the donation. According to the discharging guidelines of the Covid patient, two consecutive RT-PCR tests of the patient, done 24 hours apart, should come out negative apart from the clinical clearance and clear radiographic findings of chest. If the throat swab test is positive on the 14th day after starting the treatment, the patient will be retained in the hospital and tested again on the 28th day. If the result is negative, the second sample should be sent for testing after 24 hours, i.e., 29th day. The procedure will be the same even if the throat swab test is negative on the 14th day but positive on the 15th day. Even after discharge, the patient should be under 14-day compulsory home isolation with surgical mask. According to the state officials, the viral RNA stays in the faeces of the Covid patient up to 35 days. It is advised to avoid using the same toilet by the patient for 35 days or avoid using it at least up to 30 minutes after the patient’s use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/critical-patients-likely-to-benefit-from-treatment/articleshow/75280511.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Desperate to go home, 9 Rajasthan migrants flee shelter home||Nagpur: Desperate to return to their hometown, nine persons, including a woman and two kids, escaped from a shelter home on Koradi Road where a total 120 migrant workers have been lodged. When asked about the escape by the inmates, a senior NMC official told TOI that none of them had symptoms of Covid-19 infection. Koradi police too confirmed the incident. These migrants comprising Shashi Chauhan, his wife Jeetu and their two kids had claimed to have started for Dhaulpur (Dholpur) in Rajasthan from Hyderabad on foot on March 27. On the way, they were detained by the city police and shifted to a shelter home at Tuli Public School, Bokhara, off Koradi Road. “Two days ago, Chauhan, his wife, two kids and five youths (all 19s) climbed the school’s compound wall at night and escaped,” said a senior police official from Koradi police station. “We have already started investigation,” the official added. The incident, however, raises questions over the security arrangements by Nagpur police. Apart from private security guard, two police personnel are deployed every night to ensure no inmate goes out without permission. Despite this, nine migrants managed to flee. The city police are also facing flak from a section of society for ineffective imposition of lockdown. As per NMC data, around 1,403 migrants are staying in city’s 22 shelter homes. “The NMC had to add another shelter home — Jawahar Vasatigruha in Civil Lines — to accommodate rising number of migrants detained by the city police,” said the civic official. Within two days, occupancy at city’s shelter homes rose by 33. Jawahar Vasatigruha can accommodate 100 occupants and at present 16 have been kept there, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/desperate-to-go-home-9-rajasthan-migrants-flee-shelter-home/articleshow/75282454.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Corporator organises felicitation event in his ward, gets booked||Kolhapur: The Rajarampuri police on Tuesday registered a case against Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s corporator for allegedly violating the social distance norms and organising a felicitation programme in his ward on Sunday. “A programme was organised on Sunday at Shastri Nagar area of Kolhapur city in which the corporator was felicitated by people from the area. As per the information we received, he had not followed the social distance rules during the programme. Being a corporator it is his responsibility for spreading awareness about social distancing among people, instead, he was found violating these rules. Hence we have registered a case against him,” said a police officer. Police have invoked section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC against him. “The action against a corporator will help us in setting an example before people and we hope that they will stay in homes avoid breaking rules during the lockdown,” said a senior police officer. Police on Monday had issued warnings to more than 2,500 people, who were found riding on motorcycles double seat. They were left with a warning that action will be taken against them if found roaming on roads again. District collector Daulat Desai has issued instructions that people should not ride double seat on a motorcycle when they are going out for some work, following which police action would be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/corporator-organises-felicitation-event-in-his-ward-gets-booked/articleshow/75282446.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Private hospitals to resume OP services with restrictions||KOCHI: Major private hospitals in the state will resume their OP services for non-Covid patients this week. Though Covid-19 situation is under control in the state, majority of hospitals are undecided on when to resume elective procedures, though some said that they have started doing emergency elective surgery after taking due precautions. Health minister K K Shailaja had earlier appealed to the private hospitals to remain open and functional to treat non-Covid patients as most of the government medical colleges were converted into Covid hospitals. Private hospitals had stopped OP and elective procedures before lockdown as Covid-19 cases in the state surged. Now, with Covid-19 situation under control, the cash-starved private hospitals have decided to first restart OP services by ensuring social distancing. This means that they have cut down OP by almost 50% per day and in an hour, a doctor would get to see only two or three patients. Also the patients and bystanders will have to wear a mask. People with fever, sore throat and other symptoms of Covid-19 have been advised to avoid hospital visits, unless it is an emergency. “All private hospitals in the state are now ready for OP services. As the number of out-patients increases, we may also decide to increase the OP time and ensure that the hospitals are not overcrowded at any given time,” said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya Thangal. A 150-bedded hospital with speciality services, attracts on a normal day around 500 to 700 patients, while quaternary care attracts around 1,500, with almost 75% by appointment and 25% are walk-in. “Most of the hospitals have rearranged seating arrangement for patients by ensuring 1m distance. Sanitizers are also kept everywhere in the hospital. After a doctor sees a patient, the room will be cleaned. Both doctor and patient must wear a mask,” said Dr Saikumar SJ, medical superintendent, Giridhar Eye Institute. The hospitals planning emergency surgery amongst the elective ones, such as operation for uterine fibroids or say bad backache that may require emergency attention, have formed a panel of doctors to decide on such surgeries. “The panel will decide on which elective surgery is essential and priority will be given to patients who cannot wait any more,” said Dr Sunny P Orathel, medical superintendent, Rajagiri Hospital. However, despite all these precautions, there is a concern among doctors about catching infection from any asymptomatic patient. To address this, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) hospital board has been working with doctors in all districts. “Now, Covid -19 patients are very few but non-Covid patients are in large numbers and they require immediate attention. If ignored, mortality of non-Covid illnesses will overtake that of Covid illnesses. So, hospitals need to start OP services and elective surgeries after taking necessary precautions,” said IMA Hospital Board of India chairman Dr Jayakrishnan A V.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pvt-hosps-to-resume-op-services-with-restrictions/articleshow/75279156.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Electricians back to work as lightning snaps cables, hits work-from-home||KOLKATA: Local electricians were back to work on Tuesday after multiple households in the city reported damage to their gadgets and appliances following the serial lightning strikes during the thunderstorm that raged on Monday night. From laptops to routers to television sets, houses in Ruby, Kasba, Gariahat, Rashbehari and Garia reported damages after the thundershowers. Household appliances running on 230-volt alternating current can handle momentary voltage surges of around 20% but beyond a threshold, they will be damaged. “For the last four weeks, I was practically jobless because of the lockdown with all the local electrical goods shops closed. But on Tuesday, my phone kept ringing with people reporting damage to electrical appliances. While I repaired an MCB snag with the limited tools and cables I had, I couldn’t repair a ceiling fan at another household, as the spare parts shops are still closed,” said Pradip Das, an electrician and a resident of Kasba. Amit Chowdhury, another electrician who runs a shop in Thakurpukur also had similar experience, with multiple phone calls through the day for repairing damaged appliances like ceiling fans, geysers and microwave ovens. Also between Monday night and Tuesday morning, internet users, mostly the subscribers of the cable-based broadband services suffered major network hassles from around 11.40pm to 12.30am. “I was on a conference call with one of my clients in the US. Our job schedule went haywire owing to the sudden internet failure,” said Santanu Mitra, a resident of Behala, who works for an MNC in Sector V. Officials of Alliance that provides broadband service and SitiCable that offers both cable and broadband were flooded with calls from customers since Tuesday morning. “Ethernet switches, media connectors and power units were damaged in several places. While it is not usually a problem repairing them, the lockdown has caused a huge challenge. Not only is it difficult to mobilise men to do repair, replacing damaged devices isn’t possible as shops haven’t opened since March 19,” said Alliance Broadband regional branch manager Joy Mukherjee. (Inputs by Sovon Manna, Suman Chakraborti, Rohit Khanna and Subrata Chattoraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/electricians-back-to-work-as-lightning-snaps-cables-hits-work-from-home/articleshow/75281619.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Rajkot||84 Pakistan refugees rescued in Kankrej||Palanpur: With lockdown in force, as many as 84 people belonging to 12 families of Hindu refugees from Pakistan have been stranded in Terivada village of Kankrej taluka in Banaskantha. Collector of Banaskantha Sandip Sagle has come to the rescue of these families after the villagers who were helping them ran out of enough ration. The families had come to Kankrej about three months ago via Wagah border four months back and lived with their relatives in Radhanpur before coming to Kankrej. They are from Sindh province in Pakistan. The family members have been working and living on the farm of Terivada deputy sarpanch Mukesh Mali since their arrival here. “Now we have no work and 84 people are dependant on us. How can we turn them down particularly during lockdown,” said Mali. “These refugees were facing lot of problems. We managed to collect donations for them and also informed the district collector,” Mali told TOI. “Our collector Sandip Sagle gave relief kits to these people which contains flour, dal, rice, oil and other essential items,” he added. Dr Surendra Gupta, a philanthropist has appealed to people to help these refugees. He has also assured them help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/84-pak-refugees-rescued-in-kankrej/articleshow/75279162.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Five cycle 1600-km from Chennai to reach Ganjam village||BERHAMPUR: Five migrant workers returned to Bhaliagada village, their native place, in Ganjam’s Rangeilunda block from Chennai on Monday evening after cycling for over 1600 km in eight days. M.Mahesh (19), M.Biswanath (23), A Dilleshu (20), D.Balaji (19) and D.Prakash (21) have been kept under institutional quarantine (the village school building) for two weeks by the district administration, said block development officer (Rangeilunda) K Nagabhusan. Their health was examined on Tuesday. “We were working at a construction site. When lockdown was imposed, we bought second hand bicycles for Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,800 each along with a pump and started our journey on April 12,” said Biswanath. The migrant labourers used to cycle from 6 am to midnight covering 80 to 90 km every day on National Highway-16 with little rest. “We used to rest by the roadside at night,” said Dilleshu. They ate the food being distributed by volunteers. The labourers were detained by police for two days at Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh. “The migrants were well aware of the Covid-19 restrictions and asked the sarpanch N.Sujata Reddy to be tested upon their arrival in the village,” Damburu Reddy, former zilla parishad member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/five-cycle-1600-km-from-chennai-to-reach-ganjam-village/articleshow/75279152.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Financial relief for priests and imams||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has announced a one-time financial assistance to persons rendering religious services, such as priests, imams and pastors, whose livelihoods have been hit due to closure of places of worship as part of lockdown measures. A government order was issued sanctioning Rs 5,000 to persons dependent on the honorarium they receive from devotees. The allowance is not applicable to those who receive a salary from the government or a religious institution. The government has directed the AP Waqf Board, AP Christian Minorities Finance Corporation and the endowments department to identify beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/financial-relief-for-priests-and-imams/articleshow/75280556.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Couple found dead in Gota flat||Ahmedabad: City police on Tuesday found bodies of a man and his wife in a flat in the Gota area of city. According to cops, the bodies were decomposed when they found them and they might have died around three days ago. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said that they got calls from residents of the Shayona Tilak-3 flats in Gota that foul smell was coming from a flat. Later, the cops reached there and found bodies of a man identified as Kalosna Roya, 45, and his wife, Paromita Roy, 40, natives of West Bengal. Primary inquiry suggests that they have committed suicide by consuming some poisonous stuff and no suicide note was found from their house, said a police official. Kalosna was working as mechanical engineer at a textile firm in Khatraj whereas his wife was a homemaker. The couple did not have any child due to which they were suffering with stress for a long time. Apart from this, Kalosna was suffering with hypertension and his wife was battling depression for around three years. “As a foul smell was coming from their flat, residents of the apartment called up owner of the flat who came there and broke the door,” a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-found-dead-in-gota-flat/articleshow/75281738.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Doctors to light candles to protest mob attack||NEW DELHI: Doctors have decided to light candles at home and on hospital premises as a symbol of protest and vigil on Wednesday, on the call issued by Indian Medical Association (IMA). The immediate trigger for this action, IMA office-bearers said, was denial of honourable burial for a doctor who had died of Covid-19 in Chennai on Sunday. A mob attacked the ambulance carrying the mortal remains of Dr Simon Hercules – a Chennai-based neurosurgeon – who died due to cardiac arrest after battling novel coronavirus. “The man saved (1000s) of lives and was the head of a hospital doing complex neurosurgeries. You all treated him worse than a street dog. No hashtags will change the way doctors feel right now, no clanging of pots,” tweeted one doctor. Dr Vinay Aggarwal, member of IMA’s taskforce on Covid-19, said the candlelight protest will be held at 9 pm. “Many nurses and other healthcare workers, who are angry with discrimination being meted out to healthcare professionals, will also join in,” he said. IMA is demanding enactment of a central law through an ordinance for the protection of healthcare professionals. “If the government fails to enact a law on violence against doctors and hospitals even after a white alert (candlelight vigil), the IMA will observe a ‘Black Day’ on Thursday,” it said. The association said that all doctors in the country will sport black badges on Thursday as a mark of protest. Meanwhile, to instil confidence among the healthcare workers working at AIIMS, a group of doctors from the hospital has made a music video. “We have included faculty, residents and nurses in this video,” said one of the doctors. He added: “This is meant to aware our colleagues who are anxious about the dangers of dealing with an infection like Covid-19 on safety measures.” On Monday, AIIMS administration had released a video appealing to people to not discriminate against the healthcare workers. Institute director Dr Randeep Guleria said discrimination against healthcare workers was driven mainly by fear than any scientific evidence. “It takes more than half an hour for a doctor to remove all protective gear they use while managing Covid-19 positive patients. So, by the time a doctor comes out of active duty into the community, the chances of infection from a healthcare professional are nil,” Dr Kaushik Sinha Deb, associate professor in the psychiatry department, explained in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctors-to-light-candles-to-protest-mob-attack/articleshow/75282462.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 6,000 WhatsApp groups counsel new mothers in A’bad||Aurangabad: Aurangabad Zilla Parishad (ZP) has formed over 6,000 WhatsApp groups to educate and counsel expecting and lactating mothers among other women on the prevention of Covid-19. The initiative, which is being executed through Anganwadi staff under the Integrated Child Development Services, has divided women into four categories—expectant mothers, lactating mothers, women taking care of children aged between six months and three years and those having kids in the age group of three to six years. Prasad Mirkale, deputy chief executive officer of Aurangabad ZP, said mothers from rural areas must be empowered with knowledge to keep the infection at a bay. “Social media, especially WhatsApp, can be effectively used as a tool for disseminating public information.We are using this platform to share the do’s and don’ts among other basics that need to be followed to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he said. Use of masks while breastfeeding babies, washing utensils used for feeding children, personal hygiene, healthy diet, measures to boost the immunity system, basics of hand-washing and coughing and sneezing etiquettes are some of the focus areas of these WhatsApp groups. “Besides pictures and texts messages, we also share videos for informing mothers about the measures to be taken to prevent Covid-19. We also ask the mothers to demonstrate what they have learnt,” said ZP authorities. As per official data, Aurangabad district has 3,454 anganwadis, which employ a sizeable number of female workers. “All Anganwadi workers were asked to form WhatsApp groups in their jurisdiction. The total number of such groups went past 6,000 in no time. These groups have been facilitating two-way communication, which is very important. Besides educating and counselling mothers, these groups are also used to address different queries in the minds of the rural women,” said Mirkale. The ZP authorities have appointed as many as 80 supervisors who have been instructed to oversee the effective functioning of the WhatsApp groups in keeping with the defined purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-6000-whatsapp-groups-counsel-new-mothers-in-abad/articleshow/75280554.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Thanks to CLaW, Tadoba guides & drivers get food supplies||Nagpur: The crowd funding campaign by Conservation Lenses & Wildlife (CLaW), a group of wildlife lovers, to help guides and Gypsy drivers in distress has borne fruit with it raising enough funds to supply month-long ration for 428 families. While the country continues to stay in lockdown, daily breadwinners have been impacted badly. With tourism stopped at all wildlife parks, guides and drivers are under severe stress. In collaboration with Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) Conservation Foundation Society, CLaW launched #TheFriendInNeed fund raiser campaign to support 428 families of guides and Gypsy drivers in core and buffer zones. “The task that looked difficult was achieved well in advance, thanks to the generous contributions by numerous members of the conservation group and wildlife enthusiasts across the country,” said CLaW members. Since the group exceeded the target, number of beneficiaries was increased to 428. Over 11,000 kg of food material comprising rice, lentils, salt and spices were packed and transported to Mohurli from where the forest department will start distributing it. More than 1,600 people will benefit. To maintain social distancing, CLaW has excluded its members from distribution of these supplies. The group thanked donors and TATR for cooperation. The campaign also saw support from Bollywood actor Randeep Hooda. “We plan to spread #TheFriendInNeed campaign to other parks as well,” the members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thanks-to-claw-tadoba-guides-drivers-get-food-supplies/articleshow/75281633.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Over 180 Goan seamen to disembark in Mumbai today||PANAJI: Over 180 Goans seafarers aboard three cruise ships in the Indian waters for 40 days have been allowed to disembark in Mumbai and travel to their places of residence, provided they test negative for Covid-19. While two of the three cruise ships—Karnika and Angriya are anchored at Mumbai port—the third one, Marella Discovery, is off Mumbai coast. In a late-night order on Tuesday, the ministry of home affairs gave the nod for Indian crew members to sign-off from the ships that arrive at Indian ports. “Goan crew from Karnika, Marella Discovery and Angriya will sign-off on Wednesday and will be brought to Goa by road. They will be tested for Covid-19 and then put under institutional quarantine facility in the state for 14 days,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. He said once the institutional quarantine period gets over, they will be tested again and if found negative, they will be home quarantined for further 14 days. Of the 498 Indian seafarers aboard Karnika, 98 of them are Goan crew members, while 65 of the 146 Indian seamen on board Marella Discovery are Goans and Angriya has 23 Goan crew. Sawant also said the state government would create testing facilities at Mormugao Port Trust for the seafarers. The home ministry’s order allowing seamen to sign-in and sign-off at Indian ports comes as shot in the arm for nearly 8,000 Goan seafarers who are abroad. The state government has been under pressure to bring them back, with some of the family members of the crew going on a strike in front of the chief minister’s official residence in Panaji. The home ministry also allowed Indian seafarers to join a vessel provided they clear the Covid-19 test. Earlier in the day, Goan crew members aboard the cruise ship Marella Discovery made a last-ditch appeal to the state government for help after its captain announced that the ship would proceed to Europe. In an SOS video, Goan crew members asked the state government to take a decision in a day’s time, failing which the vessel would proceed to Europe, putting their lives at risk. “If you cannot do anything, we hope that at least when our bodies come back from Europe, you’ll have sympathy for us,” one of the seafarers said in the video, adding they made the video for the media after no help was forthcoming from the government and politicians. The vessel, with 65 Goans and others, has been in Indian waters for 40 days awaiting permission to sign off the crew before it proceeds to Europe, where it will sign off its international crew members. “We have various emails sent back and forth, we’re still trying with the Indian government, but unfortunately, they don’t want to assist us,” the captain, Chris Dodds, stated in an announcement to crew on Tuesday. “We’ve tried the government, we’ve tried local agents, we’ve tried politicians and even our chief housekeeper has been trying. We’ve tried everything, and tomorrow’s the D-Day; if nothing happens by then, as long as we have fuel, we’ll be on our way back to Europe.” The captain, in a meeting with crew, said that the decision to proceed to Europe wasn’t an easy one to take, and promised to get them home in the future. “Unfortunately, the Indian government has not delivered what it promised,” the captain said. “It kept promising... it’s gone on and on and on. I spoke with the head office yesterday (Monday), and I said that in my opinion, we have to draw a line now because it is not good for us here… With no direction, I can see people’s smiles fading, and it’s not good for us. They’ve had a look at it, they’ve been in touch with the government officials in India, and they said nothing is going to happen in the next few days despite what you keep hearing. So, this is why we’re making the decision to move to Europe.” Meanwhile, the Goan Seamen Association of India, in a communication to the government, suggested that the crew be disembarked and transferred to the cruise ship Karnika before Marella Discovery proceeds to Europe. Association president Frank Viegas stated that the seafarers are disturbed and panicking and want a solution immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-180-goan-seamen-to-disembark-in-mumbai-today/articleshow/75282456.cms||---
April 22, 2020||India||Bengal obstructing Centre’s Covid-19 teams, says MHA||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday said while Maharashtra and Rajasthan were fully cooperating with inter-ministerial teams sent to boost anti-Covid-19 actions, the West Bengal government had restrained the teams sent to Kolkata and Jalpaiguri from functioning, escalating the political battle with Trinamool Congress. Home ministry spokesperson Punya Salila Srivastava said the West Bengal government's actions amounted to obstructing implementation of the order issued on Monday under the Disaster Management Act where state authorities were asked to make arrangements for the IMCTs (inter-ministerial central teams) to assess the ground situation. READ ALSO | Didi hits back, says attack on federal norms; TMC questions Centre’s intent“It has been brought to the notice of this ministry that both the IMCTs, at Kolkata and Jalpaiguri respectively, have not been provided with the requisite cooperation by the state and local authorities. In fact, they have been specifically restrained from making any visits, interacting with health professionals and assessing the ground situation,” home secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter to the West Bengal chief secretary. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe war of words, however, became heated with Trinamool leader Abhishek Banerjee tweeting, "You cripple West Bengal with faulty kits from ICMR and then send IMCTs to monitor its performance while keeping the state government in the dark. In the name of combating the Covid-19 crisis, you're playing with the lives of Bengalis while your leaders use skewed testing numbers for fake propaganda." The Centre had previously written to West Bengal pointing out that social distancing was being slackly implemented. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the state would implement curbs with a "human face". In its previous communication, the home ministry had pointed to reports that the police were allowing religious congregations and people were thronging vegetable, fish and meat markets in several areas. Bhalla said West Bengal’s refusal to assist the teams “amounts to obstructing the implementation of the orders issued by the central government under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and equally binding directions of the Supreme Court”. “You are, therefore, directed to comply with the MHA order dated April 19, 2020, and make all necessary arrangements for the IMCTs to carry out such responsibilities as have been entrusted to them,” he wrote. Two central teams have been deputed to West Bengal to review implementation of lockdown measures in identified districts. The teams are led by additional secretary-level officers and comprise senior public health professionals and NDMA officers, “whose expertise can be leveraged by the state government for management of Covid-19 pandemic”, said the home secretary. Bhalla reminded the state government that the teams were deputed under the authority conferred on the central government under Section 35 of the Disaster Management Act which states that “the central government shall take all such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of disaster management”. He also drew attention to the SC’s observation in its order on March 31 that state governments will faithfully comply with the directives and orders issued by the Union of India in letter and spirit in the interest of public safety. “The said observations of the Supreme Court must be treated as directions and faithfully complied with,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-obstructing-centres-covid-19-teams-says-mha/articleshow/75283333.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Salary payment of many civic staff hangs in balance||Kolhapur: Uncertainity looms large over whether the civic administration will be able to pay the salary of its employees for the month of April or not. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is unsure whether it will receive the grants in the form of the local body tax (LBT) from the state government which is already hard-pressed for funds amid the nationwide lockdown. The state government had released a grant of around Rs 11.5 crore for the civic body in March. However, there seems to be no clarity on whether those grants will be released in April or not. Officials from the civic administration said that only if the state government received its share of GST, which is around Rs 16,000 crore, from the Central government will it then be in a position to pay the compensation for LBT to the civic bodies. The LBT was scrapped in 2015. It was one of the main revenue sources for the civic bodies. After the GST was rolled out, the Centre had assured compensatory amount equivalent to the annual revenue estimated if the civic bodies were allowed to recover the LBT from the traders. A senior civic official said, “The collection of taxes has stopped since last one month. More expenses are being incurred in the last few months than the revenue earned. We expect the LBT compensation to be released every month without default. We have come to know that since the share of GST collection has not been released, state governments are not in a position to pay the monthly compensatory amount. If the current situation persists, we will have to wait another month to get the compensation.” Owing to dip in tax collection, the KMC is not in a position to pay the salaries of its 3,000 staff. Around 2,500 staff are Class IV staff who got full-salary for March, while the remaining staff had to settle for salary cuts. If the LBT compensation is not released to KMC by the end of this month or the first week of next month, the civic body will not be able to pay the salaries of all its employees. “We need Rs 16 crore every month to pay the salaries. We have been told to pay the entire salary of Class IV staff, whose remuneration collectively stands to Rs 12 crore. If no or only a part of the LBT compensation is paid, we will be in no position to pay salaries to the staff who are on the field undertaking measures to prevent Covid-19 spread,” said the official. So far, the state government has released only Rs 30 lakh to the civic administration for Covid-19 management. Of this, Rs 15 lakh has been spent to set up the ICU, beds and ventilators in the Isolation Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/salary-payment-of-many-civic-staff-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/75282468.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||Broke duo sell bhajiyas in Warasia, arrested||Vadodara: Two persons were arrested on Tuesday morning for selling fried snacks like bhajiya and kachoris in Warasia. According to police, the two accused Jitendra Jaswani and Ashwin Mali were found selling fried snacks from their respective handcarts during patrolling in the area in the morning. Their handcarts were seized and they were arrested. Offences were registered against them for violation of public notification. Police sources said that during interrogation, the duo said that they had ran out of money to take care of their household expenses due to which they were forced to sell the snacks even during the lockdown. Last week City police station had arrested a man named Irfan Ghulam Sheikh for selling fritters in Yakutpura. Sheikh used to run his hand cart for an entire day until the cops learnt about it and got it closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/broke-duo-sell-bhajiyas-in-warasia-arrested/articleshow/75280178.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Students stuck in Kota take to social media, seek government help to return home||KOLKATA: Nearly 1,000 students, studying at Kota in Rajasthan, and their guardians may not be able to return home anytime soon. State chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Tuesday indicated how the state government is against such movement of people from other states during the lockdown. He also highlighted the practical hurdles involved in bringing back the students stranded in Kota. State transport minister Suvendu Adhikari had, however, assured the students on Monday that the government would be sending buses to evacuate them in the next few days. “Despite our principled stand against any cross-state movement, we had looked into the matter from humanitarian aspects. It has now become clear that we would require 390 buses to bring back the students and their guardians from Kota. Given the distance, there will have to be at least three night halts on the way back. This may become a problem with neighbouring state Bihar putting up a principled stand against such movements. The students and the guardians have endured for so long. We request them to wait for a little more time. We shall extend all support to them,” Sinha said. The students, however, sounded restless and many of them took to social media, urging the administration to arrange for their return. Their anxiety has been accentuated with states like Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh holding talks with the Rajasthan government to take back their students. Uttar Pradesh has already evacuated their students from Kota. “There is no logic behind this. We are students and the state needs to make special arrangements for us. How come there were no restrictions on people who returned from foreign trips with infections? We are ready for screening. The authorities may also send us to home quarantine once we are back in Bengal. How can we infect others? There needs to be a practical reason behind any decision. The state needs to understand our mental state. As all academic sessions have been set back, we don’t know of what is in store for us in the future. We have been stranded far from our homes,” said a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-stuck-in-kota-take-to-social-media-seek-govt-help-to-return-home/articleshow/75281651.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Boy recovers, shoots video to thank doctors||LUCKNOW: After recovering from a rare disease that paralysed his limbs and caused respiratory distress, a 14-year-old boy has expressed gratitude to KGMU doctors by shooting a heartwarming 110-second video. “Sir namaste, aapke chalte aaj khada hua hun apne aap. Ashirwad dein ki main agli baar aapke paas chal kar aoon,” said Saurabh Tiwari, a resident of Balrampur. Saurabh was suffering from Guillain-Barre syndrome. Dr D Himanshu of medicine department said, “He was in ICU for two months. We conducted plasma pheresis on the boy in which undesired antibodies are removed from plasma. The boy recovered after the process.” Dr Vivek Bharat, a junior resident, said the boy’s mother had to pay only for plasma pheresis and the remaining treatment was free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/boy-recovers-shoots-video-to-thank-docs/articleshow/75282477.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zero tolerance for attacking cops, health workers: DGP||AHMEDABAD: State director general of police (DGP) Shivanand Jha on Tuesday said that a zero-tolerance policy will be adopted against those who attack cops and health workers performing their duty to curb the spread of the Covid-19 virus. Speaking to reporters in Gandhinagar about police preparedness and briefing them about work done, Jha also said that four persons who had attacked cops in Naswadi taluka of Chhota Udepur district have been arrested and booked under PASA (Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act). Jha said that the four accused, who attacked Naswadi police, were sent to four different jails in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. “If any such incident takes place again in the state where police or health workers are attacked, we will take stern actions against the offenders,” Jha said. Speaking on the curfew in various parts of Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Surat cities, Jha said that police received complaints that people were not following social distancing during the relaxation hours. He said Ahmedabad city reported 135 curfew violations for which 163 persons were arrested. In Surat, as many as 114 offences were registered and 131 persons were booked. Rajkot reported 62 violations and 70 persons were arrested by police. Across the state, 311 offences were registered and 364 persons were arrested, said Jha stressing that people should be aware and follow the rules so that police do not need to take action against them. Jha also said that they found that social distancing was not being maintained at some APMCs (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) and police will take action for such violations. Gradually, the situation has normalized for some industries and agriculture due to the partial relaxation of the lockdown, but if anyone is found to be misusing this, action will be taken, said Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zero-tolerance-for-attacking-cops-health-workers-dgp/articleshow/75281733.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Goa’s quarantine plans hit unforeseen hurdle: Manpower||PANAJI: After identifying several hotels to turn into quarantine facilities for seafarers the government has run into a hurdle. With most of the hotels having shut operations and sent staff home, sourcing manpower to provide services is proving a problem. “We have practical difficulties on hand. We will have problems in sourcing housekeeping staff and providing food to inmates,” an official said. Some 7,000-odd seafarers are expected to be brought home. Hotels owners too are not keen to hand over their properties for use as quarantine facilities, an insider from the hospitality industry said. However, while the government can overcome this problem under the Disaster Management Act, the source questioned how the government would provide basic services to those in quarantine when “hotels have sent their staff home with instructions to return only in October”. “Few are operating with a skeletal staff,” he said. The official said that, initially, the government had encountered hurdles when Goa Tourism Development Corporation’s (GTDC) residencies were converted into quarantine facilities. However, they could manage the GTDC residencies despite inadequacies since the number of people placed there were few, he said. The problem of providing those lodged at the quarantine facility with food was overcome by roping in a few self-help groups, he said. “We could arrange food as the number of persons in quarantine is small. We would have found it difficult to manage if 500 or 1,000 people were required to be served,” he said. At all the residencies canteen facilities are not operational. The second major problem that the government will face with the hotels is arranging people for cleaning work. “At residencies, we have minimal staff and we are afraid they too will run away once the lockdown is lifted.” The government will have to sort out all these problems before the seafarers are brought back, he said. “If the problems are not worked out now, we will have trouble on our hand. Merely requisitioning hotels is not the end.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-quarantine-plans-hit-unforeseen-hurdle-manpower/articleshow/75282465.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||With borders sealed, people opt for jungle routes to enter Goa||PANAJI: Although the state government has sealed its borders and has disallowed interstate public movement, except the transportation of essential commodities, people appear to be finding internal roads and routes via jungles to enter Goa. Videos purportedly showing people taking short cuts to enter the state have gone viral on social media. The people in the clips claim that while they have travel passes and are coming in for work, they are not being permitted to cross the border checkposts by the authorities. Inspector general of police Jaspal Singh, however, said no one has been entering Goa in search of employment. “The Goa police will immediately plug those routes. People, too, can inform us if they come across anybody entering the state illegally,” he said, while adding that even factories voluntarily inform the police if any person has crossed over from the neighbouring states for work. The Goa police has already initiated an inquiry into the videos. The state government had sealed eight entry points before the Janata Curfew was implemented on March 22. Teams of police and health officials have been deployed at the borders to check vehicles entering the state with essential commodities. The drivers of these vehicles are tested with thermal guns, following which they are permitted to enter. Meanwhile, the state executive committee (SEC) said that five people who had entered Goa from Karwar, Karnataka, in connivance with nine boat owners/fishermen, are presently in paid quarantine and will have to undergo all the requisite tests for Covid-19. FIRs have been registered and further legal action is being taken against all those involved, the SEC said. The fisheries department will also act in accordance with the law to cancel the licences of the boat owners/fishermen concerned. On Saturday, Singh, along with the North Goa SP and SDPO (Bicholim) had visited border checkposts in the district and had instructed staff there to ensure that only vehicles from permitted categories are allowed into the state. “A visit to neighbouring villages were also made to see that there is no movement of people from Maharashtra side,” Singh had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-borders-sealed-people-opt-for-jungle-routes-to-enter-goa/articleshow/75282917.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Woman raped on pretext of marriage||RAJKOT: An eight-month-pregnant woman lodged a rape complaint with Rajkot B division police station against her boyfriend on Monday night. Police said the accused, identified as Kakan Vanavi, had allegedly raped the survivor several times in the past one and a half years. “Vanavi had developed a romantic relationship with the survivor at Maha Shivratri fair in Junagadh and promising to marry her, had made physical relationship with her. However, after the survivor became pregnant and asked for marriage, Vanavi allegedly reneged on his promise and fled to his village,” said V J Fernandes, inspector with Rajkot B division police station. “We have sent a team of officials to Santalpur village of Vanthali taluka in Jungadh district, where Vanavi is suspected to be hiding,” added Fernandes. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-raped-on-pretext-of-marriage/articleshow/75279189.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||WII launches ‘Lockdown wildlife tracker’ app||Nagpur: To record wildlife during the lockdown period, the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, has launched an app ‘Lockdown Wildlife Tracker’. “We were thinking about it for quite some time and our scientist, Bilal Habib, has finally developed it. At a time when people are locked in their homes due to Covid-19, there are more and more reports of wildlife exploring human-dominated areas,” said WII director Dhananjai Mohan. “We’ve written to the chief wildlife wardens of all states to ask their field staff to download the app and record animals while they are patrolling or when they are on any other field duty. This will enable us to know the closest forest and study reasons for such movement and prepare a report for management inputs,” added Mohan. The director said that after the lockdown period, WII will share the data with the respective states and shall also come up with detailed state specific reports as well as the national report. “As of now, these records on stray animals are being circulated on WhatsApp. However, this information is very critical in understanding human-wildlife interface in the country. The information shall help in wildlife conservation and management in the long run,” said Mohan. “The Lockdown Wildlife Tracker will make data collection easier and wide spread. The app makes it easy to record wildlife from the comfort of your home or while in the field. These sightings can be reported in real time as well as at any later period, but only till the quarantine lasts,” said Mohan. One can even upload photos of sightings on the app. This free app makes it convenient to keep track of what you see, while making your data available for further analysis and interpretation. The app can be downloaded from the WII website (wii.gov.in). The app will be available for download from Google store in a couple of days with more options, especially the bilingual version.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wii-launches-lockdown-wildlife-tracker-app/articleshow/75281663.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Migrants’ return by sea prompts Ganjam to tighten coastal security||Berhampur: The Ganjam administration is planning to take the help of the Coast Guard and marine police to strengthen surveillance of the district’s 55-km-long coastline, after 27 fishermen from the state and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh sailed to Dankuri on the interstate border from Chennai on Monday evening. While 17 of the men are from Andhra, nine are from Pati Sonepur and one from Krushna Prasad. “We have already asked the SPs of Ganjam and Berhampur to alert marine police staff. We are also going to write to the Coast Guard to keep strict vigil along the Ganjam coast,” collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said on Tuesday. The fishermen arrived at Dankuri after a journey of about five days on a boat purchased in Chennai, sources said. The men had gone to the Tamil Nadu capital about four months ago to work for a trawler owner, the sources added. After landing in Dankuri, they were sent to institutional quarantine at Ichhapuram by the Andhra Pradesh government, sub-collector (Berhampur) Shinde Dattatraya Bhausaheb said. Hundreds of fishermen from Ganjam’s coastal areas are working in the fishing sector in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Goa, and the authorities fear they might take the sea route home in the absence of any other kind of transport. “We have already sealed the entry points on the Odisha border. We have installed CCTV cameras along the border and initiated police patrolling to screen people entering Ganjam from neighbouring districts. Now we will take similar measures along the coastline,” said collector. The district administration has also asked sarpanches of coastal panchayats to keep an eye on the shore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/migrants-return-by-sea-prompts-ganjam-to-tighten-coastal-security/articleshow/75279174.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Shopkeepers want to pay 25% salary, write to PM, CM||Nagpur: Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), an association of local traders and businessmen, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to pay only 25% salary to their employees during the period of lockdown. State government has made it compulsory for employers to pay full salary to their employees during the lockdown. The letter states that other than the establishments selling food items, all other shops are closed. “Our cash flow is zero and hence we are not in a position to pay full salary to our employees,” it adds. NVCC has claimed that shopkeepers paid full salary for the month of March even though they were forced to down their shutters in middle of the month. “However, we are not in a position to pay full salary for the month of April. Shopkeepers have to pay electricity and water bills, pay taxes, buy necessary things. Even though their income is zero they are incurring lot of expenditure,” says the letter. The shopkeepers want that those employees who are registered with Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) should be paid part salary during lockdown period by the agency at par considering it to be absence due to illness. NVCC has further demanded that for those shopkeepers whose employees are not registered with ESIC, government should pay the salaries as per the figure mentioned in Income Tax (IT) returns for 2018-19. NVCC has informed the government that it has told its members to pay 25% to 30% salary to their employees till government comes out with a rescue package for businessmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shopkeepers-want-to-pay-25-salary-write-to-pm-cm/articleshow/75282464.cms||Ashish Roy
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||Four detained under PASA for attacking cops in Naswadi||Vadodara: Four persons in Naswadi town of Chhota Udepur were detained under Prevention Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act on Tuesday for attacking three cops on April 16. The four accused Rayaan Memon, Ashfaque Memon, Ashraf Memon and Mukesh Bhairav were chit chatting on Tanakhla Road on April 16. Assistant sub-inspector Manubhai Chandubhai, constable Prakash Ramsinhbhai and gram rakshak dal personnel Ranjit Tadvi, noticed them while patrolling, and asked them to go home. Instead of following instructions, the four accused started arguing with the cops. The situation worsened when Manubhai warned them of legal action by recording their video on mobile phone. The four accused turned violent and snatched Manubhai’s mobile phone. As a commotion ensued, some locals came to the rescue of cops and got the mobile phone returned. Later, an offence was registered against the four at Naswadi police station and the four were arrested. “Since they had attacked policemen, we had sent a proposal under PASA Act to the district magistrate which was approved,” said superintendent of police M S Bhabhor. Rayaan will be sent to Lajpore Central Jail in Surat, Ashfaque will be sent to Vadodara Central Jail, Ashraf will be sent to Sabarmati Central Jail while Bhairav will be sent to Rajkot Central Jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-detained-under-pasa-for-attacking-cops-in-naswadi/articleshow/75280215.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SOP for smooth movement of goods, workers||Bhubaneswar: Having exempted construction activities from lockdown restrictions in rural and urban areas, the state government has allowed free movement of labourers on foot and cycle. For office employees allowed to function during the lockdown, identity cards issued by the companies will be accepted as valid travel document. The state government has also issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for smooth movement of goods and workers and opening of vehicle repair shops. Special relief commissioner P K Jena on Tuesday notified the district collectors and municipal authorities about the SOP. “Permitted business/shop owners may issue paper document containing the name and other details of the employee/labourer,” the SOP states. Though it allows movement of workers to warehouse or worksite for construction activities, the SOP said the organisations can transport them in passenger vehicles limiting to 40 per cent of the approved seating capacity and by maintaining social distancing norms. “Such vehicle shall be moving from point to point with no pick-up en-route. It is clarified that no person shall be allowed to either board or alight en-route between the starting point and destination point of the journey,” read the SOP. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sop-for-smooth-movement-of-goods-workers/articleshow/75279194.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pandemic to push back new malls by few years||HYDERABAD: With the retail sector suffering the hardest blow due to the Covid-19 pandemic, new malls, that were expected to hit the city market in 2020, could now take another five years to come up, said industry experts. Retail rentals too are likely to drop by 10% to 15%. According to the data available with Anarock Property Consultants, Hyderabad was expected to see as many as seven malls, spanning over nearly 2 million square feet (sft) area, this year. “Backed by Hyderabad’s ongoing commercial growth and the recent uptake of office spaces by multi-nationals and national firms, it was expected that both the residential and retail segments would see heightened activity,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock. “However, since retailers will re-look at their expansion strategies now, we will have to wait and see how much of the demand will actually remain,” Anuj added. The crisis is likely to impact retail rentals as well. At present, the average leasing rates range between Rs 100 per sft and Rs 150 per sft. Higher floors, in some areas, attracted an additional charge Rs 50 to Rs 80. “Mall owners might have to revise these charges, at least for the interim period, till the market stabilises again,” said a leading developer, who has a mall in the offing. “Most retail stores will now shift gears and use their physical stores only as fronts for their online businesses. Also, construction of new malls is unlikely to begin anytime soon,” he added. Agrees, Shubhranshu Pani, managing director (Retail Services) at global real estate services firm, Jones Lang LaSalle. “The market will be a little more difficult for retailers over the next four-five months. So, I feel they will want to wait for some time before they start construction,” Pani said, though optimistic about the sector slowing bouncing back by Diwali. “In India, online retail comprises only four to six per cent of the total market. Though shopping habits of people might change for the next one year – leading to the online share doubling – I think it’ll be temporary. Physical stores will continue to capture the majority share in the country,” Pani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandemic-to-push-back-new-malls-by-few-yrs/articleshow/75281661.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 22, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Rescue farmers hit by crisis, urges CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the state administration to be proactive to rescue farmers from the crisis situation due to Covid-19. The CM asked officials to focus on agriculture and horticulture sectors and take prompt decisions to market agriculture produce. Taking stock of containment measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at the camp office on Tuesday, the chief minister told officials that market intervention methods for purchase of horticulture and agriculture produces should be carried out on an aggressive note to bail out farmers. “There should not be any compromise in both containment measures and purchase of agriculture produce. They should go simultaneously,” said the chief minister. The CM said he had requested Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani to look into the ordeals of the AP fishermen stranded in Gujarat. After reviewing the progress of screening tests for Covid-19, the chief minister asked the health department to step up efforts to complete tests on all suspects. He said regular screening tests using PCR mode should be intensified along with rapid kits. The CM asked officials to rationalise procurement of kits for health staff by keeping additional stocks in the districts reporting more cases. The CM directed the officials to ready more hospitals and quarantine facilities in four districts, Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore which were reporting more cases. Senior officials told the chief minister they have directed Kurnool district collector to immediately convert Government General Hospital (GGH) in the city to a state-level Covid-19 hospital. So far, private medical college hospital is being treated as Covid-19 district level hospital and SVIMs in Chittoor is being treated as Covid-19 state level hospital for the region. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney said instructions have been issued to shift in-patients in Kurnool GGH to other local private hospitals in order to convert the GGH into a Covid-19 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/rescue-farmers-hit-by-crisis-urges-cm/articleshow/75280592.cms||Samdani MN
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 reaches PHQ; Bhopal total tally at 285||Bhopal: Covid-19 has reached Police Headquarters (PHQ) and once again hit Gandhi Medical College (GMC). On Tuesday, the driver of a top official of the Madhya Pradesh Economic Offences Wing (EOW) tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s son works in PHQ. Both the offices have gone into lockdown mode, said health officials. As many as 31 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal on Tuesday. As of now , the tally of Covid-19 cases in the city is 285 with seven deaths and 35 recoveries, according to health bulletin. According to health department, the EOW officer’s driver and his family have been quarantined. Those who came in contact with the driver and his son would also be tested for Covid-19. Meanwhile, hostel of GMC has once again become the ground zero for Covid-19 spread. A post graduate student and an MBBS intern tested positive for the contagion. Contact tracing of hostellers, kitchen staff and security guard has been initiated. Nine doctors from GMC have been quarantined and hostel mess staff has been sent home. 28-day containment over in Professors Colony: Professors Colony which reported state capital’s first Covid-19 case, would not be a containment zone from Wednesday, said chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. It would remain under quarantine restrictions, he added. The area around Professors Colony would remain locked to outsiders for almost a month. Madhya Pradesh did not receive Chinese anti-body test kits: Madhya Pradesh health department never received Chinese made rapid antibody testing kits for Covid-19. Order for 50,000 rapid test kits was placed but the supplier could not deliver, said sources. Directives have been issued to only purchase ICMR authorised test kits, said a top health department official. On Tuesday, ICMR advised all states not to use the new rapid antibody test for Covid-19 after reports emerged of the kits being faulty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-reaches-phq-bhopal-total-tally-at-285/articleshow/75280593.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In war zone, doctors battle sweat, hunger, fear||NEW DELHI: “My biggest fear, more than dying, is that my body will be disowned after I die,” said Dr Sumit Kumar (name changed) who is deployed in the Covid-19 ward of one of the biggest government hospitals in the city. “In this war, we are the warriors and before we fight the disease, we win over our fears first,” he added. Kumar’s hospital, like many others in the capital, is divided into different zones. Entering the “Red Zone” is nothing short of entering a war zone. “This is where Covid-19 positive patients are treated. The zone has a different aura that is hard to describe. There is, of course, apprehension in your mind as you get into Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in the docking area,” he said. While the PPE is the primary armour, wearing it for the entire shift has its own challenges. Doctors said that wearing multiple layers of protective gear makes breathing difficult and, with the temperature rising, it becomes extremely uncomfortable and leaves them sweating. This is because air-conditioning is not being used in these wards to avoid spread of novel coronavirus. For the entire shift ranging between 8 and 12 hours, doctors can’t eat, drink or use the washroom. “There is a crunch of resident doctors and our shifts are of 14 hours at night and 10 hours in the day. PPEs are short and we have been asked to use them judiciously,” said a resident doctor of another hospital. “Also, doctors are not only facing bad behaviour from the public, but are also barred from talking about their problems,” he added. Dr Chhavi Gupta, spokesperson of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said that while it’s not easy working in a PPE, it provides much-needed safety to doctors. “While wearing PPE, we have to assume that we are infected from outside and act accordingly. An average PPE costs about Rs 1,000 and we can’t put the burden on the exchequer by changing it frequently. Wearing it feels like putting on bulletproof armour,” she said. Gupta added, “We are staying in hotels despite having our homes and families here. Delhi government has provided accommodation to doctors in four and five-star hotels and nurses and other staff has been put up in two and three-star hotels. While treating Covid-19 patients, we forget everything and just focus on our duty. It’s a pandemic. When there is a war going on, we shouldn’t be going home.” Dr Piyush Singh of Hindu Rao Hospital said, “The society has to understand that if we stop, who will treat patients? That is why we need a central protection Act. We need the right equipment to fight the war and work without any fear factor. I’m living separately and avoiding contact with my family members. The biggest problem doctors fighting against Covid-19 is the behaviour of people, like being asked to vacate rented accommodation.” Delhi Medical Council member and former president of Delhi Medical Association Dr Harish Gupta said the situation has improved now. “The government took a tough stance and chief secretaries of all states were asked to take action. Following this, some landlords were arrested. People have now realised that they can’t misbehave with healthcare professionals,” he added. “People now have to realise that the only vaccine against Covid-19 at the moment is wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” Dr Harish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-war-zone-docs-battle-sweat-hunger-fear/articleshow/75282487.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Fisheries industry stares at Rs 110 crore loss due to lockdown||PANAJI: Goa’s fisheries sector has suffered losses of around Rs 110 crore after fishing activity came to standstill during the initial 15 days of lockdown. Fishing activity resumed in full swing after the Central government allowed fishing and commercial fishing activity with necessary hygiene precautions, ten days ago. “We have intimated the Central government about the state’s loss on account of the fishing ban during the 15-day period,” a fisheries official said. Goa exports fish and there are about 16 seafood and marine products’ exporters. Export of sea food to Kerala and Karnataka has not stopped, but other exports have ceased since the lockdown, he said, adding, “There is abundance of fish available for local consumption and all cold storages have been full,” he said. Goa also procures fish from Maharashtra and Karnataka. The official also said that Goa’s losses will be limited as mechanised fishing will be stopped for the season by May-end with the annual 61-day fishing ban coming into force from June 1. The two months see complete cessation of mechanised fishing while traditional fishermen continue to go into the sea. A source said during the initial lockdown period, fishing activity had not stopped completely. “Many continued their activity clandestinely. This was more so in the Salcete belt,” he said. The official said they were informed of these violations, but they could not do anything about it “for obvious reasons”. Another official said, “Local fish vendors have been the worst affected during the ongoing lockdown as most markets are still closed while many fly-by-night operators have been selling the sea catch”. This, he said, happened because government encouraged home delivery of fish. “At many places, vendors are seen sitting by roadsides or at any other open space to sell fish. Mostly, these are new operators,” he said. Traditional fish vendors will continue to suffer until the lockdown is not lifted fully, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fisheries-industry-stares-at-rs-110cr-loss-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75282496.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Stuck in Goa and Delhi, young students yearn to return home||VALPOI: Several students from Goa and Delhi are left to wonder when they will be able to return home to their families. With the closing of borders and shutting down of all modes of transport, the migration programme of two Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) institutions has sparked plenty of anxiety among Class IX students and their parents. Eighteen students from Delhi JNV are stranded at the Valpoi JNV, while 13 students from Valpoi, all aged between 14 and 15, are stuck in Delhi. According to protocol of JNV schools across India, a migration programme sees students from one JNV in a state sent to study in a JNV school in another state for a year. This is being done to promote better integration and all-round education. All seemed well for the migration programme students this academic year, until the national lockdown, and its extension till May 3 due to the coronavirus pandemic, throwing life out of gear. “The Delhi students at Valpoi are safe. We take good care of them, but the students want to go back to their hometowns,” V Prabhullan, principal of JNV, Valpoi, told TOI on Tuesday. Not surprisingly, Prabhullan said students from Goa who are stuck in Delhi want to return home since they are now holed up indoors for more than a month. The academic year ended in March. “We tried three times to send the students back to Delhi and bring ours home, but the national lockdown just doesn’t allow any movement. I am in regular touch with the officials. We are trying to resolve this,” said the principal. With each passing day, fears grow, and PTA chairman of Valpoi JNV, Rajendra Gawas, said all parents are understandably tensed. "They want their children back as soon as possible. Parents were hoping that the children would be home after the lockdown ends on April 15. Nobody expected an extension,” said Gawas. The PTA has placed the blame at the feet of the management for not acting promptly. "The government had announced eight days prior to the lockdown that final exams are cancelled. Immediately both JNVs should have acted and sent the students back home. They just didn’t do anything,” he said, adding that chief minister Pramod Sawant and Ayush minister Shripad Naik have both been briefed about the situation. Meanwhile, outstation students at Valpoi are all in good health, according to medical officer of Valpoi Community Health Centre Dr Shyam Kankonkar. “The students are fine. We do regular medical check-ups. Our duty is to take care of their health," said Kankonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stuck-in-goa-and-delhi-young-students-yearn-to-return-home/articleshow/75282483.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kochi||Only 869 people in Thrissur under quarantine||Thrissur: The number of quarantined cases in Thrissur district, recorded on Monday, shows only 869 people, said district administration officials. Within three days the number of quarantined people dipped from 4,552 to 869, said officials. Presently, 861 people are under home quarantine and 8 people under hospital quarantine in the district. On Saturday, there were 4,552 people quarantined in their houses and 10 in hospitals. According to local self government minister A C Moideen, Thrissur district had the most number of quarantined people in state. Over 22,000 people were under quarantine in the district last month. But due to effective intervention by district administration the number has come down, said the minister. In Thrissur, 13 people had tested positive and all have recovered last week, said officials. The nation’s first Covid-19 case was reported in Thrissur in January and the patient tested negative within two weeks and discharged from the hospital, said district administration officials. The district administration had sent 950 samples for testing and received results of 942. The results of the eight samples have not yet been received, said officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/only-869-people-in-thrissur-under-quarantine/articleshow/75279222.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Volunteers ensure infant gets critical meds 180km away||Mangaluru: A 3-month-old infant in Honnavar, Uttara Kannada, got medicines critical for its survival, all the way from Mangaluru, 180km away. Facilitating this was Corona Warriors (CW) led by master volunteer Sahana A, who acted on a call she received from the Sahaya team of the department of information and public relations (DIPR). CW is the brainchild of DIPR secretary P Manivannan. While the 180-km drive from Mangaluru to Honnavar, on a regular day, takes three-and-a-half hours, it took members of civil defence, CWs in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, and other stakeholders, more than 24 hours from Thursday evening, to ensure that the medicines reached Honnavar. Sahana was in constant touch with the members involved in getting these medicines to the infant, that saw her adroitly address one problem after the other. Delighted that the team had successfully crossed hurdles in getting the medicine to the infant’s parents, Sahana said that Aneesh, one of the volunteers, transported the medicine from Shiroor Cross to the Udupi-Uttara Kannada checkpost, but had to borrow money to put fuel in his vehicle, from her, since there was some unexpected hitch in transporting the medicine from there to Honnavar. He returned the money borrowed, Sahana said. In the interim, there were continuous phone calls between Sahana and war room representatives of DIPR Sahaya and civil defence, with the local police checkpost, to allow Aneesh to cross the border, and to ensure his safe return. Aneesh deposited the medicines with the police near Shiroor checkpost, and returned to Udupi. Mahesh Naik, a health official from Honnavar, collected the medicines from the checkpost, the next morning, and took it till Bhatkal, where another health official collected it and delivered it to the relieved parents at Honnavar. “It is such moments that bring cheer amidst the prevalent gloom that the pandemic has caused across the world,” Sahana surmised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/volunteers-ensure-infant-gets-critical-meds-180km-away/articleshow/75279214.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||5th liquor seller targeted by miscreants in city||Nagpur: The shutting down of wine shops and bars due to the lockdown has led to miscreants breaking into these establishments to steal liquor. In the latest incident, a bar at Koradi was targeted by some miscreants between March 18 and April 21. The burglars also stole the CCTV’s DVR along with the monitor during the burglary. After the burglary, Koradi police station senior PI Vazeer Sheikh convened a meeting of all bar and wine shop owners. “I have told them to put day and night security at their establishments and asked them to install CCTV cameras and save the footage on Google Drive, so even if the DVR is stolen, the footage will be available online. With the help of state excise department, we have asked the owners to share details of stock at their establishments,” said PI Sheikh. The latest incident has taken the number of liquor establishment targeted by miscreants in city to five. Due to the lockdown, all liquor establishments in the city have been closed and sealed off by the state excise department. Meanwhile, local crime branch of rural police arrested three persons who had broken into a country-made liquor shop on Monday at Khaparkheda. Even in rural areas, several bars and wine shops have been targeted by miscreants. A country-made liquor shop in Kamptee, and bars in areas like Jaripatka, Gaddigodam and Nandanvan were targeted by miscreants, who fled with cash and liquor worth lakhs. In the latest incident, the bar of Dhyanesh Jaiswal was targeted by burglars, who decamped with liquor, DVR and monitor, in all worth Rs91,000. The incident came to fore on Tuesday. Cops said the accused had broken into the bar by breaking the shutter of the back door. Police are scrutinizing CCTV footage from nearby spots to identify the burglars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5th-liquor-seller-targeted-by-miscreants-in-city/articleshow/75282482.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Burglars target four shops in Begumpura||Aurangabad: Despite heavy presence of policemen across the city for strict implementation of lockdown, four shops, including a pharmacy and milk centre, were broken into in the wee hours of Monday. The crime was committed in Saeeda Colony that falls under the jurisdiction of Begumpura police station. After the incident came to light, policemen were found checking for footage of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the area. The suspects, however, managed to stole paltry cash that the owners had left in the cash counters. But even 24 hours after the incident, no offence has been registered with the police. A police officer informed that after the incident, patrolling has been increased in the area so that no more shops can be targeted by the burglars. Owner of Sufiyan medical store, one of the shops targeted, said he had kept around Rs 5,000 in the cash counter that was taken away by the burglars. From the milk centre, an amount of Rs 2,000 was stolen by the suspects. After a police team visited the spot, the owners of the shops targeted by the burglars were asked to visit the police station for lodging a complaint. However, much to their dismay, when they reached the police station they could not meet inspector Sachin Sanap who was busy with Covid-19 related duty. When contacted, Sanap said, "We had called the complainants, but they have not come. Whenever they come, we will register an offence and begin the probe." According to a local resident, the manner in which the shutters of the shops were broken it appeared to be the work of professional burglars. The suspects also stole cigarette and other tobacco products from the paan stall they had broken into.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/burglars-target-four-shops-in-begumpura/articleshow/75280600.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Colleges to hold annual exams’||AHMEDABAD: Putting all speculations to rest about college students being promoted en masse on the lines of schools, the Gujarat government today clarified that the annual examination will be conducted this year. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said in a media statement that all colleges affiliated with various universities will hold the annual examination in coming days. This includes both the government-run and self-financed institutions. The minister did not announce any specific dates for the exams. The college annual exams got deferred this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown situation to curb the spread of the disease. In a video-conferencing with the vice-chancellors for discussing the steps taken by their institutions to create awareness about coronavirus, the minister said a taskforce had been formed by the central government’s ministry of human resource development to look into the issue of conducting college level exams. The taskforce had prepared guidelines for conducting college level exams in Gujarat, he said. The minister also sought suggestions from the vice-chancellors for conducting exams in coming days. For exams conducted by University Grants Commission (UGC) and other such exams, a special team of experts will be formed. The state government will make announcements regarding this at a later date. The state government had last month announced to promote all school students of Gujarat en masse, given the lockdown situation across the country. A meeting of the management of self-financed technical institutes was held recently to discuss the future course of action .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/colleges-to-hold-annual-exams/articleshow/75281729.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Social scare: Hair-raising tales grow to great lengths||NEW DELHI: Locked in at home without access to a barber, cricketer Virat Kohli got his locks trimmed by his wife, Anushka Sharma. But there are some men who are letting their hair and whiskers run wild. #Quarantinehair is a riotous story of its own on social media, as people share posts of their attempts to groom themselves. “My wife is dying to try out her hair cutting skills learnt from YouTube on me, but that’s a high-risk option. Maybe I’ll stick with overgrown hair,” said Rohan Mehta, a businessman. “Buzzers are selling like hot cakes in the Defence Colony market,” he added. Beauty and wellness have been a booming business and huge employers in India in the last decade, estimated at over Rs 80,370 crore in 2018 according to KPMG. But salons are likely to be hit hard by the lockdown. While those with shorter hair find themselves looking bedraggled, people who colour their locks are now conscious of their natural roots peeking out. Those on social media are concerned about keeping up appearances and DIY styling solutions like “sock curls” are making waves these days. “I’ve been using wax strips for my upper lip and tweezing my eyebrows a little, just enough not to show a unibrow in my work video conferences,” said Anjali Singh, a corporate lawyer. Her friend, Antara Gopinath, also a corporate lawyer, got a little too relaxed about her appearance in her work con-calls. It ended in a joke among her colleagues. There are different levels of investment in one’s looks. While some women are in-between chemical peels and facial injectable sessions, there are others who have never bothered with any professional upkeep. Many middle-class women fall somewhere in between and are missing their regular fix of threading, waxing or a mani-pedi. “Getting my hair washed and dried at a salon was a sign of my economic independence,” said lawyer Talish Ray. “No more of that, for now. That’s not the worst. My nine-year-old daughter asked me if suddenly sprouting hair on my upper lip and chin meant I was hitting puberty,” she laughed. Kabir Mathur, who works at a think-tank, is pleased with his decision to shave his head as he “had been losing hair anyway”. Aditya Sengupta, a communications professional, said he “started to grow a lockdown beard for fun. But it has grown out of control and I don’t want to use a trimmer in case it gets clogged”. For some men, ear and nose hair presents a new challenge. Video conferences have brought a new level of scrutiny to each others’ looks, said Gopinath. Some people aren’t aware of this, so they look sloppy and recline in funny ways. She and her colleagues had to turn off their cameras to giggle when their boss, who had a social engagement later on the Houseparty app, “showed up with slick spiked hair, like a party look from the late 90s”. “People can buy hair dye, but it’s hard for those with highlights or complicated colour like caramel or honey,” said Amrita Jain, a fashion entrepreneur. Some people are experimenting with longer hair, others are giving themselves radical buzz cuts. For those who don’t have to socialise, it means no judgment. Shiuli Sen, a designer, said, “It’s actually pretty liberating to not care about how you look. Yesterday, I looked at the hair on my legs and thought I’m practically on a desert island, so why should I shave it? Why do women even do it when it has a biological right to be there?” “I’ve never coloured my hair, but my short hair does need a trim. Someone on Facebook said my hair looked great,” said Padmavati Dua, a radiologist currently on sabbatical. She believes in looking good, wearing a nice sari everyday. “We are not in national mourning and life hasn’t stopped. Looking after one’s appearance can give oneself and others a sense of positivity,” she added. (Some names have been changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/social-scare-hair-raising-tales-grow-to-great-lengths/articleshow/75282511.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Tobacco auctions to resume in 3 centres||Guntur: Giving a breather to tobacco growers, the Tobacco Board has decided to resume auctions in three centres. Although the Board wanted to start transactions at Tangutur-II and Kondepi auction platforms in Prakasam district and DC Palle platform in Nellore district on Tuesday, no transactions took place due to restrictions imposed by the Prakasam district collector on the movement of buyers. Sources said the Board’s senior officials are discussing the issue with state government officials. Sources said the Prakasam district collector, while allowing auction platforms to start business, directed that buyers, executives of tobacco firms and Board staffers from red zones should stay in centres at auction platforms till May 3. The collector also told officials of the Board that except farmers, no one visiting the auction centres would be allowed to leave the towns. Sources said the decision to impose restrictions was taken in view of the fact that most buyers and merchants would be coming from Guntur city which has a large number of Covid-19 positive cases. “We are hopeful of sorting out the issue in a day or two. We will issue special passes to traders and officials visiting the auction platforms,” said a Tobacco Board official. Auctions were suspended on all 18 platforms on March 21 a few days before the lockdown was announced. Tobacco farmers and traders appealed to the Centre to resume auctions as the tobacco leaf gets damaged on prolonged exposure to heat after which the commerce ministry directed the Board to take measures. A decision to resume operations on the 15 other platforms is yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-auctions-to-resume-in-3-centres/articleshow/75280626.cms||Samdani MN
April 22, 2020||Goa||Survey impact: Goa government set to test 5,000 people for Covid-19||PANAJI: The state government has said that of the 30,000 people who were identified with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) during the three-day house-to-house community survey, nearly 5,000 will be tested for Covid-19. “The tests will be undertaken in a phased manner as per testing protocol,” health secretary Nila Mohanan told the state executive committee. After the completion of the survey, a committee headed by Dr Jagadish Kakodkar, head of preventive and social medicine at GMC, submitted a report to the state government. Last week, CM Pramod Sawant said that the 30,000 would be screened on the basis of their and their family’s travel history, and suspects would be tested for Covid-19. Goa’s last Covid-19 positive case was detected on April 3. It currently has none. In total, Goa has had seven positive cases, all of whom have recovered as of Tuesday. The survey, conducted by nearly 7,000 government employees, covered almost 5 lakh houses in the state, and was done on a polling booth basis. Residents were asked six questions prepared by the health department. Sawant had said that based on the survey, the government would “be able to declare Goa a safe zone vis-a-vis Covid-19”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/survey-impact-govt-set-to-test-5000-people-for-covid-19/articleshow/75282502.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||With rise in cases, senior babus to assess dists||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed senior officials to tour districts to assess the Covid-19 situation at the ground level and also examine measures implemented to contain the spread of coronavirus. The CM held a high-level review meeting on Covid-19 at Pragathi Bhavan here on Tuesday. The situation in Hyderabad and other areas was also reviewed.  It was decided at the meeting that senior officials should tour the districts and monitor the situation personally. Following a directive from the CM, chief secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M Mahendar Reddy, medical and health special chief secretary Shanti Kumari will tour Suryapet, Gadwal and Vikarabad districts. The government appointed deputy director of municipal adminsitration department G Venugopal Reddy as officer on special duty of Suryapet. Over 40 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the district. Venugopal, who had worked as a municipal commissioner in Khammam and Karimnagar, has been asked to take over immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-rise-in-cases-senior-babus-to-assess-dists/articleshow/75281705.cms||Nikhil J Nair
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||2 more +ve cases; 19th locality sealed||Lucknow: The Kareta Jheel locality in Motinagar with a population of about 1,500 under Bazaarkhala police station was sealed on Tuesday. A 45-year-old resident of the area has tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. This is the 19th locality in the city to have been declared a hotspot. Apart from the Motinagar trader, a mentally unsound person was also tested positive on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 181. Health officials said the patient, a wholesale trader, could have been infected by a grocery retailer from Sadar, who had tested positive earlier. Eight contacts of the retailer have already been diagnosed with Covid-19. “We collected samples of the wholesaler while tracing contacts the retailer had met before being tested positive. Now, swab samples of 10 close contacts of the wholesaler have also been sent for testing,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal. ACP Bazaarkhala Anil Yadav said, “A complete lockdown, including that of essential commodity shops, has been ordered in the locality. The administration will arrange for essentials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-more-ve-cases-19th-locality-sealed/articleshow/75282495.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Lady police cooks and serves hungry, jobless labourers in Vasco||PANAJI: Police personnel are seen doing a lot of things — catching offenders, punishing them, patrolling the streets and ensuring all of us stay safe. Now, at least one among them is cooking food on her own, serving the needy and also providing them with face masks. During these tough times, several heroes have emerged. One among them is lady assistant sub inspector (LASI), Varsha Kelkar. Kelkar, 53, from Chicalim, has turned out to be a good samaritan for 70 labourers stranded near the Vasco railway station without either work or food. She does her household chores, then attends to official duties at the Dabolim airport police station, and once work is over, takes care of the needy. It all started on March 25. After duty, she was riding to the market to purchase medicines for her husband when she saw the labourers. Her first instinct as a policewoman was to inquire. “When they saw me in uniform, they were scared. I inquired with a person from Uttar Pradesh and he told me that they have money, but no food to eat. That upset me, and I decided to serve food free of cost to the needy,” Kelkar told TOI on Tuesday. Kelkar didn’t count on anyone. Coming from humble beginnings, she put her salary to good use. After delivering the necessary medicines home, she rushed back to the market to buy grocery items. The lockdown meant all shops in the market were closed, but she was somehow able to purchase whatever she needed. “After preparing dal and rice for about 50 people, I took a jar of pickle and left my house on a two-wheeler to serve the needy around the Vasco railway station. While serving food, I realised that people were really hungry and the food I had brought was not enough,” said Kelkar, who started catering to 70 people from the next day. She did this for more than a week until the labourers were shifted to a relief camp. Kelkar has now started distributing food in some of the relief camps as well. “I thought our Goan brothers and sisters must be stuck in other states. If I help people those who are stranded here, someone will do the same for Goans in other states,” Kelkar said. Kelkar joined Goa police in 1985 as lady constable and was mostly deployed at the Dabolim international airport. She is now attached to the Dabolim airport police station, her duty includes patrolling, checking if someone is spitting or smoking in public and booking motor vehicle cases. Not just food, Kelkar has been distributing masks too, for free. The mask idea struck her after being told that face masks are expensive and not everyone can afford. She went to the tailor and asked him to stitch 200 face masks. “I have distributed face masks at the police station, traffic cell, Dabolim airport and to labourers,” she said. Kelkar’s display of compassion has not gone unnoticed. Many more have now volunteered, while her husband, daughter, sisters and brother have also been lending a helping hand. Who says the police don’t have a heart?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lady-police-cooks-and-serves-hungry-jobless-labourers-in-vasco/articleshow/75282925.cms||Murari Shetye
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||In lockdown, fresh air stepping out into Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The lockdown has made Gujarat’s roads seem lifeless, but the state is showing unmistakable signs of improved breathing as pollution levels plummet. The presence of ozone (O3) over Gujarat has increased by about 7% and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels have been reduced by 80% over cities like Ahmedabad! Rudradutt Thaker and Dhyey Solanki, two final-year environmental engineering students of LD College of Engineering, compared data from April 2019 with this month’s figures. They wanted to assess the impact of the lockdown. The two are also research interns at Ahmedabad University’s Global Centre for Environment and Energy. “There’s a lot of interest in understanding the impact of lockdown-like measures on climate change, atmosphere, and air pollution,” said Thaker. “This is a rare opportunity because hitherto the figures were based on hypothetical situations.” The duo got atmospheric data of April 2019 and 2020 from Sentinel 5P TROPOPMI (TROPOspeheric Measuring Instrument) Satellite of Copernicus Program, ESA. The data was then processed with GIS software to get Gujarat-specific results. “The results are telling. In Ahmedabad, the NO2 concentration in April 2019 was 152 micro-molecules per square metre in the troposphere,” said Dhyey Solanki, a final-year environmental engineering student. “This month, it has come down to 30 — a reduction of 80%. We chose NO2 because along with sulphur dioxide (SO2) and particulate matter (PM) 10 and 2.5, it’s a major air pollutant.” Solanki said that the ratio of SO2 and ozone O3 is inversely related. “Activities such as vehicular and industrial emissions are the major source of NO2,” Solanki said. “When they were stopped, even for a short time, there was a major drop in the levels of NO2.” The ozone stock has been replenished over the region as well. There was a rise of about 6.25% over Ahmedabad with 308.6 Dobson units compared to 289.4 last year. “A Dobson unit shows a layer of 0.01 mm ozone at standard temperature and pressure,” said Thaker. “There’s no dramatic rise as ozone generation is a long and slow process.” Thaker said that about 7% of ozone is regenerated across Gujarat region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-lockdown-fresh-air-stepping-out-into-gujarat/articleshow/75281724.cms||Parth Shastri
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||LMC yet to sanitise 30% wards in city||Lucknow: Lucknow Municipal Corporation is yet to complete sanitisation of the entire city. The task was supposed to be completed in nine days. The drive to spray disinfectants in every corner of the city was launched on April 1 and was to be completed by April 9. Thereafter, every ward had to be sanitised every nine days. However, records show that till April 20, LMC could completed sanitisation of 77 wards, of which 54 had been sanitised twice and 23 once. At least 33 wards are yet to be covered even once. LMC environment engineer Pankaj Bhusan said, “We have covered 70% of the wards. The drive is being conducted daily. Areas which have not been visited so far by the civic will be sanitised soon.” He said work had slowed down a bit because LMC had to deploy work force for repeated sanitisation of the increasing number of hotspots in the city. Some wards where LMC has conducted its drives include Lalbagh, Gomtinagar, Aliganj, Vikasnagar, Mahanagar, Jankipuram, Aminabad, Sadar and Chowk, among others. Wards like Rajajipuram, Thakurganj, Rakabganj, Yahiyaganj, Campbell Road, Daliganj, Nishatganj and Golaganj have not been sanitised even once so far. Rajat Varshney of Rakabganj said, “Drains in our locality are choked for a week and the stench is unbearable. We lodged a complaint on LMC complaint number to clear the drains and sanitise the area a few days back. However, no civic worker has visited as yet.” In Thakurganj, Kaustub Sinha said, “All our family members are taking precautions to protect themselves from coronavirus. However, the condition of our locality is so unhygienic that we avoid stepping out even to purchase essential products.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-yet-to-sanitise-30-wards-in-city/articleshow/75282507.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||Coronavirus fear stalks gas victims in Bhopal||BHOPAL: At a time when corona fear is palpable even among the healthiest, the mental state of gas victims — who have been in and out of hospitals ever since 1984 —could be understood, particularly after the death of seven gas victims in Bhopal, none of whom could be properly treated for Covid-19. Praveen Kumar Malviya, 65, a lawyer, still recalls the horror of that night in 1984 and as he talks of the ill-treatment meted out to gas victims, tears well up in his eyes. “I have respiratory trouble ever since my exposure to methyl isocyanide that night. I am better now but a weak man all the same. Whatever I have heard about coronavirus and its impact on lungs and respiratory system, I am obviously a bit scared but nobody has bothered either from Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) or anywhere else to talk to me or guide me on what precautions I should take. Ashoka Garden, where I live, is a gas-affected area, but there has been no sanitation, no screening, no survey. They had taken away BMHRC also, but for the intervention of media and court”, he said. Suresh Sahu, 60, a merchant, underwent treatment at BMHRC after he suffered a heart stroke in March this year. His son, Abhishek, says “Coronavirus was already there when we came back from the hospital. But, let alone counselling my father or any of the family members, even diet chart was not given by the hospital. We know that history of heart ailment, diabetes and blood pressure adds to one’s vulnerability to coronavirus infection, but we are doing what we read in the media or hear on TV. We are keeping him away from other people, giving proper food and asking him to rest.” Santosh, 42, had his kidney transplanted at a private hospital in 2019. But now he regularly goes to BMHRC for medicines. He said “I have been using masks for more than a year, after the transplant. Obviously, I am more vulnerable to any kind of infection. Death of seven gas victims due to coronavirus has only added to my anxiety but nobody else seems to care. I had to run from pillar to post to get medicines when BMHRC was taken over by the state government”, he said. Activists’ groups have been pleading for extra care for gas victims during the ongoing covid-19 pandemic; they are now demanding that the BMHRC and National Institute for Research on Environment Health (NIREH), both of which have data of gas victims and their ailments, should reach out to them and counsel them on how to avoid contacting covid-19. However, neither the BMHRC nor the NIREH is doing it though director, NIREH, Dr RR Tiwari, said “There were counselling sessions for the gas victims till the lockdown was imposed; they would resume once the lockdown is lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-fear-haunts-the-gas-victims-of-bhopal/articleshow/75280637.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||12 new +ve cases, all from Satranjipura, Mominpura||NAGPUR: Twelve more persons from the city — six each from Mominpura and Satranjipura — tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday taking the district’s total to 93. Total number of cases from Mominpura increased to 17 and from Satranjipura to 54 or 76.34% of district’s total cases. One of the six from Satranjipura is reportedly three-month pregnant. In a late development, zonal medical officer from Mahal-Gandhibagh Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, that a 5-year-old boy tested positive on Tuesday night. “His father and mother, residents of Satranjipura, tested positive couple of days ago. The couple had kept their two children — 5-year-old and 2-years-old — at the woman’s maternal home at Bhaldarpura. Eight persons including two children, woman’s father, mother, two brothers and two sister-in-laws were quarantined after that,” he said. One case from Mominpura is not connected with the earlier chain. He was negative in first sample and has tested positive in second. It is third such case from the district, earlier two being from Gittikhadan and Kanhan. Secretary of Tablighi Jamaat Nagpur Markaz Abdul Bari Patel told TOI, “The 66-year-old was a Tablighi from Madhya Pradesh. He arrived in the city on a religious tour on March 8. We asked him to get tested and quarantine. He was admitted at the GMCH on April 8. His reports were negative on April 9 so he was quarantined at MLA Hostel. Reports of his second sample came positive on Tuesday.” The total number of Tablighis who tested positive in the city has increased to 10. Now, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will quarantine people in contact with this case. From Mominpura, the past chain started with the cap seller followed by seven Jabalpur-based Jamaatis. On April 18, a 42-year-old person who was taking care of food and other requirements of seven Jabalpur-based TJs had tested positive. On Tuesday, five of his family members tested positive. His father (70) is now district’s oldest positive person. Earlier, 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, city’s first and only death from Covid-19, was oldest. The assistant’s son (2) is youngest positive case in the district. His mother (65), wife (31) and daughter (3) are also positive. They were under institutional quarantine at Vanamati and have been shifted to hospital. On April 19, a 35-year-old person who was also in service of seven Jabalpur-based TJs had tested positive. Reports of his family members are awaited. Remaining five new positive cases — age 60 (institutional quarantine at Lonara), 21 and 17 (at Vanamati), 25 and 20 at Symboisis University are from Satranjipura. 21-year-old woman is reportedly pregnant and shifted to IGGMCH. The number of positive women with pregnancy increased to two with earlier one tested positive on April 18. Both are from Satranjipura. Of these, 23 are family members of 68-year-old deceased who passed away on April 5. Reports of first and second samples of many persons from Satranjipura are awaited. NMC’s containment drive at Satranjipura has completed 16 days and will continue along with four linked containment zones — Dalalpura, Bairagipura, Shanti Nagar and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-new-ve-cases-all-from-satranjipura-mominpura/articleshow/75282520.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 22, 2020||Aurangabad||‘60% new diseases passed from animals’||Aurangabad: As the world observes Earth Day on Wednesday amid the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, experts have called for moral introspection among the humans in the era of globalisation. “As per the international study, out of 335 new diseases identified between 1940 and 2004, 60% were zoonotic, which passed to humans from animals. This includes SARS, Ebola, HIV, and now Covid-19. As per the experts concerned, almost half of these new diseases occurred due to changes in land use, agricultural and other food production practices, or through wildlife hunting,” said Col (retired) Shashikant Dalvi, national coordinator ( water conservation) for Climate Reality Project-India. He said apart from the ecological destruction due emergence of new infectious diseases, the changes in the extreme climatic events have also been man-made. “Climate Change is mainly due to human beings continuous exploration of all natural resources, along with the rampant use of fossil fuels to meet energy needs. The burning of fossil fuels is generating harmful Green House Gasses, especially CO2, which is raising global warming levels,” he said ahead of the 50th anniversary of the International Earth Day . The Climate Reality Project-India, which was established by Nobel laureate and former US vice president Al Gore said that people at large must use the positive feedback for making the entire world to fight rising global warming together. Economist H M Desarda said the current pandemic should be treated as an eye-opener by the global community. “The outbreak of novel coronavirus has roots in ecological issues for which we humans are responsible. The pandemic has given us all an opportunity to reflect back upon our journey of human race in the past 50 years and undertake corrective measures at the earliest,” he said. Desarda added that sustainable development in sync with nature could prove only beneficial for humans and any progress on a deviated path would lead to global crises such as Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/60-new-diseases-passed-from-animals/articleshow/75280631.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC deploys 8 mobile clinic vans for slums||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started mobile clinic vans to provide health services to the slum dwellers across the city during the lockdown. The decision was take by civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti after he was informed by the slum dwellers about lack of medical facility as private clinics have been shut down owing to the lockdown. Accordingly, the civic chief has directed the health department officials to deploy such vans in the slums. Most of the private doctors have shut their clinics due to the coronavirus outbreak. Some of them did open their clinics after personal protection equipment (PPE) kits were provided to them. However, the clinics in slum areas continue to remain shut. "There are other diseases that also need urgent medical treatment. We do not want any other outbreak in the city. Hence, we continue to request the private medical practitioners to open their clinics and start treating patients," Kalshetti said. "Every mobile clinic will have a doctor and four other staff. An official has appointed for all the 44 slums in the city to ensure all essential services are being provided to the residents. The members of local ward committees can contact these officials for deploying the van in their area in order to check the patients and give medicines," he added. As many as eight mobile van clinics will be deployed for the slums that will also have thermal scanners and blood testing kits. Slums in cities like Mumbai have become hotspots for Covid-19. Thus, keeping this in mind, the civic body is focussing on the wellbeing of the slum dwellers. A door-to-door survey is already being carried out by the civic staff to check for people with symptoms of coronavirus. "We have found that many slums have large number of migrant workers. We are isolating those who have travel history to the Covid-affected cities and keeping them in quarantine centres. The team of doctors with this mobile clinic van can help check people for the Covid-19 symptoms as well. It is difficult to stop the spread of coronavirus in the slums due to congestion and large population density. We will increase the number of clinic vans if required," Kalshetti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-deploys-8-mobile-clinic-vans-for-slums/articleshow/75282504.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Gando baval reins in mad rush to Amreli||RAJKOT: Gando baval (prosposis juliflora), which literally means an army of mad trees, has always been a cause of concern for its unbridled spread. But police in Gujarat's countryside have no complaints about this invasive weed. They thorny plants have come as a handy weapon for Amreli cops to stop the influx of non-natives during this crucial lockdown. Cops have spread massive nets of gando baval in at least 1,000 internal roads from where people were entering the district by dodging the checkposts. In fact, earth movers were used to dig deep pits and put gando baval trees in them. Those trying to use the roads, especially taking advantage of darkness, can surely get pricked all over their body if they run into these trees. At many places, bamboo logs were used for fencing the interior roads and then pits were stuffed with the thorny bushes. As a result, people are left with no choice but to use the main roads and get medically screened at the checkposts. Talking to TOI, Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai said, “We have blocked nearly 1,000 roads using these thorny trees. We can’t have cops manning every interior road, so we hit up on this innovative way of using the abundantly available gando bawal to stop them.” “We also got a lot of cooperation of the villagers and district administration to block the roads,” said Rai. The prickly blockages have been in place for the past eight days. Nikunj Pandit, a school principal living in Sanjanvaav village near Rajula, said, “Barely a km from our village is Bhavnagar’s Kankot village. We had seen people using an interior road to come to Amreli. But it has been a week now that the road has been sealed with gando baval. This work is truly appreciable to ensure that our district remains safe.” According to the rough estimates, nearly 80,000 natives of Amreli district have entered from the Surat since March 23. Knowing the geography well, a large number of them used the interior roads to reach their villages, making it impossible for the authorities to trace them. There were incidents of people coming from Surat parking their cars in some villages on seeing the barricades and then going to their natives on foot. However, locals informed the police about such entrants who were then taken for medical test. Amreli shares borders with Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and Gir-Somnath. Barring Junagadh, other three districts, especially Rajkot and Bhavnagar, have witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths too. However, there has not been single case in Amreli so far. On Tuesday, the police examined 15 vehicles at various checkposts and out of total 87 people, eight were found coming outside the districts In all, 2,963 people who had entered by crossing the district boarders are under home quarantine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gando-baval-reins-in-mad-rush-to-amreli/articleshow/75279268.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Rapid test finds dy speaker’s personal security officer +ve||COIMBATORE: Deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman’s personal security officer tested positive for Covid-19 in the rapid antibody test on Tuesday, according to health department sources. This might put the deputy speaker and his family at the risk of being infected. The police sub-inspector (SI) was screened after he developed symptoms of Covid-19. Now, his nasal swab has been taken for the PCR test. A health official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “He tested positive only in the rapid antibody test, which is not confirmatory. We have collected his nasal swabs for the PCR test. If he tests positive for the novel coronavirus, we will trace his contacts.” The source suggested that the SI could be a victim of community transmission. “He is not from any existing containment zones. He neither had any contact with the earlier (positive) cases nor visited the government hospital. We will have to dig deeper to find his source.” The public health department is also worried about the fact that the Annur police sub-inspector, who tested positive on Monday, had moved around heavily in the past fortnight. Officials have now begun tracing the sub-inspector’s movements to zero in on her source of infection and trace her contacts. While her house is within an existing containment zone, they have drawn a fresh limit of 5km radius around her place to create a new containment area. The official said she was screened during their drive to cover old containment areas. “She was one among the 281, some of who had mild symptoms, within Annur. And she was the only case that tested positive among the lot,” said Dr Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health. The health department has asked all the police officers, who were in contact with the SI, to remain in home quarantine and report if they developed any symptoms. “She has visited Annur police station, police quarters, Vadakalur, Velayuthapalayam, Periyapudhur, Moonakattiyur and Kanjapaly, where she did vehicle check. We have so far identified 46 close contacts, including her three family members, who will be tested on Wednesday,” the official said. Meanwhile, 29 Covid-19 patients were discharged from the ESI Hospital on Tuesday. They were sent off in ambulances by district collector K Rajamani and ESI Hospital dean Dr Nirmala. All of them have been advised to remain in home quarantine for 14 days and report immediately if they developed any flu symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rapid-test-finds-dy-speakers-personal-security-officer-ve/articleshow/75281716.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents prepare 600 lakh natural disinfectant||COIMBATORE: Residents in some rural areas are taking up the responsibility of spraying disinfectants in their localities as a precautionary measure to keep Covid-19 at bay. In one such move, residents and members of residents’ welfare association of Rayon Nagar in Sirumugai near the city prepared a natural disinfectant using ingredients such as turmeric, salt, alum, cow dung and cow urine. According to a resident, they prepared around 600 liltres of disinfectant. With the help of village panchayat representatives, the solution was taken to houses in two autorickshaws and distributed to people, who sprayed the same around their houses on Sunday and Monday. Over the past few weeks, local communities across the state have been preparing natural disinfectants using easily available materials and spraying them in their localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-prepare-600l-natural-disinfectant/articleshow/75281763.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hubballi||Toll increases to 4 in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi : The Covid-19 toll increased to four in Kalaburagi after an 80-year-old man died on Tuesday. He was suffering from Parkinson’s disease for the past three years. He was admitted to the hospital due to fever and his throat swab report confirmed infection from coronavirus. The deceased had no travel history nor had he come in contact with those who attended the Jamaat meet in Delhi. The district administration is collecting information about his contacts. Nation Chowk on Dargah Road where his house is located has been completely locked and announced as containment zone. Since March 10, a total 30 positive cases including four deaths have been reported from Kalaburagi. Three patients have recovered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/toll-increases-to-4-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75279272.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur: Samples sent sans ice packs unfit, returned||KANPUR: Around 250 swab samples sent from Kanpur to Jhansi Medical College for novel coronavirus infection test were returned without testing since the necessary protocol was not followed and the cold chain was broken, rendering them unfit. The incident is a setback to health department and raises questions over its functioning. As the number of Covid-19 cases has been growing by the day, police identified around 2,000 persons who had been in contact with confirmed patients as they tracked their travel history. The health authorities had collected samples of around 500 of them and sent them to Jhansi since the lab in Kanpur has limited capacity. DIG/SSP Kanpur Anant Deo told TOI on Tuesday, “The samples sent to Jhansi were sent back without being examined. I have informed divisional commissioner S M Bobde about the development.” As per norms, the samples should have been kept in ice pack, but they were packed at normal temperature. Dr Sadhna Kaushik of Jhansi Medical College said since the samples were sent without ice packs, correct results could not have been obtained. “Our microbiology department has informed college authorities as well as CMO about it,” said Dr. Kaushik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/samples-sent-sans-ice-packs-unfit-returned/articleshow/75282531.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Five more IAS officers get Covid charge||GANDHINAGAR: After appointing eight senior IAS officers for various Covid-19 outbreak control work on Monday, the state government on Tuesday appointed five more IAS officers with responsibility to provide guidance and supervision to the district administration in the fight against spread of the pandemic. The CM has appointed five IAS officers with immediate effect for the districts of Bhavnagar, Patan, Anand, Bharuch, and Panchmahal. The appointed officers are Sonal Mishra, secretary (Narmada) for Bhavnagar, Mamta Verma (tourism secretary) for Patan, A M Solanki (GMDC MD) for Anand, Shahmeena Husain (MD, Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited) for Bharuch, and Rajesh Manjhu (transport commissioner) for Panchmahal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-more-ias-officers-get-covid-charge/articleshow/75281760.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||IMA’s ‘black day’ over doc burial row||Hyderabad: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) along with other doctors’ bodies has called to observe a black day on Thursday after a doctor who died of Covid-19 in Chennai was denied burial by locals and the ambulance carrying his body was attacked. The doctors have demanded for a strict central law to be put in place for preventing incidents like these in future. All doctors and medical staff will work wearing a black badge on Thursday. While the IMA’s call for observing white alert on Wednesday (by lighting candles) and black day on Thursday has found support from nursing associations across the country, the Association of Surgeons of India has stressed on the need for a law. Reacting to the Chennai incident, the president of Association of Surgeons of India, P Raghuram, has said that the attacks on doctors and insensitivity towards their work has surged due to the lack of a legal system that protects them. “There must be immediate, harsh, firm and visible actions, which will send a strong message that the present government will not tolerate such incidents. There is an urgent need for a central law on violence against healthcare professionals by promulgating an ordinance,” said Dr Rajaram. “The frontline workers who have risked their lives, and in turn lost their lives treating patients, have been subjected to inhuman behaviour with violent verbal and physical attacks. Covid-19 has only made us acutely aware of our helplessness against mindless abuse and violence,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, state secretary of Indian Medical Association “ We demand a special central law against violence on doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and hospitals by an ordinance and implementation on top priority,” added Yadav||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imas-black-day-over-doc-burial-row/articleshow/75281756.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Amid coronavirus, Ramzan traditions adapt to lockdown, piety intact||BHOPAL: This year’s Ramzan is expected to begin from April 23 — depending on the sighting of new moon. This holy month usually sees huge gathering of devotees who come together to pray and share a meal as a community. With India living in the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic, the Ramzan rituals and traditions are set to change amid lockdown — but the quintessential spirit of charity, compassion and zakat will rule unhindered despite the restrictions on movement. “It is necessary that people observe lockdown restrictions and provide charity to the poor in keeping with the spirit of Ramzan. It is our duty to ensure that our neighbours do not sleep hungry, and wherever possible to help those who need assistance in keeping with lockdown rules,” said Bhopal Qazi, Syed Mushtaq Ali Nadvi. “Charity and zakat, which is one of the five pillars of Islam, is encouraged during Ramzan,’ he added. Bhopalbased, Masajid committee, constituted by government of MP, has also issued directives for the faithful to offer prayers. The committee has underlined that congregational prayers during the holy month should be offered at home and people should maintain social distancing. Auqaf-e-Shahi to distribute food and ration to those in need: Taking into account the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and its social and economic impact, custodian of Auqaf-e-Shahi, Saba Sultaan, in a press release announced the plans to distribute food and ration to those in need in Bhopal, Raisen and Sehore. Saba currently heads the Auqaf-e-Shahi, a royal endowment trust formed during the rule of Bhopal State. Daughter of late Nawab Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi, Saba, expressed concern over the prevailing condition of the poor. She has also requested people of Bhopal to adhere to lockdown rules and be safe at home during the pandemic. She also requested everyone to remain in their homes during Ramzan and offer prayers, including Namaz and Tarabih, at home only. “Please don’t go out and follow lockdown that is for your own safety and security. Also, please follow the community elders’ appeals who have asked you to offer prayers at home during Ramzan,” she said. ‘Ensure proper supply of food and water’: President of All India Muslim Tehwar committee, Ausaf Khurram Shameeri, said, “There are issues of food distribution, water and power needs to be sorted by the government. Everyone can’t order supplies online and there has to be some regulation and monitoring of pricing. It makes a lot of directives irrelevant for the poor and those in need.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/spirit-of-charity-and-zakat-to-rule-the-ramadan-month-despite-lockdown/articleshow/75280660.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Rapid test of collectorate staff put off||COIMBATORE: The district received its second batch of 1,200 rapid test kits on Tuesday even as doubts are being raised about its efficacy in states such as Rajasthan. Pointing out that the district had received 2,000 rapid test kits in the first phase, collector K Rajamani said they had already used half of them. “Eight people were tested positive in those tests.” Addressing the media, he said the district administration has been taking various steps to contain the spread of Covid-19. While 134 positive cases have been reported till Tuesday, 83 have been recovered and discharged from the ESI hospital, he said. “A total of 51 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.” He said there were 10 containment areas in the city limits and another eight in rural areas. “I am requesting the general public not to come to the streets without any purpose. People have to cooperate with the district administration. Only then we can control the spread of Covid-19 cent percent in the district,” Rajamani said. While the health department was planning to conduct rapid test for the collectorate staff on Wednesday, the Indian Council for Medical Research has instructed the health department not to use the rapid test kits for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rapid-test-of-collectorate-staff-put-off/articleshow/75281747.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||Slight relief for VMC as only four test positive||Vadodara: The Vadodara administration got some relief on Tuesday after only four positive cases were reported in past 24 hours. One of the persons to test positive was a nurse posted at the Bharuch civil hospital. Details provided by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Tuesday evening revealed that four persons tested positive and these included two women and a man from the Nagarwada area that has been declared a red zone and put under containment. The nurse who tested positive was from the city and a resident of the New Sama Road. It is believed that she was infected by the virus during duties at the Bharuch civil hospital. Of the 197 cases reported so far, 168 cases are form the north zone. A large majority of the cases from the north zone are from Nagarwada area that is the worst affected locality in the city. Details reveal that five patients were breathing with the help of oxygen while two were on ventilators. VMC health teams conducted extensive surveys in the red, orange and yellow zones of the city. Only one case of severe respiratory illness was reported during the drive. Data shared by the civic body reveals that 373 persons were under home quarantine in the city presently. These included persons who had been in contact with those infected by the novel coronavirus. In the 265 samples that were tested between Monday night and Tuesday morning, no positive cases were found. Four positive cases came to light later in the afternoon on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/slight-relief-for-vmc-as-only-four-test-positive/articleshow/75280244.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||HC hears 636 cases in two days through virtual mode||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court has been displaying its resolve to return to its normal pace with regard to hearing cases while adhering to the lockdown norms. Ever since the lockdown was announced, the high court has been hearing only urgent matters through virtual or video conferencing mode. But from April 20 onwards, all the courts have commenced their functioning in a near-normal manner. They started listing and hearing all the cases that were filed from January 1, this year. In the last two days, they have heard 636 cases through virtual mode. This is in sharp contrast to the fewer number of cases that they heard in the last four weeks, where they took up only urgent matters. The high court, it can be recalled, has already decided to forego the summer vacation this year and will function in the month of May, in order to make up for lost time owing to the coronavirus outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-hears-636-cases-in-two-days-through-virtual-mode/articleshow/75281776.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Panic buying at Laxmipuri market, no rules followed||Kolhapur: The rush at the Laxmipuri market has concerned the civic authorities as the residents buying daily essentials are not following any social distancing rules. The number of people going to the market has also increased with people brushing shoulders to get the fresh stock. The authorities claimed that the panic buying by the people is one of the main reasons for the rush along with the limited period for which the shops are opened. A senior KMC official requesting anonymity said, "The food grain shops are opened for just few hours in the morning which makes people rush to the market to buy the essentials. We have requested the traders to keep their shops open. However many say that the stock of grains and masalas with them ends in the first couple of hours of the day and therefore they shut their shops for the rest of the day." Even on normal days, there is rush in the market. After the start of the lockdown a month ago, this is for the first time the rush is being observed in the market. A buyer said that he has no grains left in his house and therefore he has come to buy the grains which will last for at least the next 15 days. Since the lockdown, the vegetable markets from other districts and states too were closed. “Now they have started opening. It will ensure adequate availability of grains and pulses. The traders here are rationalizing the sale of grains and pulses meaning one customer is given not more than one bag of the grains,” said the official. The traders claimed that this is being done to ensure all coming to the market gets at least some quantity of the grains and pulses. However, one trader said that it has resulted in frequent visits by the customers to the market. Sadanand Korgaonkar, trader from the Laxmipuri market said, "Now the APMCs from Latur and Udgir along with some from Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat known for the production of food grains have opened. The farmers will bring their products to these markets and then supplied to the cities. Not just the locals, the small traders from rural parts of our district arrives here to buy food grains and pulses. The rush will continue to observe till the supply is not stabilized,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panic-buying-at-laxmipuri-market-no-rules-followed/articleshow/75282528.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Youth sneaks out to Tamil Nadu, tests positive on return||KOLLAM: With one more person testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the total number of people infected with coronavirus in the district has risen to 10. The 31-year-old youth who tested positive for the disease on Tuesday is a native of Kumaramkarikkam in Kulathupuzha panchayath. He had visited Puliyamkodi, a town in Thenkashi in Tamil Nadu recently to attend a funeral violating lockdown rules. Sources said he went via Aryankavu on April 3 and returned on April 6 after attending his uncle’s funeral. Instead of taking any precautions or going into quarantine, he kept the details of his journey a secret and continued interacting with people in his locality. The local authorities came to know about the incident after officials from the Tamil Nadu police and health department contacted them and informed them that several people among those who attended the funeral had tested positive for the disease. Subsequently, Kulathupuzha police, local body authorities and health workers reached the youth’s home and confirmed that he had visited Puliyamkudi. Along with him, one of his relatives who was staying with him, was also immediately shifted to the Paripally Medical College Hospital. The test results of the youth’s serum samples came on Tuesday. While preparing the route map of his journey, authorities have found that he travelled to Tamil Nadu hitching rides on vehicles carrying vegetables and by foot. It has also been found that his relative has also been roaming around and visiting shops at Kulathupuzha. Now, the entire Kulathupuzha area has been sealed and strict surveillance has been put in place. Revenue authorities have issued prohibitory orders in Thenmala, Aryankavu, Kulathupuzha panchayaths bordering Tamil Nadu from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/youth-sneaks-out-to-tn-tests-ve-on-return/articleshow/75279343.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||343 cops in rural areas test -ve, 42 more to be tested||COIMBATORE: A day after a woman cop attached to Annur police station tested positive for Covid-19, 343 cops, who have been deployed in containment areas in rural parts of the district, tested negative for the virus infection on Tuesday. A police source said immediately after the woman cop tested positive for the virus on Monday, the health department had embarked on the drive to collect throat swabs from the cops at Annur, Mettupalayam, Thudiyalur, Pollahi and Anaimalai. “They collected 343 samples and all of them have tested negative. The health department officials will subject the remaining 42 cops attached to Madukkarai and Kinathukadavu police stations to the test on Wednesday,” the source said. Meanwhile, more than 100 cops, who have been deployed in 10 containment areas in the city, were screened on Tuesday using rapid test kits. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said, “The cops were not showing any symptoms of novel coronavirus infection. Hence, the health department has conducted only rapid test on them.” Cops who were deployed on the inter-state border at Walayar were also tested with rapid test kits on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/343-cops-in-rural-areas-test-ve-42-more-to-be-tested/articleshow/75281771.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||GSIA: Seafarers are warriors, not ‘carriers’||MARGAO: The Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI) has urged chief minister Pramod Sawant as well as the director general of shipping to “act fast” and let Goan seafarers onboard the Marella Discovery, currently on Indian shores, to disembark at an Indian port. “Seafarers are warriors, not carriers (of Covid-19),” GSAI president Frank Viegas said. The Marella Discovery has been in Indian waters for the last 40 days, awaiting approval from authorities for the Indian crew to disembark before it sets sail for Europe. It is now scheduled to leave Indian shores at 6pm on Wednesday, as announced by the master of the vessel, GSAI general secretary Michael Benny DaCosta said. “It is a shame for us as a vessel carrying crew of different nationalities has been waiting since the last 40 days only seeking approval for disembarking of the Indian crew,” GSAI founder president Dixon Vaz told reporters. “The crew is already running out of food supplies.” Meanwhile, Capt Venzy Viegas, in charge of seafarers’ cell of AAP, who has extended his support to GSAI, suggested that the Indian crew members onboard the Marella Discovery be transferred to the domestic cruise liner, MV Karnika, before the former sets sail for Europe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsia-seafarers-are-warriors-not-carriers/articleshow/75282529.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco writes to CM over stranded crew||MARGAO: Curtorim Congress MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco on Tuesday wrote to chief minister Pramod Sawant demanding that the state government prevail upon the Centre to bring back the entire Indian crew on board Marella Discovery which is presently on Indian shores. He pointed out that among the crew on the cruise ship, 174 are Indians, including 65 Goans. Stating that he received a phone call from one of the Goan seafarers on board Marella Discovery, Lourenco said, “They are stressed and are in panic as they are not being evacuated for the past 40 days despite the cruise liner being in Indian waters.” He further said that the sailors have been gripped with fear “that they may get affected with coronavirus if Marella Discovery leaves for Europe from Indian waters”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aleixo-writes-to-cm-over-stranded-crew/articleshow/75282539.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM Vijay Rupani interacts with frontline workers, Covid patients||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani spoke with doctors and medical personnel treating Covid-19 patients at the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad through a video conference on Tuesday. He also spoke with medical personnel and cops who are themselves undergoing treatment after having been infected with Covid-19 while doing their duty. Rupani congratulated the frontline warriors for their spirit of service-before-self. He asked them to take care of their own health and immunity. He also inquired if they have adequate protective equipment and gears like PPE kits and N95 masks. He inquired about their well-being and if they were receiving proper medical treatment, diet and other services in the hospital. He wished them quick recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-interacts-with-frontline-workers-covid-patients/articleshow/75281777.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee: Two migrant labourers run away from relief camp||ROORKEE: Two labourers from Uttar Pradesh, who were staying at a relief camp due to the lockdown in Laksar area near Roorkee, ran away on Tuesday, according to sources. Police have registered a case against the duo and started a search operation. According to senior sub inspector (SSI) Abhinav Sharma, the two labourers were lodged in a relief camp at Yuvraj banquet hall in Laksar a few days ago, when they were spotted going on foot towards Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh. They were returning from Punjab, along with other labourers. Total 51 labourers were staying in the banquet hall. When police did a head count on Tuesday, they found two persons missing. Later, CCTV footage showed that the two labourers had managed to jump the wall of the banquet hall and escaped. “We have registered a case against them under sections 188 (disobedience of order of public servant) and 336 (endangering act on the safety of others) of Indian Penal Code and section 51-B of Disaster Management Act, 2005,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-migrant-labourers-run-away-from-relief-camp/articleshow/75280681.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three districts contribute over 50% of Covid-19 cases||VIJAYAWADA: Three districts — Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna — together account for 425, or over 50 per cent of Covid-19 cases in the state. Kurnool district has the highest number of cases at 184, followed by Guntur (158) and Krishna (83). Eleven of the 13 districts in the state are affected by the novel coronavirus and have been declared as hotspots by the Union health ministry. Only two districts have been classified as green zones. Two more Covid-19 related deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday, bringing the toll to 22 while another 35 new cases were registered. The state tally as of Tuesday stands at 757. Eight districts account for 332 or 44 per cent of all cases, with Nellore at 67 cases, Chittoor (53 cases), Kadapa (46), Prakasam (44), West Godavari (39), Anantapur (36), East Godavari (26) and Visakhapatnam with 21 cases. Special chief secretary (health) K S Jawahar Reddy said the two north-coastal districts of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam continue to remain virus-free and have not reported a single case till date. In terms of death toll, Guntur (6), Krishna (6) and Kurnool (5) again account for 17 deaths (77 per cent), while Anantapur reported three Covid-19 deaths and Nellore registered 2 deaths. A majority of the Covid-19 cases in Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna districts have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi. Andhra Pradesh now has a total of 639 active Covid-19 cases, including 375 cases in Guntur, Krishna and Kurnool districts. Visakhapatnam district, which had a total of 21 cases, has three active cases, the lowest in the state. The first coronavirus case in Andhra Pradesh was reported on March 12 after a 24-year-old youth tested positive upon returning to Nellore from Italy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-districts-contribute-over-50-of-covid-cases/articleshow/75280694.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||ICAR farm offers eggs, milk & pork to meet demand||PANAJI: As food suppliers and retailers are struggling to cope with surging demand, the ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute (ICAR-CCARI) has been playing its part to meet the unprecedented shortage of pork in the state. The Old Goa-based institute has sold 1,500 kg of pork to Goans, who had approached it for the meat. “We have sold over Rs 1.5 lakh worth of pork from the pig farm priced at Rs 110 per kg. Most of the clients were from north Goa who had obtained permissions from the district collector for a travel permit and purchased the meat from us,” said director of the ICAR-CCARI, Dr E B Chakurkar. After the avian influenza (bird flu) outbreak in west Kodryathur and Kozhikode in Kerala and Devenagere in Mysore, Karnataka, Goa government ordered a complete ban over chicken import. Even though the state government has allowed the entry and transportation of eggs from areas not affected by the flu, traders are facing a shortage in poultry products like eggs. With their own dairy farm and poultry within the fenced property, the ICAR-CCARI has been able to supply milk and organic eggs. People living in close-by areas contact the institute and purchase the products accordingly. At the ICAR-CCARI, eggs are sold depending upon the availability with an average of 100 eggs going at a time. “The price range between Rs 70 and Rs 100 per dozen,” Chakurkar said. About 100 lts of milk is also sold on a daily basis from the dairy farm at Old Goa. Priced at Rs 40 per litre, the farm makes available both cow as well as buffalo milk, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/icar-farm-offerseggs-milk-pork-to-meet-demand/articleshow/75282540.cms||Nida Sayed
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Farming activities may go up despite adversities||COIMBATORE: The agriculture department is expecting an increase in summer cultivation in the district this year. This is when there is a dearth of labourers as restrictions on movement are in place due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. Agriculture officers says the area under cultivation is expected to go up by at least 25% this season, as farmers are likely to be tempted by an increase in demand for goods and predictions of summer showers next week. They, however, say there might be a delay in cultivation cycle. Last year, around 1,600 hectares of land was cultivated in the district during the summer. Farmers mainly cultivated pulses such as green gram, black gram, cow pea and groundnuts. This year, the agriculture department is expecting the acreage under cultivation to touch 2,000 hectares. Tom P Silus, deputy director incharge of central government schemes, agriculture department, said, “Farmers in many parts of SS Kulam, Sulthanpet, Annur, Periyanaickenpalayam, Sulur, Pollachi and Thondamuthur have already begun preparing their soil by ploughing. If we get rain from April 26, more farmers will plough their soil and start sowing seeds in May.” To incentivize summer cultivation, the agriculture department has kept “mini kits” ready in block offices. The “mini kits” include seeds of a new high-yielding variety of green gram from North India that are suitable for the conditions in the district, biofertilizers and micronutrients. “We will also ensure that shops selling seeds and fertilizers in the district are getting supplies and remaining open for farmers,” Silus said. To handle complaints of farmers who are finding it difficult to get labourers for soil preparation and sowing, the agriculture department has asked assistant directors in block offices to start issuing passes for labourers to work. G Kannadas, a farmer from Kurumbapalayam, said, “This will allow only the labourers who don’t depend on public transport to come to work, which is a small percentage. The move will, however, instill confidence among the labourers to step out of their houses and report for work.” Mohana Sundaram, another farmer, said he has already ploughed his farmland and kept it ready for the rain. He owns 10 acres of agriculture land at Puliyamarathottam in Vellamadai. He had planted banana and sugarcane in around four acres in January. “If it rains, I want to plant sugarcane on two more acres and maize on one acre or so. There is a severe labour shortage, but we manage with mechanized equipment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farming-activities-may-go-up-despite-adversities/articleshow/75281787.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: No change in schedule, Kedarnath shrine to reopen on April 29||DEHRADUN: The date for opening of Kedarnath portals would remain unchanged and as per the schedule announced earlier it would be opened at 6.10am on April 29. A decision in this regard was taken in a meeting presided over by Rawal Bheem Shankar Ling and attended by senior priests in Omkareshwar Temple at Ukhimath. While the date of reopening of Badrinath shrine has been changed to May 15, the portals of Gangotri and Yamunoti dham would open on April 26. Harish Gaur, media in-charge for Badri-Kedar Temple Committee said that earlier it was being speculated that due to novel coronavirus outbreak, the opening date of Kedarnath shrine may be changed. "Taking into account various religious aspects and traditions, Rawal decided that the temple would be opened on the due date," he said. He added that the temple would be opened only for religious rituals, to be performed by the priests. The priests were of the view that the revered shrine should be opened on the auscpicious date, which had been decided on the occasion of Maha Shivatri. As per the earlier decided scheduled, the palanquin of Lord Shiva would leave Omkareshwar temple, Ukhimath – its winter abode – on April 26. After traversing through its traditional route, it would arrive at Kedarnath temple in the morning hours of April 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-change-in-schedule-kedarnath-shrine-to-reopen-on-april-29/articleshow/75280702.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Work on infra projects starts across district||Nagpur: As the lockdown has been lifted partially for industries, work on infrastructure projects has started at sites outside city limits. Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Limited (NMRCL) secured permission from the district administration to carry out work at its sites outside the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) limits. A NMRCL spokesperson said work on the two depots will soon begin. The sites are expected to be operational in a day or two, said the source. NMRCL has kept 3,000 workers in camps since the lockdown. The work will continue by ensuring social distancing and other norms, said the spokesperson. A senior officer in the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said that works on around 24 sites in the Vidarbha-Marathwada region started on Monday itself. The agency hopes to take advantage of stoppage in railway movement due to the lockdown, to take forward work on the Khapri railway over bridge (ROB). The frequent train movement along the tracks on the site hampered the speed earlier. With railways too blocked, the speed can be increased, the source said. Work on the Pardi flyover will also begin, the source added. The workers are already available at the campsites, said the officer. An officer in the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) said work on the Samruddhi Expressway connecting Nagpur and Mumbai had also begun. A workforce of 18000 workers is available at the campsites, as there was no major impact of migrations there, post-lockdown. The workers stayed because all amenities were available at the camps. Since the camps were away from villages, the chances of infection were also less, the source said. The Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) will also be seeking permission from respective district collectorates to start work on the irrigation projects. The VIDC has around 4,500 workers at its campsites and the work can be taken up after orders are issued from both, state and Central governments. District collector Ravindra Thakare said every agency that will be meeting safety conditions will be granted permission. Sources, however said that even if work is allowed, the lack of material due to restrictions could be a bottleneck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-on-infra-projects-starts-across-district/articleshow/75281780.cms||Shishir Arya
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Under pressure, Covid-19 survivors retested for virus||Hyderabad: In a new trend, health authorities in a few districts in the state are carrying out random retests on Covid-19 discharged patients. Though officials tried to pass it off as a precautionary move as some discharged patients tested positive later, it is learnt that the exercise is being taken up following pressure from neighbours of Covid-19 survivors. Recently, a residential welfare society ( RWS) of an apartment complex at Narsingi approached health authorities seeking retesting of a Covid-19 survivor in their building. The resident had recovered from Covid-19 recently. “The society residents are concerned about reports from South Korea and other countries that a few patients, after testing negative, are displaying Covid-19 symptoms again and tested positive too for the coronavirus. They approached us saying patients should be retested even after they are discharged,” a top health official, requesting anonymity, told TOI. After that, oral instructions were given to carry out random retesting on recovered patients. “ All discharged patients cannot be tested as testing is a time-consuming process and thousands of samples of suspect cases are yet to be tested,” sources said. On Wednesday, a Covid-19 survivor self-reported to health authorities in Karimnagar, complaining of a sore throat. The authorities sent him to a government isolation centre. After the patients get discharged, they were being asked to be under home quarantine for 14 days.  A few districts have even completed random testing of survivors, all the tests so far came negative. In another important development, the medical and health department has given instructions not to conduct Covid 19 tests on those who died with symptoms of the infection. Earlier, authorities used to conduct tests on suspected deaths. Now, individuals who display Covid-19-like symptoms before their death would be treated as coronavirus cases. The government has even constituted a committee on disposal of bodies of Covid -19 patients.  The health department is even gearing up to collect samples of suspected patients from their homes. Though this system would begin first in GHMC area, it would be extended to other areas depending on feasibility and success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/under-pressure-covid-19-survivors-retested-for-virus/articleshow/75281786.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||Two Bhopal mandis shut; brace for veggie crunch||BHOPAL: Already experiencing scarcity of groceries, people in Bhopal may face further shortage of vegetables for at least two more days as the administration has decided to shut down two mandis operating at Eintkhedi and Ratibad. The vegetable mandi at Karond was already shut down earlier this month after a wholesaler was detected as corona-positive. Vegetables in Bhopal were being supplied from mandis located at four corners of the city — one each near Bairagarh, Ratibad, Eintkhedi and Sukhi Sewaniya. All of them are located near by-pass roads and the administration wants to block the by-passes of Bhopal to check the spread of the deadly virus. Salim Khan, a licensed vegetable vendor from Bhopal Municipal Corporation, said, “The mandis located at different corners of the city get the supply of vegetables from villages near them.” He said that the only mandi that might open is located near Hoshangabad road. “Maximum quantity of vegetables are reaching this mandi from the villages on Hoshangabad road,” Khan said. On April 20, a spokesperson of the district administration had said, “Ratibad and Eintkhedi mandis have been shut down till further order. This is being done to check further spread of coronavirus among the vegetable vendors, wholesalers and the people in general”. The spokesperson did not mention any information about the status of other mandis. A vegetable trader said that the villagers near Ratibad and Eintkhedi have expressed apprehensions of “coronavirus spread” in the area as a “large number of people assemble when the vegetables are traded in the morning”. Many parts of the city experienced scarcity of vegetables on Tuesday. The situation is likely to remain the same on Wednesday as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-mandis-shut-brace-for-veggie-crunch/articleshow/75280706.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Probe ordered into eight Kota students skipping rapid test||LUCKNOW: Taking cognizance of TOI report on eight students who were brought from Kota and sent home without undergoing rapid anti-body test, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash on Tuesday directed the regional manager, UPSRTC, to get the matter investigated. The DM said further action on the issue would be taken after receiving the probe report. “As per the plan, all students from Kota had to be taken to BBD Institute in Chinhat for testing,” he said. Prakash said after the tests, students were handed over to their parents, who were also asked to give a declaration that they would keep their children in home-quarantine. The DM said he came to know through media report that eight students from Kota were also ferried by UPSRTC bus from Agra but were dropped at Police Lines in Mahanagar. “Regional manager of UPSRTC Pallab Bose has been asked to provide a detailed report on how these eight students were dropped at Police Lines without any intimation and information,” the DM said. Talking to TOI, Bose said, “Assistant regional manager of Charbagh area is probing the episode and will submit a report soon which would then be handed over to the district magistrate.” Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Nilabja Choudhury said: “We have spoken to UPSRTC and will act in next 24 hours after receiving the probe report.” In its April 21 issue, TOI had reported that at least 273 city students out of 281, who were brought from Kota to Lucknow by UPSRTC buses in last two days, were sent home after they tested negative in rapid anti-body test. However, eight of them were dropped at the Police Lines only after thermal scanning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/probe-ordered-into-8-kota-students-skipping-rapid-test/articleshow/75282545.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors to observe ‘black day’ on Thursday for protection law||NAGPUR: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has declared a protest in the form of ‘black day’ on April 23. All doctors will wear black badges at work. This is for their long-standing demand of having a Central law for doctors’ protection, and against the social boycott-like situation doctors are having to face amid Covid-19. “A special Central law on violence against doctors, nurses and health care workers is the need of the hour. It is impossible to provide services in this atmosphere of violence and stigmatization,” reads a statement issued by IMA national president Dr Rajan Sharma. “Covid-19 has made us acutely aware of our helplessness against mindless abuse and violence. Stigma and social boycott are everywhere. Harassment by the administration is nothing but violence by the State. Our patience and restraint are signs of strength,” said Dr Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra state president of IMA. Before observing black day on April 23, doctors will light candles, wearing their white coat in their hospitals on April 22. “At 9pm on Wednesday, we will light candles wearing our white coats, with the hope that our white coat never turns red. Let the doctors and hospitals be safe with the enactment of the Central law by ordinance,” said Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala, president of Nagpur IMA. “Further decisions will be taken if suitable steps are not taken by the government even after black day,” he added. IMA has taken these decisions after residents of Chennai obstructed the cremation procedure of the dead body of doctor who died of Covid-19. The people abused the relatives attending the last rites of the doctor. “IMA has maintained utmost restraint and patience despite extreme provocation. Doctors have been abused, beaten up, denied entry and residence. Obstruction to cremation is the last straw that IMA can bear. If dignity is denied even in death, our patience and restraint lose their value,” reads a statement by state IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/docs-to-observe-black-day-on-thu-for-protection-law/articleshow/75281793.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Violators write apology 500 times||Vijayawada: With people violating lockdown norms even after repeated warnings, city police on Tuesday introduced a new mode of punishment to the violators. The traffic police have begun asking rule breakers to write an apology 500 times. The city has six red zones and police have tightened surveillance after new Covid-19 cases emerged with no confirmed source of contraction. Though police have been requesting people to remain home after the relaxation period, many were seen coming out on the pretext of buying medicines or essential goods. In order to check violations, One Town traffic sub-inspector Satyanarana supplied white paper to lockdown violators and asked them to write ‘I have committed a mistake and I will not do it again. Please excuse me for violating the norms’ 500 times for each person. The decision was taken to avoid criticism of being harsh and to deter people from coming out. Police also intercepted about 70 bikers near Kanaka Durga temple and made them write the apology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/violators-write-apology-500-times/articleshow/75280715.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Aarogya Setu alerts about 3 suspect cases||Lucknow: The Union government’s Aarogya Setu app has started proving beneficial to people as for the first time in the city, swab samples of three suspected Covid-19 cases were collected and sent for testing on Tuesday, following leads from the app. The three persons had downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and filled the questionnaire for self-assessment which tells users the risk level of catching infection. Since their risk level was high, the app provided them options to contact helpline for testing or pass the information to the health ministry. They chose the latter. The health ministry then informed UP government. “After getting names, address and phone numbers of three persons from the government, we sent our staff to collect their samples,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-setu-alerts-about-3-suspect-cases/articleshow/75282555.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana raises another Rs 2,000 crore through bonds||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government’s efforts to raise funds through bonds met with success for the second time in April on Tuesday, as it managed to raise Rs 2,000 crore. The state government has so far raised Rs 4,000 crore through bonds this month alone. The state government auctioned securities to raise Rs 1,000 crore for a six-year period, while another Rs 1,000 crore was raised for an eight-year period. Both competitive and non-competitive bids for the auction were successful and each bond was issued for Rs 10,000. As many as 85 bidders bid for the bonds that are to be repaid by the state government in six years, while 153 bidders bid for the bonds that are to be repaid in eight years. The state government has been allowed to raise Rs 15,051 crore this year between April and December as per 3% GSDP ratio. The state had borrowed Rs 24, 600 crore in the 2017-18 financial year, and Rs 26, 740 crore in 2018-19. However, it borrowed only Rs 4,000 crore in 2019-20, which is equivalent to the money raised this month, indicating that the state government is under pressure to borrow money. The money raised in bonds is expected to provide much relief to the government in the present crisis fuelled by the lockdown. The interest rate of the bonds is around 6.5%. Though the current securities market is weak, the bonds issued by the state government received a good response owing to the high ratings. State governments auction State Development Loans ( SDL) in regular process. Given the market’s preference for maturities of 10 years and below, states also prefer to issue SDLs of preferred maturities. The state issued bonds on April 12 with an eight-year repayment schedule. The state in a month gets an income of about Rs 14,000 crore, including through tax devolution from the Centre, other transfers and around Rs 10,000 crore through taxes. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier stated that the state received an income of only Rs 4 crore in the first 10 days of April. The state has been urging the Centre to increase the percentage of the allowed limit of the states to borrow from 3.5% to 6% under the Fiscal Responsibility Budget Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-raises-another-rs-2000-crore-through-bonds/articleshow/75281797.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Restoration of khazans mooted for economic revival||PANAJI: Villagers of Shiroda and Panchwadi have written to the prime minister and the state government to relook at the agricultural and fisheries sectors to promote sustainable living in the post-pandemic era. “After the pandemic ends, the economic revival must focus on restoring these economic wonders by facilitating and supporting our communities to repair the bandhs and restore the khazan lands to their economic glory of the past.” they stated. They said that the khazan lands of Goa, including those in Shiroda, can be used to restart the community farming systems. According to them, the paddy fields in khazans are the most productive and do not need any fertilizers. The letter stated that the restoration of the khazans will recreate the fish breeding and feeding areas in rivers and internal water bodies, bringing back the abundance of the fish, thus offering a huge boost to the local economy. “The conservation and restoration of the khazan lands of our village and the rest of Goa is the right economic policy that must be adopted for economic revival in the future,” they wrote. In their appeal, they also highlighted the need for a labour intensive, cost effective ‘green’ employment. “Financial support to labour-intensive agriculture, forestry, fisheries and infrastructure construction will create huge number of jobs while restoring the environment and bringing economic equality in the society,” they stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restoration-of-khazans-mooted-for-economic-revival/articleshow/75282554.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Doon residents switch to waste composting at home during lockdown||Dehradun: In a bid to reduce their household waste generation and keep themselves engaged during thelockdown, many residents are taking to environment friendly practice of garbage composting at their homes. Several are also putting out their videos on social media to motivate others to try waste composting at home. Some residents have even joined campaigns run by social organisations which are sharing tutorials with people explaining simple tips for waste composting. Ashish Garg, a resident of Kewal Vihar, is one such enthusiast. “By reducing the waste that we send out from our households every day, we do our bit to save the environment and protect the sanitation workers from infections. By adopting the practice of composting at home, we can reduce waste generation by up to 90%,” he said. To motivate people towards home composting during the lockdown, an environment-based social organisation called “Do No Trash” has launched an online campaign called — #LockdownChallenge. Pushpa Agarwal, a resident, who joined the campaign, told TOI, “The drive will play a significant role in reducing pressure on our environment and on our sanitation workers.” She added that she has been practicing waste composting for many years. Soumya Prasad, founder of “Do No Trash”, told TOI, “The “#LockdownChallenge” drive has reached over 12,000 people so far. The idea behind the campaign was to promote waste composting among people as most of us are locked inside our homes. Composting of bio-degradable waste at home can help reduce our household garbage considerably. It does not matter if a person does it on a balcony or in a garden, composting can be done anywhere.” City-based NGO Waste Warriors has also launched an awareness campaign across multiple social media platforms encouraging people to adopt waste composting. Naveen Sadana, outreach manager at Waste Warriors, told TOI, “We have been training a number of city residents on methods of waste composting at home. The online campaign has helped us reach out to a large number of people whom we have been motivating to take up this practice in their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-residents-switch-to-waste-composting-at-home-during-lockdown/articleshow/75280711.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Two vessels get notice for violating orders||PANAJI: The directorate of fisheries has issued showcause notices to two fishing vessels off the Karwar Coast for not complying with the conditions laid down, and directed them to pay an amount of Rs 2.5 lakh each within two days. The two boats are named Suknem and Suknem-II. The fisheries officer designated at the fisheries complex at Cutbona jetty reported to the department that the fishing crew of the two boats boarded both the vessels and ventured for fishing on April 14. Both the vessels returned to Cutbona jetty on April 20 with five more crew members. Of the five, three were on the Suknem vessel and two on Suknem-II vessel, which they boarded at Karwar, Karnataka. Director of fisheries Shamila Monteiro told TOI that these were crew members had gone to their native town in Karwar prior to the lockdown and couldn’t return due to the suspension of transportation. They were picked up by their respective vessels from the Karwar coast. “The police is investigating the matter,” she said. The directorate has issued showcause notices to Julius Michael Rodrigues and Pio Tony Rodrigues. Both the parties have been asked to file their written statement within 24 hours, failing which the registration of the vessels would be cancelled or suspended. As a precautionary measure, the crew from both vessels were screened and quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-vessels-get-notice-for-violating-orders/articleshow/75282556.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Cop donates half his salary to the poor in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: A head constable attached to the District Armed Reserve has donated his half month’s salary to help the poor, struggle due to lockdown, in his village in Dakshina Kannada. Shrihari N S has been helping the poor in Panaje village in Puttur taluk through Vidyashree Friends Charitable Trust ever since the Covid-19 lockdown began. While he has already donated Rs 15,000 through the Trust, volunteers have distributed grocery kits containing 10kg of rice, chilli, sugar, onion and cereals to 110 families. “Initially, we identified 30 poor families in Panaje village who are in dire need of help. Later, Trust members continued their efforts to trace poor families in the interior parts and provided them with kits. We also have plans to identify middle-class families who are in need of grocery kits,” he said. He also has decided to continue to donate one portion of his salary till the lockdown is withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cop-donates-half-his-salary-to-the-poor/articleshow/75279347.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||President Trump tweet gives Indians in US the jitters||HYDERABAD: The Indian community in the United States was left shaken after president Donald Trump on Tuesday tweeted about temporarily suspending immigration into the country. Several critics said the president was using the fight against coronavirus to clamp down on immigration. “In light of the attack from the Invisible Enemy, as well as the need to protect the jobs of our GREAT American Citizens, I will be signing an Executive Order to temporarily suspend immigration into United States!,” read the tweet. Soon after the tweet, Indians began getting in touch with immigration attorneys about what the executive order could mean for them. Speaking to TOI, immigration lawyer Rahul Reddy, founding partner of Reddy & Neumann, PC, said: “We had a teleconference with almost 200 Indians, without prior notice, to stem any panic. The tweet probably implies a travel ban besides some restrictions placed on jobs for immigrants.” Reddy said it was contradictory coming weeks after the government relaxed extensions for certain foreign agricultural workers (with H-2A status) in light of a possible shortage in food owing to the pandemic. Immigration attorneys were getting most calls from people, who feared for their position after their H1B work visa applications had been picked in the lottery. “My wife is currently on the H4 visa and her H1B application was picked in the lottery. If an executive order in any way impacts this, it will be disappointing for us because we have waited for years for an H1B approval,” said Krishna, an IT solutions architect working in Michigan. Krishna, however, remained hopeful that any executive order would not be too harsh once on paper as they are often toned down following cases filed by immigration attorneys. Telangana Information Technology Association global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala clarified that Trump had mentioned that any order would be ‘temporary’. “It is also too early to determine what category of immigrants he is speaking about right now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prez-trump-tweet-gives-indians-in-us-the-jitters/articleshow/75281802.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Over 1.5k forest workers threaten to boycott work||Dehradun: Miffed with non-payment of salaries for the past 10 months now, more than 1,500 outsourced workers of the forest department have threatened to boycott work during this crucial forest fire season in Uttarakhand. Seeing no other option, these workers have now approached the labour department to seek some financial aid. These outsourced staff members include those who work as Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD) jawans, fire watchers, beat watchers, rescue centre workers, drivers, and computer operators, among others. Incidentally, these workers were promised a wage hike by state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat during the last winter season. During that time, the forest department had assured these workers that they would be given their salaries on the 5th of every month. They were also promised some extra support through Employee Provident Funds and State Insurance. But none of these assurances have yet seen daylight. “Forget increased salaries, we now just hope for timely payment of our dues. We know that a hike in our wages during this crisis will further burden the state exchequer and we are ready to let that go but at least our salaries should not be held back for this long,” said Chandra Prakash, president of Dainik Samvida Outsource Karmachari Sangh Van Vibhaag, Uttarakhand. Notably, Prakash has been working with the state forest department in Kalagarh at Pauri district for more than ten years now. This is not the first time when these outsourced workers have raised this issue. “It has become a sort of a culture to hold back our salaries. It is happening more frequently now. Last year, we had to boycott work for almost a week to get our dues. How will someone survive the lockdown when he has not been paid his dues for months? We hope that the top officials consider our plea and offer us some relief at the earliest,” said Chandrakant Joshi, vice-president of the above mentioned union from Nainital. Meanwhile, a senior IFS officer of the forest department told TOI, “The lockdown has impacted the entire system. Their salaries are already processed and will soon be released.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-1-5k-forest-workers-threaten-to-boycott-work/articleshow/75280728.cms||Shivani Azad
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Bury all your differences and work unitedly: Anil Deshmukh||Yavatmal: Calling the prevailing situation “a war”, state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday urged everyone to “bury our differences” and work unitedly to break the chain of Covid-19 while addressing the bureaucrats in a meeting held in the collector's office, reports TO AbrahamDeshmukh said that the borders of the district and the state had been sealed and that would continue till May 3.The administration should take utmost care with regards to food, water and shelter for all the labourers, he said, adding that in case there was a death or any other emergency, the district level committee should grant permission after due scrutiny of each case. “Though 63 jamaatis, who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz meet visited Yavatmal, there should not be any attempt to create disharmony and hatred among the people,” said Deshmukh, who visited the sealed areas of wards 10 and 20 of municipal corporation and interacted with the people there.Prominent among others who attended the review meeting included the DGM Sanjay Rathod, MLC Kwaja Baig, MLAs Dr Ashok Uikey and Dr Sandeep Dhurve, district collector MD Singh, SP M Rajkumar and ZP CEO Jalaj Sharma.“The government is providing food grains to BPL, APL and Antyodaya card holders. But those who have no ration cards and are eligible for free grains should be given the food grains, for which special funds should be arranged by the administration,” Deshmukh further said. The fund for 'Kawati' should soon be granted by the government, DGM Sanjay Rathod said.The district has sent 670 swab samples to Nagpur for testing, of which 664 were found negative. The district is now in the red zone which may soon go to orange and finally to green zone, the minister expressed his confidence, applauding the district administration for its alertness in containing the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bury-all-your-differences-and-work-unitedly-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/75281808.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS government to oppose NDA’s new power bill||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has decided to oppose the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to be brought in by the NDA government. The TRS government feels the Centre is trying to usurp state’s powers apart from creating problems, especially payment of subsidies which the state government is offering to various categories of consumers. Also, the proposed bill subsumes powers of states to appoint regulatory commission chiefs and proposes to privatise distribution of electricity supply. The TRS government has a love-hate relationship with the Centre. It supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi on combating Covid-19 like ‘Janata Curfew’, lockdown, ‘tali-thali’ and 9-pm blackout call, but opposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). “As ‘electricity’ is in the Concurrent List (subjects administered jointly by the central and state governments) of the Constitution, the Centre cannot impose its will on states or approve it (bill) without their approval or consent,” government sources said. The draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was released by the Union ministry of power on April 17 to bring in reforms in the power sector, has been sent to the state seeking objections and suggestions within 21 days. “The government has concerns over new Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, including transfer of subsidy to consumers. CM KCR will take a call on it soon,” Telangana Transco and Genco chairman and managing director (CMD) D Prabhakar Rao told TOI on Tuesday. The new Electricity Bill said states could give subsidies to consumers or sectors, but without provisioning it in the tariff determined by the state electricity regulatory commissions. The respective states would have to grant subsidy through direct benefit transfer (DBT) for consumers on the lines of the LPG subsidy, which would be credited into accounts directly. While agriculture sector is being provided free 24x7 power, in domestic sector, up to 100 units free power is being given to SC/ST colonies, barbar shops and textile mills also get subsidy in the state. “We have 25 lakh agriculture pumpsets in the state and they do not have meters. It is not easy to fix meters. It involves both expenditure and is a time-consuming exercise. This problem is not confined to only Telangana, but to neighbouring states too. In Andhra Pradesh, there are 20 lakh agriculture connections, while there are 35 lakh in Maharashtra, and 27 lakh in Tamil Nadu. They too will face similar problems,” Prabhakar Rao explained. The government has been giving about Rs 5,000 crore towards agriculture subsidy and another Rs 1500 crore to domestic consumers. The amount (Rs 6,500 crore) is being released to distribution companies whenever the government has money. Once the legislation is passed, the state government might not be in a position to pay dues on a monthly basis. If the distribution of power is privatised as proposed in the draft, they (private firms) won’t wait and might seek monthly bills from the government. Power sector officials said it would lead to problems seen during implementation of Rythu Bandhu, where instead of tenant farmers land owners get input subsidy. “In this case also, domestic consumers, who utilise below 100 units per month. have been getting some relief in tariff. Generally, tenants pay electricity bills, but the subsidy amount might go into the account of property owners,” an office-bearer of All India Power Engineers’ Association said. Apart from these issues, state electricity regulatory commissioner and members would be appointed by the Centre. As of now, the state government has powers to appoint the regulatory commission chief. The draft Bill also proposed to privatise distribution of power supply through sub-licensing system or franchisee models. The officials said it was nothing but hijacking powers of states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-govt-to-oppose-ndas-new-power-bill/articleshow/75281800.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||12 of 27 Covid patients in Jabalpur from the same family||Jabalpur: With one more patient testing positive in Jabalpur, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Jabalpur has reached 27.Of these 12 are from the same family. Six other patients have been discharged, while one has died.Official sources said that a 20-year-old girl of the family whose 11 members had tested positive also tested positive on Tuesday. She was already under hospital quarantine.It is noteworthy that a 61-year-old man had tested positive in Jabalpur for Covid-19. He was the tenth crorona positive patient of the district. Later, his grandson also tested positive, while his son tested negative. But one of his son’s friends also tested positive a few days later and now 11 other family members that family have also tested positive, said sources.Immdedialtely after the first corona death in the city on Monday, that particular locality was declared a containment area by the district administration on Tuesday. On the other hand, survey of families in all the 8 containment areas is also being undertaken, said sources. District collector Bharat Yadav in a statement issued on Tuesday said that so far reports of around 960 samples from the district have been received and of those 27 have tested positive.It is noteworthy that the first Covid-19 positive cases in Madhya Pradesh were detected in Jabalpur on March 20. Four persons had tested positive. Of the four, three were of the same family. Later, an elderly and his grandson tested positive. Seventeen patients are of three families only, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/12-of-27-covid-patients-in-jabalpur-from-the-same-family/articleshow/75280722.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah cops facilitate delivery of essentials in high-risk areas||HOWRAH: To ensure people in containment zones continue getting their essentials, cops have set up a separate control room. The facility has been made available for just two areas — Malipanchghara and Golabari — for now. The move comes on the heels of the state government initiating micro-planning measures in 11 new localities within Howrah. Anyone from the two areas can call the control room and place orders, which will then be relayed on to workers provided by a food-delivery aggregator that the police has tied up with. Cops said the orders were being delivered within two hours. The 12 containment zones areas are spread across Tikiapara, Malipanchghara, Bandhaghat, Bamungachhi, Salkia, Kazipara, Pilkhana crossing, Golabari, Kadamtala and Belgachhia. More areas are likely to be added to this list. DC headquarters Priyabrata Ray said, “We have barricaded the containment zones to prevent people from moving in and out of these areas.” Cops have identified Harganj Market to be the place from where maximum infections have spread in Howrah.To keep people off this market, the police have started a separate control room to home deliver both greens and essentials. “We have been able to run the delivery operation smoothly,” said Pravin Prakash, deputy commissioner (North) A large number of volunteers from Howrah Municipal Corporation and local clubs are also helping the control room. Nearly 11,000 households have been serviced over the past few days. “The system is working so well that we will replicate it in Shibpur and Howrah thana areas too,” said Howrah Police commissioner Kunal Agarwal. Following stricter vigil, medicine supply in parts of the district has been affected. Some of the shop owners alleged that their staffers were unable to come as they were being barred from crossing the containment zones. “We have asked shops across the state to put extra effort to ensure enough stock of medicines. We have also urged the government and district administration to help our staff,” said Sajal Ganguly, secretary of Bengal Chemists and Druggists’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/howrah-cops-facilitate-delivery-of-essentials-in-high-risk-areas/articleshow/75281810.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Now, an app to get supplies in Mahbubnagar||HYDERABAD: To ensure that people, even in non-containment zones, do not step out of their homes during the lockdown, Mahbubnagar district authorities have developed an app ‘M3One’ (Mahbubnagar Mobile Market) to provide everything, including groceries, vegetables and medicines at the doorstep. Generally, all the districts have been providing essentials like vegetables, groceries, and milk to the houses in the containment zones, but the district authorities have decided to discourage people to come out of their houses for purchasing essential commodities. The app was developed with the help of MCRHRD institute and Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) by Mahbubnagar officials for the town people. Ten cases have been reported from the district and there are three containment zones in the town. Excise minister V Srinivas Goud said the facility is provided for the people and essentials would be delivered to their houses. He said that those who contact doctors through telemedicine are also being provided medicines. “Patients suffering from diabetes, heart ailments and other problems need not come out of their houses. District officials have been told to supply medicines available with the government hospitals to the needy patients at their doorstep,” he said. He directed health department officials to send ambulance in emergency cases to the poor. “A pregnant woman’s relatives from a remote village called on the telemedicine number. We sent the ambulance to their village,” he said. The minister also launched 3D digital learning classes for SSC students on Tuesday. The classes will be telecast by local TV and YouTube channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-an-app-to-get-supplies-in-mahbubnagar/articleshow/75281809.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Bhilwara reports five positive cases after 12 days||JAIPUR: Bhilwara, acknowledged worldwide for its ruthless containment model, reported five fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. The five cases were reported after a gap of 12 days. The last (28th) case was reported on April 9, when a teacher was found to be infected. Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said on Tuesday that the “ambassador of Canada to India has suggested to their government to adopt the ruthless containment model of Bhilwara in their country”. Of the new cases, two people had returned from Delhi on April 16, while two labourers (husband and wife) had been undergoing treatment at Bhilwara district hospital for cough and fever for the past five days. The fifth is the son of a compounder at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, district hospital Bhilwara. Health department officials said that two people — a 23-year-old man (a software engineer) and a 23-year-old woman who is a dress designer) had returned from Delhi in an SUV on April 16. When they reached Bhilwara, they were taken to an isolation facility. “We took their samples the same day and sent them for testing,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhilwara-reports-5-ve-cases-after-12-days/articleshow/75282573.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||KTC screens 1,400 govt employees with thermal guns||PANAJI: Nearly 80% of 1,400 government employees were screened by the Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited (KTCL) as they boarded its buses on Tuesday. The temperature recorded for all of them was below 40 degrees Celsius, officials said. KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate had stated that government employees whose temperature is found to be above 40 degrees will be advised to refer themselves to the doctor. The passengers were being screened from Tuesday onwards as a precautionary measure against Covid-19. “Based on the 80% people screened, we have recorded that the temperature of those passengers is normal,” Ghate said. A total of 162 of the 206 buses plied on Wednesday. The KTC screened the passengers with the 90 medical infrared thermometers or non-contact thermal guns that it has procured from the government. To screen all the passengers in the coming days, another 110 devices are expected to be procured. The KTC bus service is not open for all the citizens and currently, the KTC’s only commuters are government workers who are part of the 33% staff who have resumed their duties at the state offices this week. The KTC does not intend to extend this service to people outside this bracket. “The buses are hired by the state government for their employees. We cannot operate for the public because the ministry of home affairs has banned public transport like railways, flights including buses. The KTC buses operating right now are a special service so that government employees can go to office,” Ghate said. He, however, suggested that non-government companies that wish to operate can hire private buses for the transportation of their staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-screens-1400-govt-employees-with-thermal-guns/articleshow/75282571.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Garbage generation goes down following lockdown in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: The garbage generation from households and commercial establishments in the city has dipped by almost 25% following the imposition of lockdown, say officials in-charge of the Sheeshambara waste treatment plant. “We have witnessed a sharp decline in the daily waste generated in the city,” said Rakesh Upadhyay, head of garbage collection and transportation at the waste treatment plant. According to estimates, there are almost 20,000 commercial establishments in the state capital which generate waste in huge quantities every day but ever since the lockdown was imposed and these businesses were shut, waste generation has plummeted significantly. “With relatively less waste coming to the waste treatment plant, the garbage collected is being treated efficiently. The process of making compost from bio-degradable waste is also being undertaken,” Upadhyay told TOI. Nitish Bartwal, a resident of Rajpur road,said that waste generated in households “The waste generation has actually went down in my house as we get less packaged food and other goods from outside now. We only have to give out garbage to sanitation workers on alternate days.” “The senior officials are monitoring every activity at the waste treatment plant and proper attention is being given to the safety of sanitation workers. The garbage collection vehicles are being sanitised before and after the collection of garbage from across the city,” Upadhyay added. However, residents in the area who have been protesting for the removal of the waste treatment plant said that though the waste being brought at the facility has reduced during the lockdown but the stench emanating from the plant is still the same. Satpal Dhaniya, a local resident leading the protest against Sheeshambara waste treatment plant, told TOI “The stench can only go away only if the trash being brought here from all over the city is treated properly and regularly. We wake up to a mountain of garbage. We even have to bear the stench while eating. The quantity of garbage dumped here will shoot up the day this lockdown is lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/garbage-generation-goes-down-following-lockdown-in-doon/articleshow/75280742.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Families find silver lining within households||POINGUINIM: Parents as well as children who are learning life under a lockdown have buckled down by making the best of what they can in these trying times. There seem to be lessons to be gained by discovering new ways of parenting, especially when choices are limited - with time, creativity, resources or even food. “I do not consider isolation as having to stay at home with those whom we love,” said a housewife from Canacona, Lourenca Miranda, adding that she sees this an opportunity for children to learn a lot; like cleaning, sweeping, learning to wash their own clothes while they are young, and also learning to stay at home for a few days without the need to step out. Some others are finding solace in the comforts of re-discovering the home environment, like Maria Fernandes, a housewife from Agonda. She has six children to fend for and has to do it all by herself since she lost her husband 4-5 years back. Laxmi Naik, from Canacona and a mother of three children, and whose husband is a daily wage earner, said, “Perhaps it is time to transform the house into a wonderful place to stay.” “Make your house a place to party, listen to music, sing, dance...or make your house a temple, pray, meditate,” said another housewife who lives by herself in Canacona. While Leena Desai a teacher believes it’s time convert the home into a school; to read, write, draw, paint. Lourenco Barretto, who works for a hotel in Margao believes that this could be an opportunity to make the house into a restaurant; to cook, eat, create new recipes, grow spices or even plant a garden..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/families-find-silver-lining-within-households/articleshow/75282577.cms||Albert Fernandes
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops shut stores at noon, leave shoppers stumped||Hyderabad: The city police on Tuesday went about shutting down supermarkets and shops between 11:30 am and 12 pm, many hours before the designated time to shut establishments (i.e. 7pm). This left consumers, who stepped out of their houses to purchase essential commodities, in a dilemma. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had recently declared lockdown extension in the state till May 7 and strict implementation of the curfew. In phase 1 of the lockdown, the government had implemented curfew from 7 pm to 7 am. However, many consumers were perplexed on Tuesday, when all shops selling essential commodities were closed by 12 pm. “Most stores, including vegetable vendors, started shutting shop by 11.30 am. We were verbally informed about the revised timings of 7 am to 12 pm when we went to make purchases,” said Vidya, a consumer who visited a local mart at Sainikpuri. Despite exercising social distancing, early closure of supermarkets and shops was reported from many areas such as Somajiguda and Kompally. The move led to crowding at many shops where people were seen making purchases before they shut. “@KTRTRS sir what is the timing for groceries store in Hyderabad (non-containment areas). Shops are being asked to close by 11:30 am. We know it’s good for people but morning 7 am to 6 pm was better,” tweeted Mohammed Shabbir Ali. Police officials said that shops were closed early as a precautionary measure. “Shops and supermarkets were closed early only at places where social distancing is not maintained or there are violations. We spoke to concerned managements and asked them to close shops,” said Kalmeshwar Shingenavar, deputy commissioner of police, north zone. Hyderabad city police commissioner Anjani Kumar said – “There is some fake news/ rumour in circulation that shops were closed. There is no notification for such a closure of essential items shops. Hyderabad city police is committed to ensure that all essential items are made available to all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-shut-stores-at-noon-leave-shoppers-stumped/articleshow/75281818.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow resident, 90 Indians stranded in Sri Lanka, send SOS for return||LUCKNOW: Little did Lucknow resident Sanjay Kumar, 54, realise that his Lankan vacation would turn into a nightmare when he flew down to visit the world’s oldest Shiva temple built by Ravana. With Covid-19 pandemic snapping all routes to return home, at least 90 Indian tourists along with Kumar are stranded in the island nation. Having formed a WhatsApp group — Indians in Sri Lanka — to stay connected in tough times, Indian tourists from various cities, including Varanasi, Delhi, Mumbai and other south Indian cities are low on finances and also sinking into depression. The group tried to connect with ministry of external affairs officials, but were told to wait as there was no immediate evacuation plan. “I was scheduled to join my merchant navy company in Chennai, so I came down to Sri Lanka to make good use of the intervening time. Then lockdown came into force and all flights were grounded without any evacuation plan,” said Sanjay, speaking to TOI on an internet call, 33km off Colombo. “I am alone, but many have come with families. How can we sustain in hotels for so long on our own savings,” he asked. Another UP resident who is part of the group, Shitesh Kumar Chaurasia, 32, has mailed and sent out tweets to MEA, highlighting their plight. “Our visa has been extended by the Lankan government till May 12, but we are not being provided monetary help. Our government has only given us an option of a 3-star hotel in Colombo at $30 per night per person. We are here since a month and cannot stretch our budget further,” said the marine engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-resident-90-indians-stranded-in-lanka-send-sos-for-return/articleshow/75282566.cms||Yusra Husain
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag will be AP’s exec capital, says Vijayasai||Visakhapatnam: Rajya Sabha member and YSRC general secretary V Vijayasai Reddy on Tuesday reiterated that Visakhapatnam would be the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, adding that no one can stop the shifting of state administration. He also took his verbal duel with state BJP chief Kanna Lakshminarayana a step further, saying he would declare Lakshminarayana a corrupt politician. It may be recalled that Vijaysai and Kanna have been trading allegations of corruption against each other over the past few days. The YSRC leader alleged that Lakshminarayana has been misguiding the BJP’s national leadership and dragging a few individuals into the party for his benefits. “He has joined hands with a few leaders in BJP, who came from the TDP,” he claimed. Asked why the state government is taking mandal as a unit instead of district as suggested by the Centre, Vijaysai sought to evade a direct reply. He said there is no difference between a mandal and a district as long as the state government is protecting the health of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-will-be-aps-exec-capital-says-vijayasai/articleshow/75280744.cms||Siva G
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||HC gives collector 2 days to state reason for forcefully acquiring land||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Tuesday directed Siddipet collector to state within two days the reasons for obtaining forced consent of the displaced people of Kochchaguttapalli village and going against the court’s orders. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy was hearing an urgent plea moved by the displaced persons whose houses were acquired for the construction of Ananthagiri reservoir as part of Kaleshwaram mega irrigation project. Their counsel informed the court that though the high court had earlier directed the collector not to dispossess the people of their property without finalising their claims for rehabilitation, the revenue and police officials had demolished their houses in a high-handed manner. When the bench questioned the state counsel about the condition of the land oustees, it was informed that they were provided accommodation and other facilities at a rehabilitation colony. The court will hear the case again on April 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-gives-collector-2-days-to-state-reason-for-forcefully-acquiring-land/articleshow/75281822.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal now Covid-19 free district||DEHRADUN: Samples of 277 Covid-19 suspect cases, including those of the head priest of Badrinath and his aides, tested negative on Tuesday. In another good news, Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal was declared coronavirus free as not a single positive case has been reported from the district in the last 28 days. An official statement by the health department maintained that no new case was found in Pauri Garhwal and the only positive case of the district was discharged from the hospital in the first week of April after he recovered fully. Notably, a 26-year-old man from Kotdwar, who had come back from Spain in March, was found infected with Covid-19 and was admitted to district’s Base Hospital on March 16 as the first positive case (and so far, the only positive case) of Pauri Garhwal. “Pauri was also acknowledged by the Government of India as the third district where no fresh case of coronavirus infection was reported in last 28 days. The other two such districts are Mahe in Puducherry and Kodagu in Karnataka,” said additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant. The official added that another coronavirus patient was discharged from Government Medical College in Haldwani on Tuesday taking total recovered cases in the Himalayan state to 19. The state has four government facilities for Covid-19 positive cases. Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani is catering to Covid-19 positive cases from these six districts — Almora, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh, Champawat, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital. Similarly, Government Doon Medical College and Hospital caters to the postive cases from Dehradun district. Covid-19 positive cases from Chamoli and Pauri will be treated at Government Medical College (GMC) in Srinagar and at All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Rishikesh. GMC in Srinagar will also treat positive patients of Rudraprayag district. And the positive cases of other three districts — Uttarkashi, Tehri Garhwal, and Haridwar — will be treated at AIIMS Rishikesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-new-coronavirus-case-in-ukhand-on-tuesday-pauri-garhwal-now-covid-19-free-district/articleshow/75280752.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Taxi operators in Uttarakhand complain of mounting losses, appeal for relief||MUSSOORIE/DEHRADUN: Taxi operators from various parts of the state have expressed concern over mounting losses due to the ongoing lockdown to contain spread of coronavirus and have asked the state government for a special relief package. With no earning for nearly a month now, taxi operators say that they are finding it difficult to meet their ends and support their families. “There are about 700 taxi vehicles in Mussoorie and for nearly a month, these taxi operators have not earned a single penny. How will they feed their families in the times to come,” questions Sunder Panwar, secretary of Mussoorie Taxi Association. Meanwhile, the burden of repaying loans of their vehicles, paying for car insurance, and paying road tax are also giving sleepless nights to taxi drivers. “Around 70% of the 275 vehicles, which ply from the airport, have outstanding loans. With no income for past two months and with bleak prospects for the future, how will taxi owners repay outstanding bank loans,” laments Sanjay Sindhwal, president of Jolly Grant Airport Taxi Union. Similarly, it is estimated that around 600 taxi vehicles in Mussoorie have outstanding bank loans. “Under the current scenario, taxi operators are bound to face difficulties in loan repayment, payment of road tax, and renewal of insurance,” said Mahabeer Bahuguna, a Srinagar-based taxi operator and the vice president of Uttarakhand Parivahan Mahasangh. Taxi operators believe that the financial losses due to lockdown will be widespread and even after the lockdown is lifted, tourist arrivals are expected to be limited in the state. “Financial losses due to lockdown would ruin many families and non-payment of EMIs could lead to vehicles being impounded by the banks,” Panwar added. In view of this, taxi operators from various parts of the state have appealed to the state government to come up with a relief package that include all taxi vehicles — cars, jeeps, buses, and trucks. Bahuguna added that as part of the relief package, government must waive-off road tax for at least an year, waive-off interest on loan installments, defer EMIs on loans for six months while giving some subsidy for vehicle insurance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/taxi-operators-in-ukhand-complain-of-mounting-losses-appeal-for-relief/articleshow/75280748.cms||Anmol Jain
April 22, 2020||Bengaluru||These Bengaluru dhobis handwash hospital clothes; safety is secondary||BENGALURU: Washing clothes from hospitals is the only work many dhobis in Bengaluru now have with the lockdown having taken away their other customers. There’s no way they’ll say no to hospitals as it’s not just their lifeline in these difficult times, but a sense of commitment to their profession, notwithstanding the infection scare that the Covid-19 has unleashed. “Our business has stopped abruptly. We get linen and other clothes from a few clinics and medical facilities which are our regular customers. But we must go ahead and do it as this is our only source of income,” says Mahesh, 59, from the dhobi ghat on Jasma Bhavan Road, Vasantnagar. These dhobis don’t have the luxury to take adequate precaution while at work. “Gloves or other gear are not even in our mind for the little work we are getting now,” says Sanjay, Mahesh’s son. The dhobi ghat has been functioning from the spot for over three decades now. The area has been closed by health officials as a nearby building had a Covid-19 positive case. A few dhobis working during the lockdown are fumigating the clothes and soaking them in disinfectants before hand washing them as the source of the linen is often unknown to them. However, there are no studies yet that show the virus spreads through fabric. Dhobis like Venkesh in the Dhobi shed on Commissariat Road behind the Bengaluru football stadium feel “some business is better than no business.” “I can’t afford to be choosy at this point of time when I got no saving and my family needs food,” he adds, standing aside his wife and children in an area where white clothes are hung for drying. The dhobis are aware of the Covid-19 crisis unravelling around them and are struggling to keep themselves afloat during the crisis. Thanks to NGOs and social workers, the community is receiving food and rations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/they-hand-wash-hospital-clothes-safety-is-secondary/articleshow/75280949.cms||Petlee Peter
April 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government urged to bear 25% pay burden of private hospital staff||BENGALURU: An umbrella body of private hospitals in Karnataka has requested the government to shoulder 25% of the salary burden of staff in the hospitals for the next six months. Representatives of Federation of Healthcare Associations of Karnataka (FHAK) met chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday and apprised him of difficulties faced by the healthcare industry in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and the consequent lockdown. Regular work at nearly 70% of private hospitals has stopped, with OPDs not running, admissions plummeting and elective surgeries getting deferred, they said. FHAK has close to 1,000 affiliate hospitals across Karnataka. “In Bengaluru alone, there are 658 private hospitals and their monthly salary bill runs up to Rs 144 crore. At a time when there’s no revenue generation, it’s tough to pay salaries,” said Dr R Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), a member of FHAK. A recent circular by the labour department insisting full salary be paid to staff irrespective of them attending work is an impediment to private healthcare, the members said. “Due to this, staff who religiously attend work may also abstain from it as salary is assured and may force closure of healthcare facilities. We request that private healthcare services be exempted from this circular,” said Dr SC Nagendra Swamy, principal coordinator of FHAK. Private hospitals have also sought nod to defer payment of property tax, PF, ESI and TDS. They have sought a waiver of GST or zero-rated supply on input cost and services for two quarters. “Banks should provide a 12-month moratorium for EMIs of loans taken by private hospitals, without any adverse impact on their credit rating and interest-free or soft loans to all healthcare establishments,” reads the FHAK letter submitted to the government. Demanding subsidy in electricity and water bills for at least six months, the hospitals pointed out the government is yet to reimburse them huge sums of money spent on treatment of patients under various government health schemes. “For example, under Arogya Bhagya for police personnel, Rs 134 crore is yet to be paid by the government. In my hospital alone, Rs 1.9 crore has to be reimbursed,” said Dr Ravindra. They have also sought reimbursement pending under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka scheme. The CM was urged to extend a life cover of Rs 50 lakh for government health workers dying in line of Covid-19 duty to private hospital staff too. “We also have asked for PPEs,” said Dr Swamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-urged-to-bear-25-salary-burden-of-pvt-hosp-staff/articleshow/75281025.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: House owners stare at loss of income after ban on rent collection in red zones||GUNTUR: The 65-year old widow Shaik Zarinabi of Anand Pet in Guntur city has been worried over the past few days since the state government imposed a ban on collection of rent from tenants. Zarinabi had rented out two rooms for Rs 2,500. She is now pleading with her tenants to get her payment. Like Zarinabi, many house owners in areas marked out as containment and red zones are worried about loss of their rental income following the government’s directive. The state government’s directive to house owners in red zones not to collect rent from tenants has upset a majority of the owners in urban slums as rents are their sole source of income. While the government’s decision is likely to provide relief to the tenants, it comes as a big jolt to the families which own small houses from which they earn around Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per month. A majority of Covid-19 cases were reported from urban slums now in red zones and containment areas. Since the movement of the public from the containment zones was restricted, the government decided to ban rent collection. People in red zones say they have been barred from coming out of houses even for purchase of groceries and vegetables. “We have decided to impose a ban on the collection of rents for four months. No owner should insist on rent or try to evict tenants as the people have no incomes in these areas,” said Guntur district collector I Samuel Anand Kumar. The government, however, has not announced any property tax relief to the owners. “Government should waive property taxes, water, garbage cess and power charges,” said CPI(M) leader Pasam Ramarao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/house-owners-stare-at-loss-of-income-after-ban-on-rent-collection-in-red-zones/articleshow/75280767.cms||Samdani MN
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Fast only if you are healthy: WHO||HYDERABAD: The World Health Organisation (WHO) has called upon Muslims to take up Ramzan fasting only if they are healthy. Muslims hit by Covid-19 should consult their doctors before fasting as scientific data on how fasting would impact Covid-19 patients is yet to be obtained. Stating that no studies of fasting and risk of Covid-19 infection have been performed, WHO said healthy people should be able to fast during this Ramzan as in previous years, while Covid-19 patients may consider religious licences regarding breaking the fast in consultation with their doctors, as they would do with any other disease. Ahead of Ramzan 2020, WHO has released interim guidelines on offering prayers and charity and fasting amidst the Covid-19 lockdown urging Muslims to avoid attending events. Mosques in Hyderabad and parts of Telangana and AP will remain closed during the lockdown. The guidelines, first-of-its-kind for a spiritually pleasant and Covid-19-free healthy Ramzan, call upon governments to involve religious leaders in early decision-making to evolve a strong communication strategy. As shaking hands should be avoided, the WHO has suggested use of culturally and religiously sanctioned greetings that avoid physical contact, such as waving, nodding, or placing the hand over the heart. People, who are feeling unwell or have any symptoms of Covid-19, should avoid attending events. Older people and anyone with pre-existing medical conditions, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, and cancer, should not attend gatherings. Stating that performance of ‘wudu’ (ablution) by Muslims before prayers helps maintain healthy hygiene, WHO said they should ensure that handwashing facilities are adequately equipped with soap and water and provide alcohol-based hand rub. It urged Muslims to use personal prayer rugs instead of carpets. WHO has also called upon Muslims to maintain social distancing while giving alms and paying charity. Proper nutrition and hydration are vital during Ramzan, WHO said, adding that people should eat a variety of fresh and unprocessed foods every day and drink plenty of water. Tobacco use is ill-advised under any circumstances, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fast-only-if-you-are-healthy-who/articleshow/75282276.cms||Syed Akbar
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||65-yr-old virus victim from state buried in Mecca||Hyderabad: The funeral of a Telangana man Azamatullah Khan, who died of Covid-19 in Saudi Arabia, was conducted in Mecca on Tuesday. The 65-year-old, who hailed from Nizamabad, was not keeping well and got admitted in a hospital with fever. He tested positive for Covid-19 and succumbed on April 16. Azamatullah’s four sons work in different places in Saudi Arabia itself but because of the lockdown it was not possible for them to travel to Mecca. Telangana Jagruthi founding president Kalvakuntla Kavitha, who learnt of the situation, asked Jagruthi members in Mecca to help out the family. The volunteers got the procedures completed in the hospital and conducted the funeral with the help of government authorities. Ali Iftekar, who heads Telangana Jagruthi in Saudi Arabia, was helped by local social worker Abdul Mujeeb Kaaruthedath, in coordinating with various government departments and getting clearances for conducting the funeral in Mecca.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/65-yr-old-virus-victim-from-state-buried-in-mecca/articleshow/75282327.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Third Covid-19 patient tests negative||Kolhapur: City’s third Covid-19 patient has tested negative for the first time after she was admitted to the isolation ward of the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital around 14 days ago. The 63-year-old woman, a resident of Kasba Bawda, will be tested again in the next couple of days. If the result comes out as negative, the woman will be discharged from the hospital on Saturday and will have to remain home quarantined for another 2 weeks. The woman has been suffering from tuberculosis owing to which the medical staff at the civil hospital took extra care of her. Now, the health of the close contacts of the first three Covid-19 patients is being monitored closely. Till now, none of the 21 people in institutional quarantine and 99 in home quarantine have shown any symptoms of coronavirus. “We are going to test the contacts of the first two positive cases and discharge them if they test negative. Same process will be followed for the contacts of the third positive patient. After being discharged, the high risk contacts will be advised to remain under home quarantine for 2 weeks. The close contacts are mostly related to each other. Hence, we cannot take any chance of discharging them unless they test negative,” a senior health official said Most of the close contacts of the Covid-positive patients have been admitted to the isolation wards of the civil hospital. The administration claims that discharging them will help reduce the stress on the inadequate staff. “Many cases are asymptomatic and the person does not feel ill or show any signs. Due to such strange nature of the disease we have to ensure that no person is discharged without being tested at least twice. The incubation period of coronavirus varies from person to person depending on other factors such as age, morbidity and immunity,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/third-covid-19-patient-tests-negative/articleshow/75282576.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Denied cup of coffee, man scalds wife||BENGALURU: A 34-year-old woman sustained burns after her husband threw steaming water on her during an argument over refusal to serve him a cup of coffee. The incident took place at the couple’s Doddaballapura residence. According to sources with the Bengaluru police control room, the woman was crying for help when she called them on the afternoon of April 16 and was referred to Parihar – Vanitha Sahayavani (women’s helpline) at the police commissionerate. “It was evident the woman caller was in excruciating pain. She told us her husband had poured hot water on her after she refused to make him a cup of coffee,” said BS Saraswathi, senior counsellor at Parihar who received the call. The victim stays in south Doddaballapura with her husband and child. “The lockdown has been tough on families as tensions have flared between most couples since they remain indoors. In this case, the three-member family is confined to their small home and the husband, a scrap dealer, is facing severe financial crisis with his business being hit,” the counsellor added. The man had demanded coffee by noon, but his wife refused saying she had a lot of work in the kitchen as the maid had stopped coming due to the lockdown. The couple argued and in a fit of rage, the man grabbed a vessel of boiling water from the stove and poured it on his wife, leaving her with severe burns. “Neighbours rushed in after hearing her cries and administered first-aid. She then called the police control room,” Saraswathi added. The Parihar team contacted the woman’s brother, who lives a few kilometres away, and she was sent to a hospital with local police assistance. She is known to have suffered 20% burns and is out of danger. “We have strictly advised the woman and her family to approach the local police in Bengaluru Rural to lodge a complaint against the husband. We are following the case progress,” said Rani Shetty, head of Parihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-scalds-wife-after-she-refuses-to-make-coffee/articleshow/75280975.cms||Petlee Peter
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Clerics say pray at home in Ramzan||LUCKNOW: In a novel way to fight the novel coronavirus infection while observing Ramzan during lockdown, the Islamic Centre of India on Tuesday began a public announcement system to take its advisory to Muslims. Four vehicles with a loudspeaker mounted on each have started going around the city, especially in Muslim-dominated areas, to play the recorded message from Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali exhorting people to follow lockdown norms during Ramzan. “The four vehicles with drivers taking precaution will go around the city till April 24, asking people to pray at home during Ramzan,” said head of Islamic Centre of India Maulana Khalid Rasheed. From Aishbagh to Campbell Road, Nadan Mahal Road to Kaiserbagh, Khadra to Kursi Road and Rajajipuram to Alambagh, the vehicles will be making rounds asking people to follow lockdown. “Our Ramzan helplines have been launched at 9415023970, 9335929670, 9415102947, 7007705774 and 9140427677,” he added. Dargah Shahmina Shah has cancelled the taraweeh held on its premises every Ramzan, with Sajjada Nasheed Sheikh Rashid Ali Minai asking people to stay indoors. City Qazi Mufti Abul Irfan Firangimaheli and Imam Council of UP chief Maulana Sufyan Nizami also asked Muslims to observe lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/clerics-say-pray-at-home-in-ramzan/articleshow/75282586.cms||Yusra Husain
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: PG doctors to aid Covid-19 fight even after academic year||HYDERABAD: Final year post graduate medical students in the state might have to continue providing their services beyond this academic year which concludes in May, this year if the Covid-19 curve does not flatten. While the Centre has already issued orders to a few medical universities across the country regarding it, Telangana will follow suit by extending services of PG students by a month or two, depending on the situation in the state. The central order has asked several universities to extend services of final year PG students by two months keeping in mind the Covid-19 crisis.“It has been decided that the services of post graduate students as residents will be utilized with full pay/ stipend, until a fresh batch of undergraduates have joined physically, to ensure that there is no shortage of residents in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. Also concerned medical institutions should ensure availability of accommodation for such candidates,” read the order issued by the Directorate of General Health Services, Government of India. Examinations of PG students in the state have been postponed due to the pandemic. However, the admission process for first year students had started. Students have mostly reported online and not in person due to the lockdown. “The last date of joining for Telangana is May 31. So all the third year students will be completing their course by then. But if the need arises, we will be extending the service.,” said Dr Karunakar Rao, vice-chancellor, Kalolji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pg-doctors-to-aid-covid-19-fight-even-after-academic-yr/articleshow/75282306.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Waive 3 months power bills of poor, says Congress||HYDERABAD: The Congress has urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to waive off three months electricity bill for the poor as they have gone without income for the past 30 days due to lockdown. While welcoming the decision of the state government to extend 12-kg rice free of cost and 1,500 financial assistance to over 87 lakh white ration card holders even in the month of May, Telangana Congress working president Ponnam Prabhakar, in a letter to the chief minister on Tuesday, said a large number of ration card holders have not got the 1,500 cash. Ponnam Prabhakar said while further extension of lockdown up to May 7 was needed to check the spread of coronavirus, the poor and middle classes will not have money left to purchase even vegetables and other essential commodities. He also demanded that the state government speed up the process to procure paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-3-months-power-bills-of-poor-congress/articleshow/75281835.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Set up ventilators in each Covid-19 hospital: Uttarakhand high court to state||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to ensure that required number of ventilators is made available in each of the Covid-19 dedicated hospitals set up across the state within a week. The directions came from the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that claimed there is serious lack of health infrastructure in the state to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioners said that there are several hospitals in the state that do not have adequate number of ventilators as well as Intensive Care Units (ICU) especially in the hills and therefore the state’s health infrastructure is ill equipped to fight the pandemic. Dushyant Mainali, one of the petitioners in the case, told TOI that the HC has directed the state government to ensure adequate number of ventilators is made available in each of the 15 coronavirus-dedicated hospitals in the state. "We are conscious of the fact that there is definitely a shortage of ventilators as of now, yet when these hospitals had been declared as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and one of the principal requirements of the dedicated Covid-19 hospital is ventilator facility, we fail to understand as to why these hospitals are not having any ventilators, as yet… We, therefore, direct the state government to at least install one, possibly two ventilators in these hospitals, within a period of one week from today," the order read. The HC added that if the state faces any practical or logistical difficulty in complying with the order, they should inform the court. "The court will now hear the case on April 29,” Mainali said. The HC, while hearing another PIL, also asked the advocate general if the small and marginal farmers can be paid 50% of the minimum support price (MSP) within two days. "The court has asked the advocate general if the government can make a payment of 50% of MSP to small and marginal farmers selling upto 100 quintals of wheat in the Rabi season within three days," said Ganesh Upadhyay, the petitioner in the case. The court has given the state three days’ time to respond to the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/set-up-ventilators-in-each-covid-19-hosp-hc-to-state/articleshow/75280773.cms||Prashant Jha
April 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada registers 16th case||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district on Tuesday recorded yet another Covid-19 case, its 16th, two days after the district saw a woman patient, who was designated P-390, succumb to the disease. Designated patient-409, the victim is a 67-year-old woman, and an immediate neighbour of the deceased woman, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The DC, in an official communique, stated that P-409 is a resident of Kasba village in Bantwal taluk. She was admitted to Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 Hospital in Mangaluru, and her throat swab was sent for testing on the same day. The test report confirmed her to be afflicted with Covid-19, the DC said. The district administration has already completely sealed Kasba village, following the death of P-390 on Sunday, and declared it a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-registers-16th-case/articleshow/75279390.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||63% Hyderabad Muslims are poor: Survey||HYDERABAD: Less than 2% of Muslims in Hyderabad metropolitan area constitute an economically elite section with a net worth ranging between Rs 1 crore and Rs 100 crore. On the other hand, 63% of Muslims in the city fall below the poverty line (BPL) and survive mostly on government doles, meagre daily earnings and charity. A pre-Ramzan economic survey of Muslims reveals that only 2-3% of the minority community forms part of upper class with an annual income up to Rs 25 lakh and beyond, while 10 to 15% constitute middle class with an annual income ranging between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh. About 20% of Muslims make up the lower class with Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh income per year. An NGO, Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), conducted a sample survey of Muslim households to arrive at the occupational profile of Muslims in urban slums. It also covered the economic profiles of Muslims across Hyderabad as charity (Zakat, Fitra and Sadaqa, different forms of charity given during Ramzan) constitute the hallmark of the Muslim month of fasting. “The aim to help donors make informed choices on their donations through Zakat and Sadaqa this Ramzan. We have also come up with a high-level socio-economic classification of Muslims in Hyderabad. We believe that such data on the socio-economic background of the principal minority community will be useful in making informed choices,” HHF managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari told TOI. Askari said they had done in-depth analysis with the aid of market research professionals and come up with high-level socio-economic classification of the principal minority community. This is a broad socio-economic classification of Muslims in Hyderabad. “We had to keep the big picture of the socio-economic classification vis-a-vis the overall minority population to validate our survey results,” said Askari, adding that the analysis will help Muslims make informed choices on Zakat and Sadaqa as many do not have a perspective on the percentage of economic weaker sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/63-hyd-muslims-are-poor-survey/articleshow/75282242.cms||Syed Akbar
April 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka farmers accused of land grab will go scot-free now||BENGALURU: Amid lockdown which has virtually put the brakes on the administration, the BJP government last week issued a far-reaching ordinance that exempts all farmers who have applied before the taluk-level land regularisation committees headed by the local MLA from land-grabbing cases. The law is applicable for only those farmlands outside the jurisdiction of Bengaluru and municipalities across the state, and that has been considered by the government-constituted land regularisation committees at taluk level. With thousands of bagair hukum land farmers having been “branded” as land grabbers, there had been political pressure on successive governments. Bagair hukum lands are those where farmers are seeking regularisation of government lands that are being unauthorisedly cultivated. Earlier last month, senior BJP members had debated the issue at the legislative assembly and sought reprieve for farmers, who despite being eligible for regularisation as per the Karnataka Land Revenue Act amendments under section 94A, are facing land-grabbing cases. Taking a cue, the state government on April 10 issued an ordinance which effectively withdraws land-grabbing cases against farmers. “It had become a recurring problem and farmers had to fight cases despite the government inviting them to regularise the land. So, we brought the ordinance to exempt them from cases,” said law minister JC Madhuswamy. However, the bigger concern is that there’s no specification of the extent of land grabbing that can be exempted from the cases. Sagar BJP MLA Hartal Halappa said though the ordinance is meant to serve primarily the small and marginal farmers, it needs to be ensured that those who have encroached upon large tracts of government and forest property are not given a “free pass”. “While we welcome the ordinance, it needs to be tightened while framing the rules and regulations that big land-grabbers like those who have over 40 acres are not exempted from the act,” said Halappa, adding there were 82,000 cases pending in his taluk alone. At the other end, the ordinance also tightens the rules for appeals against the rulings of the special courts by giving it power to allow an appeal or dispose of the cases, while taking away powers of the civil courts to hear land-grabbing cases. “There are thousands of cases pending in civil courts and this cannot be an added burden. So we have given the special courts complete jurisdiction of these cases outside the municipal jurisdictions,” said Madhuswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-issues-ordinance-exempting-farmers-from-land-grab-cases/articleshow/75281003.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||70% who tested positive asymptomatic, says VMC||Vadodara: Over 70 per cent of Covid-19 persons, who had tested positive for the virus in the city, are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms that may go unnoticed. It is a matter of concern as silent spreaders may keep passing on the novel coronavirus to others. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) sources said out of 183 active cases till Tuesday afternoon, at east 127 were asymptomatic. Such patients are kept at Covid Care Centres at Ajwa Road ITI and High Speed Railway Training Institute hostel in the city as per government guidelines. Some who are currently at GMERS, Gotri hostels are also asymptomatic. VMC officials said asymptomatic cases come to light during mass sampling as well as tests of contacts of the persons suffering from Covid-19. They added that high number of asymptomatic cases was prevalent across the country. “This shows that morbidity of the virus is low. We will have to focus our efforts on persons in high-risk category to ensure that they remain safe,” said VMC medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. A major drive has already been started in this direction by asking doctors to educate their high-risk patients about the situation. Indian Medical Association’s help has also been sought in this regard. The situation is such that many who test positive, but are completely healthy often pick arguments with those taking care of them. The staff at GMERS, Gotri had to face this situation. Many argue even when health teams take them to Covid Care Centre or hospital when they test positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/70-who-tested-positive-asymptomatic-says-vmc/articleshow/75280287.cms||Sachin Sharma
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Households suffer as staffers get locked in||KOLKATA: Designation of Shahid Smriti Colony as a containment zone has resulted in a big problem for the service industry catering to the apartments around EM Bypass. Majority of the housekeeping staffers at these posh south Kolkata apartments, who live in this colony, can’t reach their workplace. Facility managers of these societies have requested the others to stay back and have made arrangements for their food, lodging and clothing. According to Ashok Kumar, the facility manager of Hiland Park, approximately 40% of the apartment’s housekeeping staff has stopped coming. “We have around 60 staffers who clean the common areas. Nearly 25-30 of them live in Shahid Smriti Colony and can’t come to work now,” Kumar said. So, a decision was taken to request the remaining housekeeping staff members, who live within a radius of 5km, to stay in the complex. “We are providing them with food, mattresses and even clothes. This arrangement is also for our security officials, plumbers and parking attendants. Organizing food for them is costing approximately Rs 1 lakh per week,” he added. It is not just people in high-rises who are facing difficulties. Recently, Gokhale Road resident Amitabha Roy needed to get his refrigerator repaired. “My mechanic lives in Padmapukur’s containment pocket. Hence, I have to go to the market daily to get my vegetables and fish,” Roy said. Mala Roy Chowdhury (55) and Meena Das (50) have been working as caregivers for septuagenarian Jharna Sarkar, who is grappling with Alzheimer’s disease and other complex mental health issues. On April 11, a complete lockdown was imposed both in their residential areas as well as the Birati locality where Sarkar stays. Das couldn’t make it and Roy Chowdhury, who had stayed back in March at Sarkar’s flat, is looking after her now 24X7. However, lives of senior citizens in the 15 other households in Sarkar’s campus have become very difficult. “I am lucky to have a 24X7 caregiver for my mother. Others are stuck. Although we are getting our groceries, vegetables and fish, members of the service industry are locked in their homes,” said Deepanjana. In their campus, there is a sexagenarian lady with arthritis, for whom it is very difficult to cook and do household chores. Service providers themselves also understand the problems, but their hands are tied. Even a few days ago, Sonu Singh, a resident of Muktaram Babu Street, which is a containment zone now, was supplying milk to households. He is not being able to step out to procure milk from Girish Park and supply it in the neighborhood as “cops have become very strict”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/households-suffer-as-staffers-get-locked-in/articleshow/75281844.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Not just vaccines, Hyderabad firms pitch in to produce ventilators||HYDERABAD: It is not just the development of Covid-19 vaccines where Hyderabad based companies are showing the way. Many medical devices, aerospace and consumer electronics companies and startups too are doing their bit by developing and manufacturing ventilators and ventilator parts. A team headed by entrepreneur and former MP Konda Vishveswar Reddy has developed a Covid-19 specific ventilator — ICo-Vent — that has been built to Indian and UK government standards. ICo-Vent, which can be rapidly manufactured and is expected to cost Rs 50,000 to Rs 1.2 lakh, addresses the shortcomings of conventional ventilators used in ICUs for critical patients. “ICo-Vent is specially designed for Covid-19 and ARDS patients. It allows intensive care specialists or pulmonologists to order a precise volume of air and oxygen at a precise inspiration and expiration pressure considering the elasticity of the lungs. Most other ventilators, especially those based on mechanized ambu bags, can cause ventilatorinduced lung injury and also put healthcare professionals at risk as their operation can lead to release of a huge viral load into the ICU atmosphere, something that healthare workers in other countries have succumbed to,” explained Reddy. Recently, IIT-Hyderabad incubated Aerobiosys Innovations unveiled a low cost, battery operated, IoT enabled portable ventilator – Jeevan Lite. City-based Bhagwati Products Ltd (Micromax) plans to manufacture bag-valve mask (BVM) based ventilators, developed at T-Works and tested at NIMS Hospital, at its mobile and consumer electronics unit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-just-vaccines-city-firms-pitch-in-to-produce-ventilators/articleshow/75282294.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Masjids use Azaan public address system for awareness||CHARMINAR: Several masjids located across Old City slums, in collaboration with a city-based NGO, have come up with a plan of disseminating Covid-19 awareness messages through its public address (PA) systems which are normally used to give out prayer calls (azaan). Some mosques began this practice on Tuesday by playing pre-recorded message three times a day. The message informs people to stay at home to help curb the spread of coronavirus. In another message, the public is informed to cooperate with police and health officials and adhere to safety rules. “The need for such messaging assumes significance, particularly in the Old City, where stay at home instructions and social distancing are not being followed and the number of containment clusters are increasing,” Mohammed Nayeed Khan of the Mosques Committee Authorities told TOI. “Leveraging the public address system, when masjids are closed, for social causes is a very powerful tool for information dissemination. And (with the messages) coming from the masjid, many people will take it seriously,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of the Helping Hand Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/masjids-use-azaan-pa-system-for-awareness/articleshow/75282254.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hubballi||Fresh cases in 3 N K’taka districts, reprieve elsewhere||Hubballi: There is a glimmer of hope for people in North Karnataka as many districts like Dharwad, Gadag, Davanagere, Bidar, Ballari and Bagalkot did not report any fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. In the past few days, these districts had reported one or more positive cases almost daily. However, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi reported three and Belagavi district one positive case on Tuesday. In Vijayapura, though the district administration has made elaborate arrangements to contain the spread of the virus, the number of positive cases is rising with every passing day. With three fresh cases on Tuesday, the total number of positive cases touched 35 in the district. In fact, Vijayapura has now beaten Kalaburagi which had reported 30 cases and stood at second place in North Karnataka after Belagavi which stood at first place with 43 positive cases. The increasing number of cases has not only worried people, but also officials. However, Vijayapura has so far seen only two deaths of covid patients. Incidentally, Vijayapura had only 10 positive cases till the evening of April 15. Suddenly the number of cases started increasing on a fast pace. In the past six days, the number reached 35. On Monday alone the district reported 11 cases. Most cases had no travel history, but are primary or secondary contacts of P-221, the first Covid patient in Vijayapura. Of the 35 Covid patients, nearly nine are children including a one-and-a-half years old child. As there is a spurt in cases in Vijayapura, demand for a full-fledged lab for testing throat swabs has been mounting on the government. In the absence of a lab, the district administration is depending on National Institute of Virology, Pune or labs in Ballari and Bengaluru to get the results. It takes at least 48 to 72 hours to get the report. “The results of hundreds of such people are awaited,” said a doctor involved in treating patients. According to sources, all 35 infected are from three families who are staying in the same location under Gol Gumbaz police station limits. Now the entire area has been declared as a containment zone and it is completely sealed. All essentials items are being supplied at the doorstep in the containment area to prevent people from venturing out. Dr Mahendra Kapse, district health officer, Vijayapura, said they had converted the district hospital into a covid hospital with a 200-bed facility. “We have also requested the government to sanction a lab to conduct Covid tests in the district itself,” he said. (With inputs from Sushilendra Naik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fresh-cases-in-3-n-ktaka-districts-reprieve-elsewhere/articleshow/75278080.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Worker dies after unloading iron coil||Hyderabad: A labourer (42) died after getting crushed between a heavy iron rope coil and truck’s door while unloading the coil on Sunday. The victim died on Tuesday while undergoing treatment. The deceased, Sahani Mali from Chhattisgarh, was staying at a labour camp in Raidurgam. A case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worker-dies-after-unloading-iron-coil/articleshow/75281854.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Social media alerts help Kolkata cops track violators||KOLKATA: Social media has emerged as an ally for Kolkata Police when tracking lockdown violators. On Tuesday, cops were deployed in at least three areas to ensure that offenders were penalized after Twitter and Facebook users shared photographs of the violations, tagging senior officers. One of interesting cases reported on Twitter by a young woman went on to detail how a group of youths had been gathering at Ballygunge Park Road every day to shoot videos. Quick police action followed and a couple of the youths were identified. The woman, Nisha Banka, tagged Kolkata Police and joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. “The Bengal government has identified an area close to this spot as a Covid-19 containment zone. Yet, this group regularly assembles every afternoon to make TikTok videos. The lack of awareness is appalling. If Covid-19 spreads further here, it might well be because of TikTok users who have no sense of responsibility,” Banka had tweeted. Twitter users Kanika Bhattacharya and Sayan Dey supported her, citing similar incidents. Similar complaints of lockdown violations were made online by Sumantro Kumar Ghosh from Jorasanko and Debasish Sharma from Collin Street to DC (central). Cops immediately rushed to the spot and ensured there was no gathering. At Garden Reach, 24-year-old Zeeshan Rahim was assaulted by at least six persons on Ram Nagar Lane when he tried to stream lockdown violations on Facebook Live. The accused allegedly hit Rahim with bricks. He was treated at Garden Reach State General Hospital and discharged. Meanwhile, police prosecuted 84 people for not wearing masks within two hours on Tuesday morning, one of the highest prosecutions in such a short duration since masks were made mandatory. Cops also nabbed 131 persons for violating lockdown. At Belgachhia, close to the containment zone, cops found a car that was using fake police stickers to carry goods. Cops booked the driver under cheating charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/social-media-alerts-help-cops-track-violators/articleshow/75281849.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 22, 2020||Goa||Shipping cos seek info on fees to quarantine seamen||COLVA: With the state government in the process of sorting out the issue of bringing the 8,000-odd seafarers back to the state, sources at the office of the commissioner for NRI affairs said that there have been inquiries from shipping companies regarding the available quarantine facilities and their willingness to pay for the same. When contacted, the NRI affairs’ nodal officer, home department, Anthony D’Souza, said, “There are some companies who are looking to pay some amount. I can’t confirm this figure to you, but I have understood that it is approximately Rs 35,000 per seafarer, which is their contribution. This has come from two companies. But I do not know whom they will pay it to. We do not have any written proposal and there is nothing official about it.” D’Souza also told TOI that as they communicate with various stakeholders, his office “gets offers from the organisations, including the shipping companies, that they are ready to lend whatever assistance they feel that they can provide”. “The Goa government has made its own quarantine facility. Besides, additional facilities have also been short listed,” he added. The nodal officer for NRI affairs also said that these shortlisted facilities include hotels. “Those who do not want to avail of the free facility offered by the government have an option of going to the paid facility. That is their (seafarer’s) choice, we are not asking them to go there,” D’Souza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shipping-cos-seek-info-on-fees-to-quarantine-seamen/articleshow/75282589.cms||Nisser Dias
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Marriage venue owners stare at losses of up to Rs 80 crore due to lockdown, seek Uttarakhand government's aid||DEHRADUN: Anticipating a cumulative loss of nearly Rs 80 crore in Dehradun alone due to the lockdown, the joint body of more than 100 wedding halls and resort owners has decided to approach the state government requesting to ease out business operations and help in recovery of losses. The business owners claim that the cancellations and postponements have not only dent their business but have also affected the livelihood of over 25,000 daily wagers who are associated with the wedding industry in Dehradun. Talking to TOI, Anil Chaddha, owner of a marriage venue, said “We have decided to approach the state government with suggestions to bring relief to our business as paying salaries to our permanent staff would also become impossible beyond a certain point.” One of the primary suggestions given by the joint body called “Dehradun Wedding Point Association” includes allowing marriage events for a span of 9 to 10 hours during the day. “We will cater to not more than 20 guests at a time while maintaining the norms of social distancing. With this arrangement we will able to host small gatherings which will help us in recovering some losses and in supporting the livelihood of other daily wagers associated with us,” added Chaddha. Echoing the same, Sameer, owner of Nine Palms garden, told TOI, “The state government must come to our rescue because losing on events for one complete season will cause unimaginable losses. Our suggestion would be to either completely waive off or at least allow some concession from the 18% GST that we have to pay even during such crisis. In addition to that, municipal taxes have also become a liability. We must be allowed to pay the dues in installments over a period of two years.” Owners of marriage venue in the city say that these measures are not only in their interest of businesses but will also bring relief to daily wagers who work as waiters, housekeeping staff, flower suppliers, and caterers. Bhanu Chaudhary, owner of a marriage venue in the city, said “Though we are still supporting our staff with salaries, relief must also come to us soon. Some of the people who have worked for me for past many years call me for help and it is really difficult for me to say no to them. We can support our staff only when we make some earning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/marriage-venue-owners-stare-at-losses-of-up-to-rs-80-cr-due-to-lockdown-seek-govts-aid/articleshow/75280805.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops rescue cows from shed fire||Hyderabad: Two police constables, P Yadgiri and K Ravinder Reddy, rescued four cows after a fire broke out at a cattle shed in Ramannapet on Tuesday. Police said dry leaves at the shed caught fire at around 3 pm. The constables were near the spot and rescued the cattle. A fire tender was put into service to douse the fire. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-rescue-cows-from-shed-fire/articleshow/75281847.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Raj stops rapid tests, ICMR asks other states to pause||Sushmi Dey, Indrani Bagchi & Intishab Ali New Delhi/Jaipur: With states complaining that the recently acquired rapid testing kits were delivering misleading and inaccurate results, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday advised all states to stop using the antibody test for Covid-19 for two days until its teams investigated the functioning of the kits. The council said it was investigating the issue as some states had reported huge variations – ranging between 6% and 71% - in test results from rapid antibody kits which it said was unacceptable and may need to be replaced which will be a setback to the government’s plan to use rapid tests for surveillance and tracking trends, though not for diagnostics. On Tuesday, Rajasthan — the first state in the country to conduct rapid tests for Covid-19 — decided to stop using the kit any further as it was found that the results are inaccurate and does not correlate with the results of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. This also triggered a reaction across the country with many other states discontinuing the testing. In a tweet late on Tuesday, CM Ashok Gehlot said: “I had earlier suggested to GOI that a centralised mechanism with proper guidelines of quality check may be developed for the procurement of medical equipment. Unfortunately this was not accepted...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-stops-rapid-tests-icmr-asks-other-states-to-pause/articleshow/75282592.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||Waive off students’ fees for three months: Congress to Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: The opposition Congress on Tuesday demanded that three-month fees of students be waived off as schools are not operating due to the Covid-19 threat. In a letter to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Congress leader Rajkumar sought the relaxation till July. Keeping in mind the cash crunch condition of the private schools, the former Rajpur Road MLA has also asked the state government to duly compensate the private schools in order to minimise their losses. He also raised concerns about many students who are unable to procure books due to the closure and therefore, unable to derive any benefit from the online classes. The letter also sought books for every student and steps to ensure process of online classes is in a simplified form so that even a poor child can avail it comfortably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/waive-off-students-fees-for-3-months-cong-to-cm/articleshow/75280789.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Two women cops face extortion case, to be questioned on Wednesday||COIMBATORE: A 49-year-old man has sought action against two women cops for extorting money from him for releasing his scooter that was involved in an accident. In his complaint to superintendent of police Sujit Kumar, P Chandran, of Kamarajapuram at KG Chavadi, said he, his wife Thulasi and granddaughter Yazhini had fallen off the scooter while trying to avoid collision with an unknown vehicle near Thirumalaiyampalayam on February 8. His wife, who sustained severe head injuries, had subsequently died at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital without responding to the treatment. The KG Chavadi police, he said, had registered a case against him and taken the scooter to the police station. One of the women cops then took the scooter to the regional transport officer for inspection, but she did not return the vehicle to Chandran and parked the same on the police station premises, according to the complaint. “Meanwhile, another woman cop demanded from me Rs 10,000, which she said was to pay fine in the court. I borrowed Rs 5,000 and handed over that to her. She asked me to pay the remaining amount soon,” he said in the complaint. On April 14, he said, the cop had contacted him for the remaining Rs 5,000. “When I told her that I was having only Rs 4,000, she asked me to hand over the amount to a highway patrolling sub-inspector. After paying the amount, I went to the police station to collect the scooter on April 16. The cops then threatened me not to reveal the amount related information to anyone,” he said in the complaint. The SP received the complaint and instructed Perur sub-division DSP Velmurugan to conduct an inquiry into the incident and submit a report. Meanwhile, it was revealed that the women cops had submitted a receipt to Chandran, acknowledging payment of Rs 7,500 as fine. They told the higher officials that the remaining Rs 1,500 was paid to an advocate as his fee to close the case. The DSP would, however, conduct an inquiry with the women cops at the police station on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-women-cops-face-extortion-case-to-be-questioned-today/articleshow/75281871.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Pharma man honey trapped, duped of Rs 91,000 in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A pharma company employee was duped of Rs 91,000 by a cyber fraudster posing as a woman. The 37-year-old employee from Bolarum said in his complaint that he had met the fraudster through Facebook in the second week of April. The fraudster had sent the victim a friend request on Facebook, which he accepted. The duo went on to chat for a few days before the victim expressed desire to know the woman better. “The complainant received a phone number and started chatting with the fraudster who posed as a junior artiste. The fraudster, posing as a woman, agreed to meet the complainant at a newly rented place in Sri Nagar Colony and spend time with him during the lockdown,” Cyber crime ACP KVM Prasad said. “The fraudster asked the complainant for money. The victim transferred to them Rs 91,000 through Paytm on April 15,” Prasad added. After the money was transferred, the fraudster stopped responding to the messages. Realising that he was duped, the victim lodged a complaint with Cyber crime police and a case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pharma-man-honey-trapped-duped-of-rs-91k/articleshow/75281861.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Tile-setter before, tea seller now||I came to Nagpur from Tumsar in search of work 35 years ago and ended up working as a labourer. With passing time, I learnt tile-setting. The skill fetched me around Rs600 every day. The lockdown turned my life upside down. As the sole bread-winner of a five-member family (including wife, two daughters and son) living in a small house in Mahatma Phule Nagar, I was left with no choice but to explore other avenues. Previously I used to get work from a thiyya (a place were skilled and unskilled people gather for work) in Gokulpeth market, but now with the lockdown it is closed; and I had to sit idle at my home for several days. With no income-generating source in sight, I was getting restless and frustrated. That is when I saw an opportunity with the NMC setting up the vegetable market at Ram Nagar ground. I decided to make tea at my home and sell it there. I use around two litres of milk and sell close to 60 half-cups of tea, earning between Rs20 and Rs250. I hope this crisis gets over as soon as possible, so that we can get back to our regular work and I am able to earn a livelihood with my core skill of tile-setting. (As told to Ranjit.Deshmukh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tile-setter-before-tea-seller-now/articleshow/75281862.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Bitter blow: Sewaiyan to be a rarity this Eid in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Orange-hued, dipped in milk or laced with dry fruits, the delicious sewaiyan could be a rarity on Eid this year, owing to the lockdown. Production of this traditional Eid dessert, which begins at least three months prior to Ramzan, was halted in keeping with lockdown protocol, leaving manufacturers with just 25% raw sewaiyan in the processing line. Manufacturers are in doldrums and unsure how to distribute their 25% produce in Lucknow and neighbouring districts. They also complain of a collapse in business, affecting at least 1,500 people in the city alone. Ramzan is slated to begin from April 25 or April 26, depending on moon sighting, and after a month of roza, Eid is celebrated. “My godown is under lock and key. Labourers have gone home and work has come to a grinding halt. Only a quarter of our annual target is ready, but the distribution chain too has collapsed. Our business is seasonal and revolves around Eid and Bakrid and the lockdown has dealt a big blow,” said Mohd Asif, 48, who has a unit on Dargah Hazrat Abbas Road in Old City. With social distancing norm in place, there would hardly be any need for siwaiyan to be prepared at homes, with no friends or guests to share, say many. “I applied for e-pass a week ago, but haven’t got permission to deliver siwaiyan to Lucknow retailers. Sending the produce out of the city is out of question, but at least it can be sold within the city,” said another manufacturer in Balaganj area, Mohd Unais. “Work had just begun when the lockdown was declared. My first shipment was ready by March 22, but I feared it might not reach the destination, so I refrained from loading on trucks. It’s a huge financial loss as we would save Rs 1-2 lakh from the business,” said Adnan, 44, who has had a manufacturing unit in Balaganj for 30 years now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bitter-blow-sewaiyan-to-be-a-rarity-this-eid/articleshow/75282593.cms||Yusra Husain
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court steps in, seeks details of PPEs, masks given to doctors||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the medical superintendents of all the government hospitals to furnish to the court within two weeks, details of their doctors and other medical staff along with the particulars of personal protective equipment (PPE) like N-95 masks, surgical masks, gloves, goggles, shoe covers, sanitisers, etc, being supplied to them on duty. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy gave this direction while hearing a batch of Covid-19 related PILs. When counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar told the bench through a video link that WHO guidelines are not being followed in respect of PPEs to medical professionals, the CJ referred to the news item carried by TOI on the plight of a two-month-old baby at Niloufer Hospital. The child was referred to Gandhi Hospital as Niloufer was not equipped to deal with Covid-19 patients. The staff too were reluctant to attend to the infant after he was diagnosed as Covid-19 positive and also because of the alleged lack of PPEs. Advocate general BS Prasad refuted the allegations of the petitioner’s counsel and said that they are supplying PPEs as required and guided by WHO. As there are conflicting claims from the rival parties on this aspect, the CJ thought it fit to ascertain the facts straight from the chiefs of the government hospitals all over the state. The case was posted to May 6. “It is the foremost duty of the state government to protect the medical staff who are tirelessly working in their fight against Covid-19 menace. They are protecting the lives of our people by attending to the patients and also by preventing the spread of the virus. Therefore, every endeavor should be made to ensure that PPEs are made available to them in order to protect them from getting caught in the clutches of the same pandemic with which they are waging a relentless battle”, the CJ said. Dr K Shankar, director of Institute of Preventive Medicine, who appeared before the bench, informed it that all the doctors and medical staff treating the coronavirus patients are provided N-95 masks and PPE kits and Niloufer Hospital is not a designated hospital to treat Covid-19 patients. “Such non-Covid-19 hospitals will get normal medical kits,” he said. To a query whether the state can procure rapid diagnostic test kits as is being done by Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, the IPM director said he would consult the government and furnish a reply to the court on this aspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-steps-in-seeks-details-of-ppes-masks-given-to-docs/articleshow/75281888.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
April 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Two arrested for assaulting woman officer||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district police arrested two people for allegedly assaulting a woman officer of the Covid-19 flying squad in Barekadu, Bantwal taluk, on Monday. The accused were identified as Rafique and Haris Mohammed. Search is on to nab five absconding accused. Police said the incident took place when a flying squad officer questioned a shopkeeper for keeping the shop open beyond the permissible time. Rafique, Haris and five others, who were not maintaining social distancing, started abusing the officer for ordering to shut the shop. Police said one of them had tried to assault the officer, who later filed a complaint at Bantwal Town police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/2-arrested-for-assaulting-woman-officer/articleshow/75279451.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Announce action plan post May 3 deadline, Ashok Gehlot tells Centre||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday demanded that the Centre should announce its plan of action in advance post the May 3 extended lockdown deadline to help the state ready its strategy for the period ahead. While interacting with the media on Tuesday, the CM found fault with the Centre for announcing the lockdown without taking the states into confidence. He said the lockdown was announced on March 24 without consulting states, causing immense hardship to people and reducing the efficacy of fighting the coronavirus. He said the state government has decided to launch mobile OPD vans shortly in rural and urban areas to attend to patients with illness other than Covid-19. With government hospitals in the state converted to dedicated hospitals to treat corona cases, the private hospitals should serve regular patients, he said, pointing to complaints received of private hospitals turning back such patients. He also announced that auxiliary and general nurses would be appointed shortly to overcome staff shortage. The chief minister said the state government plans to expand virus testing to delivery boys, milkmen, vegetable vendors and people running general stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/announce-action-planpost-may-3-deadlinegehlot-tells-centre/articleshow/75282595.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Don’t ask parents to pay transport fees for lockdown period||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday issued an order stating that schools across the state will not charge transportation fee from students during the lockdown period. Normally, parents end up paying between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000 per month as the transportation fee. The order issued by principal secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla said that it has come to state government's notice that many schools are charging transportation fees despite the lockdown. “The government has issued an order and no school is allowed to charge transportation fee from students,” she said. “In extraordinary times like these, when there is a pay cut several charges like transportation and miscellaneous activities add to our woes. We are thankful to the government for bringing in some respite,” said Shalini Gautam, a parent, who works in an automobile company. With her two children, one in class VI, and the other in class VIII, studying in private schools, the order means a saving of Rs 7,200 per month. Like Shalini, there are several other parents for whom the order has brought much-needed relief. Earlier, the government had directed school authorities not to pressurize parents to pay three-month advance fees considering reduced earnings due to Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. Instead, parents were asked to pay fees on monthly basis. Instructions were also issued to not bar any student from attending online classes, in case any parent is unable to pay the fee during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dont-ask-parents-to-pay-transport-fees-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/75282598.cms||Isha Jain
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Bail for man, not his son for brewing arrack||Madurai: The Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court has granted bail to one person and dismissed the plea by his son in connection with an illicit arrack brewing case. Ramu, 58, and his son Kalikannan, 24, were brewing arrack illegally and selling them at Peraiyur village in Ramanathapuram district.  On March 27, a team of police officials went to the spot and seized 110 litres of arrack and utensils from them. The Peraiyur police had registered a case and booked the duo under various sections. Ramu and Kalikannan filed an e-bail application before the sessions court which was heard through video conference recently. The counsel appearing for the petitioners submitted that the petitioners are in judicial custody since March 28. He further submitted that Ramu’s wife is sick. He stated that the petitioners are willing to comply with the conditions imposed by the court. The public prosecutor submitted that the petitioners were brewing poisonous arrack and committed the offence even though they knew that it could cause harm to others. Taking into consideration the urgent circumstances, principal district and sessions judge R Shanmugasundaram granted bail to Ramu by imposing several conditions, including that he should stay at his house and should not come out, except for essential needs. The judge, however, dismissed Kalikannan’s bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-for-man-not-his-son-for-brewing-arrack/articleshow/75282597.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Indore||Central team bats for spl measures in slums, populated areas||Indore: On second day of their visit, a team of Union government comprising senior administrative and health officials visited containment zones and took stock of the situation on Tuesday. The team led by Dr Abhilaksh Likhi along with Dr Jugal Kishore, Dr Anil Ranga, Naval Prakash and Simarjeet Kaur visited Chandan Nagar containment zone and reviewed the monitoring system using drone. The team offered local administration to make available more drones, if required. The team also visited Devi Ahilyabai Sabji avam Fal Mandi, Chhawani Anaj Mandi, free ration packaging and distribution system at La Omni Garden. Divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi and collector Manish Singh apprised the team about efforts being made to deal with the ongoing situation and maintain the doorstep delivery of essential things to residents. During the day, Likhi held a meeting with officials concerned and reviewed efforts being made to generate public awareness. According to Dr Jugal Kishore, Covid-19 is an infectious disease and special measures should be taken to check spread in slums and densely populated areas. “It’s a general guideline to pay special attention in slums and densely populated area to help checking spread of Covid-19. Spreading awareness is not only enough but a watch should be kept on people to bring required change in their behaviour to stay away from the disease,” Dr Kishore told TOI. Giving an example, he said that tobacco chewing should be strictly prohibited in the areas and therefore, its supply and sale should be completed banned. “The disease spreads through droplets and spitting can increase its threat. To check the same, people should be discouraged to spit in public places” he said. The expert added that active actions should be taken in the said areas, which are more vulnerable to spread of the disease. “People, especially in slums and densely populated areas, should not only follow the required precautions but also pay attention on personal hygiene and maintaining cleanliness around them. Their residence should have ventilations to let fresh air and sunlight come inside as these things are helpful in check spread of the disease” doctor said. BOX On arrival of Centre’s team, district administration has issued instructions for better implementation of ongoing lockdown. Earlier, temporary barriers were erected in containment zones to prohibit movement of people but on Tuesday, workers were seen replacing the same with metal nets and iron roads. The police also tightened noose around curfew-violators while announcements were made in different areas, asking people to stay at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/central-team-bats-for-spl-measures-in-slums-populated-areas/articleshow/75281898.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested for attacking cop with stone in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Attacks on corona warriors on duty are continuing unabated despite strict penal steps against the accused. In an incident, a policeman was hit by a stone thrown at him from the roof of a house in Jodhpur’s Sadar Bazar police station area on Tuesday morning. Police have arrested two persons from the said house and have been searching for a woman who was also present on the roof. According to a senior police officer, jawan Ramlekh from SDRF, was on duty in Jawahar Khana locality on Tuesday morning. The area falls under Sadar Bazar police station and is currently under curfew. “During duty, a stone was thrown at him, which hit him on the head. He was injured badly and was rushed to the hospital immediately by fellow policemen,” the officer said. “We arrested two brothers identified as Mohd Saddam and Mohd Shahzad. Saddam had thrown the stone. The injured jawan, however, has been undergoing treatment at the hospital and has got some stitches on his head,” said SHO (Sadar Bazar) Lekhraj Sihag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-attacking-cop-with-stone-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75281911.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Two arrested for attacking cop with stone in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Attacks on corona warriors on duty are continuing unabated despite strict penal steps against the accused. In an incident, a policeman was hit by a stone thrown at him from the roof of a house in Jodhpur’s Sadar Bazar police station area on Tuesday morning. Police have arrested two persons from the said house and have been searching for a woman who was also present on the roof. According to a senior police officer, jawan Ramlekh from SDRF, was on duty in Jawahar Khana locality on Tuesday morning. The area falls under Sadar Bazar police station and is currently under curfew. “During duty, a stone was thrown at him, which hit him on the head. He was injured badly and was rushed to the hospital immediately by fellow policemen,” the officer said. “We arrested two brothers identified as Mohd Saddam and Mohd Shahzad. Saddam had thrown the stone. The injured jawan, however, has been undergoing treatment at the hospital and has got some stitches on his head,” said SHO (Sadar Bazar) Lekhraj Sihag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/two-arrested-for-attacking-cop-with-stone-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75284275.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Indore||59% positive patients of city are asymptomatic||Indore: Around 59 per cent of total Covid-19 infected people in city are asymptomatic, raising concerns over the testing pattern that needs to be followed. Asymptomatic patients are more likely to spread the disease as compared to the symptomatic ones. The spread due to asymptomatic people can only be prevented by detecting them through testing and isolating them at different facilities, said Dr Sudhir Mourya, HoD of department of medicine and nodal officer in charge of Index Medical College for Covid-19. As the disease has spread in around 170 areas of city, it is high time that mass testing be done, he said. According to records of four Covid-19 hospitals in city – MRTB Hospital, SAIMS, Index Medical College and Choithram Hospital, 59% of 779 cases admitted there till April 20 afternoon have shown no symptoms. Currently, all symptomatic persons, positive and secondary contacts of a positive person were tested with priority to high-age group in accordance to guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research. A faculty member of MGM said, “There is no need of panic. The health department has been tracing the primary and secondary contacts of positive persons through door-to-door screening and putting them in quarantine including the asymptomatic persons. Stats Analysis Hospital Symptomatic Asymptomatic Total Asymptomatic% MRTB 24 66 90 73.33 SAIMS 110 300 410 73.17 Index 157 92 249 37 Choithram 30 0 30 0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/59-positive-patients-of-city-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/75281904.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Allow copies checking at home: Teachers||Lucknow: UP deputy chief minister Dinesh Dharma’s directives to begin evaluation work of UP Board answer copies at designated evaluation centres has not gone down well among the teacher fraternity. Teachers feel that in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic travelling to centres will put their lives at risk. UP Secondary Teachers’ Association (UPSTA) has written to CM and deputy CM Sharmato allow teachers to do the evaluation at their homes. It has threatened boycott of evaluation work if their demand is not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/allow-copies-checking-at-home-teachers/articleshow/75282601.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Tile-setter before, tea seller now||I came to Nagpur from Tumsar in search of work 35 years ago and ended up working as a labourer. With passing time, I learnt tile-setting. The skill fetched me around Rs600 every day. The lockdown turned my life upside down. As the sole bread-winner of a five-member family (including wife, two daughters and son) living in a small house in Mahatma Phule Nagar, I was left with no choice but to explore other avenues. Previously I used to get work from a thiyya (a place were skilled and unskilled people gather for work) in Gokulpeth market, but now with the lockdown it is closed; and I had to sit idle at my home for several days. With no income-generating source in sight, I was getting restless and frustrated. That is when I saw an opportunity with the NMC setting up the vegetable market at Ram Nagar ground. I decided to make tea at my home and sell it there. I use around two litres of milk and sell close to 60 half-cups of tea, earning between Rs20 and Rs250. I hope this crisis gets over as soon as possible, so that we can get back to our regular work and I am able to earn a livelihood with my core skill of tile-setting. (As told to Ranjit.Deshmukh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tile-setter-before-tea-seller-now/articleshow/75281899.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Workers of sealed units arrested||MADURAI: Police have arrested the workers at the two cracker units that were sealed by the Virudhunagar district administration on Monday after they were found functioning illegally. They were later released on their own bail.One of the units, situated at Anuppankulam village near Sivakasi was functioning with 11 workers, including its owner Kanimuthu, while the other, situated at Vetrilaioorani village near Sivakasi, and owned by Murugan was functioning with four employees. The Sivakasi East police registered a case against those working at the Anuppankulam unit. They were booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.Similarly, the Vembakottai police registered a case against those working at the unit at Vetrilaioorani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/workers-of-sealed-units-arrested/articleshow/75282600.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 cases in Anand spike to 33 as six more people test positive||VADODARA/ANAND: The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Anand district has reached 33 with six more patients tested positive on Tuesday. The six new cases include four from coastal town of Khambhat and one each from Petlad and Umreth. Three women — aged 21, 35, and 63 years old — tested positive of the virus in Khambhat. The trio are residents of Dantar Wado area of Aling crossroads of Khambhat which has already been declared as containment zone in Anand district. The trio had come in close contact with a positive patient from the same locality. While two of them are being treated at Anand’s civil hospital, the elderly woman is being treated at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. The fourth positive case from Khambhat is a 45-year-old man who is resident of Lambi Oti area, opposite Darji ni vadi. He is also connected with the family that has tested positive in Dantar Wado locality. In Petlad, a 27-year-old man, who stays in a residential society located opposite to the civil hospital, has tested positive, while a 28-year-old man has tested positive in Umreth’s Kansara Bazaar area which had even earlier recorded a positive case. Meanwhile, a 62-year-old man from Khambhat, who was admitted at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad earlier this month was discharged from the hospital after his repeat test turned out to be negative. With this, of the 33 cases that Anand has recorded so far, four patients have been discharged, while two patients have succumbed to the disease. Of the rest, 16 are currently under treatment at civil hospital in Anand, nine at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad while one each are being treated at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad and S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. Four patients are currently being treated with oxygen support while the rest are normal, health officials said, adding that samples of 331 individuals have so far tested negative in the district. While 1,502 persons are under quarantine at their home, 54 others are under quarantine at government facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-cases-in-anand-spike-to-33-as-six-more-people-test-positive/articleshow/75280340.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Indore||Local spots can rejuvenate tourism sector: IIM study||Indore: Hit hard by Covid-19 pandemic, tourism sector needs a complete revamp supported by digital intervention with focus on developing local tourist spots, suggested a study by Indian Institute of Management. With domestic tourism anticipated to recover from shock first, the management institute stressed on pumping infrastructure and developing local tourist spots to attract tourists. The study laid emphasis on knowing consumer behaviour and developing products to cater to the likes of domestic tourism equipped with hassle-free connectivity and adding value to sites to help develop experiences for people. Prashant Salwan, professor of strategy and international business, Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Indore said, “The need is to revamp the sector by introducing new business strategy supported by digital intervention that will help in capturing consumer data and develop products and services as per the likes of customers.” The cascading effect of the pandemic has left the sector paralyzed with experts anticipating a year’s time in recovery. The study highlighted that of total foreign tourists visiting India just about 4 per cent comes to Madhya Pradesh while the ratio is 7.7 per cent for domestic tourists. The study stressed on developing religious circuit for state and web platform based on an integrated GIS system and GPS mobile device for studying demand mobility patterns and management. Besides emphasis on value addition to tourist spots, the study suggested iPad platform to integrate tourist contents and hotel services. Website based on a GIS system to check and plan tourist routes in rural areas. AK Rajoria, director, tourism promotion unit, MP Tourism Board said, “Sector is affected and everyone is waiting how tourists will respond after the situation gets normal. I think now people will look for safe tourism and would plan for nearest destinations first. Millennials maybe the first to start venturing out and efforts should be made to capture their likes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/local-spots-can-rejuvenate-tourism-sector-iim-study/articleshow/75281908.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Cracker manufacturers distribute 10kg rice to 30,000 employees||Madurai: The members of the cracker manufacturers’ outfits distributed 10kg rice bag each to 30,000 cracker unit employees in the Virudhunagar district on Tuesday. The members of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (TANFAMA) and the Indian Fireworks Manufacturers Association (TIFMA) have pitched in money to distribute free rice to the employees who are working in the cracker units in the district.Minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji handed over the rice bags to the employees in the presence of district collector R Kannan and general secretary of TIFMA T Kannan.Speaking to TOI, the president of TANFAMA P Ganesan said that the cracker manufacturers are taking several steps to help their employees during the lockdown. He said that about 300 tonnes of rice was purchased and brought to the Armed Reserve Ground at Sivakasi on Tuesday. The rice bags would be handed more than 30,000 cracker unit employees at their door steps using 72 vans as part of maintaining social distancing. Jamaaths in Virudhunagar district have decided to hand over the government-supplied Ramzan rice for Covid-19 relief works. The jamath members handed over a representation in this regard to the district collector recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cracker-manufacturers-distribute-10kg-rice-to-30000-employees/articleshow/75282602.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Mysuru||Dad takes ambulance to pick up stranded youth in Kushalnagar, held by cops||MADIKERI: A man who came all the way from Bengaluru with his friend and driver in an ambulance to pick up his son stranded in a friend’s house in Kushalnagar has been sent to quarantine along with others on Tuesday. According to police, Prabhakar and his friend Arifulla Sharif, both residents of Padarayanapura in Bengaluru, came to Kushalnagar in an ambulance on Tuesday. The ambulance was driven by one Aripasha. However, police stopped them on their way at Koppa Gate. The trio tried to convince police that they needed some medicine from Kushalnagar for some serious illness. But the police became suspicious and detained them. On inquiry, it was found that Prabhakar’s son Kubera came to Chikkathuru near Kushalnagar on March 15 and was staying at the residence of Jithendra, a friend of Prabhakar, to study for NEET exam. Meanwhile the lockdown was announced and Kubera could not return to his house at Padarayanapura in Bengaluru. Hence Prabhakar devised a strategy to take him back to his house. Prabhakar hired an ambulance for Rs 10,000 and reached Kushalnagar with friend Arifulla and driver Aripasha. The police have sent all of them for mass quarantine at Madikeri for misusing ambulance by filing false information and violating lockdown rules. DSP Shailendra, circle inspector Mahesh and sub-inspector Venkataramana are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dad-takes-ambulance-to-pick-up-stranded-youth-held-by-cops/articleshow/75278149.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Beware of fake callers assuring success’||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board issued a notice on Tuesday warning students and parents against fraudulent callers asking for money in lieu of helping students in securing pass marks. The notice, issued by UPSEB secretary Neena Srivastava, says that fraudsters, claiming themselves to be board employees, are assuring students help in securing pass marks in UP Board exams and sharing a savings bank account number and IFSC code for transfer of money. “Such calls only create confusion among parents and students. The dubious activity serves vested interests of the caller,” the notice adds. The notice reiterates that the evaluation of Board answersheets is still incomplete in view of coronavirus outbreak. Srivastava said such an act was punishable under the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/beware-of-fake-callers-assuring-success/articleshow/75282603.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Experts warn against felling trees due to fear of bats||Mangaluru: The fear of contracting Covid-19, which spurious reports have suggested originated among bats, has triggered a strange reaction in various parts of Karnataka: Many people have taken to felling trees that they believe are used by bats for nesting. Environmentalists and veterinarians fear that such a thoughtless move could severely affect the ecological balance. Bats, experts pointed out, fulfilled a key ecological responsibility through their involvement in pollination, seed dispersal and pest control. Dr Shrikrishna Isloor, associate professor and director of the KVAFSU-CVA Rabies Diagnostic Laboratory, Veterinary College in Bengaluru, dubbed reports of residents chopping trees that attract bats in Mysuru and Theerthahalli in Shivamogga unfortunate. “People are panicking because ‘Corona’ is common in both causative agents of Covid-19 virus and the bat CoV. Many strains of coronavirus affect cattle, dogs, cats and birds. But these different strains are not infectious to human beings,” he said. Scientific investigation conducted thus far indicates that the transmission chain of the virus hinted at the involvement of bats, but it was more likely that an intermediate animal was involved, he said. “Research conducted Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)- National Institute of Virology, Pune study shows the presence of a different kind of Coronavirus (Lineage ‘D’ of Beta Coronavirus) found in two bat species in India, where as the causative agent of Covid-19 (SARS-CoV-2) belongs to Lineage ‘B’ of Beta Corona virus. Furthermore, this Bt CoV has not been detected among the flying mammals in the state,” Dr Isloor added. Core member of the United Conservation Movement Sandeep Anirudhan attributed it to fear psychosis. “In our country, ecological literacy can be found only among 3 to 4% of the populace. We need to understand that bats are key to the survival of human beings,” Anirudhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/experts-warn-against-felling-trees-due-to-fear-of-bats/articleshow/75279484.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 22, 2020||Indore||Free ration for the city’s needy to cost IMC close to Rs 4cr||Indore: Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) seems to be running short of ration for distribution of packets among the needy. The corporation has now decided to procure raw food items on its own to ensure supply of adequate ration packets. Civic body would be spending Rs3.8 crore for procurement of essential raw food items for free distribution among needy residents. This would also include supply of selected ordered food items at specified locations in city. As per an official tender floated by Indore Smart City Development Limited (ISCDL) and its estimated cost of work, around Rs1.70 crore would be spent on procurement of pulses, Rs0.90cr would be spent on cooking oil, Rs0.34cr on sugar, and Rs0.84 crore would be spent for supply of salt, turmeric and chili powder. “We are planning to procure about 200tonne pulses, 100 tonne sugar, 100 tonne cooking oil, 100 tonne salt, and at least 2 lakh packets of turmeric and chili powder,” IMC’s additional commissioner Sandeep Soni told TOI. “About 200 tonne rice and 1000 tonne flour would be arranged through public distribution scheme,” he said. Soni claimed that more than 2.52 lakh ration packets have so far been distributed by IMC among needy people. “We are preparing and distributing at least 20,000-22,000 ration packets among needy people daily,” he claimed adding that at least 70-75 tonne raw food is used for preparing these many packets. A team of some 300 employees of IMC and 400 labourers are engaged in preparing ration packets, which are being distributed through public representatives and corporation’s zonal staff free of cost. Officials engaged in the work said that shortage of donated raw food items have prompted authorities to make arrangements to maintain the distribution chain. “Though we have a stock of raw food which donated by various social groups and individuals. But it would last for more than a week, and then it would have been difficult for us to maintain the supply,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/free-ration-for-the-citys-needy-to-cost-imc-close-to-rs-4cr/articleshow/75281910.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Indore||New automatic machine to escalate testing rate in Indore||Indore: To increase capacity of sample testing for Covid-19, MGM Medical College will install an automatic machine worth around Rs 70 lakh. The medical college has been donated Mahatma, an automated RT-PCR machine, by a IT company under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) worth around Rs 70 lakh. “The machine is likely to arrive from Bangalore within a week. It will increase testing capacity by around 600 samples,” divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi told TOI. He added that they have initiated a talk with Delhi-based laboratory to send another lot of around 1,000 samples for testing and the same are likely to be sent in a day or two. “Earlier, we were trying to send samples to Bhubaneswar but the plan didn’t work. We are now exploring possibility to send the same to Delhi,” he said. Meanwhile, former health minister Tulsiram Silawat on Tuesday took oath as minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s government. A loyalist of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, Silawat took the first decision of sending pending samples of Covid-19 in Indore to Delhi and Pune to get the samples tested. “We will send around 1500 samples for testing to Pune and Delhi which are pending in Indore. We are also working on increasing capacity of sample testing in Indore which is in the list of priority of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan,” he told media. He said that he will soon take a review meeting with officials in Indore and take all necessary actions to get things better in Indore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/new-automatic-machine-to-escalate-testing-rate-in-indore/articleshow/75281914.cms||Sagar Choukse
April 22, 2020||Indore||Pvt lab in city gets ICMR approval for Covid testing||Indore: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved Covid-19 testing in Sampurna Sodani Diagnostic Clinic for real time PCR based testing. MGM dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said this is the first private laboratory getting nod from ICMR for Covid-19 testing in Madhya Pradesh. The laboratory with testing capacity of 50 samples will begin operations from Friday. ICMR in its latest list of approved laboratories has also included Chirayu Medical college lab, Bhopal. Dr Sadhna Sodani, owner of the lab said, "ICMR has approved the lab for testing Covid-19 samples. We will begin testing soon. We had applied for approval a week ago to National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and got it within four days. Further process was completed to get the nod from ICMR.” Dr Bindal said three CBCZ machines used for genome testing in TB patients got nod for testing Covid-19 samples. “We will get the cartridge used in the machine in a couple of days and begin testing. This test will help by reducing the testing time to around half an hour from nine to 10 hours,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/pvt-lab-in-city-gets-icmr-approval-for-covid-testing/articleshow/75281915.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Enforce Covid-19 protocols earnestly, says CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Alarmed by the report of 33 persons at a Rae Bareli quarantine shelter testing positive after initial negative results, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that proper precautions must be taken and social distancing protocols strictly maintained at all isolation facilities. Coronavirus live updatesCM Yogi said the results of plasma therapy are pleasing and state should adopt it soon. “The 33 persons in quarantine at Rae Bareli tested positive after having tested negative earlier. Thankfully, they did not infect others since they were in shelter. This, however, signals that proper precautions should be taken at shelters,” said an official. Reiterating the need to scale up testing, Yogi said special arrangements should be made in districts with high infection load like Kanpur, Saharanpur and Meerut and pool testing can start.  “In Lucknow, only secretariat is functioning and since there are several hotspots in city, the CM said employees living in these areas should work from home and exercise extreme caution,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. Two institutes, including KGMU, are working on plasma therapy, Awasthi said. During Covid-19 review on Tuesday, Yogi said police, doctors and health workers should must be given protective equipment and asked hospitals to ensure PPEs, masks and sanitizers meet specified standards. As emergency services have been resumed in hospitals, government said people should visit those cleared by health department. More than 10,500 students returned from Kota and were sent home. Calls are being made to ensure they stay in 14-day quarantine, he added. Yogi ordered strict monitoring of vehicles to stop people entering UP as all borders are closed. “A truck was recently caught on Jhansi-Lalitpur border carrying people. They have been quarantined. Only vehicles carrying doctors and essentials should be allowed,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-enforce-covid-protocols-earnestly/articleshow/75282612.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Curfew passes are yet to reach all residents||Trichy: Even as the curfew pass system was implemented in the city on Monday, many of the residents still await curfew passes though the day allotted for them to go out has lapsed. Trichy Corporation had said that 2.2 lakh passes in five colours would be distributed before April 19, but residents in Bharathi Nagar and Karumandapam falling under K Abishekapuram zone did not receive their passes. For instance, residents of ward 52 were supposed to get pink colour pass so that they can go out on Mondays, but they have not got their cards even on Tuesday. “We were supposed to go out on Tuesday as per the colour code. But we were not given a pass till Tuesday evening,” said C Balasubramanian, a resident of Selva Nagar in ward 45. The failure to hand over curfew passes has made residents wait till next week. “Bill collectors and animators have distributed the curfew passes to 95% of the houses. We will identify the missed out parts and hand over the passes,” a source in Trichy Corporation said. However, the civic body lacks a plan for residents who have missed their chance to step out as they were not provided passes till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/curfew-passes-are-yet-to-reach-all-residents/articleshow/75281916.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Interest waiver on dues of industries||LUCKNOW: To provide some relief to industrial and commercial units which have been facing unprecedented losses under the ongoing lockdown, UP government has announced a waiver of interest charges on all kinds of dues payable between March 22 and June 30, 2020. The scheme will be applicable if dues are cleared by June 30, 2020. “In view of the financial crisis faced by these units and to trigger economic activity in UP, the government has given an exemption in interest on dues of industrial and commercial institutions for three months,” said industries minister Satish Mahana. Principal secretary, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar issued notices to Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway, UP State Industrial Development, Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority, Satharia Industrial Development Authority and the Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Ltd to exempt interest on late payment of all types of dues that are to be paid by industrial, commercial and institutional units between March 22 and June 30. In order to avail the exemption, a unit will have to make a request to the concerned industrial development authority either online or through email. However, if the dues are not cleared by June 30, 2020, interest will be payable for the entire moratorium period. It may be noted that the payment of lease rent and water charges for the period up to June 30, 2020, have been already postponed by the three authorities of National Capital Region — Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/interest-waiver-on-dues-of-industries/articleshow/75282606.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 22, 2020||India||Disaster Management Act allows govt to call out Army||NEW DELHI: The West Bengal administration’s refusal to provide assistance to the two Inter-Ministerial Central Teams despatched to assist the state can have serious security implications if provisions of the Disaster Management Act are examined as they empower the Centre to deploy military or paramilitary to enforce guidelines issued by the home ministry in any part of the country. Given the sensitivity of the Covid-19 situation, the Centre may choose persuasion or even a hard nudge rather than invoke the more stringent provisions of the law. As it is, the Trinamool Congress has raised the issue of federalism and an emotive outburst of populist emotions will worry the Centre. But at present, the DM Act has been invoked to put the country under lockdown till May 3. The Act overrides all existing laws in the country. In addition, Section 35(2)(f) of the Act empowers the Centre to deploy military or any central paramilitary force to effectively enforce implementation of the guidelines issued under the Act. States are bound to comply with central directives and “make available their resources” to the central team for “responding promptly and effectively to any disaster in the state”. In case of West Bengal, preliminary reports received by the home ministry had indicated “violence on frontline healthcare professionals, complete violations of social distancing norms outside banks, PDS shops and in market places and movement of private and commercial vehicles with passengers in urban areas”. Though in its communication to the chief secretary, the Centre only quoted Sections 35(1), 35(2)(a), 35(2)(e) and 35(2)(i) that talk about coordination, cooperation and securing effective implementation of the DM Act, there are other provisions that provide for arrest of a state official if he or she refuses to abide by the central directives. If there is a showdown between the Centre and states in implementation of disaster management guidelines, the Act empowers the Centre for “deployment of naval, military and air force, other armed forces of the Union or any other civilian personnel as may be required for the purposes of this Act”. While Sections 38 and 39 of the Act make it compulsory that resources of the state are made available to the central team for “responding promptly and effectively” to the disaster, Sections 55 and 56 provide for punishment of up to one year and with fine on failure of any officer of the state “in duty or his connivance at the contravention of the provisions of the Act”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disaster-management-act-allows-govt-to-call-out-army/articleshow/75283408.cms||Pradeep Thakur
April 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Admission of symptomatic cases drops by 60% in a day||Thiruvananthapuram: For the first time in last three weeks, the number of symptomatic people being hospitalized in the district came below 50 on Tuesday. The figures showed a 60% dip from previous day’s statistics as the number dropped from 97 to 38. A major percentage of symptomatic persons were admitted at General Hospital and Medical College Hospital. The capital has seen a cumulative total of more than 100 people with symptoms being hospitalized. Thiruvananthapuram was next to Kasaragod and Kannur when it came to symptomatic people being hospitalized while the number under this category has been dipping in other districts. Since April 1, number of symptomatic persons under hospitalization had increased from 77 to 106 and more than 20 people were being hospitalized on a daily basis with symptoms in the last two weeks. It was during the last week of March, the district witnessed a spurt in cumulative number of persons being hospitalized with symptoms. In the second week of March, when the district reported the first bout of cases, an average of 40-60 persons were hospitalized with symptoms in the district. The total number crossed 100 on March 26. The health authorities attributed a higher cumulative total of symptomatic persons in hospitals to revised guidelines in testing and admission as well as implementation of enhanced surveillance. The health department had issued two guidelines on testing, quarantine and admission on March 12 and March 31. In the revised advisory issued on March 31, testing was mandated for all hospitalized patients with SARI, all symptomatic healthcare workers who have taken care of Covid-19 patients or all symptomatic healthcare workers in case of established community transmission. Besides, testing is now mandated for all symptomatic persons who have attended mass gatherings, festivals, funerals in the last 14 days where people from abroad are likely to have attended. At present the district has 1,349 people under home isolation. 89 samples received on Tuesday were negative. 45 people are under surveillance at a care home in Mar Ivanios hostel. A total of 201 people completed quarantine period without disease symptoms on Tuesday. Around 11,144 passengers from 6,693 vehicles have been screened at Amaravila, Kozhivila, Inchivila, Aarukani, Vellarada, Karakonam, Attupuram, Thattathumala, Kappil and Madathara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/admission-of-symptomatic-cases-drops-by-60-in-a-day/articleshow/75279528.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru-origin doc in US honoured in front of house||Mysuru: Dr Uma Rani Madhusudana (inpic), a physician at the MidState Medical Centre of South Windsor Hospital in Connecticut, US, and an alumna of JSS Medical College in Mysuru, made it to headlines across the globe on Tuesday after she was honoured in front of her house by the South Windsor town community people . A video clip of the incident has gone viral in the social media and it shows an entourage of people driving their cars and cheering for the Mysuru-origin doctor along with police cars and fire engines honking and blaring the sirens. Dr Uma can also be seen standing in her front yard and waving at the parade. While her batchmates and the medical fraternity hailed her service in the the fight against Covid-19, non-resident Indians across the US shared the clip on social media. Speaking to TOI, Dr H Basavanagowdappa, principal of the JSS Medical College, said: “Uma Madhusudana is from our college and belongs to 1990 batch. She had very good academic record and was outstanding throughout her stint at the college.” He said Uma was also equally good at sports. “She was best outgoing student during her batch. After completing MBBS from our college, she went to US to do fellowship in infectious diseases. We are very proud about service towards treating Covid-19 patients in US. It’s really nice to see such appreciation from people,” he added. B Suresh, pro-chancellor of the JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, said: “We are proud of the recognition that Dr Uma has received for her selfless service. She has become a symbol of commitment that health professionals have towards their society. We congratulate her for the good work.” “This serves as an example for us on how we should recognise the selfless services of thousands of Covid warriors in our country who work day and night for our safety. Let us also salute them for the same,” he added. Dr TS Rekha, associate professor, department of pathology, JSS Medical College and Dr Uma’s MBBS batchmate, said: “Uma used to reside in Saraswathipuram when she was in Mysuru. She pursued her primary and secondary education in Mysuru itself. She attended Marimallappa College for secondary education. She had been a very dedicated, hardworking student since then,” she said. “In her student life itself she had set a few goals. She is part of our batch’s WhatsApp group which has 200 members. She often shares her experience in treating Covid-19 patients with us,” she said. “We are all very proud of her achievement,” Rekha added. The video was also shared on Twitter by state medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar. He captioned it: “As I head to Mysuru, happy to share a video of Uma Madhusudhan, Mysuru-origin doctor in US being honoured in front of her house by grateful patients. It’s a beautiful sight of cars, police vehicles, fire trucks lining up in gratitude, waving and honking to say Thank you Dr Uma!” The minister was in Mysuru on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 scenario in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-origin-doc-in-us-honoured-in-front-of-house/articleshow/75278208.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 22, 2020||Trichy||State highways commence Karur Road widening work||TRICHY: Using the poor vehicle movement and the dry Cauvery river bed, the state highways department has commenced the work on widening the narrow Karur Road. As a part of the Rs 55-crore project, the highways department has commenced the foundation work on a retaining wall along a portion of the road that borders the Cauvery to eliminate the black spots causing fatal accidents. The 11-km narrow stretch of Karur Road serves as a crucial link connecting the western districts with Trichy and other delta districts. In the past five years at least 82 fatal accidents happened on the road due to its narrow width and sharp curves. Owing to the demand from local people, the state government had sanctioned Rs 55 crore to widen the Karur Road in August 2019. While a tender was floated in March 2020 and a contractor was identified, the lockdown imposed to combat the spread of Covid-19 had stalled the proposal. Meanwhile, foreseeing the Aadi Perukku festival to be celebrated in August 2020 that will witness discharge of water in the Cauvery, the highways department has taken up the work on a portion of the road that requires men and machinery to enter the riverbed. Since water flow may hamper the construction of the retaining wall for 4-6 months, the highways department has launched the civil work amidst the lockdown. The width of the road near Thiruchendurai will increased from 7 metre to 10.5 metre. “We will complete the 250-metre-long retaining wall in two months. Gradually, the ground filling and road widening work will be taken up once the lockdown is lifted,” a state highways department official said. Social distancing will be ensured during the civil work, the highways department added. Karur road widening Length: 11 km Current width: 7 metre After widening: 10.5 metre Estimated Cost: Rs 55 crore Fatal accidents since 2015: 82 Non-fatal accidents since 2015: 229||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-highways-commence-karur-road-widening-work/articleshow/75281920.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||UPEIDA to meet Diwali deadline||LUCKNOW: The UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) is finding itself in a race against time to complete the Purvanchal Expressway project by Diwali this year. UPEIDA sources said the 340-km long Purvanchal Expressway connecting Lucknow with Ghazipur, has been delayed by a month due to the lockdown. UPEIDA is planning to rework its strategy to accelerate the project, sources said. The state government had in February announced that the expressway would be opened for public use by Diwali. According to UPEIDA sources, around 42% of the work has been completed after the acquisition of 100% land for the project. “We need to expedite the project for remaining 58% work. For this, a strategy will have to be devised afresh to meet the time limit,” a senior official at UPEIDA said. UPEIDA chief executive officer Awanish Awasthi said, “As against 10,000 workers only 4,835 workers are working at the site. All district magistrates have been asked to get labourers examined before being roped in for work in eight packages. We would expedite the project as fast as we can,” he said. Awasthi said work on three out of six packages in Budelkhand Expressway had also been started. Here too, only 2,150 workers against the requirement of 6,000 are working. Sources said while UPEIDA has roped in labourers at the site, the authority is taking precautionary measures in view of coronavirus crisis which is potentially slowing down the process. “Many labourers have returned to their homes, while some are residing near the site itself. We expect them to return so that the expressway project could be restarted at its desired pace,” said a UPEIDA official, adding that the situation vis-à-vis expressway project would be clear only after the lifting of lockdown. “Our first priority is to see when absolute normalcy returns and what kind of freedom is being given so far as the expressway projects are concerned. It would be premature to say anything at this point of time,” he said. According to sources, once the project picks up pace, the authority may bring in additional labourers to complete construction within the stipulated time limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-to-meet-diwali-deadline/articleshow/75282618.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Why Chennai remains a Covid-19 hotspot||CHENNAI: One in every five Covid-19-positive cases in Tamil Nadu till Monday was reported in Chennai, making it the largest hotspot in the state. With 303 of the 1,520 across the state, the capital registers an average of 13 cases a day. The rate of increase in Chennai is much higher when compared to Coimbatore, which has the second largest number of cases, 134. Coimbatore records a daily average of seven cases, while Tirupur, which has 109 cases, reports an average of five cases a day. Coronavirus live updatesOn Sunday, Chennai reported 50 cases, nearly half of the 105 cases in the state. The next day, when the number of cases in the state dropped to 45, Chennai topped the list with 18. On Tuesday, 55 of the 76 people who tested positive in TN were from Chennai. After more than four weeks of lockdown, the number of people with travel history testing positive has dropped drastically, but a large number of their close contacts are now testing positive. A majority of such cases are in north Chennai. While the state as whole deals with the Tablighi Jamaat cluster and their contacts, Chennai has a second cluster emerging: among journalists. "We now have a new cluster among journalists and media personnel in the Chennai. There is already a cluster of about a dozen healthcare workers, including seven doctors at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital," said a senior epidemiologist tracking cases at the state control room. Each person in this group is considered a primary source. "We will be testing their close contacts and family to see if the infection has spread. As of now we don’t know if there are clusters from visitors of Pheonix Mall where two employees tested positive. We have not tested people who visited the place," the doctor said. The pattern in Chennai is similar to that of many metros, said director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy. "Chennai is densely populated and hence the spread is more rapid," he said. A more densely populated Mumbai bears 44% of Maharashtra’s load, Hyderabad has 39% of Telangana’s cases, Bengaluru houses 24% of Karnataka’s cases and Kolkata 26% of Bengal’s positive cases. In a densely populated area the spread of infection is faster. For instance, for every primary source tested positive, the number of their family members and contacts testing positive is higher in Chennai than any other district. Officials say that more samples are drawn in urban centres than in rural areas. Chennai has the largest number of testing facilities and hospitals in the state. Nearly half of the 33 testing laboratories are in Chennai. "The number of samples drawn is relatively more in cities. When you test more people, you see more positive cases," said Kolandasamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-chennai-remains-a-hotspot/articleshow/75281921.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Streets and shops in Chennai still crowded||CHENNAI: The number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise, but markets have been crowded and arterial stretches like Anna Salai choked with vehicles since Monday when many central government offices reopened. Greater Chennai Corporation ordered temporary closure of around 60 markets and meat shops and police daily seize 1,000 vehicles of those violating prohibitory orders. However, places like the Koyambedu wholesale market, shops in Arumbakkam, Ice House and Sunday meat shops remain crowded. Loop Road near the Marina Beach, shut from March 22 to April 15, reopened this week. Enforcing physical distancing continues to be a dream for the authorities. A M Vikramaraja, president of Federation of Tamil Nadu Traders’ Association, said, shop-keepers could not be blamed. "In most places, against a staff of six employees in a shop, only two remain. The limited work force will try to run the business and can’t focus on maintaining social distancing among customers every time," he said. People should cooperate with shopkeepers, but most buyers were keen on picking up essentials before they ran out of stock, he added. A state revenue department official said sealing crowded shops had paid dividends in some areas. In the commercial hub of T Nagar, a makeshift market on Venkatnarayana Road was closed. Soon, other shops including those on the roadside followed norms strictly. Besides commercial activities, the government too is contributing to the chaos by holding press meets despite several journalists having tested positive for Covid-19. Social distancing norms can be barely followed in cramped press rooms at the state secretariat and other public buildings. There has been an increase in the number of containment zones in the city. From around 40 a few weeks ago, it has reached 113 now, according to official data. These streets are barricaded with 24-hour monitoring by corporation officials and police in three shifts. In the last two weeks, officials said, the corporation collected swabs of people inside the containment zone and only 0.6% of them tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/streets-and-shops-in-city-still-crowded/articleshow/75281941.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||106 new cases take UP tally to 1,364||Lucknow: UP’s Covid tally again crossed 100 even as the state reported three deaths on Tuesday. With 106 cases during the day, UP’s overall tally reached 1,364. Health officials said the overall tally of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat was 860, which is over 63% of the total cases in UP. While 28 persons were discharged after full recovery, the death reached 22. The total number of recovered patients is now 164. Two deaths were reported from Moradabad and one from Aligarh. In Moradabad, a nurse working at private hospital and deputed on quarantine duty died late on Monday night. Another Covid positive patient undergoing treatment died in the afternoon. The biggest jump was again recorded in Agra where 38 cases were reported. Rae Bareli followed next with 33 cases. Health officials said 19 of these persons were jamaat attendees while the remaining were their contacts. Rae Bareli DM Shubhra Saxena said 16 of then were residents of Saharanpur. As many as 15 cases were reported in Moradabad. Of these, five allegedly attacked a medical team and police at Nawabpura locality in Moradabad on April 15. As a result, the entire staff of Nagphani police station was quarantined. In addition to these, 10 other covid positive cases, including a doctor and nurse working at a quarantine centre, surfaced in the district, taking the overall tally to 69. Lucknow tally reached 169 with two new cases. Cases were also reported in Meerut (6), Bulandshahr (3) Auraiya (3) Saharanpur (2) and Bijnor (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/106-new-cases-take-up-tally-to-1364/articleshow/75282629.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Number of containment zones doubles in a day||KOLKATA: A section of Briji near Patuli and a pocket of Haltu in Kasba were among several new neighbourhoods that were sealed on Tuesday as Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police decided to expand the number of confinement zones to near twice that of Monday to ring-fence the contagion. The localities that were added to the list on Tuesday were those from where fresh cases of people suffering from cough, fever and respiratory distress, all Covid-like symptoms, have been reported recently. The area around Buroshibtala in Briji was cordoned off after an elderly woman suffering from cancer showed the symptoms. In Haltu, another woman with similar symptoms was sent to isolation before the locality was barricaded. Sources in KMC confirmed that the civic brass had held talks with senior officers from police headquarters Lalbazar regarding expansion of containment areas to try and break the infection chain before it spread its tentacles to more parts of the city. Already, much of north, south-west and south east-Kolkata are under extensive lockdown. “We are expanding the confinement list from 68 to 112 locations. In the first list, 27 areas had been identified as high-risk zones where the lockdown was extremely strict to reduce human activity to a trickle in order to gain control of the Covid-19 spread,” a KMC official told TOI. The team is working out on which of the new areas will be categorized as high-risk. According to a civic official, KMC and Kolkata Police teams have already embarked on an intensive anti-Covid drive since the second week of April. But the situation changed dramatically last week when new Covid-19 positive cases began emerging from fresh areas. Suddenly, fresh pockets of the city like Colootola, Jorabagan, Entally, Ananda Palit Road, Elliot Road, Ballygunge, Garia and large parts of Behala threw up multiple cases, leaving public health officials floundering. “The manner in which the virus is infecting people, we need to not only expand the containment zones but take stern measures, including punitive action against lockdown flouters, to ensure people remain indoors and maintain social distance. Police have been asked to get tough with those who violate Covid-19 guidelines,” said a KMC official in charge of the anti-Covid drive. There was hectic activity at both the police HQ in Lalbazar and at the civic headquarters on SN Banerjee Road. “It’s not a panic situation yet. But it is serious. We need to enlarge the containment zones and ensure that more people fall in line with our drive and obey Covid guidelines” said an officer at Lalbazar. Both KMC and police, meanwhile, conducted disinfection drives in a north Kolkata neighbourhood off Bidhan Sarani. These drives are aimed at not only destroying the virus but also to dispel fear among residents. A 60-year-old with symptoms of Covid-19 had died after respiratory trouble, triggering panic in the Jorasanko area. The health department said the woman’s test results were awaited. Her family members are in quarantine. Police along with local councillors charted out a strategy on supply of essentials in the lockdown areas where residents are barred from exiting and outsiders banned from entering. “The whole idea is to ensure that residents avail of the essential requirements at home and don’t step out. We have spoken to the vendors at the local markets to ensure undisrupted supplies,” said a councillor. Police officers said stringent lockdown was needed to curb errant youths and a section of hyper-active local residents who were refusing to sit at home. Police have roped in youths from local clubs to help KMC and police enforce the lockdown by providing services like doorstep delivery of essentials to residents and information on flouting by residents to police,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/number-of-containment-zones-doubles-in-a-day/articleshow/75280919.cms||Saikat Ray
April 22, 2020||Vadodara||CHARUSAT won’t hike fees for 2020-21||VADODARA: Changa-based Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT) has decided not to hike fees in any of its courses for the academic year 2020-21. University officials said this decision was taken to give some financial respite to parents and students who have been impacted by lockdown. “Our fight against coronavirus has taken a great toll on employments and industries. Looking at the current situation, it is quite evident that it will take some time before normalcy returns. Keeping this in mind, the entire board of CHARUSAT has consented to keep the fees the same for the next academic year,” the university said in a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/charusat-wont-hike-fees-for-20-21/articleshow/75280371.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Rs 500 grocery kits available at ration shops from today||TRICHY: Family cardholders can buy grocery kits worth Rs 500 containing 19 items from their regular PDS shops from Wednesday onwards. Each bag, which is packed by the co-operatives department, will contain turmeric powder, salt, sunflower oil, urad dal, channa dal, split gram, garlic, pepper, cumin, mustard, onion, tamarind, pottu kadalai and spices. The sale would commence from Wednesday. Collector S Sivarasu has appealed cardholders to maintain social distance while purchasing the kits from the ration shops. The district administration has also joined hands with the cooperative, horticulture and agriculture marketing departments to supply fresh vegetables at the doorstep of the general public in the district. Mobile vans are also being operated to take vegetables at people's doorsteps. To help the people finding it hard to meet both ends, the government has taken this initiative to provide required grocery to the needy at affordable price, the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-500-grocery-kits-available-at-ration-shops-from-today/articleshow/75281929.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Markets in Kolkata shut at 11.30am to avoid shoppers’ rush||KOLKATA: The government on Tuesday ordered local markets to wrap up business by 11.30am after usual scenes of people crowding grocery stores and vegetable stalls kept playing out till late evenings, making a mockery of lockdown rules. Health experts and those in the administration had raised alarm when despite several warnings, business continued as usual in these markets with hundreds shopping like they did prior to the lockdown. According to members of the associations of different markets TOI spoke to, police have warned non-compliance will attract penalty, invite legal action against the market association president and secretary and even lead to the market being indefinite shut down. On Monday, cops held meeting with associations to instruct that the market must shut by 11.30am from Tuesday onwards and urge customers to wear masks and maintain social distance. Officers from local police stations on Tuesday visited local markets make sure that every shops downed shutters on time. Some constables were even seen helping vendors pack vegetables in gunny bags to meet the 11.30am deadline. “Most markets were becoming a problem point with too many people assembling there every day. Initially, we tried restricting the number of people inside the markets but that did not work. The shops would be open till late evening and people would continue to shop like normal times and that was defeating the purpose of lockdown. On Monday, it was decided that markets will not be allowed to remain open the whole day,” said a senior police officer. On Tuesday, traders at Gariahat Market started shutting up the shops by 11am. “By the time we have catered to the last customer, it would be 11.30am,” said Swapan Sadhu, a grocery store owner. Apart from shutting the markets early, the cops have also handed over a list of other guidelines to the associations, like keeping most of the gates shut, ensuring every customer is wearing a mask and no dumping of goods in common passages. “We opened only two gates out of the 12 on Tuesday. The shop owners have been told to wrap up by 11.30am strictly,” said Bikash Samanta of the Tiretta Bazar Traders’ Welfare Association. At Entally Market, customers were given masks and their hands were sanitised while entering the market on Tuesday. “Even the shop keepers are also wearing masks and gloves,” said Tarak Nath Trivedi, secretary of the association at Entally Market. Sourav Agarwal, who visits his local market in central Kolkata once in four days, was taken aback when he saw the market shut at noon on Tuesday. “I either go at 8am or just before noon to avoid the crowd. But on Tuesday, when I visited the market, it was shut. Some shopkeepers who were leaving the premises told me about the new restrictions. I hope the police also makes arrangement so that the crowd does not swell during the three-and-a-half-hour time,” said the resident of Rabindra Sarani. The change of timing and location has prompted locals to tweak their day-to-day routine. Following a revised guideline from the municipal authority, at least two vegetable markets in Dum Dum Municipality were relocated on Tuesday. Durganagar market was shifted to Badra and Mall Road market to near Central Jail more. “After the lockdown was in force, I used to go to the market twice a week and buy vegetables in bulk. Now it will not be possible for me to carry such heavy bags from a far-off location but it will be good for social distancing,” Biswas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/markets-shut-at-11-30am-to-avoid-shoppers-rush/articleshow/75280943.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan offers buses to ferry students to their states||JAIPUR: The state government is going all out to help other states in taking their students from Kota. They have offered state transport buses to neighbouring states on need basis. The state has breathed a sigh of relief since after UP, four more states — Assam, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and MP — have received nod from the Centre to take their students back from Kota. The local administration wanted the students to go back to their respective states as soon as possible so that they could focus on locals in Kota. The coaching town has recorded over 100 cases, all in the last 10 days. “The students are in the age group of 14 to 21 years which means the majority of them are minors and vulnerable to stress, anxiety and depression while living alone. A considerable number of health workers and officials have been deputed in the coaching areas to take care of them. The situation becomes difficult for us since the cases started surfacing,” said a government official. After the exit of 8,500 students along with 1,000 parents, Kota has another 35,000 students from other states living in in hostels and rented places including 10,000 from Bihar. The evacuation of Madhya Pradesh students is likely to start from Wednesday. Around 100 buses from Bhopal are likely to reach in Kota late on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-offers-buses-to-ferry-students-to-their-states/articleshow/75281965.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur farmer donates pension to CM’s relief fund||Udaipur: In a heartwarming gesture, a farmer and a senior citizen from Udaipur’s Vallabh Nagar block donated Rs 750, his entire pension for March, to the state government’s efforts to fight the novel coronavirus pandemic. Vallabhnagar SDM Shailesh Surana said Heeralal, a marginal farmer from Maharaj ki Khedi village, donated his senior citizen pension given by the state government to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. The officer was quite surprised when the old man walked into his office on Monday. “At a time when most people come to us with some or other grievance, we were pleasantly surprised when this old farmer said he wanted to contribute to the relief fund the small amount he had,” Surana said. The old man handed over a cheque of Rs 750 to the officer. The amount has been duly deposited in the CM's relief fund as per his desire. “The pandemic has hit the entire world and India very badly and governments are having a tough time providing medical facilities, food and shelter for the needy sections. When our government is taking care of the necessities of people, it is our duty to help the government if we are in a comfortable position. I know my contribution is nothing in comparison to the huge need. But if this gesture can inspire others, my effort would have paid off,” Heeralal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-farmer-donates-pension-to-cms-relief-fund/articleshow/75281967.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP Assembly Speaker HN Dixit: House panels should meet online||LUCKNOW: UP Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit has hinted at holding meetings of legislative committees through video-conferencing. Interacting with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla during his video-conference with state presiding officers on Tuesday, Dixit said that the functioning of legislative committees has come to a standstill due to the lockdown and the backlog is piling up. Dixit advised the LS speaker for holding virtual meetings to address public issues. Birla, who was talking to state presiding officers from Parliament, was trying to assess how state assemblies would resume normal functioning when the lockdown ends on May 3. Dixit said that as per Constitution every state assembly should meet at least once in six months. Many states are facing the deadline for holding such sittings, he said, seeking the LS speaker's advice on how to meet this constitutional obligation without violating the lockdown norms. Birla said that he would discuss the matter with constitutional experts to decide the future course of action. On the novel coronavirus front, the UP assembly speaker informed Birla that MLAs and MLCs of the state as well as ministers have donated a handsome part of their salaries, allowances and development funds to the CM cares fund. The CM is also leaving no stone unturned to fight against the Covid-19, he said adding that Yogi Adityanath did not even attend last rites of his father who died in AIIMS in New Delhi on Monday, citing lockdown rules and his commitment to the people of his state in this testing times. Later, the LS Speaker praised the state government for the successful conduct of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association's conference in Lucknow in February. He said that the outcome of the CPA conference was very constructive. Birla also told Dixit that committees formed by him for the smooth functioning of legislative assemblies and Parliament should submit their reports soon so that their suggestions could be implemented at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dixit-house-panels-should-meet-online/articleshow/75282635.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NCC cadets make masks for frontline workers||Thiruvananthapuram: Lending a helping hand to the frontline workers engaged in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, the cadets under ‘4 Kerala NCC Battalion’ at Neyyatinkara are making home-made face masks to be distributed among the former. As many as 10 cadets under the battalion have been utilizing their time during lockdown to stitch masks at home. The first batch of as many as 1,200 masks will be handed over to the health, police and fire and rescue services officials at Neyyatinkara on Wednesday. According to Naib Subaidar V S Arun of 4 Kerala NCC Battalion, students of three different higher education institutions – Government Polytechnic College in Neyyatinkara, Christian College in Kattakkada and VTM NSS College in Dhanuvachapuram – are involved in the initiative. “There are 500 cadets in these institutions out of which 40, who know stitching stepped forward to offer help,” said Arun. Since it was not possible to bring the cadets together at a single location owing to the lockdown, the battalion authorities selected 10 cadets and supplied cotton fabric at their doorsteps. In a week’s time, the cadets made 1,200 masks. More masks will be produced in the coming days. The finished masks were collected from the residences of the cadets and packed by the battalion officials. On Wednesday, commanding officer of 4 Kerala NCC Battalion, Colonel L Ajai Raj, will officially receive the masks from the cadets and will be handed over to the officials of Neyyatinkara General Hospital, police station, fire station and post office. Meanwhile, the NCC officers of Kerala and Lakshadweep have donated Rs 1 lakh worth masks and hand sanitizers to the state government. Higher education minister K T Jaleel received the kit from the officers here on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ncc-cadets-make-masks-for-frontline-workers/articleshow/75279597.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Tile-setter before, tea seller now||I came to Nagpur from Tumsar in search of work 35 years ago and ended up working as a labourer. With passing time, I learnt tile-setting. The skill fetched me around Rs600 every day. The lockdown turned my life upside down. As the sole bread-winner of a five-member family (including wife, two daughters and son) living in a small house in Mahatma Phule Nagar, I was left with no choice but to explore other avenues. Previously I used to get work from a thiyya (a place were skilled and unskilled people gather for work) in Gokulpeth market, but now with the lockdown it is closed; and I had to sit idle at my home for several days. With no income-generating source in sight, I was getting restless and frustrated. That is when I saw an opportunity with the NMC setting up the vegetable market at Ram Nagar ground. I decided to make tea at my home and sell it there. I use around two litres of milk and sell close to 60 half-cups of tea, earning between Rs20 and Rs250. I hope this crisis gets over as soon as possible, so that we can get back to our regular work and I am able to earn a livelihood with my core skill of tile-setting. (Raju Masarke spoke to TOI’s Ranjit.Deshmukh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tile-setter-before-tea-seller-now/articleshow/75281952.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Barricades come up in Bidhannagar sensitive zones, neighbouring areas||KOLKATA: From carrying out regular sanitization drive to responding to distress calls, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) is reaching out to residents of the containment zones — pockets of Baguiati, Jyangra, Hatiara and Raghunathpur — under its jurisdiction. The areas were sealed by the authorities after suspected Covid-19 cases were reported from areas like Narayantala West, Teghoria, Dhalipara, Raghunathpur Monshatola and Kaikhali. To stop the spread of virus, these areas have been barricaded and shops have been closed. Round-the-clock patrolling and announcements are being made to keep people indoors. The civic authorities and police are jointly checking vehicles to ensure unnecessary entry into and exit from the localities. However, the authorities are ensuring steady supply of medicines and essentials like vegetables and fish. Relief materials are also being distributed among locals. The community roadside markets — Mondalgathi market, Arjunpur market, Baguiati Bazar and Jangra market — in the containment zones have been shifted to nearby playgrounds. “We are taking all necessary measures in the containment zones with the help of police. We are following all instructions from the health department. The councillors are reaching out to people to look after their needs,” said Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty. The civic authorities along with health workers have started door-to-door fever survey in the containment zones. Ward 41 councillor Anindya Chatterjee has been conducting thermal screening of shopkeepers and people coming to the market places in his ward over the last few days. A few Covid-19 cases have been reported in adjacent Golaghata, Sreebhumi Kabarsthan and Dakshindari areas under South Dum Dum Municipality. Grocery and vegetable shops in these localities have been asked to supply materials inside this area. Local clubs are being involved for home delivery on call. Odd-and-even method for opening stalls has been implemented on alternative days to prevent crowding. In New Town, New Town Kolkata Development Authority has shifted the Atharotola roadside market to an adjacent field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/barricades-come-up-in-bidhannagar-sensitive-zones-neighbouring-areas/articleshow/75280995.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Local political rivalry, drug peddlers behind Padarayanapura violence||BENGALURU: A fight for supremacy between local political rivals -- JD(S) councillor Imran Pasha and Congress functionary Altaf Khan — is said to have led to the attack on health workers and subsequent vandalism at Padarayanapura on Sunday. Altaf’s wife Seema represents the neighbouring Jagajeevanram Nagar ward in the BBMP council. Some also suspect drug peddlers in the locality could have goaded the vandals. Imran and Altaf have been at loggerheads since 1999. Both vied for supremacy in the area and Padaryanapura started witnessing bloody gang wars before the duo plunged into active politics. Imran followed in the footsteps of his father Arif Pasha, who was a BBMP councillor from Padarayanapura, and contested election in 2010. But Altaf was his stumbling block as he too was nursing political ambitions. While Altaf’s electoral bids remained unsuccessful, Imran won twice from Padarayanapura. The sealing of Padarayanapura and Jagajeevanram Nagar, after they were identified as Covid-19 hotspots, worsened the rivalry, with both camps wanting to beat each other in helping the needy. “Group clashes between Imran and Altaf are nothing new. But it took a murky twist as the two camps competed to reach out to people. Unfortunately, it ended up with miscreants attacking health workers,” said MB Adinarayana, a social worker. The imposing presence of Chamarajpet MLA BZ Zameer Khan, whose constituency covers both wards, further fuelled the rivalry, with the legislator seen to be partial towards Altaf. People of Padrayanapura had been complaining that ration kits were being diverted to Jagajeevanram Nagar. Things came to a head on Sunday when Zameer and Altaf took charge of the funeral rites of the 65-year-old woman, who succumbed to Covid-19, ignoring Imran. “The people who attacked the health workers actually wanted to ask the authorities why Padarayanapura wasn’t getting food kits while they were going to Jagajeevanram Nagar. Meanwhile, some miscreants joined and started vandalism,” said a BBMP official, who was part of the team that went to Padarayanapura to escort primary and secondary contacts to a quarantine camp. Zameer said it was a mess created by the rival camps aiming to score political brownie points. “I knew something is brewing and that’s why I asked the officials not to venture into the area after dark. We could have gone in the morning to ferry the contacts to quarantine. However, my statement was misconstrued,” said Zameer. Some also feel the violence was stage-managed by drug peddlers, who were upset about Padarayanapura being sealed off. “The Congress party has taken note of all dimensions of the incident. We will take Zameer’s account before deciding on the next course of action,” said KPCC working president Saleem Ahmad. Meanwhile, senior police officials met leaders of both camps and warned them against such incidents in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/local-political-rivalry-drug-peddlers-behind-padarayanapura-violence/articleshow/75281543.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||15 penalised for not wearing masks in Kota||Kota: At least 15 persons were fined Rs 100 each in Kanwas town of Kota district for not wearing face masks on Tuesday. Amid the pandemic, Rajasthan government made it mandatory on April 9 to wear masks in public and in case of non compliance of the same, ordered to prosecute under Section 51 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, with provision of monetary fine or imprisonment extending upto one year or both on conviction. A team of Nayab Tehsildar Surendra Sharma and SHO, Kanwas police station Vishnu Singh on Tuesday during taking a round in the markets of Kanwas town, spotted people roaming at various places without wearing masks, SDM, Kanwas Rajesh Daga said. The team first convinced the people on the significance of wearing masks and taking action under Section 51 of Disaster Management Act 2005, imposed fines on 15 people , he further said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-penalised-for-not-wearing-masks-in-kota/articleshow/75281966.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Hold namaz at home during Ramzan, urge Muslim bodies||Jaipur: Muslim bodies and religious leaders have urged the members of the community to stay indoors during the month of Ramzan, which would start either from April 24 or 25. Rajasthan Waqf Board, which governs 5,678 mosques and 1,010 Sufi shrines in the state, directed them to not allow special prayers and breaking of the day-long fast in groups during the month of Ramzan. Khanu Khan Budhwali, chairman of the board, said that any Muslim stepping out for prayers will be legally charged for violating the law. “It is clear that coronavirus is a highly infectious disease and any Muslim heading to attend prayers will violate the Islamic rules for pandemic and the country’s law,” said Budhwali, who added that every mosque can have four persons including the Imam for holding the regular prayers. Similar appeal has been made by Ajmer Dargah dewan Syed Zainul Abedin Ali Khan, who has urged the Muslim community to remain at home during the month of Ramzan and asked to avoid any gatherings during the holy month. He asked the community spread across the globe to offer namaz at home and not to go to mosques for the same. “Even at home you should maintain social distancing during the prayers and while breaking the fast,” said Khan in his message. He asked the community members to avoid gatherings for Roza Iftar, a ritual wherein people who fast have their meals together. He also requested them to keep social distancing in mind during the Iftar at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hold-namaz-at-home-during-ramzan-urge-muslim-bodies/articleshow/75281968.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hubballi||Davanagere will get Covid-19 testing lab in a week: Min||Davanagere: A Covid-19 testing laboratory will be set up in the District Hospital in Davanagere within a week, said district in-charge minister B A Basavaraj on Tuesday. He was speaking while presiding over a review meeting regarding Covid-19, at the DC’s office here. He directed deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi and district surgeon Dr Nagaraj to make arrangements for setting up of the Covid-19 testing lab, using NDRF grants. “Quotations have been called from three firms to supply the components to establish the lab at a cost ranging from Rs 65 lakh to Rs 90 lakh,” said DC Bilagi. “Although, there are no reports of fresh Covid-19 cases in the district, still keep sufficient ventilators, oxygen cylinders, PPE kits and N-95 masks ready, along with drugs, to tackle Covid-19,” the minister advised the officials. Davanagere-Harihar Urban Development Authority (DHUDA) chairman Rajanahalli Shivakumar, along with its commissioner B T Kumaraswamy, presented a cheque of Rs 25 lakh, from DHUDA, towards the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, to tackle Covid-19, to minister B A Basavaraj, on the occasion. MP G M Siddeshwara, MLAs of the district, DC Mahantesh Bilagi, SP Hanumantharaya, DHO Dr Raghavendra Swamy and district surveillance officer Dr Raghavan were present on the occasion. Earlier, the minister visited Channagiri and Honnali taluks and distributed food kits along with masks to the poor, in the presence of MLAs Madal Virupakshappa and M P Renukacharya, along with the taluk level officials. -------------------------------||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/davanagere-will-get-covid-19-testing-lab-in-a-week-min/articleshow/75279608.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Mysuru||Minister hints at lifting lockdown in Nanjangud||Mysuru: Medical education minister Dr D Sudhakar indicated on Tuesday that the government is planning to lift the lockdown at Nanjangud, pointing out that only the results of 100 samples from those quarantined are pending.  He said they have already tested 2,098 cases arising out of the outbreak at Jubilant Generics, including its employees. Nanjangud is under complete lockdown with only one entry and exit point open for movement of essential goods since March 27, a day after it reported Karnataka’s first ‘cluster case.’ While lockdown restrictions are in place like in rest of the country, the authorities have sealed layouts completely, supplying essential commodities to the residents at their doorsteps. Severe restrictions, which mainly ensured that the outbreak is contained at the temple town without allowing it to spill over to neighbouring Mysuru, which has 10 lakh population, were placed for 14 days of quarantine, which ended in mid-April but the district administration continued it as a precautionary measure. He said the home department is trying to locate the source of the virus at Jubilant Generics and asserted that it will speak about it. He said P-52, who is believed to be patient zero, has not travelled outside the country. Sudhakar along with district incharge minister S T Somashekar visited the pharma plant at Nanjangud and also met villagers of Kugulur, 20 kilometre from the temple town, which is also sealed as it has one positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-hints-at-lifting-lockdown-in-nanjangud/articleshow/75278302.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Jaipur||Ahead of Ramzan, 180 Iran evacuees fly home to J&K||JAISALMER: As a Ramzan gift, 180 evacuees who were airlifted from Iran were sent to their home state Jammu and Kashmir by a special IAF flight on Tuesday. The good news came three days before the start of holy month of Ramzan. 484 Indians were brought from Iran to Jaisalmer on March 15, 16 and 18. Of them, 161 evacuees staying in Jaisalmer and 19 staying at Jodhpur Army Station were sent by IAF flight C-130 Hercules to Srinagar from the Jaisalmer civil airport at 5pm on Tuesday. All the 180 people have tested negative for Covid-19 and completed their quarantine period. After getting permission from the Union home ministry, they were sent to their home state. While leaving, the happiness was evident on their faces and they thanked the Indian Army for a safe stay. These people were brought from Iran and kept at the wellness centre and isolation ward at the military station in Jaisalmer where doctors, medical staff teams of Indian Army were attending to them regularly due to which they all have recovered and left for their homes. At 2pm, these people left for the airport from the military station here. They thanked the Indian Army, Government of India and Rajasthan government and expressed their gratitude. The praised the Indian Army for providing all facilities and taking care of them. They were elated that they will be at their homes for Ramzan and will celebrate Eid with their families. According to information, the evacuees were informed on Monday evening that they will be sent to their homes on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ahead-of-ramzan-180-iran-evacuees-fly-home-to-jk/articleshow/75281962.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||VSSC engineer develops automated handwash dispenser||Thiruvananthapuram: Though handwashing is cited as the most effective way to tackle spread of Covid-19, the handwash dispenser too could act as a fomite, a carrier of infection. An engineer at Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre has developed a sensor-based handwash dispenser, which not only reduces transmission through manual operation of soap dispenser but also limits wastage of water. Biju P, senior technical assistant at the composites entity of VSSC, started ideating automated liquid handwash dispenser and handwash system around two weeks ago. After preparing a rough model, he shared it among his colleagues on social media. "My chief Ananda Padmanabhan encouraged me to develop the prototype. So I spent lockdown days working on it," he said. The automated handwash dispenser is a micro controller-based device.  "It works with the support of a sensor. When sensor identifies the hand, a small amount of water is released to make the hand wet. After an interval of around two seconds, the liquid soap is released. There will be a gap of around 15 seconds to rub the hand properly. Then water will be released for around eight seconds for a thorough hand wash," Biju said, adding that the time and interval can be managed using the microcontroller. The prototype of the device was handed over by VSSC director S Somanath to Air Vice Marshall R N Medikeri VSM, senior maintenance staff officer, HQ Southern Air Command IAF, Thiruvananthapuram. The unit can be used at public places for thorough hand washing without wasting water. The advantage of the unit is it’s 100% touch-free. The option to dispense water and handwash liquid from a single unit, optimum time for hand washing, battery backup, provision to use solar power, easy installation etc are other specialties. It weighs less than 1kg and is estimated to cost less than Rs.2000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vssc-engineer-develops-automated-handwash-dispenser/articleshow/75279614.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Books and stationery stores want exemption from lockdown||Nagpur: Some book depot owners want an exemption from the lockdown as their products are also ‘essential’ for students. Demand for books and stationery is increasing, say depot owners due to the sudden, and now extended, lockdown.Anand Chopda, owner of Novelty Book Stores, said, “We are getting a lot of calls from parents who want to stock up on drawing books, notebooks and workbooks. They have run out of blank drawing books, some don’t have crayons or sketch pens necessary to keep kids engaged in this unique situation.”Chopda added that online PDF of books is only related to content, not for practice. “PDF of school related books is basically textbook, from which we read. But requirement is now of workbooks and blank notebooks in which kids can write and practice,” he said adding that many other book depot owners shared the view.Even after the partial opening up from April 20, book depots and stationery shops are not in the permitted list. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (HA), feels that if safety can be adhered to then it might not be a bad idea. “Most important part is that we must comply with government’s guidelines, which currently includes a lot of restriction on movement of people. Onus will be on shop owners to ensure their customers follow social distancing,” said Mude.Chopda said the best solution could be to allow home delivery of books and other materials, thus avoiding crowds at the shop. Parents too agree this was a better solution. Amit Chhabra, a parent, said, “It will be good if such things can be home delivered. Stationery and book depots must be kept out of the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/books-and-stationery-stores-want-exemption-from-lockdown/articleshow/75281970.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: He lays the table for the homeless||CHENNAI: Raj Krishnan Iyer considers himself a good cook. And since day one of the lockdown, the senior citizen, with the help of his man Friday Naresh, has been using his culinary skills to whip up wholesome meals for the needy. "I have a live-in help, Naresh, as I had a leg surgery. When the lockdown was announced, I wanted to do something to help and he was also enthusiastic about it," says Raj, a resident of Besant Nagar. He headed to Parry’s Corner to buy 25kg of rice and 500 cartons to pack the food in. Since then the duo makes variety rice – lemon, pudina, sambar and curd rice – packs it in cartons and distributes it in the area. "The first day, we packed only 13 boxes but found that we ran out of it very quickly," says Raj, who now distributes about 25 packets of food every day. Every day, they cook from 11:30am to 12:30pm and then head to the streets nearby. "We give it to the homeless people and those with disability. We have regulars, like a couple with a hand-operated tricycle, a couple who do ironing but hardly make any money these days, a few auto drivers who are out of work and four watchmen," says Raj. He also gives a couple of packets to three policemen who are on duty every single day. "They are out in the sun all day, and they also feed the stray dogs in the area, so I give them food every day," he says. An animal lover, he also feeds the stray animals on his street. "I feed strays dogs and cats. A mother cat and three kittens have taken refuge in my home and I call them my lockdown babies," says Raj. Raj, who studied in IIT-Kharagpur, feels he has got his service-mindedness from his stint with the NSS. "It instilled in me a desire for social service," he says, adding that he plans to continue helping the needy even after the lockdown. "I haven’t missed a day yet, but the problem of hunger is too big for me to solve. I do what I can but I hope everybody will pitch in, by at least helping out their domestic help, watchmen, and vegetable suppliers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/he-lays-the-table-for-the-homeless/articleshow/75281963.cms||Priya Menon
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Only 4 new cases in central dists||TRICHY: The central districts of the state saw a decline in the number of Covid-19 positive case on Tuesday with Thanjavur and Tiruvarur recording a total of four cases. Among the three who tested positive in Thanjavur, two patients aged 61 and 42 were natives of Kumbakonam and the third a 19-year-old man from Athirampattinam. The two men had already been admitted to the isolation ward at government medical college hospital in Thanjavur while the 19-year-old was quarantined at home until testing positive on Tuesday. All the three had contact history with Tablighi Jamaat delegates, said sources in the hospital. With the three cases, Thanjavur has recorded a total of 44 cases. The positive case that came up in Tiruvarur on Tuesday was a 20-year-old woman, a native of Thiruthuraipoondi. She had been put under home quarantine and will be shifted to Government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur, according to health department officials. In Trichy, Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) discharged six more Covid-19 positive patients after their recovery. As of Tuesday, 21 patients were being treated at the hospital. They include 15 from Trichy, three from Perambalur and one each from Pudukottai and Ariyalur. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said all the 20 people whose samples were lifted tested negative on Tuesday. The collector said in a statement that all the 3,916 foreign returnees being quarantined at their houses in Trichy crossed 28 days of the mandatory home quarantine without showing any symptoms. Trichy district already had 25 containment zones including 14 in the corporation areas, one in municipality, three places in town panchayats and seven in rural areas. Ariyalur which witnessed four positive cases so far decided to shift foreign returnees in institutional quarantine to home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-4-new-cases-in-central-dists/articleshow/75281961.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Flying of kites near airport poses threat to cargo flights||Thiruvananthapuram: For the past few days, kites flying near the airport area have kept police officers on high alert. With no passenger flight operations at the airport, the kids in the locality surrounding the airport were found flying kites near airport approach and landing side. But, the new hobby is causing headache for airport authorities as cargo flights are landing and taking off at regular intervals. Police have reported many incidents of kite flying near Fishermen colony, Sulaiman Street, Vallakadavu, Naduvath Temple and Pratheeksha flats in the past few days. Two cases were registered against people for lockdown violation in this regard. The latest incident was reported on Sunday, when children were found to be flying kites in area near Naduvath temple and Pratheeksha flats. The airport officials observed some kites and alerted the police. “We had sighted some kites near airport and alerted the public through police. There was no flight operation at that time. There were no earlier incidents. During lockdown people are not aware about flights operations at airport. We alerted the police officers in three police stations to create awareness among the public in their station limits. They conducted patrolling in the area,” said C V Ravindran, airport director. Kite flying near flight approach area may lead to safety issues. “We have been observing kite flying near airport for the last four to five days and we rushed to the spot to inform the public about the safety issue related to kite flying in the area. The recent case was reported from Poonthura, a thickly populated area where a group of children were flying kites. The children spending their holidays at home due to lockdown are flying the kites,” said Pradeep Kumar, sub inspector, Valiyathura police station. A team of police officers from Pettah, Valiyathura and Poonthura police station conducted announcements in the area to prevent any such future incidents. “We informed the public that airport is handling cargo flights during lockdown. Awareness activity such as patrolling and announcement using public announcement system was held on Sunday. We informed the residents association representatives and councillors to take initiative to prevent such incidents. We also gave warning that parents will be booked for lockdown violations if their children are found flying kites near airport,” added Pradeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/flying-of-kites-near-airport-poses-threat-to-cargo-flights/articleshow/75279639.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Many ignore Covid-19 curbs, Chennai cops clueless||CHENNAI: Officially the lockdown in Tamil Nadu is still in force, but Chennai roads and markets did not have any sign of such movement curbs on Tuesday. With state and central governments adopting diametrically opposite stand on continuation of lockdown, police on field duty were confused as to whether to enforce lockdown or just remain a spectator to increased road activity. Police did book cases of Section 144 violation (325 in the last 24 hours) on Tuesday as well, but it was sporadic and a fraction of the number of cases registered since March 24. Police had impounded 126 bikes, 11 autorickshaws and a car on Tuesday. However, on April 19-20, they had booked 738 cases and impounded 451 vehicles including 393 bikes, 53 autorickshaws and five cars. The police department had deployed 2,700 traffic policemen on duty, in addition to about 6,000 personnel from law and order wing to conduct checks at about 188 temporary checkpoints in the city. However, as a large number of vehicle users came up with an excuse that they are office-goers, police could not stop many. At Koyambedu wholesale vegetable market, more than 50,000 people turned up. Though the Greater Chennai Corporation has mandated wearing of facial mask mandatory for anyone venturing out of their homes, a vast majority of the visitors did not wear any mask. Several hundred vehicles, including two-wheelers and mini-vans, queued up at the market to buy vegetables for resale. Even the Market Management Committee’s warning that traders flouting police advisories would lose their licences did not have much impact. A police officer said though instructions flow from their wireless sets nudging them to nab all Section 144 violators, they are chided in case of complaints from road-users. "There is no proper communication between the police top brass and those on field duty," said a policeman. A senior police officer confirmed that they have not instructed any policeman to stop people on roads, especially during the peak hours. "Our men have been instructed to go after lockdown violators after the evening peak hours," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/many-ignore-covid-curbs-cops-clueless/articleshow/75281973.cms||A Selvaraj
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai gets into act after first case, brings 3,000 houses under containment||TRICHY: After the first Covid-19 positive case emerged from Pudukottai district on Monday, nearly 3,000 houses in Mirattunilai panchayat have been declared containment zone. A 23-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 in Mirattunilai village panchayat of Arimalam panchayat union in Pudukottai district. He is undergoing treatment in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) Trichy. The patient is the son of 15 attendees of Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi from Pudukottai district who had earlier tested negative. Out of 15, four members from the TJ delegates will be tested again, said a senior health official. The district administration has taken multiple steps to contain movement of people in this 8 km radius even from getting essentials. “We have made arrangements for the people in these houses get groceries at their door step through volunteers so that no one from these houses venture out,” said the collector P Uma Maheswari. All the roads in the 8 km radius have been blocked to prevent vehicular movement from outside. Movement of people with in the containment zone too has been restricted by deploying adequate police. The health workers have started sanitising every house in the 8 km radius. While RT-PCR test is yet to begin in Pudukottai medical college hospital, the health department will be using 480 antibody rapid test kits that has been received for the district. While rapid test will be carried on only those who show symptoms for more than 7 days. We are expecting to start the RT-PCR test in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-gets-into-act-after-1st-case-brings-3k-houses-under-containment/articleshow/75281972.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Pecking order of facilities for medical staff||In the midst of the Covid epidemic, complaints pour in about facilities and safety gear for healthcare workers being dependent on hierarchy rather than on the extent to which health personnel face risk of exposure to the infection. For instance, doctors are accommodated in hotels so that they don’t have to worry about infecting their families when they return home. However, nurses and technicians are put up in hostels or guesthouses and are transported to and from their homes in packed buses, defeating the whole idea of social distancing. Similarly, in many hospitals, ward boys and sanitation staff working on short-term contract have stopped coming for work as very few establishments made arrangements for their stay. In Mumbai, a female cleaner at Kasturba Hospital, among the first healthcare workers to contract the infection at the nodal Covid-19 hospital, had nowhere to go after she was discharged on Sunday. The staffer, a Kalyan resident, was discouraged to return home by her worried neighbours, said a hospital source.  Coronavirus live updatesKasturba administration then decided to house her in a ward meant for sweepers and other ancillary workers catering to Covid-19 cases, as she is supposed to be under quarantine for 14 days after discharge. And after other staff staying in the ward objected, a makeshift partition has been built to separate her from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pecking-order-of-facilities-for-med-staff/articleshow/75282658.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 22, 2020||India||Didi hits back, says attack on federal norms; TMC questions Centre’s intent||NEW DELHI: A full-scale political battle has broken out between the BJP-led Centre and the Trinamool Congress-led West Bengal government, sparked off by the “unannounced” landing of a central team of officials in Kolkata on Monday morning. With West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee viewing the move as an attack on the federal scheme of governance, the TMC accused the Centre of “playing politics at a time when states and the Centre are expected to work together to combat coronavirus”. Banerjee shot off a letter to PM Narendra Modi protesting “breaking of federal norms”. READ ALSO | Bengal obstructing Centre’s Covid-19 teams, says MHAAddressing an online press conference on Tuesday, TMC parliamentary leaders Sudip Bandopadhyay and Derek O’Brien questioned the Centre’s “intent”. “Why are opposition-governed states like West Bengal being put on targeted watch when states under BJP like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, or even states like Tamil Nadu and Telangana, governed by friendly parties, with higher positive cases are not being monitored by the Centre,” they asked. “Unfortunately, when Bengal and all other states are fighting coronavirus, the Centre is fighting the states,” O’Brien said, adding, “The Centre refused to call off the budget session of Parliament and delayed a lockdown when the virus was spreading, paying no heed to TMC’s warning on social distancing to be observed, apparently to install a BJP government in Madhya Pradesh.” He further said, “It is a health emergency. Let’s fight it together, not as a state or Centre. Let’s get back to politics after this is over.” Bandopadhyay said, “People want to know what the central ministerial team is looking for, what it has found and why it has not consulted with the chief minister or any state government official on their visit.” He added that the state was coordinating with the Centre and following every guideline. “So, what happened suddenly?” he asked. Asked whether people would suffer if the war against coronavirus got caught in political wrangling, Bandopadhyay said, “Hopefully, good sense will prevail. The Centre will restrain itself in future and will consult state governments for comprehensive and well-structured moves to fight coronavirus and state governments will cooperate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/didi-hits-back-says-attack-on-federal-norms-tmc-questions-centres-intent/articleshow/75283416.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
April 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, avail ayurveda treatment at home||Thiruvananthapuram: V S Sivakumar, MLA, with the support of Indian system of medicine (ISM), launched ‘Ayursparsham’, a project under which ayurveda treatment will be provided to patients at their houses, in his constituency. People who need service under Ayursparsham can call to 99461 24732, 98953 98251 or whatsapp 94951 24732, 94470 16770 on these numbers. A team of ayurveda doctors will reach the house to conduct check up and provide medicines. The service will be free of cost. The service can be availed between 9am and 4pm. Sivakumar said the Ayursparsham project will be available till the lockdown is lifted. On Tuesday, the mobile clinic was flagged off by Sivakumar in presence of district medical officer (ISM) Dr Robert Raj. Doctors along with the MLA visited the houses of professor Padmini Devi at Kaithamukku and Anilakumar at Sreekanteshwaram and provided required ayurveda medicines. Senior doctors Dr Indu G Kumar, Dr Smitha, Dr Shajitha Shahul, Dr Sivakumari, Dr Rahul R P, Dr Rekha and Dr Krishnendu are leading the project. Project co-ordinator Dr Mini Habeeb, ISM district nodal officer of Covid 19 Dr Durga Prasad S, state programme manager M Subhash, among others attended the inaugural function. Recently, the city corporation had launched mobile dispensaries of ayurveda and siddha medicines with the support of ISM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-avail-ayurveda-treatment-at-home/articleshow/75279656.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Doctors open online clinic, offer free medical advice||CHENNAI: One-hundred and eighty doctors from across the country have joined hands to run a telemedicine clinic -- to help the common public who cannot avail medical consultation due to the lockdown. So far, the team has given free tele-consultation to more than 6,000 patients, some of them contacting from abroad. The doctors take from 10 minutes to three hours to reply to the patients. They also offer e-prescriptions. The patient, or his or her family, has to send a WhatsApp message to 9840876460. They will receive an SMS that will seek details like the patient’s name, age, sex, health issues, pre-existing illness, current medication and consent for telehealth consultation. Those who cannot send messages can send audio messages as well. After assessing them as essential and non-essential complaints, they will be shared on WhatsApp groups created for doctors. A concerned specialist or physician will call the patient. "Initially, there was a bit of hesitation to call the patients. But after seeing the response, doctors are more interested to offer tele-health consultation. Except for general queries, the doctors will make video calls to the patients to assess them," said Dr Prakash Ayyadurai, arthroscopy surgeon from Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre in Chennai who launched the clinic. The team is offering consultations in specialities including neuro surgery, diabetology, cardiology, nephrology, dermatology, orthopaedics, paediatrics among others. A majority of the complaints received from patients were related to paediatrics (cough, cold, vaccination queries), orthopaedics, diabetes and dermatology (itching), and general consultancy like stomach ache and piles. "We receive messages from diabetic patients who seek replacement of drugs due to non-availability and patients who need post-operative care. When there is an emergency we would refer the cases to a nearby hospital," Ayyadurai said. "We cannot replace hospitals. We can only give counselling and primary care," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/docs-open-online-clinic-offer-free-medical-advice/articleshow/75281982.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Mumbai||Parking row: Three stabbed by neighbour in Mumbai, two brothers dead||MUMBAI: A murder accused out on bail stabbed to death two brothers and grievously wounded their 16-year-old sibling following a fight between two families over parking of a bike at a chawl in Sewree late Monday. While Shahid Patel (21) died on the spot, Sahil (19) and Adnan (16) were rushed to KEM Hospital. Sahil later succumbed to injuries, and Adnan is in the ICU. The prime suspect Karim Shaikh (35), his father, sister and uncle have been arrested for murder, attempt to murder and for issuing threats. Karim, who has two offences of murder against him, was released on bail last year. His father is a former police informer. Sources said the two families had been locked in tussle recently. “Since the lockdown, the Patel family members would sit in an open space across accused Karim’s house. Karim’s family objected to this,” said a source. ‘Prime accused’s sis kicked victim’s bike’All the four — Karim, his father Yusuf Shaikh (70), sister Minaj, and uncle Mehraj Shaikh (65)—will be produced in court on Wednesday. On Monday, Shahid went to buy essential goods for the family. On returning, he parked his bike near the open space at Kulsumbhai Bhola chawl near the railway station. This led to an argument between the two families. Sources in Rafiq Ahmed Kidwai Marg police station said Karim’s sister Minaj allegedly kicked Shahid’s bike and this snowballed into a bigger fight. Shahid was standing outside when Karim stabbed him from behind. Sahil and Adnan rushed to his rescue and they, too, were stabbed, said police. While Shahid collapsed on the spot, locals rushed Sahil and Adnan to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parking-row-3-stabbed-by-neighbour-2-brothers-dead/articleshow/75282676.cms||Ahmed Ali
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||With 67% water in reservoirs, no scarcity in Nagpur this summer||NAGPUR: The city, as well as the district, are likely to sail through summers without facing shortage of drinking water. After a good monsoon last year, the storage levels in reservoirs are good enough to see the district through till October. The district’s 78 reservoirs, including 13 medium, 60 small and five major ones, have 67% storage or 1204 million meter cube (MMC) water, reveal statistics of the water resources department (WRD). At present, only 11 dams — mostly minor — have less than 25% storage, while 44 are in the range of 25%-75%, the statistics showed. A senior official of the department attributed the encouraging scenario to the ample rain received in the region during last year’s extended monsoon. A senior official from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) water works department told TOI that Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) had already allocated the entitlement, and reserved 172MMC of raw drinking water as calculated by the WRD in November 2019. The allocation is valid till October 31, 2020. The city had been allocated 152MMC water from Totladoh reservoir and 20MMC from Kanhan, said an official from the water works department. The city gets most of the water from Totladoh reservoir, which has around 858.37MMC water. Navegaon Khairi has a storage of 70.56MMC water against its capacity of 141.98MMC. Currently, the NMC is supplying 680 millions of litres per day (MLD) water to the city, which includes 200MLD water from Kanhan, and 480MLD from Totladoh reservoir (Pench). The water is sufficient not only for 2020 summer season, but will be “enough for another year”, said the official from the NMC’s water works department. However, there is a concern for those getting water from medium water reservoir Vena dam off Amravati road. During last summer, entire Wadi area, Ordnance Factory and localities of Ambazari etc faced hardships after the medium reservoir went dry. This year too, the water storage in Vena is 8.67MMC, as against its capacity of 21.64 MMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-67-water-in-reservoirs-no-scarcity-in-ngp-this-summer/articleshow/75281983.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 22, 2020||Mysuru||7 held for threatening Kodagu cops||Madikeri: Seven villagers were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly violating lockdown norms near Siddapur town of Kodagu district. The accused were playing volleyball in a playground at Hundi village in Badagabanangala panchayat limits on Monday when they were stopped by Chennayyanakote police substation head constable who spotted them playing warned them to stop playing. In the evening they were again seen playing volleyball. When the two policemen approached them and ticked them off for playing despite being warned, the group continued to play ignoring the two cops. They then threatened the policemen . Siddapur SI Bhojappa visited the spot and registered a case. After investigation Nazir(45), Hamsa(52), Izaq(19), Ameer Sohel (22), Suber (28), Cinam(18) and Shakeer(32) were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/7-held-for-threatening-kodagu-cops/articleshow/75279658.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Facemasks distributed to farmers||TRICHY: Farmer Producer Group (FPG) distributed facemasks to farmers to spread awareness on the importance of wearing masks among the farming community. The masks are manufactured by the female members of FPGs. The government has exempted all agriculture-related operations while enforcing 144 contains almost all the activities across the country to contain the coronavirus. During the announcement of the lockdown, the union government had not exempted farming activities as an essential one. However, following the demand put forth by the farming community, the Tamil Nadu government exempted agriculture activities and brought it under essential services. Following the relaxation, farming activities resumed at fast pace. Though the government had instructed farming labourers to maintain social distance and stressed wearing masks, most of the farmers are unaware of the importance of wearing masks. The agriculture department took the initiative to create awareness among working people. Guided by assistant director of agriculture S Esther Premakumari, Keelakuruchi Farmer Producer Group decided to distribute free face masks to farmers and farm labourers in Thiruverumbur union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/facemasks-distributed-to-farmers/articleshow/75281986.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Set up GMCH in G’chiroli by 2021: State govt||Nagpur: In some good news for the Naxal-affected Gadchiroli, a Maharashtra government panel has recommended establishing a government medical college and hospital (GMCH) in the district by next year. In a meeting conducted by the newly-appointed guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Tuesday, he directed the PWD officials in the backward district to expedite the process to set up GMCH, as per the senior government officials who were part of the entire process. “The minister asked the PWD superintendent and other officials to come up with drawings to establish the institution and agreed to release funds worth Rs10 crore for the process,” officials told TOI. According to them, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) had constituted a panel under Chandrapur GMCH dean Dr SS More to explore whether the institution could be set up in the tribal-dominated district. “It was decided to start the GMCH at district hospital already having 400 beds, which fulfils 90% requirements as per rules. This included the 100-bedded women hospital. The only problem DMER would face is in getting faculty — professors, lecturers, and resident doctors. Because of it being a backward district, it would be slightly difficult to get this manpower,” the officials said, adding that the entire process of setting up GMCH would take at least a year. The Dr More-led panel submitted its report on February 10, but since then there was no progress. It was only after the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court pulled up government authorities to set up Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL) at places like Gadchiroli for Covid-19 testing, that they swung into action and directed PWD officials to expedite the process. Dr Rajesh Surpam, professor at department of microbiology, Dr Shilesh Dhawane, professor at department of forensic science, and chief administrative officer Sanjeev Rathod were the other members in the panel led by Dr More. All are from Chandrapur GMCH. “We were told to conduct an inspection with regards to infrastructure and equipment in Gadchiroli. We were also asked to find out whether sufficient human resources like doctors, nurses and other health care workers would be available there. After examining all the aspects, we’ve submitted a positive report to the government for opening of GMCH,” a panel member told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/set-up-gmch-in-gchiroli-by-2021-state-govt/articleshow/75281985.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 22, 2020||Mysuru||All patients are asymptomatic in Mysuru||Mysuru: Mysuru may be on top of the list in the number of active covid cases (55) in Karnataka, but almost everyone barring two senior citizens admitted with complaints of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) are asymptomatic. This has raised serious concern among health authorities. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, two more persons tested positive to virus. The two are secondary contacts of the first employee of Jubilant Life Sciences in Nanjangud who tested positive on March 26. The two are aged 26 years and are asymptomatic. During the day, seven more persons were cured and were discharged from the hospital. The total number of people tested positive in the district is 86, out of which 31 had been cured and discharged. The rest 55 are under observation at the covid hospital. Surprisingly, all these patients are asymptomatic. A 72-year-old man and a 65-year-old villager who developed infection following respiratory infections are on oxygen support. As both are senior citizens, officials are not taking any chances. Director and dean of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute C P Nanjaraj told TOI that except two aged patients having respiratory problem, the rest are asymptomatic and doing well. Even the health of these two patients is stable but they’re being given oxygen as a precautionary measure. After Mysuru, Belagavi is the second highest with 39 active cases followed by Bengaluru (37), Vijayapura (33) and Kalaburagi (23), Bagalkot (18) and Bidar (15), Ballari (13) and Mandya (12) Mysuru’s figure went up because of the single largest cluster case in Nanjangud wherein employees of the pharmaceutical firm and their contacts have the highest infection with 44 active cases. The rest are related to Tablighi Jamaat visitors (7), one Dubai-returned contact and three related to SARI. Meanwhile, officials have launched door-to-door surveillance to carry out random covid test on people with influenza-like illness to rule out infection at community level. Two SARI cases have become causes of concern for officials as they fear the situation may turn worse in the coming days if people do not cooperate with health and district authorities in containing the deadly pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/all-patients-are-asymptomatic-in-mysuru/articleshow/75278374.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Teenager mobilises funds, helps with ration packets across Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Tisya Singh, 14, has found a transparent way to help people who cannot afford even a square meal a day during the lockdown. Th teenager tied up with a local kirana shop in Sarjapur to supply rations and has expanded her initiative, which anyone can fund by sending money directly to the store and a screenshot to Tisya for the record. Till now, Tisya has been mobilising the residents of her gated community – Heritage County — her and her parents’ friends to contribute towards the cause. They can either send Rs 400 for one packet of ration or donate Rs 16,000 for a day (40 packets). Tisya began the drive on April 14 by raising funds for the first day from her pocket money to provide rations to migrants stuck in and around Marathahalli area. Though her present commitment stands for 15 days (since April 14), with more donations pouring in, Tisya plans to continue her work till May 3.  Tisya’s father Dhiraj Singh says the girl is assisting Seemant Kumar Singh, IGP in mobilising help for underprivileged migrants. “City police pick up the ration packets daily for distribution,” says Dhiraj. Tisya’s efforts now cover migrants in various localities like Vidyaranyapura, Whitefield, Madiwala, among others. “I saw a lot of people who would not be able to afford or store food as we do. I decided to do something about it,” says Tisya, a student of DPS Bangalore (east). That’s when she brainstormed with her father and decided to assist the city police by arranging ration packets. “To decide on the quantity, I asked my mother how much of each item is needed for a family,” she says. Now, the social warrior is distributing 40 packets every day and each of them consists of 1kg each of rice, wheat flour, salt and vegetables like tomatoes, potatoes and onions, half a litre of cooking oil and half a kilo of tur dal. The packet which costs around Rs 580, is being given at Rs 400 by the store, Aditya Mart, in recognition of Tisya’s efforts. Tisya has been able to gather donations for the next 15 days. To ensure transparency, she suggests whoever wishes to contribute transfer the money directly to the store. Dhiraj recalls how Tisya’s friend donated her pocket money to cover one day’s ration packets. “As a father, I feel proud of her. I would never have shown her the value of Rs 400 the way she was able to understand about it by herself,” he says. Seemant Kumar Singh, IGP, retweeted a post by the official handle of Bengaluru city police on Tisya’s work on Monday: “Our budding shero Ms Tisya Singh, 14 years, D/o Dheeraj Singh, Heritage County has been mobilizing members in her gated community & contributing 40 food grain packets each day for the needy. We are proud of her remarkable act of kindness at such a young age.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teenager-mobilises-funds-helps-with-ration-packets-across-city/articleshow/75281425.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Flower markets see good sales, bring cheer||MADURAI: The temporary flower markets in Madurai, which are functioning in place of the regular market have started picking up business, with almost 10 tonne of jasmine getting sold by Tuesday afternoon. Madurai collector Dr T G Vinay was instrumental in helping the farmers market their produce after the first week of lockdown, and they started sending tonnes of flowers every day from the district to scent factories in Dindigul and Coimbatore.“This was an outstanding gesture by the collector, which helped us. The flower market used to fetch us the best price, but now we have started getting the same returns,” said Pandi, a farmer. Earlier, due to the distress sale, the maximum price they got for the beautiful well-matured, fat buds in this peak season was around Rs 60 to Rs 70 per kg. “But, now we sold for Rs 150 a kg on Tuesday, which was a very good price, considering the lockdown,” said Thiagu, a farmer from Thiruparankundram. There are many flower traders associations in Madurai who have now formed a consortium of their association heads to deal with the crisis period. One of the representatives, S Ramachandran said that efforts by Madurai collector, corporation commissioner and commissioner of police had saved them, as lack of sales in the peak season would affect the farmers badly. Minister for revenue R B Udayakumar had also promised to help them and things took a good turn, he said. Social distancing is maintained in the markets and only 80 shops are functioning on a rotational basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/flower-markets-see-good-sales-bring-cheer/articleshow/75282716.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Police help Armyman’s pregnant wife reach hosp||Hyderabad: Gandhinagar police personnel rushed a pregnant woman, wife of a soldier posted on the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, to Military Hospital at Trimulgherry in the early hours of Tuesday. Later, the woman delivered twins, both boys, at the hospital. Around 1 am, Anjamma, 21, wife of jawan Narasimha Rao, started experiencing labour pains. Narasimha Rao, a native of Parigi in Vikarabad district, and Anjamma have been staying in a rented house at SBH Colony near Indira Park along with her mother Fakeeramma and brother-in-law, Anjaiah. “As they could not find any vehicle or ambulance immediately, family members dialled 100 and Gandhi Nagar ASI Krishna Rao rushed to their house with a police van used for transportation of additional forces and shifted the pregnant woman along with her family members to Army Hospital at Trimulgherry,” deputy commisioner of police (DCP), Central Zone, P Vishwa Prasad said. Anjamma was admitted to the hospital at 2am. At 10.30 am, she gave birth to twin baby boys. “Both the mother and the boys are healthy. We are happy to help the family of a soldier in an emergency,” the DCP said. Senior police officials appreciated the Gandhinagar police for their timely response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-help-armymans-pregnant-wife-reach-hosp/articleshow/75282695.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 22, 2020||Pune||Review on Saturday to decide lockdown extension: Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister and guardian minister Ajit Pawar, in a telephonic interview to TOI’s Nisha Nambiar on Monday, said he will review the situation in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad before deciding if the stringent lockdown imposed from April 20 should continue in both areas after April 27. Excerpts. Will the curfew in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad be extended?The current lockdown is for eight days. A review meeting on Saturday will first assess the situation and then decide upon the next course of action. We will find out if people are following the complete lockdown orders and adhering to social distancing before planning any more measures for both these areas. At present, we have more than 750 cases and 51 deaths. We do not want the numbers to increase, and the efforts from the government are to restrict any spurt in Covid-19 cases. The decision for a complete lockdown of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad was taken jointly by revenue, health and police officials. Some industries in the rural areas of the district like Chakan and Ranjangaon have opened up. But factories not able to operate as the staff is unable to travel from the city.We do not want people travelling to and from Pune or Pimpri Chinchwad to these rural areas. If people do manage to travel to the rural areas, then it is up to the factories to accommodate them and provide them with food. Factories should use the staff from their own industrial areas rather than the city and ensure social distancing. What is being done to address the rise in death cases reported from Sassoon?We have appointed Subhash Salunke, former director general of the state health department and our technical consultant, to form a team of private doctors to assess the situation at Sassoon General Hospital. This team, with the present Sassoon staff, will provide medical and clinical counselling as well as ensure proper care for critical patients, and ensure the safety of Sassoon’s staff. The team will decide about the admission of patients to Sassoon or work with the present administration to have private hospitals take on critical patients. There is a shortage of PPE kits for private medical practitioners.We are ensuring that there is enough supply and the central government has directed companies that have been approved by the ICMR to provide them to the state governments as per the requirement. There is some shortage, and we are trying to bridge the gap by streamlining the supply from local companies. What is your assessment of the sudden spike in cases and deaths in Pune and Mumbai?Earlier, symptomatic patients were reporting late to the hospital, and many were into self-medication. Now, we have a system where people can approach flu clinics. We are also doing more tests and quarantining people accordingly. The stringent lockdown too is a step taken to ensure social distancing. Citizens should approach these fly clinics and not wait till the last minute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/review-on-saturday-to-decide-lockdown-extension-dy-cm/articleshow/75282704.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||US tour of play 'Swami Vivekanand’ called off||Nagpur: The USA tour of city writer and author Shubhangi Bhadbhade's play, 'Swami Vivekanand' — which was to be staged in seven cities — has been called off in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. The play is one of the most celebrated and well-known works of Bhadbhade. The play has earlier been appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and the tour was supposed to mark its 150th performance in Chicago, followed by showings in Detroit, Bloomington, Atlanta, Raleigh, Pittsburg and New York. Three shows of the play were also held in Dubai, and the team was looking forward to performing on the massive American stage. The team of actors was to be leaving on May 5 for the month-long tour. “It was indeed a great opportunity for all the participants to portray the characters and journey of Swami Vivekanand in front of the world. We have received appreciation earlier too. Considering the pandemic outbreak we had to cancel the tour, but we are not losing hope. We will be performing soon after this ends,” said Bhadbhade. Anil Palkar, who portrays the role of Vivekanand, believes that the tour cancellation was along expected lines, as safety is more important than anything. “We all were working hard for our roles, and theatre always requires team work. We stand together amid this tense situation and very soon the local artistes from the city will perform in USA,” he said. Adding to this, Lalit Ghavghave, who plays the role of young Vivekanand said, “It is very unfortunate that our much awaited tour got cancelled; the tickets were booked and preparations were on in full swing. We are still positive about the situation and hoping for the best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/us-tour-of-play-swami-vivekanand-called-off/articleshow/75282005.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Actor Mahasweta banks on nature-watching & cooking to see through lockdown days||BHUBANESWAR: Waking up to the call of cuckoos and sighting a parrot right outside the window can only be a dream for a Mumbaikar, but it is now the reality of actor Mahasweta Ray, confined as she is to her apartment in Andheri (West) with her husband and son. The cacophony of the city has given way to silence and fear. “It took some time for the change to sink in. But slowly, the pollution cleared. It is as if nature has bloomed again after being forcibly caged in by the world for ages,” said Mahasweta, who takes pleasure in viewing the carpet of flowers under a tree near her home. Her positivity is endearing, particularly with Covid-19 spreading fast in Mumbai. There have been two corona-related deaths in her housing complex, and several residents are infected. “Our society has been shut completely. Vegetables are supplied from 7 am to 10 am at the gates. I am getting my groceries from some known shopkeepers but not everything I want is available,” said the actor. She got an early taste of the lockdown when she landed in Mumbai from Bhubaneswar on March 24. “There were only eight people on the flight. The airport was deserted. I had to walk quite a distance before I could get a taxi,” said Mahasweta. The actor is making the most of whatever food is available at home. Starting from masala khichdi and aloo tikkis to Chinese and Mughlai, her kitchen has now transformed into a master-class for her son. “I once innovated with butter chicken and he cooked dal makhani,” said the indulgent mother, who spends time watching television with her family. Mahasweta was part of a YouTube video on Covid-19, ‘Puni Hasiba Odisha’, made by Ollywood stars. She has also launched her own YouTube channel to give expression to her creativity. “I intend to post videos on health, cooking and poetry,” said Mahasweta, who has been associated with film-making for 44 years. An alumni of Sri Aurobindo International School, Pondicherry, Mahasweta is currently reading the Odia translation of Sri Aurobindo’s, “Savitri: A Legend and a Symbol”, by Mahapatra Nilamani Sahoo. Despite being busy, Mahasweta is missing out on her evening walks though she is making up for it with pranayama, stretching and spot jogging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/actor-mahasweta-banks-on-nature-watching-cooking-to-see-through-lockdown-days/articleshow/75278421.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
April 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Just miles away, but lives worlds apart||Coimbatore: They all live in the same district, but they no longer enjoy the same freedom. While the divide has always been there, unlike earlier, things are quite different now. Those in urban areas of the district are confined to their houses with shops remaining closed, while their counterparts in rural areas are enjoying the limited freedom of movement and the luxury of access to grocery shops and meat shops, among others. The two areas have also been demarcated by barricades, even as the complete lockdown in the city corporation limits entered the third day on Tuesday. In many parts just off Mettupalayam Road, Thondamuthur Road and Ajjanur Road, etc., people were seen on roads, trying to get to their workplaces - agricultural and dairy farms and factories. In parts of Kurumbapalayam and Vadamadurai, banks were also open. In fact, many people, who have their friends and relatives living in the city corporation limits, were seen buying groceries and meat and driving either up till the barricades or navigating through sideroads to hand that over to them. S Savithri, a Thudiyalur resident, said, “My daughter wanted some vegetables, cheese and frozen chicken. We bought them from Kavundampalayam and delivered them in Saibaba Colony. But it was difficult navigating through so many roads, which are cordoned off.” Many people in rural areas have returned to work from Monday, so they do not miss out on full wages. G Maheshwari, a domestic help from Kurumbapalayam, said, “My employer pays me only 30% of wage for the days I don’t work. With my husband, who is a painter, out of work, I decided not to lose out on my daily wages. I have been going to work since Monday. This way, I can provide my children with good, nutritious food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/just-miles-away-but-lives-worlds-apart/articleshow/75438007.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Patna||13 more test positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, tally rises to 126||PATNA: For the second day in a row, Bihar recorded a double-digit spike with 13 new Covid-19 cases, including eight women, on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 126. There are altogether 82 active cases now with two deaths and 42 discharged from hospitals so far. Of the 13 new cases reported on Tuesday, seven are from Munger, four from Buxar and one each from Patna and Rohtas, according to the state health department. None of the new patients have any recent travel history. Contact tracing of all the new cases are going on and follow up action is being taken by the health department. “Buxar, Patna and Munger, cases came in contact with Covid-19 positive patients. The contact tracing of Rohtas is yet to be confirmed,” health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar stated in a statement issued on Tuesday evening. He added, “ A 31-year-old man in Patna, three males aged 28, 34 and 36 and four females aged 20, 28, 34, 37 respectively in Munger were tested positive for the virus. In Rohats, a 60- year- old woman and in Buxar, a 32-year-old male and three females aged 12, 12 and 39 respectively tested positive on Tuesday.” Dr Ragini Mishra, state nodal officer for Covid-19, told this newspaper on Tuesday that the Patna man had come in contact with the husband of a 32-year-old woman from Khajpura locality, who had tested positive on April 18. “The swab samples of 10 people, including 31-old-year driver, who works for a private cash van with Covid- 19 positive woman’s husband were taken on Sunday,” she said. The sample result of others, including the family members of the corona positive woman, came negative. The woman from Khajpura and the new positive case are symptomatic patients, having mild fever and cough. Dr Ragini said the positive cases in Munger and Buxar came in contact with the positive cases with a travel history, whereas a female from Rohtas had earlier gone to a private hospitals in Rohtas for pneumonia. “She had no travel history but she went to private hospitals for treatment. Later she went to Narayan Medical College and Hospital, Rohtas where her sample for Covid- 19 test was collected.” She added: “The woman’s report came positive today. Now, we are trying to trace the hospitals where she had earlier gone for treatment. Meanwhile, most of the cases in Munger are from Jamalpur city, which is the hotspot for Covid- 19. All patients have been admitted to the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, Patna. According to the health department, of the 126 positive cases, Siwan topped with 29 cases closely followed by 28 in Nalanda, Munger (27), Begusarai (9), eight each in Buxar and Patna, Gaya (5), three each in Gopalganj and Nawada and one each in Saran, Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur, Vaishali, Bhojpur and Rohtas. Total active cases in Bihar stands at 82 whereas 42 got cured and two died. CM asks people not to be jittery CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked people not to be jittery because of the sudden increase in the number of positive cases of covid-19 in the past 24 hours because most of these cases are related to an infected person. “State government is maintaining a close vigil on the situation and all necessary steps are being taken,” the CM said after holding a review meeting with the chief secretary. The CM further called upon people to be alert from those people who are spreading rumours through social media. He also called upon people to continue to maintain social distancing to defeat the covid-19 virus in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-126/articleshow/75279702.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 22, 2020||Pune||Stepped up vigil amid curfew jacks up cases of disobedience against people||PUNE: The enhanced police presence and vigil on roads for enforcing the curfew measures to contain the spread of coronavirus are leading to registration of more cases of disobedience against people violating various restrictions. The Pune police have put up barricades not only on main roads but also in lanes and by-lanes at many places to make it as inconvenient as possible for people to move on the roads. Documents and passes of commuters are being checked strictly at different checkpoints. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said, “We have registered 9,764 cases against 12,988 people (including group actions) under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, seized 31,722 vehicles and issued notices to over 29,000 others during the intensive period of curfew till 8pm on Monday.” Shisve told TOI, “We want all activities to remain closed and restrictions have been imposed warning people not to assemble in large numbers. But there were no restrictions on people walking for purchasing essential commodities.” He said, “We found that large number of people were taking these things very lightly and were stepping out of houses even after the shops were closed. For instance, shops will remain open between 10am and noon in the old containment zones, and between 10am and 2pm in the new containment zones. We, therefore, decided to be stricter in taking action against them for coming out on roads without valid reasons.” Shisve said, “We initially tried to counsel people by issuing notices under Section 144 (1) [3] of the Criminal Procedure Code and giving them warning. We filed so many cases but still people were not listening to us and not abiding by the law. We have, therefore, started taking more action against people.” He said, “We have limited manpower and posting policemen on roads after every 100m is not practical for taking action. We have devised different methods for action. For instance, we are getting information of violators from people and citizens’ groups. We have issued an instruction to all the zonal deputy commissioners of police to send photos of rule violators. We are also monitoring closed-circuit television cameras and using drones for taking action.” The joint commissioner of police said, “We have asked senior inspectors of all police stations to send photos of assigned areas and roads on our different WhatsApp groups for details on what is happening at the ground-level. These methods and the extensive use of technology are giving us good results, and more and more people have now started abiding by the law.” He added, “We are not feeling happy by taking action against people. If all roads are clean, it brings happiness to us.” Motorists will be fined Rs2,500: CP People venturing out of homes on two-wheelers or four-wheelers will have to deposit a fine of Rs2,500 with the police if they are caught travelling without legitimate purpose and prior police permission, said police commissioner K Venkatesham. He said such vehicles would be seized and not returned till further orders. He also said the vegetable vendors and the shopkeepers who did not tell customers to maintain social distance on Tuesday would not be allowed to function from Wednesday. Police teams have records of such shopkeepers. (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stepped-up-vigil-amid-curfew-jacks-up-cases-of-disobedience-against-people/articleshow/75282722.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka cricketers bat for a cause||BENGALURU: They’ve won matches for country, state, franchisees and clubs. Now, they’re doing their bit to win the battle against Covid-19. A group of cricketers led by former India all-rounder Vijay Bharadwaj has been working alongside scores of volunteers of the Akshaya Patra Foundation. Around 20 people, who have played cricket at various levels, are in this group. While most are from Basavanagudi, some like former Karnataka cricketer and popular commentator Akhil Balachandra are from Malleswaram. There’s also former cricketer and current BCCI umpire KN Ramesh. Bharadwaj, now a commentator, said: “The easiest thing would be to donate money. When we heard that Akshaya Patra Foundation needed volunteers, we childhood friends signed up. As athletes, we try to give back to our chosen sport. This is an opportunity to give back to the society.” Most volunteer for 6-7 hours every day and pack rations at the Palace Ground facility of the foundation. Some like Akhil, employed with the State Bank of India, chip in over weekends, during bank holidays and even after work. “It’s humbling to see people from various professions and age groups come together in such testing times. It’s our duty to do our bit. I'm glad I have this opportunity to serve people,” said Akhil. Bharadwaj and Akhil were all praise for working conditions. “There is regular sanitisation of the area and temperature monitoring, and we wear caps, gloves and masks all the time. We work as a team without forgetting the basics of social distancing,” explained Bharadwaj. Chanchalapathi Dasa, vice-chairman, Akshaya Patra Foundation, said, “The foundation is grateful to Vijay Bharadwaj and his cricketer friends for their support. Bharadwaj and many other players volunteer at our packaging centres. They work tirelessly and they demonstrate the power of collective compassion in the service of society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-cricketers-bat-for-a-cause/articleshow/75281499.cms||Manuja Veerappa
April 22, 2020||Pune||57 fresh Covid-19 cases, including two Pune policemen, across PMR||PUNE: A 51-year-old patient from the city succumbed to Covid-19-linked complications on Tuesday. The death takes the toll in the Pune Metropolitan Region, which includes the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation, to 53. The woman was admitted to the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital on April 19. According to a senior health official, she died after developing acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. Tuesday also saw the second death within Pimpri Chinchwad corporation limits. The woman patient, a 62-year-old resident of Nigdi, had underlying conditions including diabetes, blood pressure and kidney problems, officials said. The area around her residence has been sealed by PCMC authorities. Besides the two deaths, there were 57 fresh Covid-19 cases across the PMR. The list includes two constables who are attached to a central police station in Pune city. The number of policemen in the city who have contracted Covid-19 now stands at three. Officials believe the duo came in contact with a colleague who had tested positive on April 18. Both policemen are currently undergoing treatment at a facility in the city. "One of them was part of a night patrol team while the other was a chowky in-charge. As a precautionary measure, two other police personnel have been advised home quarantine,” police commissioner K Venkatesham told TOI. The commissioner added that a team of senior officers, headed by deputy police commissioner (headquarters), is taking due care of the constables and their family members. The constable who tested positive on April 18 had come in contact with his five-six colleagues at the police station, following which a medical team had collected their swab samples. Two of them tested positive. The 57 new cases in PMR on Tuesday brings the region's total number of infections to 813 - which includes 704 cases within PMC limits and 58 under the PCMC's. Some 37 patients are currently undergoing treatment in civic hospitals within PCMC limits; 18 patients have been discharged. One patient who tested positive on Tuesday within PCMC limits is a resident of Wadgaonsheri. Senior health officials said PMC areas still have the highest number of Covid-19 infections — a concern, which if remains, can influence decisions by senior government officials who are set to review restrictions such as containment lockdowns later this week. The technical advisor to the state government on infectious diseases, Dr Subhash Salunke, said efforts are being made to ease the burden of primary treatment centres such as Sassoon hospital in the city. "Officials from private hospitals have been asked to take on the responsibility of some patients. They have been told not to push patients towards Sassoon hospital at the last minute," Salunke said. The top official said Sassoon staff may also be rotated to prevent the spread of infection among frontline healthcare workers and doctors. Infection among healthcare workers could blunt the local administration’s efforts towards timely detection and treatment. Experts have warned that overburdened hospitals and infected healthcare workers could put the entire treatment apparatus in jeopardy. The number of cases in Pune division, meanwhile, has touched 890 - a total of 115 persons have fully recovered and have been discharged from care. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said active cases in the division were at 717 with 58 deaths. He said 20 patients, who are critical are being monitored round-the-clock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/57-fresh-covid-19-cases-including-two-pune-policemen-across-pmr/articleshow/75282715.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 22, 2020||Madurai||NGO serves two meals a day to Madurai cops on curfew duty||MADURAI: Ever since the lockdown came into effect the Yavum Inithe foundation, a newly formed NGO, has taken it upon themselves to serve food to the city’s policemen. It has been serving lunch and dinner for around 1500 police personnel on duty, for more than three weeks. Policemen take up responsibility of packing the food and delivering it to the cops deployed at various places in the city. Yavum Inithe was started last month by four entrepreneurs from Madurai-R Thiruchenduran, S Kamalakannan, S Balasubramanian and R Yogaraja-to provide food for as many as 2000 people a day, including patients and their relatives at the Government Rajaji Hospital and abandoned people. With the lockdown coming into effect, trustees of the foundation decided to first reach out to the policemen on duty who were finding it difficult to get food on time, with eateries and hotels shut. “We procure essentials from our departmental store and lunch and dinner for around 3000 people is prepared by the staff at our hotel. A variety of dishes like tomato rice, plain biryani, sambar rice, curd rice, lemon rice and coconut rice for lunch and jeera rice, veg pulao, rava kichadi and Pongal are being served,” Yogaraja said. On Tuesday, a new dish, mint rice along with Sundakadalai Pulikootu, was prepared at its centralized kitchen functioning at Kochadai Once the lockdown is over, free lunch will be served for 2000 people. The NGO is also planning to increase the number to 5000 in the future. Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham, who visited the central kitchen got to watch the food preparation and distribution. He had a conversation with the trustees of the foundation and those involved in cooking food. He also thanked them for their service. Various organisations have also come forward to provide food, water and snacks to police personnel deployed at various points in the city to show their gratitude during this lockdown peopel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ngo-serves-two-meals-a-day-to-city-cops-on-curfew-duty/articleshow/75282731.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Patrol team shifts woman in distress to hospital in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 28-year-old pregnant woman, who was in an advanced stage of pregnancy, was shifted to a hospital in Chandrayangutta in a police patrolling vehicle on late Monday night. She gave birth to a baby girl. The woman, who was staying alone with her mother and had no vehicle, was in intense pain, said the police. Arifa Begum, a resident of Ghouse Nagar, who was living alone with her mother, had reached out to the police control room by dialling 100 at around 11.30 pm on Monday. Constable Vemula Ravi and head constable Hannan realised there was no time to call an ambulance. They took her in the patrolling vehicle to Government Maternity Hospital, Malakpet . “Usually in such an emergency, we call an ambulance but her condition was very bad and she was in intense pain,” said a police officer from Chandrayangutta police station. “She gave birth to a baby girl. The doctor said both the mother and baby are healthy,” said the officer. According to police, Arifa had no mode of transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patrol-team-shifts-woman-in-distress-to-hospital/articleshow/75282726.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Law College plans online assessment, lectures by judges||TRICHY: The government law college here is exploring the possibility of conducting internal assessments of students online apart from hosting special online lectures by judges and legal luminaries for the students. The University Grants Commission (UGC) had issued guidelines to educational institutions to continue with the teaching – learning process using various online modes in view of the lockdown. As online classes started from April 15, the library wing of the college created separate WhatsApp groups for students of each year. A detailed schedule of online classes, study material prepared by faculty members, power point presentations and lectures in audio/video modes were shared with the students on WhatsApp. “As the response from students has been good, we are exploring the possibility of conducting special online lectures by judges and from the legal fraternity,” said college principal M Rajeswaran. “We are currently identifying lectures by eminent legal luminaries on various online platforms and informing students apart from encouraging them to participate in them,” he said. Senior faculty member S Murugesan said that the college is also exploring the possibility of conducting online moot courts for final year students apart from online internal assessments for internal test and assignment submission. “The college has also created a separate e-mail id and uploaded classes on Google Classroom. The study materials are uploaded in Google Drive and the link is shared with the students. They are encouraged to clear their doubts from the faculty concerned,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/law-college-plans-online-assessment-lectures-by-judges/articleshow/75282022.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 2 villages in Velhe sealed after man gets infected||PUNE: The Velhe tehsil administration on Monday sealed two villages located at the foothills of Sinhagad fort after a man tested positive for Covid-19. The tally of positive patients in the tehsil, which is home to a sizeable tribal population, has increased to seven. Chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad Ayush Prasad said, “The man was working with a private firm that deals with poultry farming. He had to visit multiple locations in Pune as part of his job. During one of the visits, he must have come in contact with a positive patient and got infected himself.” The tehsil administration has traced people, who have come in contact with the man in the recent past. “We immediately shifted his family members and neighbours to the hospital and they tested negative. However, they have been put under home quarantine as a precautionary measure,” said Vishal Shinde, block development officer in-charge of Velhe. The tehsil administration also sealed the entry and exit points at two villages Nigdemose and Osade. “Over 300 people, who have come in contact with the person and his family members, are in home quarantine. We are disinfecting main squares of the villages and other places. Mask and hand sanitizers have been distributed to members of each family in the village. The police have been deployed in the village to monitor check points. All activities have been restricted,” Shinde added. A significant number of people working in cities like Pune and Mumbai had returned to their native places before the lockdown in March. “We have kept a record of each person returning from cities and we have put them under home quarantine. No person is allowed to return to their villages in the district without a undergoing medical check-up,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-villages-in-velhe-sealed-after-man-gets-infected/articleshow/75282735.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||RTO stares at zero registration on Akshay Tritiya||PUNE: For the first time, there will be no registration of vehicles at Pune Regional Transport office (RTO) on Akshay Tritiya, which falls on April 26. Only a few vehicles were registered on Gudi Padwa last month. "With everything closed, there will be no registration of vehicles on the auspicious day. This will happen for the first time here. The situation is expected to continue till May. Even if the lockdown is partially eased in Pune after May 3, we do not expect a major spurt in revenue in terms of new vehicle registrations, which have completely stopped from April 1," an RTO official told TOI. Generally, the number of registrations spike a week before Gudi Padwa, with people prefering to bring home new vehicles on the day of the festival. "Currently, the RTOs in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are providing permission to vehicles carrying goods. As many as 8,950 vehicles have been provided online permits to ply. Passes have been provided to 3,523 vehicles in Pune and 5,400 vehicles in Pimpri Chinchwad," another RTO official said. The official said that some registrations had taken place during Gudi Padwa last month. "But we are yet to calculate the figures. At present, all work related to registrations, licencing and issuance of permits has stopped," the official said. Last year, the registration of vehicles during Akshay Tritiya was decent but far less compared to 2018. Earlier, Virmeet Singh Maini, president, Pune auto dealers’ association, told TOI that with all the showrooms shut, the sector had been hit the worst. Another two-wheeler dealer said, "Though we have received many queries, but we don’t think people will start buying once the lockdown ends."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-stares-at-zero-registration-on-akshay-tritiya/articleshow/75282737.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation allows construction within city, but with restrictions||BHUABNESWAR: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday allowed construction work within its jurisdiction to resume, thereby slightly easing lockdown norms even though the city remains within a red Covid-19 zone. The civic body has also allowed transportation of construction materials between 10 pm and 5 am. The corporation, however, has made it clear that construction firms can only use labourers from within the city limits. No labourer can be brought to the city from outside the BMC’s limits for construction work. The BMC reviewed an order of the revenue and disaster management department issued on April 19, and allowed three things to resume in the city. One, engagement of construction workers in project works within the BMC limits, provided that the labourers belong to the area where the work is under way. Second, sale of construction materials and reopening of shops selling such material. Third, transportation of materials from shop to site but only at night, said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury. The BMC officials said the restriction on entry of labourers from outside the city limits was imposed as Bhubaneswar was a Covid-19 hotspot. “We have asked contractors, developers and builders to strictly adhere to social distancing norms,” said a BMC officer. The officer further said the permission given to labourers to work did not apply to containment zones, which are under surveillance. The BMC has identified 57,200 labourers in Bhubaneswar who will get financial assistance as they have remained idle for the past month. Each labourer will get Rs 1,500 in cash or bank transfer. “To start with, we will distribute the assistance in Salia Sahi, which is the biggest slum of the city and which has the highest number of construction workers. To ensure that social distancing is maintained, we will try to go for money transfer,” said the officer. “We will distribute the assistance during morning or evening. We will stay in touch with the labour department to get the bank details of the registered labourers,” said BMC additional commissioner Suratha Mallick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-allows-construction-within-city-but-with-restrictions/articleshow/75278452.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Balangir top cop doubles up as career counsellor||BHUBANESWAR: As the lockdown pushes students and job aspirants into a quandary about their future, IPS officer Sandeep Madkar, who is the SP of Balangir district, has started a tele-counselling programme for them. Madkar is not the lone career counsellor. He has roped in domain experts from various fields to help out the job aspirants at this time of crisis. Madkar himself is guiding students on subjects related to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). “I requested professionals from different fields in Balangir to join me in counselling the aspirants. Our team includes experts from the Odisha Public Service Commission (OPSC), medicine (MBBS and BAMS), law, hotel management, Odisha Staff Selection Commission, armed force, banking, photography and architecture,” Madkar said. Phone numbers of the domain experts have been shared by Balangir Police for public knowledge. The experts have been receiving telephone calls and e-mails from a number of worried job seekers, who need advice on their future, from Balangir district and other places in the state. “I received some queries from students who asked me about the UPSC examinations. Some even asked about strategies and subjects to choose for the IAS/IPS examinations. Seeing our initiative on social media, a number of other experts have evinced an interest in joining us. We will add engineering subject to our counselling list,” Madkar said. Suman Ranjita Singh, a young deputy superintendent of police in Balangir, is guiding aspirants on preparations for Odisha Police Service (OPS) and other jobs conducted by the Odisha Public Service Commission. “I have shared my e-mail IDs so that I can stay in touch with youths in case I miss their calls during hectic lockdown duty,” Singh said. Singh said the callers wanted to discuss issues that were not just related to career and jobs. “We can realize the plight and stress of people during the lockdown,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/balangir-top-cop-doubles-up-as-career-counsellor/articleshow/75278440.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fuel pumps to operate from 8am to 2pm||PUNE: A majority of the fuel pumps in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits will remain open between 8am and 2pm till April 27. Senior officials of the Petrol Dealers Association (Pune) said the timing was as per the recent instructions received from the police. “Fuel is being provided to the vehicles providing essential services. The fuel pumps, which are outside the PMC and PCMC limits, will operate from 7am to 11pm,” Sagar Rukari, vice-president of the association, said. He clarified that the fuel would be supplied only till 2pm even to those engaged in essential services. “The pumps will re-open at 8am the next day only,” Rukari said. There are around 110 petrol pumps in Pune city and around 45 pumps in the Pimpri Chinchwad area. At present, the pumps are providing fuel to 50,000 to 60,000 vehicles per day. The sales are just 10% when compared to the normal sale before the lockdown. The association had recently made it clear that strict social distancing norms will be followed at all fuel stations in both the municipal corporation areas until May 30. It was decided that refuelling would be allowed to only those wearing a face mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fuel-pumps-to-operate-from-8am-to-2pm/articleshow/75282750.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cops resort to shaming lockdown violators||HYDERABAD: Even as they faced a backlash from the public for caning lockdown violators and in some instances using excessive force, police are now resorting to shaming those who break the rules by coming out of their homes. Police in Nalgonda district have set up a selfie point at Chityal for lockdown violators. People breaking lockdown rules are asked to take a selfie with an ‘I am an idiot’ board in the background. The hoarding at the selfie point reads ‘I am an idiot and enemy to the society’. AV Ranganath, Nalgonda SP, said, “It is done by the local sub-inspector of Chityal to shame the violators.” Meanwhile, at One Town area in Vijayawada, police made violators, both men and women, write ‘I made a mistake’ 500 times on paper. Earlier, there were instances in places like Shadnagar, where police made lockdown violators sweep the roads. In certain places of the Telugu states, violators were made to do sit-ups. However in Prakasam district, the police personnel, who used excessive force, were suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-resort-to-shaming-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75282760.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 22, 2020||Hubballi||NAI Fellow’s green nanotech tunnel gets orders from PM Modi||Dharwad: A globally acclaimed scientist from Dharwad has invented and created a Nanolife Disinfectant Tunnel (NDT) which uses green nanotechnology to fight infectious diseases. Dr Kattesh Katti, professor of radiology and physics and director of Institute of Green Nanotechnology, University of Missouri-Columbia (MU) who is also a Fellow of National Academy of Inventors, has come out with the invention. The device has been well received, with even Prime Minister Narendra Modi placing orders for some units for use in India. Dr Katti is an alumnus of KE Board’s High School and JSS College here. Speaking to TOI from Missouri, Dr Katti said the tunnel is walkthrough structure which can be placed at the entrances to high-risk public areas — like train or bus stations — to sanitise individuals walking through it. Dr Katti developed the nanotechnology at the University of Missouri-Columbia using silver nano particle’s mechanism of anti-microbial action. The device will be used to combat Covid-19 in India. He acknowledges those who encouraged him along the way — chancellor Dr Brady Deaton and former Dean Bob Churchill (both at Mizzou). Dr Katti said he is also got support from Nobel laureate Norman Borlaug (who recognised him with a citation worded ‘Father of Green Nanotechnology’). “We are excited for this new innovation and anticipate its widespread use globally,” he said. Dr Katti has been presented with Albert Nelson Marquis Lifetime Achievement Award and Indian Person of the Year Award-2016. He has dedicated his career at MU to discovering new ways to use gold nano particles and “green technologies” like phytochemicals from tea, soya, cinnamon, and other common herbs and fruits, as non-toxic alternatives to treating cancer, arthritis and other debilitating diseases. Dr Katti said this recognition helps validate the quality of interdisciplinary translational medical research in the field of green nanotechnology being carried out at MU. Dr Katti has also been recognised for his ability to merge traditional Indian holistic medicine of Ayurveda with green nanotechnology. “This will help advance nano-Ayurvedic medicinal products to applications that can be used to cure and treat patients across the world,” he said. According to National Institutes of Health, Ayurvedic medicine (which originated in India) is one of the world’s oldest medical systems and uses herbal compounds, special diets and other unique health practices to combat the spread of certain diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nai-fellows-green-nanotech-tunnel-gets-orders-from-pm-modi/articleshow/75279738.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Neighbourhood stigma for hospital in contagion time||Pune: Residents of an upscale neighbourhood in the city’s central area have been accused of harassing the management and staffers of a private hospital after a patient admitted to the facility tested positive for Covid-19.A senior doctor associated with the hospital said some residents had locked the staffers inside on multiple occasions to ensure that they could not step outside. “While a group of people had climbed on to the terrace and latched the door from outside, others locked the hospital’s entrance. This happened on three days, after which I had to threaten them with a police complaint,” he said.“We had a Covid-19 positive patient. But we tested all our staffers and the results were negative. We ensured that the staffers coming in touch with the patient were quarantined in the hospital. We had closed the hospital and reopened the out patient department on Monday,” the doctor said. He added some neighbours had made an audio announcement about a nurse from the hospital. “The recording was circulated among the residents of the entire area, with an appeal to trace the nurse and get her shifted from the locality. Her brother intervened and handled the situation,” the doctor added.In yet another instance, the doctor said, an autorickshaw went around the Pune Camp area with a public address system announcing that a coronavirus patient died in the hospital. “This was false, as the patient was shifted to Sassoon hospital after being tested positive. Our staffers are facing a lot of stigma and discrimination. If this continues, we fear their families will not allow them to report to work,” he said. The doctor rued that though the hospital was taking all precautions in accordance with the government rules and regulations, it would be difficult for the facility to function under such circumstances.The World Health Organisation has in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak stated that the contagion provoked social stigma and discriminatory behaviour against people of certain backgrounds as well as anyone perceived to have been in contact with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/neighbourhood-stigma-for-hospital-in-contagion-time/articleshow/75282748.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 22, 2020||Patna||Fire at PMCH sparks panic, no casualties||Patna: Fire broke out on the top floor of the old emergency building of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on Tuesday. Around 65 patients were present in the wards, some of whom were temporarily shifted to an adjoining building as a precautionary measure. Dark smoke billowing from the top floor of the building led to chaos for some time as social distancing norms went for a toss with people crowding around trying to figure out a way to safety in case the fire spread. But soon hospital authorities managed to control the situation by dispersing the crowd, some of whom were making videos, and making them observe social distancing norms. Hospital superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said, “The fire appeared to be caused by a short circuit due to which synthetic sheets used for roofing the top floor caught fire. However, a three member committee has been constituted to inquire into the incident and report within three days.” He added, “Initially some patients admitted in the wards in that building were shifted to an adjoining building for safety reasons, but soon they were brought back to their beds.” Though there was no untoward incident, the fire at the state’s largest hospital where hundreds come every day, caused panic among patients, attendants, nurses and other health staff. Alert male nurses and private security guards of the hospital tried to douse the flames with the help of fire extinguishers available in the emergency building till the firemen arrived with six fire tenders and controlled the fire. Principal Dr VP Choudhary said, “It was the timely response by male nurses and hospital staff that a major incident was averted at the old emergency building.” Ajit Kumar, fire station officer of Lodipur told this newspaper that six fire tenders doused the fire at the emergency building of PMCH. “The reason behind the fire incident is not clear yet. However, some officials claimed that the fire broke out due to gas leakage in the mess at the emergency ward. The team would investigate the incident,” he said. He added: “A loud noise was heard by locals and patients in the emergency ward before the top floor caught fire.” The probe committee will be headed by chief casualty medical officer Dr Abhijit Singh will have Dr Alok Ranjan, hospital manager, and Dr Chandan, in- charge of the Ayushman health care scheme. All senior authorities, including the principal and superintendent, visited the spot and assessed the damage caused by the fire. Police officials of Pirbahore police station also reached the spot. SHO Rizwan Khan said no casualty was reported in the fire incident. “The fire tenders reached on time and doused the flame,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fire-at-pmch-sparks-panic-no-casualties/articleshow/75279748.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown pushes victims of ‘social distancing’ to brink of starvation||Bhubaneswar: The Covid-19 outbreak and the consequent lockdown have multiplied the struggles and challenges faced by the transgender community, long relegated to the margins of society. With livelihood opportunities lost because of the restrictions on movement, members of the transgender community said their plight was not being highlighted at all. “Most members of the community live hand to mouth, and depend on daily earnings to see them through. For the past one month, our income has dwindled to zero. Help from NGOs and other organisations, initially robust, has now thinned to a trickle. While the government has announced so many measures for everyone, why are we invisible to it?” shared Menaka Kinnar, president of Third Gender Surakshya Trust, now busy arranging food and other essentials for at least 60 transgender people living in different slums in the city. Most transgenders eke out a living by begging at traffic lights and on trains, through prostitution or by performing at different social and religious functions. In the wake of the lockdown, all avenues of employment have closed. “I would collect money from truck drivers at a toll gate and earn around Rs 300 to Rs 500 each day. The lockdown has made it impossible for us to step out, even though trucks are running. At the free kitchen here, people make fun of us and pass lewd remarks,” said Radha Kinnar, a transwoman of Pitapalli. She alleged that only those having ration cards were getting the free rice and other benefits offered by the government. Of the 12,000 transgenders in the state, only 3,000 hold ration cards. “I don’t have a ration card so I am not getting anything from the government. Some NGO people gave me food but it was too little. I am not able to visit the hospital to collect medicines or to get a health check-up done,” said Sonali, a 32-year-old transwoman who lives in Bharatpur here.  “We are managing with whatever we have, whatever is given by friends and well-wishers. But it’s getting increasingly difficult to make do,” said Meera Parida, chairman of All Odisha Transgender Welfare Trust and a leading transgender activist. Many transgender persons in the state are HIV positive and on medication, making them vulnerable to Covid-19 as well. “We tried to arrange medicine for many with the help of NGOs but those in rural areas must be facing problems,” said Meghna Sahoo, another city-based transwoman. In spite of their own precarious existence, transgender persons have come forward to create awareness about coronavirus, said Pratap Sahu, president of Odisha Eunuch and Third-gender Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-pushes-victims-of-social-distancing-to-brink-of-starvation/articleshow/75278472.cms||Minati Singha
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Farmer from Gujarat donates 220 quintals of wheat to Shahjahanpur admin to help feed needy||BAREILLY: A farmer from Gujarat, who had purchased 12 acres of agricultural land in Shahjahanpur in October, has donated the first produce of nearly 220 quintals of wheat from his land to the Shahjahanpur district administration to help feed the needy. Dharmendra Singh Lathar, 43, son of an Armyman and born into a family of farmers, always had inclination towards farming. After successfully running a security agency, he moved towards farming and purchased a piece of land in Kanth area of Shahjahanpur in October 2019. He wanted to use modern techniques to encourage youths to take up farming. The first harvest was quite encouraging which he decided to donate to the people. Local sub-divisional magistrate Surendra Kumar was amazed to know of the humanitarian gesture in these critical circumstances and appreciated Lathar’s contribution. Lathar, currently in Vadodara, told TOI over the phone, “I want to encourage youths to move towards farming instead of migrating to big cities and work as labourers or low-skilled workers. Farming and livestock management can always yield good profits and my motive is help farmers increase their profitability. Apart from my harvest, I also donated Rs 1 lakh in PM-CARES fund.” “It is really encouraging to see such support coming from people during this tough time. The donated wheat would be utilised for feeding the poor on the instructions of the district magistrate,” the SDM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-from-gujarat-donates-220-quintals-of-wheat-to-shahjahanpur-admin-to-help-feed-needy/articleshow/75279767.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Action likely against Araria agriculture officer for misbehaving with chowkidar on duty||PATNA: Araria district agriculture officer (DAO) Manoj Kumar has been served a show-cause notice for misbehaving with a police’s chowkidar who had stopped him on Monday and asked to show his vehicle pass. The incident raised a storm in police circles on Tuesday after its video went viral on social media, prompting state agriculture minister Prem Kumar to issue directive that why action should not be taken against the DAO. Director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey took the incident seriously and brought it to the notice of chief secretary Deepak Kumar. “I have already conveyed the message to the government through proper channel,” Pandey said, adding that he had sought a detailed report from Araria SP on the incident. The minister said he has asked the incharge of Purnia division of the department to also conduct a detailed investigation into the matter. Expressing concern over the DAO’s “misconduct”, the minister said, “The chowkidar was on duty to enforce the nationwide lockdown to check Covid-19 spread. Such an incident must be condemned.” He said further action would be taken against the officer on the inquiry report. Manoj was stopped by chowkidar Ganesh Lal Tatma near Surjapul under Bairgachhi police outpost in Araria district when he was on way to attend a meeting on Monday. Infuriated over his audacity, the DAO asked a senior police officer of the area to punish him. Subsequently, Ganesh was humiliated in full public view and made to do sit-ups holding his ears. Later, he was forced to tender an apology with head down in the feet of the DAO, who didn’t stop there. “I am in a hurry because I have to attend a videoconferencing. Otherwise, I would have sent you to jail,” the DAO is heard telling Ganesh in the video. TOI does not authenticate the video. When contacted, Araria SP Dhurat Sayli Sablaram said, “I have asked Araria sub-divisional police officer to inquire into the incident and report.” Araria SDPO Pushkar Kumar said such an incident would demoralize the frontline workforce engaged in enforcing the lockdown. He, however, parried questions on sub-inspector Govind Singh, who is heard in the video rebuking the chowkidar. Sources said the SDPO initially tried to downplay the incident due to the DAO’s connections in the corridors of power. Bairgachhi police station SHO Harendra Kumar also attempted to shield the DAO. “The chowkidar himself started doing sit-ups to tender his apology after he came to know about the officer’s identity,” the SHO said. In the video, a police officer is heard telling the chowkidar, “You have stopped the DAO but this is an insult to me as I am incharge of this checkpost.” Meanwhile, a senior IAS officer said the DAO is likely to be suspended and face departmental proceedings. Earlier, DGP Pandey said he wouldn’t tolerate humiliation of any of the policemen. “They all are doing their commendable job even at the risk of their lives,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/action-likely-against-araria-agri-officer-for-misbehaving-with-chowkidar-on-duty/articleshow/75279788.cms||Ramashankar
April 22, 2020||Pune||Containment zone declared in Khadki Cantonment Board limits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The 3-km and 5-km radius area around the places where the Covid-19 patients have been found in Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) limits were declared containment and buffer zones, respectively, on Tuesday. Santoshkumar Deshmukh, incident commander and sub-divisional officer, sub division Pune, made the declaration while acting on the letter sent by KCB CEO Pramod Singh in this regard. As a result, movement of all vehicles, except those of essential services, is banned in the containment zone. 5-day shutdown in DCB limitsThe Dehu Road Cantonment Board (DCB) started a five-day complete shutdown of the area from Tuesday to prevent the Covid-19 spread, the board’s chief executive officer R Haritwal said. He said Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune had been sealed for seven days. “It is possible that residents of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad could come to Dehu Road, which could infect the locals here. So, the complete shutdown is being observed to protect them,” he said. Vegetable markets, grocery shops and those selling essential goods will be allowed to remain open from 9am to noon during this period, Haritwal said. Banks, ATMs, petrol pumps, hospitals and medical stores will remain open as usual. The shops and establishments will have to strictly observe social distancing, he said. Haritwal added that three to four teams had been formed to patrol the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/containment-zone-declared-in-kcb-limits/articleshow/75282764.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Societies shut gates to outsiders, register every member’s exit, entry||PUNE: Most housing societies in the city have shut main gates to prevent residents from leaving the premises. Residents, who do step out to buy essentials, must record the in and out time in the security register. The local police visits societies everyday to monitor the register. Members too have been judiciously following rules and avoiding going out. Housing societies in Kharadi, Kothrud, NIBM, Vishrantwadi, Bibwewadi, Wakad, Ahmednagar road, among others, have been following the protocol diligently. Ganga Sarovar society in Chandannagar keeps its gates closed all the time. Maria Kumar, a resident, said, “Only one member of the family can go out once in a day to get something in an emergency.” Fari Daruwala, who lives in Lunkad Greenland 2 at Vimannagar, said, “A vegetable vendor stops here twice a week. We are not allowed to go out of the society after 6pm. We can only go out in an emergency situation after seeking permission from the chairman. We even take the household waste to the larger bins ourselves as per time allocated to each wing.” A resident of Neco Garden society on Ahmednagar road Geeta Jeswani said, “We have two gates for entry-exit and we have closed one gate. We are not allowing any person to come inside the society, except the vegetable vendor. If they do go out, members have to write their in and out time in a register placed at the gate. No walks or sitting in groups is allowed in the society. The housing society WhatsApp group is used to help senior citizens and bachelors.” At Forest County society in Kharadi, a supermarket chain sets up a small outlet once a week and all entries are monitored. Some housing societies in Vimannagar keep the gates open only between 11am and 2pm. Further, if members must step out, they can drop a message on the society WhatsApp group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/societies-shut-gates-to-outsiders-register-every-members-exit-entry/articleshow/75282758.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 22, 2020||Goa||Lockdown halts Sada-Varunapuri work, expected deadline now Jan 2021||PANAJI: Just as construction of the four-lane road from Varunapuri junction to Sada junction, including a flyover, was restarting, the lockdown imposed in view of the coronavirus threat has stalled work all over again. Officials said that work is now expected to begin only after the lockdown is lifted, and once the PWD supervisory committee approves the cost-sharing formula for the additional works that are being taken up. Chief minister Pramod Sawant reviewed the status of the long-delayed project over a month ago and asked Gammon India Engineers & Contractors Limited to expedite the project. The Rs 397 crore-undertaking had come to a standstill due to four changes in the project sought by PWD. Gammon India has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and PWD to clear the payment for the additional works. “The supervisory committee meeting to approve the cost sharing formula for the additional works has to be held. Once that issue is resolved, the work will pick up pace,” said a PWD official. Gammon India bagged the contract to build the 5.2km long Sada to Varunapuri road in September 2015, with PWD executing the project and Mormugao Port Trust and NHAI sharing the cost. The construction cost of the elevated portion of the four-lane road near Baina beach is being borne by the Goa government. Though the work order was issued in October 2015, work has progressed at a slow pace due to land acquisition hurdles, political interference, delayed payments and revision of the project plans. “We expect the project to be completed by January 31, 2021,” said an MPT official. A PWD official said that they had planned to complete as much work as possible before the monsoon began as the rains will once again slow down the pace of the work. However, due to the lockdown and uncertainty on its extension, a fresh timeline will have to be drawn up. As per the present funding formula, NHAI will bear 28.5% of the project cost, the Goa government 37.18%, and MPT, 34.25%, with grants of Rs 187 crore from the Union ministry of shipping. In January and February, Sawant held a meeting with the officials of the ministry of road transport and highways and the Union ministry of shipping, as well as PWD and Gammon India, regarding the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-halts-sada-varunapuri-work-expected-deadline-now-jan-21/articleshow/75282775.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad could have virus under control by May: Vijay Nehra||AHMEDABAD: If everything goes as planned, the city will be able to control the spread of Covid-19 by May 2020, municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said on Tuesday. “For this, we need 100% support of all residents. The fight will get extended if people do not cooperate with the authorities,” said Nehra. The municipal commissioner urged all citizens to follow lockdown rules strictly. “With cases being found though active surveillance, AMC is confident that the city will check the spread of the novel coronavirus by May,” said Nehra. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to increase bed capacity for Covid-19 patients to 1,000 from the existing 500 beds. The step has been taken to reduce the burden on Civil Hospital. Nehra said that SVP Hospital will be reserved exclusively for Ahmedabad Covid-19 patients. “Earlier, we had made arrangement for 50 beds which was later increased to 500. Of these, 400 are at SVP,” he said. “From today, SVP will have 1,000 beds for Covid patients, and this will be for patients from Ahmedabad,” said the municipal chief. On the lines of Samras Hostel, a Covid-19 care centre will also be opened at Haj House in Kalupur. This will be for asymptomatic cases. The Haj House facility will open on Wednesday. He said that the quarantine period for the 264 patients who were lodged at Haj House and Isha Foundation has ended. “Rapid antibody tests were performed on them and eight were found to be positive. These eight were then tested for Covid-19 and all returned negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-could-have-virus-under-control-by-may-nehra/articleshow/75282053.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt plans to source PPE kits locally as shortage escalates||Pune: The state government, staring at a severe shortage of masks and PPEs, has decided to tap local suppliers. Health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI that they were coordinating with the central government for protective gear but he has mobilised local manufacturers and CSR initiatives to address the shortfall. The state had demanded eight lakh N-95 masks and 1.5 lakh Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) but received only one lakh masks and 30,000 PPE kits, he said. Covid-19 numbers in the state on Tuesday touched 5,218 cases with 251 deaths and 552 new cases. Tope told TOI that the central government has assured the state that it will coordinate with the companies and send more kits. “With more requirement, we need more kits and so we have tied up with local companies to ensure that there is no shortfall,” a senior health official said. A doctor in a private hospital said he was unable to get the PPE or the N-95 masks in the market due to the shortage. Unless these are available, the government’s mandate of examining symptomatic persons will be an issue, he added. A health worker, on the condition of anonymity, said private hospitals have to stock up for patients since Covid-19 cases were rising. Technical consultant to the state government Subhash Salunkhe, who met representatives of private hospitals on Tuesday, told TOI that they would be talking to the local bodies to procure protective equipment from local manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-plans-to-source-ppe-kits-locally-as-shortage-escalates/articleshow/75282763.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Hospitals see marked drop in non-corona patients||NAGPUR: The number of patients with lifestyle and non-communicable diseases has drastically dropped at government and private hospitals in the wake of the coronavirus scare. Cardiologists have observed a drop in flow of patients of chronic stable angina. As per DMER directives, elective surgeries have been put off while emergency procedures are being done. OSD at Super Specialty Hospital (SSH) Dr Milind Fulpatil said they had restricted the OPD to just 100 patients while just a couple of angioplasties are carried out as a precaution to check coronavirus . “Doctors ware working with precaution as you can’t tell who might be carrying the virus,” he said. Similarly, patients of diabetes, hypertension, and other diseases too are consulting on phone. Some doctors say less stress levels too may have resulted in less number of people suffering heart problems in the last one month. A senior cardiologist at SSH said patients with severe pain are only coming forward. “Some are holding themselves back and not rushing to hospital for their own safety. There are chronic stable angina patients and therefore number of patients is less. But people with acute cardiac failure are coming,” the cardiologist said. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said patients of non-Covid emergencies, deliveries, orthopaedic, stroke, and regular dialysis were coming. “At our hospital one angioplasty was done during this period. But we have noticed a drop in regular flow of patients. People with diabetes, hypertension and cardiac issues are having telephonic consultation with our doctors and medicines are being prescribed,” he said. Dr Marar also said patients coming with heart attack complaints had declined. Asked if this was linked to stress levels going down in these times, “We have to correlate something. It can be stress level, people staying indoors, or smoking being reduced. At least in our hospital, I can say there is a decrease in heart attack patients,” Dr Marar said. Dr Dhananjay Ookalkar of the Central India Nephrology Society said patients who needed dialysis were visiting the centres regularly. “Dialysis patients are allowed to visit centres even during lockdown. We receive them from all corners of Nagpur,” he said. As entire history of existing patients is maintained at the dialysis centre, nephrologists in city don’t ask them for Covid-19 test every time. “We know most of our patients because treating nephrologists run most dialysis centres too. In case patient develops any symptoms of Covid-19, we refer them to government hospitals for testing,” Dr Ookalkar said. He said kidney clinics in city were open for emergency cases only and regular OPDs are stopped to avoid infections. For orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sanjeev Chaudhary, decreasing number of road accidents was a good outcome of lockdown. “There is a significant decrease in road traffic accident injuries. But I am coming across many cases of household falls, especially of elderly people these days,” he said. Most orthopaedic hospitals in city have stopped regular OPD and are only dealing with emergency cases. “We have created a small isolation unit in our hospital. Emergency cases are admitted here initially. We take their travel history, medical history and other notes. If fits in parameters, we advise them to visit government hospital first and get Covid-19 test done,” Dr Chaudhary said. If patient is fine and has no symptoms, then they are admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hospitals-see-marked-drop-in-non-corona-patients/articleshow/75439230.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Commissioner interacts with kin of city police personnel||Mangaluru: City police commissioner P S Harsha held a special video conference on Tuesday to interact with families of city police personnel engaged in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The police commissioner has been honouring staff on duty with the Covid Warrior title, every day, due to their hard work during the lockdown, either for law enforcement, or in helping people who are in trouble. “Many of the family members of city police personnel are staying far away in North Karnataka. I thanked them on behalf of society,” Harsha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/commissioner-interacts-with-kin-of-city-police-personnel/articleshow/75279821.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops unbending even with essential service providers||PUNE: Essential service providers were stopped from going about their duties by police staff manning blocked roads on Monday and told to stay home. Home-nurses taking care of senior citizens and other patients, people distributing food to migrants and homeless people and solid waste collection and handling (SWaCH) staff are complaining of being harassed while going to work. Kavita Palkar, a home nurse who looks after three patients, all aged above 95 years, said she faced problems while on her way to work. “The children of these senior citizens are over 60 years of age and suffer from various illnesses, and cannot change the catheter or sponge the older kin. I can’t stay in their house because I have a special child at home. We have permission from the police and the local corporator. Even so, some policemen stop us, talk harshly and refuse to listen to us,” she said. Milind Kamble, founder chairman of Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, runs two community kitchens in Pune serving food to over 2,000 homeless and migrant people and resident doctors of Sassoon General Hospital. He said they too faced a problem after women who helped in cooking at the College of Engineering Pune kitchen did not turn up on Monday. “Six women from the nearby areas who make chapatis were unable to come. Despite talking to the police and explaining that they provide essential services, they were refused permission. We managed to get others but food preparation was delayed by 30 minutes. We will speak to the higher authorities,” Kamble said. SWaCH coordinator Tanaji Kasabe had to take two or three detours to reach Warje from Hinjewadi. “The police have closed all roads going to Pune Municipal Corporation area. I took two detours while going to Warje where I work as a ward coordinator. On my way back, the police refused to allow me to enter Pimpri Chinchwad at any chowk. I said I was under essential services but they didn’t budge. I was directed to a third route, a 9km detour to reach home,” Kasabe said. Mukesh Waghmare, a site supervisor, who runs three tempo travellers supplying lunch to about 2,000 homeless and migrants in the city and the outskirts, said he too had a harrowing time on Monday explaining to the petrol pump staff that his tempo comes under the essential services. “Since the curfew was imposed today, the petrol pump staff refused to provide petrol. I showed them the pass and the empty containers that carry food but they did not budge. The police question us but let us go when they see the containers. Without petrol, we cannot take food to places in Hinjewadi and Wagholi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-unbending-even-with-essential-service-providers/articleshow/75282770.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Couple gets notice for false distress call||AHMEDABAD: The district administration has issued a notice to a senior citizen couple residing in Satellite area of the city for making a false claim to obtain assistance during the lockdown. The couple made a call to the collectorate control room and claimed they had no food to eat. When staff reached their home, they discovered that their home was stocked with adequate essential items and that the couple lives in a flat worth around Rs 1 crore which they own. The collectorate control room received a distress call on April 17 from Dipak Shah and his wife Kiran Shah, stating that they had nothing to eat. The Vejalpur mamlatdar office was alerted and asked to provide food packets and ration kit to the couple. When staff reached the house, they found that the kitchen had adequate stocks of pulses, rations and other items. Besides, the couple had availed of free foodgrain kits for APL card holder, just a couple of days before making the call. Kiran is a retired teacher, district administration officials said. Deputy collector (west) J B Desai said that the couple has been issued a notice, which they have to reply to in 24 hours. If they fail to provide a satisfactory reply, they will be booked under Section 52 of the Disaster Management Act and may face a two year jail term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-gets-notice-for-false-distress-call/articleshow/75282196.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Didn’t know when I was put on ventilator: Man who beat virus||AHMEDABAD: On entering his housing society premises in Ambawadi, Neelam Apartments, he was greeted with clanging thalis and clapping. Nitin Shah did not realize when he was put on the ventilator and was on it for 10 days. On Tuesday, he walked out of the hospital, victorious over Covid-19. Shah who works in the administration department of Diwan Ballubhai School, was admitted to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital on April 2. “And on April 15, when I opened my eyes, I realised that I was on the ventilator,” says Shah. Diabetic for the last four years, Shah said that he had never before been admitted to hospital in his 55 years. “This was the first time I was admitted to hospital, for Covid-19. I don’t remember when I was put on the ventilator, all I know is I was made unconscious after three days.” Shah said that he suspects he got the infection while on government duty at the school during the Class X and XII examinations. At least 15 government officials would visit the school every day and they used to tgive me files and other material, which I think could have been contaminated with Covid-19.” “When I found I was infected, I was surprised as I had not even gone outside Ahmedabad city in March. On April 4, my 19-year-old son Jainam also tested positive. He was discharged on April 13,” said Shah. Shah’s case was referred to by municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra, who said, “Even a patient Nitin Shah, who was on the ventilator for 10 days was discharged in the last 24 hours, after he tested negative. Such is the care and treatment at SVP Hospital.” Shah was all praises for SVP staff and said that the doctors and paramedical staff took good care of him. He said he would recommend the facility to the people of Ahmedabad if the need arose. He said that after he was shifted to the ICU there was an issue between the management and ward boys, about their safety, but the management was quick to solve the problem he was getting treatment similar to a corporate hospital ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/didnt-know-when-i-was-put-on-ventilator-man-who-beat-virus/articleshow/75282198.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 22, 2020||Bareilly||Pet peeved: Your dog has lockdown issues, warn IVRI experts||BAREILLY: The lockdown is taking a toll on the health of pet dogs as well. They, too, have been confined at home, unable to exercise. This is not only affecting their digestive system but can cause obesity and host of related problems, say scientists at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) here. A healthy dog, especially the big breeds, requires a run or a long walk at least twice a day. Long periods of confinement also make many dogs irritable. Talking about the common ailments that afflict most pet dogs, an IVRI scientist said lack of proper exercise causes digestive problems among canines. Less intake of food and vomiting are signs of poor exercise among pets. These symptoms are more acute when their living space is small. Abhijit Pawde, principal scientist and incharge of the Centre of Wildlife, IVRI, told TOI, “The dogs which are habituated to go on long walks but are now unable to do so are the worst-hit. Denied their routine walks or runs, dogs develop gastric problems and loss of appetite. Reduced intake of food has become a matter of concern among many pet owners. Things get worse when a dog throws up after a meal. Besides, halitosis (bad breath) among dogs is also a common complaint among owners.” Scientists said the sudden change in the normal routine also affects most dogs psychologically. Experts said many pet dogs are finding it difficult to adjust to reduced exercise. “When a dog undergoes physical activity, it is able to have proper sleep. Reduced activity is making dogs sluggish, obese and irritated,” said Pawde. RK Singh, director, IVRI, said, “Due to the Covid-19 crisis, some pet owners are unable to access the kind of food the dog is used to. The reduced physical activity coupled with a change in diet in some cases can affect dogs." He suggested that owners should adopt innovative methods like playing with their pets at home to make them feel happy. Experts advised that during non-curfew hours, owners should take their pets out for short walks and play with them. They should groom their canine friends regularly as dogs enjoy it. In fact, such activities are beneficial for pet owners as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pet-peeved-your-dog-has-lockdown-issues-warn-ivri-experts/articleshow/75279815.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 22, 2020||Trichy||IIFPT supplies snacks for enhancing immunity||THANJAVUR: The Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) supplied nutritious food to improve the immune system of Covid-19 patients at Government Medical College Hospital here on Tuesday. “The institute has been extending support to the district administration and the Thanjavur government medical college to combat Covid-19 in the district. On this line, the institute has prepared various nutritious snacks for Covid-19 patients,” said IIFPT director Dr C Anandharamakrishnan. “We prepared various snacks, including 250 loaves of bread, 150 packs of cookies and 350 packs of enriched millet pops for patients under medical observation. These food will help improve the immune system of the patients,” he said. The breads and cookies contain 9% protein and 8.3% fibre. Moringa leaf extract in them will provide dietary fibre and vitamins. Natural immune boosters such as turmeric, ginger, garlic and pepper are also incorporated in it. These foods are free from transfat and synthetic additives. The director said that IIFPT will ensure adequate supply of snacks and safety aids to meet the requirements of Covid-19 patients. In addition, IIFPT is supplying hand sanitisers to the police department. All these were supplied free of cost. Thanjavur-based IIFPT is a national-level research and development and educational institute functioning under the Union ministry of food processing industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iifpt-supplies-snacks-for-enhancing-immunity/articleshow/75282084.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: No RAT testing for now||AHMEDABAD/SURAT: After West Bengal and Rajasthan reported faulty Covid-19 results of Chinese Rapid Anti-Body Testing (RAT) kits, and ICMR’s directive to put on hold use of these kits for next two days, Gujarat too has decided to defer its use for now. The state was provided more than 24,000 kits on April 17, of which a major chunk was diverted to three major cities, Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation used 268 kits on first day to get eight positive cases. In Danilimda and Behrampura areas in Ahmedabad, which is at the centre of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, some 15 kits were used to identify two Covid-19 positive cases. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has also postponed the rapid testing for the next few days due to contradictory results of the testing kits. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health and family welfare department, pointed out the discrepancy in the test strips of these kits. "There are two confirmatory strips IgM and IgG in these kits and only when both these strips turn positive that we confirm a case. But in certain cases, only one of the two strips shows results while the other strip fails and hence the case remains inconclusive." Another senior health official added, "Another issue with the RAT kit is that, though it provides a confirmation with regard to Covid-19 case, but a negative test result does not rule out if the patient is infected with Covid-19 virus." Ravi said, "We were in the process of calibration of these RAT kits in various districts. So far, we are not in a position to give any opinion on their efficacy. Once we test a reasonable number of patients we will come to know."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-rat-testing-for-now/articleshow/75282109.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Dairies cut down milk procurement in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Due to lack of demand for milk in the market, several dairies in Telangana and other states are sending milk to the processing industry for conversion into milk powder. Also, dairies in Telangana have cut down procurement from neighbouring states owing to fall in demand, officials said. Officials said this was inevitable as the demand for milk in Greater Hyderabad alone had come down from 29 lakh litres to 22 lakh litres a day during the lockdown period. Normally, 29-30 lakh litres of milk is supplied every day in Greater Hyderabad. With hotels, restaurants, tea stalls, sweet shops, among others, shut down, the consumption of milk has come down resulting in the demand going down. With caterers who order milk in bulk to make sweet dishes for events, marriages and ceremonies closed, even that demand has come down. “Telangana is not self-reliant in terms of milk production. The state procures 8-10 lakh litres of milk every day from dairies in the neighbouring states to meet the demand in Telangana, mainly Greater Hyderabad area. Now, this procurement of milk from neighbouring states has been reduced or stopped by many dairies from Telangana,” Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation managing director G Srinivas Rao told TOI. Sources said milk farmers, cooperative and private dairies of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra have been hit by the fall in milk demand in Greater Hyderabad. Milk farmers of Telangana have not been hit as badly as their counterparts as cooperative and private dairies are still procuring milk from them..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dairies-cut-down-milk-procurement/articleshow/75282776.cms||Roushan Ali
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘Dial an auto’ service restricted till April 27||PUNE: The ‘dial an autorickshaw’ service in the city has restricted its bookings till April 27. “We are getting calls but we are only approving bookings of those who need an autorickshaw to go to a hospital for urgent medical reasons. Other than that, no bookings are accepted even if the person has a police pass to travel,” said Rahul Shitole, chief executive officer of CityGlide Auto, which is running the service in coordination with the police. He said requests for bookings to go to grocery stores, supermarkets and medical stores were not being entertained. “Even if a person gives a medical reason, s/he has to show the doctor’s prescription. On Tuesday, a person had called saying he wanted to go to a doctor in Ravet. We sent an autorickshaw to his residence in Dhayari. When the driver checked the prescription, he found out it was six months old. The man confessed that he had to go to his daughter’s place,” Shitole said. The service — which can be booked by calling or sending a WhatsApp message to ‘9859198591’ — was started in March and received an overwhelming response. “With curfew imposed, autorickshaws are now able to go out of a particular area. The number of autorickshaws has been reduced to 149. We hope things will improve after April 27,” Shitole said. RD Malwankar, a senior citizen living in Kondhwa, was not impressed with the move. “While we know that the curfew is on, the administration needs to find a way out that will help senior citizens who live alone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dial-an-auto-service-restricted-till-april-27/articleshow/75282780.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 22, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu kits came from a Chinese company faulted by UK||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu, which had distributed 34,000 Covid-19 rapid test kits across the state before the ICMR on Tuesday gave a directive to states to hold back the tests, had procured the kits from a Chinese firm which has had a poor record in the UK. TN got the first batch of kits from Guangzhou Wondfo BioTech Limited, the same company from which the UK had procured 2 million kits in the first week of March. According to the UK media, that country is trying to return the kits as it found many of them were not working efficiently. “Where tests are shown not have any prospect of working, then we will seek to recover as much of the costs that we can,” The Daily Mail the UK Prime Minister’s spokesman James Slack as saying on March 6. The next day, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) placed orders for 24,000 kits from Wondfo. Another 12,000 kits were provided by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), show official documents. TNMSC chairman Umanath said, “TN government procures kits based on validation and approval by ICMR through National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The state government does not look at the certification of the product.” Records show ICMR validated Wondfo kits on April 2. Wondfo did not respond to emails. The firm’s website claims it is the first approved one to sell such kits. Ram Rajasekaran, head of TN Central University’s microbiology department said the average efficiency of any rapid test kit is only 65%. “It can only confirm the presence of antibodies in a person who was infected. The results are likely to be inconsistent during the initial phase of the disease,” he said. Wondfo told Chinese newspapers that their kits were aimed at supplementing patients who have tested positive for the virus. Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar cited these test results (after public screening since Saturday) to say that there was no community spread in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-kits-came-from-a-chinese-co-faulted-by-uk/articleshow/75290605.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu kits came from a Chinese company faulted by UK||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu, which had distributed 34,000 Covid-19 rapid test kits across the state before the ICMR on Tuesday gave a directive to states to hold back the tests, had procured the kits from a Chinese firm which has had a poor record in the UK. TN got the first batch of kits from Guangzhou Wondfo BioTech Limited, the same company from which the UK had procured 2 million kits in the first week of March. According to the UK media, that country is trying to return the kits as it found many of them were not working efficiently. “Where tests are shown not have any prospect of working, then we will seek to recover as much of the costs that we can,” The Daily Mail the UK Prime Minister’s spokesman James Slack as saying on March 6. The next day, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) placed orders for 24,000 kits from Wondfo. Another 12,000 kits were provided by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), show official documents. TNMSC chairman Umanath said, “TN government procures kits based on validation and approval by ICMR through National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. The state government does not look at the certification of the product.” Records show ICMR validated Wondfo kits on April 2. Wondfo did not respond to emails. The firm’s website claims it is the first approved one to sell such kits. Ram Rajasekaran, head of TN Central University’s microbiology department said the average efficiency of any rapid test kit is only 65%. “It can only confirm the presence of antibodies in a person who was infected. The results are likely to be inconsistent during the initial phase of the disease,” he said. Wondfo told Chinese newspapers that their kits were aimed at supplementing patients who have tested positive for the virus. Tamil Nadu health minister C Vijayabaskar cited these test results (after public screening since Saturday) to say that there was no community spread in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-kits-came-from-a-chinese-co-faulted-by-uk/articleshow/75282102.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Kanyakumari hit hard by pandemic||KANYAKUMARI: Business has fallen flat at Kanyakumari district that has a range of tourist attractions including Kanyakumari city, beaches, forts and Thirparappu falls. The annual tourist footfall in Kanyakumari is more than 2 crore. “Summer tourism from the first week of April to the first week of June is the second big season attracting not less than 10 lakh tourists a month,” said a tourism official. Number of tourists opting for boating to the Vivekananda Rock or Thiruvalluvar statue during the off season is 1,500 to 2,000. “During summer it touches 10,000 to 12,000, the latter being the full capacity for the service,” the official said and added that there have been occasions when they were unable to ferry tourists due to the crowd. Industry sources said that Kanyakumari alone is the main sources of livelihood for nearly 8,000 people. This includes the more than 700 street vendors selling fruits and plastic items, more than 800 shops, nearly 50 hotels and small eateries and 80 lodges. “Tourism industry is the source of livelihood for the nearly 70% of the voters in Kanyakumari town panchayat, the rest are fisherfolk,” says C S Subash, 38, who runs a fancy and toys store at Kanyakumari. He said that they have business for only four months a year – two months during the Sabarimala season and two months in the summer – with which they have to manage the show the entire year. Stating that he used to make a profit of Rs 3,000 a day during the summer, he said he is paying half wage for his seven employees at Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 a week now even when business is down to zero. Among those affected are hundreds of tourist taxi and van drivers and operators and tourist guides. “So far only 12 lakh tourists have visited Kanyakumari this year. A prime share of the footfall was till January 19 when the peak Sabarimala season and Pongal holidays,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kanyakumari-hit-hard-by-pandemic/articleshow/75282786.cms||M K Ananth
April 22, 2020||Hubballi||Sugar mills in Belagavi owe Rs 496cr to cane growers||Belagavi: Surge mills in Belagavi district owe farmers Rs 496 crore for the cane harvested up to the first week of March. The pendency in payment is prevailing despite chief minister B S Yediyurappa directing the factory owners, majority of who are politicians. Farmers are facing at bleak future as lockdown may further deepen the crisis. As per sugar-related laws, it is mandatory for the factories to pay the growers within 14 days of procuring the harvest. However, it is delayed as politically influential factory owners continue to defy the laws. Majority of farmers in Belagavi grow sugarcane, and the district has 26 sugar mills. According to sources in the district administration, 19 factories have defaulted payment to the tune of 496 crore. According to the data released by the commissioner of State Sugarcane Development and Sugar Directorate, 1,10,23,688 tonnes of sugarcane have been sold to factories for crushing. Siddanagouda Modagi, president of Krushika Samaj, a farmers’ union, alleged that dues are underreported. He said sugar factory owners have to come clear on purchase figures. “According to the data I have, factories owe nearly Rs 2,000 crore,” he said, adding that a PIL will be filed in the court seeking justice for farmers once the lockdown is lifted. He said the government has to insist that owners clear the dues immediately. DC S B Bommanahalli told TOI that the dues, as per the data received from the state government, is Rs 496 crore. “Following directions, I have issued notices to all defaulting factories and asked them to clear the bills, failing which action will be initiated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sugar-mills-in-belagavi-owe-rs-496cr-to-cane-growers/articleshow/75271954.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bopal tally now 6||AHMEDABAD: Five cases recorded from a half-a-kilometre zone has created panic in the Bopal-Ghuma area. Of the five cases, four are from a family. The health department and the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika have cluster quarantined the two places where the cases were detected. According to officials, one is near a petrol pump while the other four are in a lane opposite a Swaminarayan Temple. The four of the family include a man and his wife and their son and his wife. Police and home guard jawans have been deployed at the spot. As for the sixth case, it is assistant commissioner of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, Deven Bhatt, who stays in Bopal. One of the cases has been reported from Shree Krishna complex. The residents of the areas say that the state government and the AMC should carry out extensive checks. Jigna Shah, the president of the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika, said: “I have written to the government asking for test kits.” To boost immunity of people, the nagarpalika gives ayurveda medicines and ayurvedic decoction (kadha).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-tally-now-6/articleshow/75282105.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||Finally, Shivraj Singh Chouhan forms his cabinet||BHOPAL: Soon after the swearing-in of five ministers, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan called the first cabinet meeting on Tuesday afternoon. Briefing the media, cabinet minister Narottam Mishra said, “After discussions, it was decided that the ministers will be given charge of administrative divisions keeping the Covid-19 crisis and rabi crop acquisition in mind. Because right now, these are the two major priorities of the government.” Every minister has been given charge of two divisions. Narottam Mishra has been given the charge of Bhopal and Ujjain divisions, Tulsi Silawat will be in charge of Indore and Sagar, Kamal Patel will take care of Jabalpur and Narmadapuram, Govind Singh Rajput Chambal and Gwalior and Meena Singh will oversee Rewa and Shahdol divisions. “There were two major discussions held in the cabinet meeting,” Mishra said. The first dealt with the coronavirus epidemic in Madhya Pradesh. A presentation was given by top administrative officers on the action taken so far. Ministers participated in the discussions and also gave their suggestions,” he said. The six-member cabinet headed by Shivraj Singh Chouhan also decided to increase rabi crop acquisition centres by more than 1,000. “There are 3,500 centres that acquired wheat and other crops through societies. But now seeing the Covid-19 situation and a good crop yield, the number of purchasing centres have been increased to 4,500. It will soon be further increased to 4,800,” Mishra said. Mishra said that MPs, MLAs along with panchayats and janpadh committees have been asked to be in direct touch with farmers so that their problems can be addressed and resolved. Presently, all major urban civic bodies stand dissolved because the elections were due from January. However, with an election-related case sub-judice along with the Covid-19 situation, no urban civic body election could be held. In a major decision, the cabinet decided that all representatives elected in the last civic body polls will be made members of administrative committees. Mayors, chairpersons and corporators previously elected in municipal corporations, municipalities, town councils and urban panchayats will be made members of administrative committees in their respective jurisdiction areas. They will give suggestions to the government. These committees will be constituted for one year or till elections are held, whichever is earlier, minister Mishra explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-cabinet/articleshow/75281247.cms||Suchandana Gupta
April 22, 2020||Dehradun||UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s father laid to rest on Ganga banks near Rishikesh||DEHRADUN: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s father Anand Singh Bisht was cremated on the banks of Ganga at Phoolchatti near Rishikesh with full state honours on Tuesday morning. The body was taken from his native village Panchur in Pauri Garhwal early on Tuesday to the cremation ground and the cremation was held while following social distancing norms. Several dignitaries like CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, assembly speaker Premchand Aggarwal, urban development minister Madan Kaushik, protocol minister Dhan Singh Rawat, yoga guru Ramdev and Swami Chidanand of Parmarth Niketan ashram — all of whom could be seen wearing protective masks— paid their tributes to Bisht, who had passed away after a prolonged illness at AIIMS Delhi on Monday. The laying of wreaths was followed by a guard of honour. A contingent of officials from Uttar Pradesh was also present during the cremation. The funeral pyre was lit by Bisht’s eldest son Manvendra Bisht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/up-cms-father-laid-to-rest-on-ganga-banks-near-rishikesh/articleshow/75279856.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||PCMC covers over 12 lakh citizens in health survey||Pimpri Chinchwad: Civic surveyors have visited about 4.40 lakh households to enquire about the health of 12.70 lakh residents — about 58% of its 22 lakh population — since the first case surfaced in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits on March 10.Till April 21, the civic surveyors have visited about 4.40 lakh households and enquired about the health of 12.70 lakh of its population, according to a daily disclosure by PCMC. Much of this survey has been carried out across the dozen-odd containment zones in the city. “The survey is also being expanded to the areas outside the containment zones now since the entire city is it,” Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said. “We send suspect cases to PCMC hospitals where their swabs are taken. If found positive, they are sent to 14-day isolation,” Patil said.The survey mainly looks at people and enquires about their age, travel history, symptoms and plausible contact with any of the identified positive patients. “Many times, we have to rely on others in the community to give us information on whom the positive patient would have likely met,” PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said. About 3,000 people have also been kept in home quarantine in the PCMC limits for their recent history of travel abroad. From about 15,000 to 20,000 people initially, the PCMC has ramped up to survey close to 30,000-40,000 people daily. The challenge, however, is to survey people on a repeat basis so that passive carriers do not remain unidentified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-covers-over-12l-citizens-in-health-survey/articleshow/75282795.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Villagers share temple festival fund among selves||MADURAI: The novel coronavirus may not have reached most of the rural areas in the state, but the people in the villages are more severely hit by the lockdown than in the cities. Not only have they lost their livelihood, the restrictions on free movement have also led to increase in prices of essential items. It is in these trying circumstances that villagers of T Meenakshipuram near Usilampatti decided to split a savings fund meant for conducting temple festivals equally among themselves. An amount of Rs 7.5 lakh was distributed among 250 families in the village, located about 50 kms from Madurai city, with every family receiving Rs 3,000 each. It was a decision taken by the village elders to utilize the money in the best possible way after finding the villagers struggling to make both ends meet. Every year they used to collect money to celebrate festivals for Ayyanar and Muthalamman temples. The remaining amount would be given as loans at modest interest rate to the villagers. The Rs 7.5 lakh had accumulated as savings over the years. Due to the lockdown, the villagers were not able to celebrate the festival at Muthalamman temple in the first week of April. They initially thought of using the fund to renovate the temples but decided against it saying it could be carried out later also. “We used to celebrate the festival with crackers, drumbeats, mike sets and cultural programmes every year. We could not celebrate this year as police would not give permission. But, on seeing the people suffer, we decided to help them with the money by sharing it equally,” N Palraj, 55, a villager said. P Muthumari, a farm labourer, said he used to earn Rs 250 as wages a day but it had stopped after the lockdown. Moreover, agriculture also had failed this season rendering them without any work. “The Rs 1,000 given by the government was enough for a week. The ration rice provided by the government was only fit to feed the cattle. So, the Rs 3000 shared amongst ourselves was of big help in these difficult times,” he said. The village has a population of about 750 people most of whom are construction and farm labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/villagers-share-temple-fest-fund-among-selves/articleshow/75282798.cms||Devanathan Veerappan
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh records two deaths, 35 new Covid-19 cases as positive tally rises to 757||VIJAYAWADA: Two more persons died from coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, raising the toll to 22, even as 35 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the southern state. Among the 35 new cases, 10 cases were reported from Kurnool, nine from Guntur, six from Kadapa, four from West Godavari, and three each from Anantapur and Krishna districts. The overall positive tally stood at 757. Health officials on Tuesday said four Covid-19 patients tested negative and they were discharged from various hospitals in the state since Monday night. So far, 96 persons have been discharged in the state, including 19 in Kadapa, 18 in Visakhapatnam, 15 in Guntur, 14 in Krishna, nine in West Godavari, eight in East Godavari district. Guntur recorded two more deaths on Tuesday taking the Covid-19 death roll in Andhra Pradesh to 22. Covid-19 cases continued to increase in Kurnool, which has already registered 184 cases. Kurnool is followed by Guntur with 158 positive cases, and Krishna 83, accounting for nearly 56 percent caseload of the state. Guntur emerged as the disease hotbed as it alone contributed 101 cases. After Guntur, Narasaraopet in Guntur district recorded 29 Covid-19 cases. Krishna district officials are on their toes with ever increasing cases, particularly in Vijayawada and suburbs. Kurnool continued to lead the state’s disease burden registering 10 more cases on Tuesday. People without any travel or contact history are falling prey to the pandemic in the last few days and it has become a cause for concern for Kurnool district officials. There has been a steady increase in the number of cases in West Godavari, Anantapur, Kadapa and Prakasam districts. Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts continued to remain Covid-free. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed officials during a review meeting to take effective steps to restrict the spread by increasing the number of tests. Officials told the CM that distribution of protection masks has gained momentum in the red and orange zones and that tests are being carried out resolutely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/andhra-records-two-deaths-35-new-covid-19-cases-as-ve-tally-rises-to-757/articleshow/75282794.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Trichy||NIT recruits 71 assistant professors||TRICHY: National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy has recruited 71 assistant professors in the second phase of faculty recruitment that took place last month. While five of them have joined, the others are likely to join once the institute opens after the lockdown. The number of vacant posts had gone up from 134 to 147 after including vacancies under economically weaker sections. NIT Trichy had to renotify the posts by the end of last year after cancelling the recruitment notification issued in January. This was following the stay granted by Madras high court on a PIL challenging the recruitment for not mentioning the number of vacancies under different reservation categories. Over 3,500 applications were received for the vacant posts for the earlier notification. These candidates were allowed to update their application and their recent achievements after fresh notification was issued at the end of last year. “We could fill 71 posts of assistant professor in all the 17 departments after putting the candidates to a rigorous interview process,” said director Mini Shaji Thomas. “There are a few candidates from overseas universities who are Indian nationals, we have made it mandatory for the candidates to appear in person for the interview unlike the previous time when interview through video conferencing was allowed,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-recruits-71-assistant-professors/articleshow/75282114.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Rs 500 grocery kits to be sold through co-operative stores in Madurai||MADURAI: Minister for co-operatives, Sellur K Raju on Tuesday launched Rs 500 grocery bags which would be available to the public through cooperative stores. Each bag will have 19 condiments, including dal varieties, dry chillies, mustard, masala powders and tea. The aim of the scheme is to ensure that public do not step out of their homes unnecessarily to buy groceries and also to prevent hoarding and overpricing by the open market. Speaking at the launch of the programme at a PDS shop in Ponmeni, Raju said the government was committed to helping the people during this period. Since many people keep coming out to buy groceries, the chief minister recently announced the Rs 500 grocery bags to be distributed through ration shops across the state. As many as 10 lakh bags had been prepared at a cost of Rs 50 crore and distribution was beginning through PDS shops. These bags would be available in the self-service counters of cooperative shops, PDS shops, Amma special ration shops and mobile shops of the Pannai Pasumai consumer shops. In Madurai, it will be available in Pandiyan co-operative shops, 22 Amma special angadi shops, 1093 PDS shops and four mobile Pannai Pasumai shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-500-grocery-kits-to-be-sold-through-co-operative-stores-in-madurai/articleshow/75282806.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Bhopal||MP sends buses to bring students stranded in Kota; 3,000 to reach home today||Bhopal: Five days after the UP government brought back its students stranded in coaching centres in Kota, Rajasthan, the MP government has now sent buses to bring its students back from the coaching hub. A total of 150 buses along with medical and police teams and administration officials, which left for Kota from Gwalior on Tuesday morning, reached there in the evening. The buses will start leaving Kota from Wednesday morning and reach Madhya Pradesh late in the night. “All of our buses have reached here and we have held talks with the local district administration. Everything is fine and buses will start leaving Kota from 10.30 am on Wednesday,” additional commissioner, Gwalior Municipal Corporation, Dinesh Shukla, who had gone with the buses, told TOI. Shukla added, “More than 3,000 students of the state are studying in coaching centres of Kota. Things are going well so far. Screening of the students will be done here also and again at the entry points in the districts”. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior official said that as there was some chaos when the UP government sent its vehicles, “we had kept it low-profile and are working as per the convenience of the local administration in Kota. Bringing back our students safely is the top priority of our government. Social distancing norms will also be followed — only one student will sit on each seat. Then there would be police personnel, health personnel and people of administration in each of these buses, so that appropriate safety is ensured. The buses having students of respective districts will directly go to the concerned district and district collectors will then ensure that the children reach their homes safely”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-sends-buses-to-bring-students-stranded-in-kota-3000-to-reach-home-today/articleshow/75281278.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: With no show for three months, circus performers in dire straits||PUNE: Every year during April, huge circus tents come up on open spaces in the city. For the next two-three months they remain a top draw for the young and the old alike. The circus owners look forward to the peak season of March-April, May and June to make most of their earnings. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has played a spoilsport this time, affecting them financially. Since last year’s monsoon, the circus owners have been facing a bad time due to prolonged showers. Diwali is another time when the season picks up, but a bout of showers dampened their collection. The performers were all looking forward to the April season, but now they are unsure how to make their ends meet. Both Great Bharat Circus and Rambo Circus officials said that they were not facing any food shortage due to donations. "Our troupe had just set up a camp in Airoli when the Maharashtra government announced a shutdown of all entertainment venues. Since then, there has been no show," said Sujit Dilip, owner, Rambo circus. Hit by financial crunch, the owners are facing problems paying the salaries of employees. "I have about 100 people in the group. Since last year, there has been a bad phase with many shows cancelled due to rain," he said. Umesh Agashe, promoter of Great Bharat Circus at Wagholi, said, people who come to the circus are from extremely poor families. "With no shows happening, we do not know how to pay their salaries. With no money, people will take up other jobs, some will turn to crime," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-no-show-for-three-months-circus-performers-in-dire-straits/articleshow/75282800.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 22, 2020||Goa||Police record surge in drug seizures||PANAJI: The drug seizures graph for the state witnessed a steep rise of around 350% during the first quarter of this year as compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Goa police seized 60.36 kg of various narcotic substances till March 31 this year, while 17.26 kg was confiscated during the same period last year. As per police figures, 58 persons were arrested till March 31, whereas 51 people were apprehended during the first three months last year. Police booked 55 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, of which seven cases were registered by the anti-narcotic cell (ANC), followed by six cases by the crime branch, 24 cases by North Goa district police and 18 cases by South Goa district police. The seized drugs included MDMA, ecstasy tablets, LSD, cocaine, charas, ganja, opium, amphetamine and heroin. Out of the 58 arrested, 13 were Goans, while 30 were non-Goans and 15 foreign nationals from Germany, Turkey, Lebanon, Ivory coast, Netherlands, Russia and Nigeria. Among the biggest seizures came with the arrest of the former commando of the Turkish army, Murat Tas. In February, the police recovered 710g of MDMA worth over Rs 71 lakh, found concealed in his rented room at Arambol. Tas, 47, was selling the drugs to foreign tourists in Goa and used the money to fund his extravagant lifestyle of parties, police said. Another big haul came when Anjuna police last month arrested a woman from Uttar Pradesh and a German national for illegally possession of LSD papers and charas worth Rs 52 lakh at Siolim. The illegal contraband included 12 perforated sheets with 1,057 square-shaped papers suspected to be LSD weighing 17.4 grams, and a blackish coloured sticky substance wrapped in a transparent polythene bag suspected to be charas weighing 6.2 grams. In March, ANC had also conducted a raid in a rented room at Arambol, Pernem and apprehended a Russian national for possession of around 186 grams of suspected ecstasy tabletsworth over Rs 18.5 lakh in the international market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-record-surge-in-drug-seizures/articleshow/75282803.cms||Murari Shetye
April 22, 2020||India||Supplies hit, health ministry says ban export of anti-TB drug||NEW DELHI: The lockdown due to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak has severely hampered the supply of anti-tuberculosis (TB) drugs to the central government’s National TB Elimination Programme (NTEP), prompting the health ministry to recommend a ban on export of these drugs. Leading anti-TB drugs manufacturers Macleods and Lupin — with factories at Ankleshwar and Bharuch in Gujarat, Baddi in Himachal Pradesh and Daman in Daman and Diu — have written to the health ministry highlighting that in view of the emergency measures undertaken, availability of manpower and material to the pharmaceutical industry is limited, affecting their production capacity. Health secretary Preeti Sudan has written to an empowered group of government officials to direct the department of pharmaceuticals (DoP) and commerce ministry to ban export of the drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supplies-hit-health-ministry-says-ban-export-of-anti-tb-drug/articleshow/75283437.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Farmers’ groups plan supply of veggies as per revised timing||PUNE: Confusion prevailed among the farmers’ groups, housing societies and transporters after the city police and the civic administration revised the slot for supply as well as sale of vegetables and fruits from Monday. The coordinators of the farmers’ groups stated that in the past two days they had received many calls from farmers and housing societies about the revision in timing and if the markets would continue to operate. A coordinator said, “We want to clarify that all the existing markets and the supply of vegetables will continue. The only change we are planning is to revise the timing according to the new time slot — 10am to 2pm. We have asked the farmers to plan accordingly and keep the housing societies or customers in the loop to avoid confusion. There is an attempt to clear the confusion at the earliest and ensure that citizens get supply of vegetables without any obstacles.” According to the new timing, the supply and sales are expected to take place between 10am and 2pm. Many farmers until now were holding the markets during morning or afternoon hours. Now the farmers’ groups are planning to operate according to the new timing. Over 60 places have been identified by the civic administration and the farmers’ groups to hold the markets. These are designated places near the housing complexes or at open places in the wards. Another coordinator said the local authorities and the housing societies were cooperating with them in supply and sales. The farmers’ groups on Tuesday approached the civic administration to seek more clarification on the issue and ensure that the farmers operating in the city did not face any problems during transportation and sales. Many residents stated that they were in touch with farmers over the uninterrupted supply. Sachin Kamat, a resident of Bavdhan who gets vegetables from farmers, said his society was expecting the supply according to the revised timing. No restriction on vegetables, milk transportation: PMCThe Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday issued a circular, stating that there was no restriction on the transportation of vegetables, fruits, milk and milk products in the city. It stated that the system set up by various government departments, including the city police, agriculture and the state marketing department, pertaining to issuing of e-passes for transportation of essential commodities would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmers-groups-plan-supply-of-veggies-as-per-revised-timing/articleshow/75282810.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 22, 2020||Pune||Pune police, NGOs set up central kitchen for needy||PUNE: The Pune police has set up a central kitchen in association with several NGOs to prepare and distribute food to the needy. Around 8,000 people are being served two meals a day for almost a week now. According to NGO representatives, distribution of food by the police has ensured that lesser number of people step out on the streets to feed the needy. Samaiirah, founder, Vagmi Foundation, said, "This initiative has prevented duplication in distribution of foodgrains to people. Instead, they are being provided cooked food directly." While several NGOs are providing essentials, Mahindra and Mahindra has provided 4 vehicles to the police for food distribution . Police inspector Prakash Khandekar told TOI, "We have tied-up with several NGOs which are collecting donations and providing us with all the essentials for cooking. The food is being prepared at three facilities at the moment, two belonging to the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Company (IRCTC) at Mundhwa and Pune station and another at Vidyarthi Sahayak Samiti. Dharmendra Patil from Swarajya, a city-based NGO, said, "The IRCTC staff is cooking food, which is being delivered by the police."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-police-ngos-set-up-central-kitchen-for-needy/articleshow/75282807.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 22, 2020||Business||Swiggy will lay off kitchen staff||Bengaluru: Online food delivery startup Swiggy is expected to layoff a significant part of the workforce in its private kitchens business, which includes brands like The Bowl Company and Homely, according to sources in the know of the developments. The number of layoffs, expected to start next month, could range from 800 to 1,000. The kitchens business has about 3,000-4,000 employees, some of whom are on contract. The development comes amid huge impact on the food delivery sector due to the extended lockdown, with business falling over 70-80%. Right now, only two-thirds of the workforce in kitchens has showed up for work, said one of the persons mentioned earlier. Given social distancing norms, it is unlikely that kitchens will be able to operate with full strength, he added. Swiggy confirmed the development and said it is renegotiating rents with landlords and even shutting down others. “We are evaluating various means to stay nimble and focused on growth and profitability across our kitchens……..This will, unfortunately, have an impact on certain number of kitchen staff who will be fully supported during this transition,” said a Swiggy spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/swiggy-will-lay-off-kitchen-staff/articleshow/75282203.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hubballi||Kamaripet police station shifted out of containment area||Hubballi: Kamaripet police station, one of the oldest police stations of Hubballi-Dharwad police commissionerate, started functioning from the premises of Hebic Memorial Church located on Karwar Road. Assistant commissioner of police S M Ragi said that the police station started functioning from the new premises, since the police station falls in the containment area announced by the district administration, to fight the spread of Covid-19. The house of a Covid-19 patient was exactly opposite to the Kamaripet police station, due to which the deputy commissioner ordered to seal down the area, up to a 300-metre radius around the house. Police have already shifted a majority of things, and started functioning from the Hebic Memorial Church premises. Documents are still being shifted. The church management provided chairs, tables, drinking water and other necessities, said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kamaripet-police-station-shifted-out-of-containment-area/articleshow/75279916.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||DGP transfers DSPs of Gadwal and Suryapet||Hyderabad: DSPs of Suryapet and Gadwal towns in Telangana have been transferred and asked to report at state police headquarters on Tuesday. This comes at backdrop of increase in Covid-19 cases in the two towns. DGP M Mahendar Reddy issued orders on Tuesday transferring Suryapet DSP M Nageswar Rao and Gadwal DSP P Srinivas Reddy, asking them to report at the state police chief’s office. ACP Special Branch, Hyderabad, S Mohan Kumar and TSPA DSP A Yadagiri have been transferred and posted as DSPs of Suryapet and Gadwal respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dgp-transfers-dsps-of-gadwal-and-suryapet/articleshow/75282805.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Sanitary workers at Karur MCH protest for not releasing salary||TRICHY: Around 200 sanitary workers at the Karur government medical college hospital went on protest on Wednesday as they have not received the salary for the month of March, which they should have received in the first week of April. After assurances from the hospital authority that necessary steps will be taken to disburse their salary at the earliest, the workers called off their protest. Speaking to TOI, Karur medical college hospital dean Dr Rosy Vennila said that workers were not paid by the manpower agency hired by the state government to supply workers to the hospital. From April 1 this year, another man power agency has been given the contract to supply workers as the contract of previously agency lapsed on March 31. “The old manpower agency should pay the workers as the state government has paid it about 10 days back. We have communicated the same to the state government to put pressure on the manpower agency to disburse the salary of the staff for the month of March,” she said. There are 76 patients in the isolation ward at the Karur medical college of which 67 have tested positive and are undergoing treatment. The remaining nine are kept under observation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanitary-workers-at-karur-mch-protest-for-not-releasing-salary/articleshow/75282161.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Man arrested for stocking gutka products worth Rs 40,000||TRICHY: Police on Tuesday arrested a man for stocking banned gutka products worth Rs 40,000 in his house in Woraiyur. Police found gutka weighing close to 30 kilograms stuffed in two cartons inside the house.The accused was identified as Sivakumar, 42. Police have registered a case and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-arrested-for-stocking-gutka-products-worth-rs-40k/articleshow/75282138.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Chennai||New Tamil Nadu cluster: 26 TV channel staff test Covid-19 +ve||CHENNAI: The state found an emerging cluster of cases as 26 employees of a private television channel and three of their family contacts tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Journalists from other media houses were also called for tests by the directorate of public health. Tamil Nadu recorded 76 new cases, including 55 from Chennai, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,596. A 70-year-old man, who had tested positive for the virus, died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 18. “He was referred to us by a private hospital. He had severe comorbities including chronic liver failure. He could not be resuscitated,” said dean Dr R Jayanthi. On Sunday, two journalists, one of them from the print media, tested positive for the viral infection. “We have now started tracking journalists from other organisations who attended meetings with these journalists. Family members of those tested positive are also being screened,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. “Journalists are frontline workers who are vulnerable to the infection. Also, they are in a hotspot like Chennai. Most parts of north Chennai are congested and they have recorded a lot of cases. But with aggressive screening, hygiene protocol and social distancing, we will be able to contain the infection rate,” he said. PMK founder-leader S Ramadoss said the government must do away with press conferences on Covid-19. “More than 200 people, including journalists, photojournalists and camerapersons of television channels, gather for a press meet. If this is avoided, journalists can be protected from the infection,” he said. The government must issue press releases along with video footages, and media organisations should follow social distancing at work, he said. A bulletin from the state health department said 5,458 people have been tested for the viral infection on Tuesday, taking the total number of people screened to 47,168. The state has ramped up testing across all sections, Vijayabaskar said. “We are testing all people with flu-like symptoms, contacts of all people who had tested positive and patients admitted to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection,” he said. “We have managed to keep our recovery rates high and mortality low,” he said. On Tuesday, 178 people were discharged from various government hospitals after two consecutive tests done on them showed negative. This takes the total number of people discharged to 635. Apart from the cluster among media professionals, two participant of the Tablighi Jamaat meeting and 26 contacts of other people from the TJ cluster tested positive on Tuesday. Also, there were three people with unidentified source of infection and 10 other contacts of those who had already tested positive. In Villupuram, a seven-month-old baby tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-tn-cluster-26-tv-channel-staff-test-ve/articleshow/75282177.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Submit all details of testing facilities: HC tells govt||Nagpur: Expressing concern over government’s handling of coronavirus outbreak in Vidarbha, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court asked for all details regarding testing facilities in the region.“Place on record the data of date-wise total testing kits supplied and number of samples tested and pending till date at all testing facilities available with the government in Nagpur and Akola. This data should be made available in any case by Wednesday so that the HC will be in a position to deal with it on Thursday,” Justice Nitin Sambre said.While hearing a plea by CH Sharma and others regarding inadequate facilities at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), where Anup Gilda is appointed as amicus curiae, the HC adjourned hearing till Thursday. It was already clubbed with another PIL (No10/2020) by businessman Subhash Zanwar through counsel Ram Heda.The court further pulled up the government for hiding information about starting Covid-19 testing facility at Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries University (MAFSU).“The fact of making available facility and availability of testing Kits at MAFSU appears to be suppressed for which the nodal officer and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCHs) dean, who are authorized by the government in this matter, are unable to give any explanation. Upon assurance given by the government pleader, by way of an opportunity, the court is inclined to grant last chance to explain the same,” the judge said.Earlier, appearing for intervener, counsel PD Sharma pointed out that essential commodities were not being supplied to fair price shop owners to enable ration card holders to get benefit. “Though schemes have been announced for distribution of foodgrains, difficulties are being faced as essential commodities not being supplied to small shop owners,” he said. He also pointed out that the doctors and other medical staff were discharging their duties without preventive and protective equipment.Heda contended the district administration ought to be directed to take steps for identifying persons who have reported their travel history in the light of the Epidemic Act, 1879, as well as the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/submit-all-details-of-testing-facilities-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/75282142.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Three knocked down dead by SUV in Tenkasi||TENKASI: Three pedestrians, including two women, died on the spot when a speeding sport utility vehicle (SUV) knocked them down at Kaluneerkulam near Tenkasi on Tuesday morning. The deceased have been identified as M Madasamy, 59, M Thuraichi, 55, and M Ponnammal, 60, of Kaluneerkulam near Alangulam in Tenkasi district. They were farm labourers. The trio were walking on the roadside towards V K Pudur around 7am when the SUV knocked them down. In the impact, they were tossed in the air and fell several feet apart. The SUV was driven by J Jones Antony, 32, of Akarakattu village in Tenkasi district. He was returning home after dropping his sister in Tirunelveli. Antony’s mother died recently. “He dropped his sister in her in-law’s place and was returning home. He dozed off while driving back home,” investigating officer K Mareeswari said. Antony, who suffered injuries in the accident, was sent to hospital . He was booked under Section 304A (causing death by negligence) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code and for disobedience of Section 144 of the CrPC as he had not obtained permission for travelling when the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 is in effect. Their bodies were sent to the Tenkasi government hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-knocked-down-dead-by-suv-in-tenkasi/articleshow/75282809.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Goa||Forest officials on toes as poachers prowl despite strict lockdown norms||PANAJI: Since the lockdown and reduced human movement, cases of poaching have been reported in many parts of India. Even in neighbouring Sawantwadi in Maharashtra, a case of killing of Giant Squirrels was reported, while in Shimoga in Karnataka, poachers of Spotted Deers were caught. In Cotigao, Canacona, during the lockdown period, two persons were caught by forest personnel recently with arms before they could go in for the kill. For forest officials in Goa too, it is a challenge to keep a close watch on poachers, as animals begin to wander outside forests due to the lockdown. Besides, 1,700 sq kms of protected areas, including sanctuaries, one national park and one bird sanctuary, Goa has private and reserve forests aplenty to keep a tab on. Amrutsingh of Animal Rescue Squad said that volunteers of his organisation have reported attempts to poach barking deers, mouse deers and Sambar in pockets in Goa. “Just before the lockdown, the code of conduct was in force for the zilla panchayat elections, and arms had been deposited by its owners with the police. This has helped in keeping hunting under control during the lockdown. But the forest department does not have enough personnel to keep a strict vigil, like killing of wild boars who walk into farms,” said one range forest official. But wildlife conservationists state that not all arms are deposited during the code of conduct, as is demonstrated by the Cotigao case. Also, snares and electrical wires are used to trap wild animals, who have let their guards down due to lesser human activity. “Our volunteer had reports of wild boar, mouse deer, barking deer and Sambar poaching attempts in the Morlem, Sattari area, and we are trying to gather evidence to report the incident so raids can be conducted. The killing of wild animals has reduced in number because the meat cannot be sold on a commercial scale like earlier due to the lockdown. But wild animals are trapped for personal consumption,” said Amrutsingh. He said the enforcement of lockdown in interior areas is not as strict as in urban areas, which allows sufficient movement for poachers to trap wild animals. “There is patrolling, but locals know inroads that personnel may not be aware off and therefore remain unmanned,” he said. The ‘beat’ for each forest personnel in Goa includes an area of 18sq kms each, which is too vast to patrol round the clock. One forest official pointed to the opportunistic cutting off of the fins of a beached whale shark on Baga beach, as an example of poachers existing in Goa who understand the value of such material in the international market. “We are currently hiring local boys and training them to assist our guards, that is how we are protecting the area. We do not have dedicated full-fledged manpower to respond quickly and dedicatedly. We have deployed camera traps in areas where we suspect that poaching may happen like pathways made through the forest by locals. Thankfully in Goa, there is no organized poaching like is seen in Maharashtra and Karnataka,” said a forest officer. Officials said that cemented artificial waterholes made inside sanctuaries are being used by forest personnel to keep wild animals from wandering outside forest areas in search of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-officials-on-toes-as-poachers-prowl-despite-strict-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75282816.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 22, 2020||Madurai||5 cases in Tenkasi take south TN count to 343||Madurai: Tenkasi district, which has been seeing a slow trickle of Covid-19 positive cases over the past few days, has reported five more cases on Tuesday taking the district total to 31. Even as the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in southern districts is approaching the 350 mark, the number of cases per day has been relatively low during the past few days. The five cases tested positive in Tenkasi on Tuesday are all contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. Since April 15, the total number of Covid-19 cases in southern districts has gone to double digits only once. Even as the rapid antibody testing to check possible community spread has commenced in several districts across the state, in south, no one has tested positive after such testing so far. On the other hand, as a positive sign, more and more Covid-19 positive patients are getting discharged after making full recovery. More than 100 people out of the 343 Covid-19 cases in the southern districts have been discharged. Kanyakumari and Tenkasi remain the only two districts in the south so far where not even one Covid-19 positive patient has recovered and been discharged. Speaking to the press in Tuticorin on Tuesday, minister for information and publicity, Kadambur C Raju observed that out of the 27 Covid-19 positive cases in the district, one person died while eight people were discharged after treatment. “Recently, there was only one Covid-19 case in the district, a man from Pasuvanthanai. As many as 93 people were traced as his contacts and all have tested negative. There is no indication of community spread here till now,” he said. The minister recently inaugurated a laboratory for carrying out Real Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests at Tuticorin Government Medical College Hospital to speed up testing as the samples were being sent to Tirunelveli. The district has also received 600 rapid antibody testing kits to carry out tests on priority basis, particularly in containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-cases-in-tenkasi-take-south-tn-count-to-343/articleshow/75282811.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy cops launch video to sensitize people||TRICHY: Nearly a month into the lockdown, the police in some of the districts have tried out novel ways to drive home messages of social distancing and staying at home. On its part, Trichy city police launched a video on Tuesday with members of the public as well as police officers speaking on the importance of preventive measures. “We shot the video to communicate with the people visually and convey the message of maximum awareness in a short duration,” commissioner of police, V Varadharaju told TOI. The message lasting 3 minutes14 seconds with background music had everyone from CoP to a constable talking on the need to be responsible by following every government advice to tackle Covid-19. The police also got some people to share their experiences. A woman after buying vegetables at one of the temporary markets was seen saying that she got vegetable for the family once a week. She and her family stayed safe at home abiding by the order of the government. A man standing outside an oil store speaks about the importance of maintaining social distancing while shopping. He delivers a punch dialogue that “curfew is not to control people but to control corona” while another man talked about helping elderly people with medicines. The video also showed policemen intercepting and seizing vehicles parked on the ground. The video posted on the official Facebook page – ‘Trichy city police’ attracted about 1,700 viewers during the day. Ariyalur district police made a funny video of drones doing surveillance on people roaming outside with movie comedy dialogues in the background. It was one among the video messages created by the Ariyalur police in the past one week. “This video is meant to tell people that the violators are under surveillance and to stop them from venturing out unnecessarily,” said superintendent of police of Ariyalur V R Srinivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-cops-launch-video-to-sensitize-people/articleshow/75282183.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Madurai||Pet dog dies after killing snake||MADURAI: A pet dog died fighting off and killing a poisonous snake on the veranda of her owner’s house late on Sunday night when the family was asleep. The incident that shook the family took place at a house in Koodal Nagar. The female ‘Bully Kutta’ (Indian mastiff) dog, which is only less than two years old, took on a 3-foot-long Russell’s viper, which had creeped onto the veranda. Despite receiving multiple bites from the snake on its face and thigh, the canine managed to overpower and kill it. When the family members woke up, they found the dead snake and their dog alive but unconscious. A veterinary doctor was called in by the worried owners immediately. “The dog was in a coma as the poison had spread. We tried our best but the animal’s condition was critical and it died late on Monday night. The dog owner and family are deeply saddened but thankful to their brave protector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pet-dog-dies-after-killing-snake/articleshow/75282813.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government schools kick off online classes||HYDERABAD: Telangana education department has started online classes for government school students from Tuesday, after private and corporate schools started online classes. Digital lessons would be offered through TSAT Vidya channel and TSAT e-learning app for students of classes 6 to 10. More than 500 lessons pertaining to classes 6 to 10 were made available through the app and students can access these lessons as per their convenience and continue their studies from the comfort of their homes. Apart from the online classes, e-textbooks were also made available for class 1 to class 10 students through the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) website. Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday issued a government order (GO) directing all private schools in the state not to increase fee for the academic year 2020-21.  The commissioner and director of school education has directed the DEOs to create grievance cells to receive complaints on fee related issues and solve them within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-schools-kick-off-online-classes/articleshow/75282812.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Eight arrested for planned attack on ASI||RANCHI: Police on Tuesday arrested eight persons for attacking an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) deployed on lockdown duty at Baronda check-post under Sonahatu police station near the Jharkhand-Bengal border on Sunday. Sharma Machhua, Mahiram Machhua, Durga Prasad Mahto, Hemchandra Nagsen, Roopchand Koeri, Shankar Swansi, Sukumar Koeri and Chaitan Da been forwarded to jail, police said. Police have registered a case under several sections of IPC, including attempt to murder, against the accused persons.  Talking to the media, Bundu SDPO Ajay Kumar said, “ASI Dolgobind Mahto was on lockdown duty at the check-post on Sunday when the eight men, armed with sharp weapons and iron rods, attacked him around 10pm. He sustained a fracture in the hand and injuries to the head. The eight escaped when other cops reached the spot.” Kumar added, “The assailants, most of them employed at a local petrol pump, were stopped and interrogated by the cop on Friday. The officer had questioned why three men were riding on one bike when social distancing was necessary. Their egos were hurt and they planned to carry out the attack.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-arrested-for-planned-attack-on-bundu-asi/articleshow/75280193.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Stranded workers living on edge with cash & foodgrains running out||Ranchi: Ever since the lockdown began on March 25, Asok Saw of Daltonganj is stuck in Panchkula in Harayna. Saw, a plumber, has spent the days without unable to earn anything. Along with other migrant workers lodged in a room, he used to get food twice a day earlier. The frequency has, however, decreased over time and now nobody has arrived with food for many days. The local government official had registered his name as a migrant worker and assured that foodgrains would be provided, but he has not received the benefit, so far. Narrating his plight to TOI, Saw said, “It is only a matter of days when I will have no money for food. I want to go back home. At least, I will be with my family and will be able take care of them or they will take care of me, if we get sick under the present condition.” Similar tales of woes pour in from many other stranded migrant workers, the number of whom according to official figures is around 6.12 lakh, in 12,907 different places across the country. The state government claimed that it is ensuring food and accommodation to 4.65 lakh workers at 11,509 places. However, Md Fazal, a 25-year-old native of Hazaribag, said he is stuck in Delhi along with his brother without any help. At their home in Barkagaon, his sister-in-law and mother are the only adult members of the family. Since the lockdown began, Fazal and his brother have been looking for an opportunity to return home. He said, “I approached our local MLA and have also applied in the Jhakhand government app for migrant workers for aid hoping for help. There are around 200 workers like me who are facing a similar condition.” Likewise, a large number of stranded workers are urgently waiting for foodgrains, monetary help, jobs or permission to return home. They said their meagre cash reserve and foodgrains stocks are on verge of running out and they would soon be be solely dependent on government promises. Surindrer Mahto, a driver in Navi Mumbai, said his local ration shop owner was providing him foddgrains on credit but now issued an ultimatum to clear the dues. Mahto, who hails from Jharkhand, said in three to four days, he will no longer have any means to survive. He added that he has filled up the Jharkhand government app for migrant workers and is awaiting help. Many of these workers, among whom several are the sole bread winners of their families, are also under tremendous pressure from their loved ones to return home. Ramesh Kumar Verma of Deoghar said, “Many of my friends stuck here in Delhi have a mother or a wife alone back at their homes. They are under pressure to return.” He added, “My parents have also asked me to come back so that at least we will all be together even if we have to die of infection or hunger.” Dashrath Mahto of Ramgarh district said he has an old mother and his house is also located in a remote area. He said, “As I am unable return, but I try to console my mother saying I will be home very soon.” The stranded workers also expressed fear of contracting the coronavirus as they are living in crowded places and in small rooms. They said it is extremely difficult to maintain social distancing in such a situation. Many of them also said they are even afraid of visiting nearby government community kitchens as they are crowded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/stranded-workers-living-on-edge-with-cash-foodgrains-running-out/articleshow/75280045.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Tigress gives birth to 3 cubs at Ranchi zoo||Ranchi: Anushka, an eight-year-old tigress at Ranchi's Birsa Biological Park, gave birth to three cubs on April 18, the park management announced on Tuesday. With their birth, the tiger population in the zoo has risen to 10. Incidentally, Anushka mauled to death a 27-year-old mentally deranged man who jumped into her enclosure on March 5. A statement issued by zoo director D Venkateshwarlu said the cubs are in good health. "Breeding of tigers is very challenging in captivity. However, the park's natural environment is proving to be helpful,” he said. In 2018, Anushka gave birth to three cubs in captivity, of which only two survived. That was the first time that tigers were born in captivity in Ranchi zoo. Park authorities said the cubs were fathered by Mallik, a seven-year-old male. Both Anushka and Mallik were brought from Hyderabad's Nehru Zoological Park in February 2016 under the Central Zoo Authority's animal exchange program. “A tiger's gestation period is around 105 days. Immediately after their mating, Anushka was moved to an enclosure away from the eye of visitors. Built in 2019, the spacious enclosure has a playing area, a shed and a water body. The cubs and Anushka are currently housed in this cell,” another zoo official said. "The cubs are feeding on mother's milk and will begin consuming solid food after 60 days," he added. The park is closed for visitors during the lockdown norms. However, its management said the cubs will be a huge draw for visitors when the facility is thrown open for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tigress-gives-birth-to-3-cubs-at-ranchi-zoo/articleshow/75280100.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Now, app for home delivery of essentials||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday launched yet another mobile application, “Jharkhand Bazaar” aimed at linking buyers and merchants on a digital platform for ease of sale and home delivery of items of daily needs and other essentials through mobile phones. Soren said the initiative is primarily aimed at helping both stakeholders in times of lockdown to ensure smooth flow of items and business. Referring to another app, Jharkhand Sahayta App, which was launched for stranded migrant workers to send them financial grant of Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,000, Soren said, “Two lakh migrants have registered with the app and the initial technical glitches with the application have been sorted out. We have also linked it with Google playstore.” The latest app, too, is available in the playstore or can be downloaded using the URL https://bit.ly/34Lm5cC, said officials of the state food and civil supplies department, which conceptualized the new app. On the features of Jharkhand Bazaar, an official said, “After registering on the app, a buyer can get geo-location details of shops — grocery, fruit sellers, vegetable vendors and others within a 2km radius of a consumer’s area along with the phone numbers. Customers can place their orders through the app. If any vendor doesn’t have movement pass, they can generate it online through the app which will be valid for the specific time for delivering the items at doorsteps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-app-for-home-delivery-of-essentials/articleshow/75280265.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant workers have no info on Sahayata app||Kolkata: Chief minister Hemant Soren recently launched the Jharkhand Corona Sahayata mobile app to assist migrant labourers from Jharkhand stranded in other parts of the country. While the app aims to identify needy migrants and help them with one-time monetary relief, issues ranging from lack of awareness and poor internet connectivity seem to have defeated its purpose, at least in some places. In West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas, two brothers from Mathakesho village under Saraiyahat police station in Dumka district living at a slum in Panihati have not heard about the app. Speaking to TOI over phone on Tuesday, Manoj Das (27) snapped, “We haven’t heard of any such app.” Manoj said that only help he has received is from a local NGO that gave him some food after he stood in a queue for hours. Manoj’s elder brother Mukesh (28) said, “I do have a smartphone, but how will do I install the app when I do not have an active internet data pack?” He added, “We are masons. We have some money left with us, but we certainly cannot spent it on luxuries like mobile data.” The brothers depend on their cousin Kamal Kishore (30), who hails from the same village, for food and other necessities. “My employer is kind enough to give me some food at times. I bring back some of the food for these two,” Kishore said, adding that the food provided to him is not enough for three people. An electrician by profession, Kishore fears there will be no work for him even after the lockdown is lifted. “I will go home once train services resume. We have some land and I plan to grow vegetables in my village,” Kishore added. Meanwhile, in Bihar, Sibu Lakra (45) from Palamu district, is stranded near a brick kiln in Rajapakar on the Hajipur-Mahua Road in Vaishali district. He said, “Nobody told us about any app. I was to leave for my hometown on March 30, but got stuck due to the lockdown.” Anisha Tigga (50), a mother of four, shared a similar plight. “I don’t know of any app. We thought that the lockdown will be lifted on April 14, but it seems we will exhaust whatever we have earned here as there is no work for us.” (With inputs from Ramashankar in Patna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-workers-have-no-info-on-sahayata-app/articleshow/75280465.cms||Utsav Basu
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hostels for pregnant women take special care||Visakhapatnam: The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Parvathipuram authorities, is taking special measures to ensure the safety of the residents of hostels for pregnant women. The pregnant women hostels were first introduced in ITDA-Parvathipuram zone two years ago as an experiment, to ensure health care for pregnant women living in interior, hilltop tribal hamlets. Today, there are 46 such women living in both the hostels, established in Salur and GL-Puram, the first of their kind in India. The officials said the hostels are being run, despite the Covid-19 scare. However, special sanitation and quarantine measures are being taken. “We have ensured that these hostels are sanitised on a daily basis and women, staying at these hostels, have personal protection gear, masks, access to sanitisers and gloves,” said ITDA project officer, Parvathipuram. The PO further said that a dedicated staff is working three shifts every day to keep a watch and care for the women in the two hostels. “We have dedicated staff nurses and helpers, who work three shifts and both the hostels have a dedicated chief medical officer, who is a doctor.” The PO pointed out that the hostels have attached pharmacies and ambulances. Elaborating on other quarantine measures being taken, sources in the DMHO said as of now, there are only six women are staying in a hall as against the regular norm of 13 per hall. This was to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hostels-for-pregnant-women-take-special-care/articleshow/75280009.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Central Rly ready with 4,350 Covid-19 beds in 482 coaches||Nagpur: With spurt in novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection cases, the Central Railway has geared up by converting 482 coaches into isolation/quarantine wards with nearly 4,350 beds for patients in Maharashtra. The Indian Railways has already started converting 5,000 coaches to accommodate 3.2 lakh such beds. Central Railway was given a target of 482 coaches. With 8-9 beds in one coach, it is ready with around 4,350 beds. According to Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Central Railway, out of the 482 coaches, 50% have been converted into isolation/quarantine wards at two workshops — Matunga and Parel in Mumbai. “Rest of the coaches were converted at other coaching depots like Wadi-Bunder, LTT, Nagpur, Bhusawal and Solapur,” he added. These coaches have been kept in stand by in five divisions — Nagpur, Mumbai, Bhusawal, Solapur and Pune — and will be made available as demanded by the district administration. “In Nagpur, 35 coaches are ready at coaching depot. Besides, we have set up 125 beds at various places in Ajni and 25 at Central Railway Hospital. Both the places are near to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH),” said assistant commercial manager (ACM) SG Rao. Sutar said, “Ideally, these coaches will be placed preferably where there is watering facility, availability of charging points, easy accessibility to nearest hospital and road connectivity.” “We have achieved the target in given time. All team members and those who are involved in converting the coaches into isolation/ quarantine wards are real heroes of the battle against Covid-19,” Sutar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-rly-ready-with-4350-covid-19-beds-in-482-coaches/articleshow/75281377.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 22, 2020||India||Shivraj gets 5 ministers, allots them Covid duty||BHOPAL: Nearly a month after CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath of office, Madhya Pradesh got a ‘covid-cabinet’, but still no health or home minister. The 'mini-cabinet' has just five ministers – none with a portfolio. Two of them are from the Jyotiraditya Scindia group. The chosen ones are Narottam Mishra, Kamal Patel, Meena Singh, Tulsi Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput. Silawat and Rajput are Scindia loyalists and were ministers in the Kamal Nath cabinet. They played key roles in the breakaway from Congress, which led to the collapse of the Nath government in March. No portfolios have been allocated yet, but the ministers have been put in charge of two divisions each to manage the fightback against Covid-19. For nearly a month after being sworn in as CM, Chouhan ran a one-man show without a council of ministers, triggering criticism from the opposition. The buzz is that a tug of war between factions in BJP -- including Scindia's -- for plum portfolios was delaying formation of the cabinet. On Tuesday, when Governor Lalji Tandon administered oath of office to the five ministers at Raj Bhavan, there was anticipation that key portfolios would be allocated, but that wasn't to be. Chouhan said: “The cabinet is small but balanced, and effort has been made to give representation to all sections of society. Whatever is left will be taken care of in the next expansion after the lockdown is lifted.” Silawat has been put in charge of Indore – MP’s corona hotspot -- and Sagar divisions. Mishra has been given charge of Bhopal and Ujjain – the other two red zones of MP. Patel will handle Jabalpur and Narmadapuram divisions, Rajput gets Chambal and Gwalior and Meena Singh will look after Rewa and Shahdol divisions. Mishra and Silawat have been health ministers. The CM said the ministers would keep watch on the situation in the districts under their charge and, in consultation with local public representatives, officials and public at large, would formulate strategies to overcome the menace. Former CM Kamal Nath criticized the mini-cabinet, saying it was a “mockery of the people of Madhya Pradesh”. “During this time of Corona pandemic, BJP has made fun of the 7.5 crore people of the state. A cabinet has been formed after a month, that too with only five ministers and no allocation of department,” he tweeted. In a second tweet, Nath took a dig at BJP, and said: “It’s clear how much internal conflict is on in BJP. How many days will this government run? Let’s wait and watch.” Many top state BJP leaders have been left out, including former LOP Gopal Bhargava and several powerful ministers in the previous Shivraj cabinet -- Bhupendra Singh, Yashodhara Raje Scindia, Sanjay Pathak, Rajendra Shukla, Vijay Shah, Surendra Patwa, Rampal Singh and Paras Jain. Political observers feel the covid-cabinet was more of a “ritual” to silence Congress, coming as it did just a day after Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha petitioned the President not to approve two financial ordinances promulgated by the Shivraj government since there was no cabinet in MP. What stands out in the mini cabinet is that all sections have been represented -- Brahmin, Thakur, OBC, Dalit and tribal. And, except for Mahakaushal, so have all regions of MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shivraj-gets-5-ministers-allots-them-covid-duty/articleshow/75283448.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Struggling to put food on my table||As a cook in an upscale city restaurant, it is my job to plate up delectable food for my customers. Now, let alone serving others, I am struggling to put food on my own table. The restaurant is shut and I haven’t got salary for close to two months (with earlier dues also not paid). I live in a rented accommodation at Surendra Nagar and have two bank EMIs to pay in addition to rent. With prices of oil, sugar, veggies increasing and a wife and two kids to feed, my savings got exhausted in no time. Lockdown or not, it is always the working class that suffers the most. Some time ago, I had planned to start a takeaway of my own and wished to avail MUDRA loan for it. My application for Rs 1 lakh loan was rejected outright, so I tried for Rs 50,000 loan instead. Even that did not come through as I was asked to show ownership of a shop. If I had that, why would I knock government’s door in the first place? My mind is jammed now. Before the lockdown opens up, I have no source of income. Even when it does, I will have to supplement my earnings from the restaurant with a second job at a breakfast spot somewhere in the city, provided I find one. If all fails, I may have to go back to painting work. I see many people making a mockery of the poor nowadays by handing them over some food and getting photos clicked with them. It is all very well for such people to preach the importance of staying indoors right now. Have they tried putting themselves in our shoes? Would they not have been compelled to venture out if they didn’t know where the next meal was coming from? As told to Amit Sampat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/struggling-to-put-food-on-my-table/articleshow/75437337.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Cops start videographing checking activities at borders||Nagpur: Rural police have started videographing the checking activities at three state and eight inter-district borders where trucks with essential commodities and other exempted material pass through. Last week, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had urged states to ensure that transportation of essential commodities is not hampered during the ongoing lockdown. Armed with video cameras, cops are learnt to have been deployed at Kandri, Khursapar and Kelvad where Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh share their borders. Similarly, police are also capturing footage of checking at inter-district checkpoints such as Y-point at Kondhali, T-point at Mowad, Sawargaon T-point, Borgaon Mohadi phata, Wadgaon Phata, Sonegaon phata and Bhiwapur. Official sources said the checking is being videographed following MHA’s objection over the states unnecessarily hampering the transports of essential commodities on the pretext of enforcing lockdown. Highlighting the delays and hindrances of the movements of trucks ferrying essential commodities across states, MHA had issued a fresh guidelines last week stating that even empty trucks carrying food grains should not be stopped. SP Rakesh Ola said video footage are for references and to ensure smooth and fair checking. “The footage are being collected so that they can be referred and monitored by senior officers,” he said. Referring to the latest MHA guidelines to start some of the exempted industrial and economic activities in which the role of rural police would be crucial, SP Ola said the finer details of such works with the local administration would be finalized in the next couple of days. Ola said tehsildars, who had been designated as ‘incident commanders’ by the collector, along with local police station in-charges will play a crucial role. “The modalities of how the industries would function and the movements of migrant labourers to the site of works will be decided shortly,” he said. “It is impossible that migrant labourers would be coming to rural districts for work everyday by themselves. The administration must engage some transport like buses for their movement or the respective industries must make some arrangements at the sites for their accommodation,” said Ola. He added that economic activities are likely to resume as per MHA orders in the coming days at several key industrial zones such as MIDC, Buti Bori, Saoner, Mouda etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-start-videographing-checking-activities-at-borders/articleshow/75281385.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Inspired, 4 retired govt employees feed the poor||Visakhapatnam: Inspired by TOI’s report, “This family feeds over 100 people every day” published on April 12, four retired employees of BSNL have come forward to help the needy during the lockdown. Retired employees PNS Sai, P Vijay, Srirama Rao and VRK Sarma, all in their 60s, have started distributing food to more than 100 people every day since April 17 after they read that a man named Hemanth Kumar is distributing food prepared by his wife and mother to poor people with the support of his friends. “We came to know about his humanity through the news report and planned to distribute food with our limited resources. We four are retired employees and planned to serve food to needy and poor people,” retired DGM Sarma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/inspired-4-retired-govt-employees-feed-the-poor/articleshow/75280028.cms||Siva G
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||49 cops test +ve in Maha, city unit worried||Nagpur: The increasing number of men in khaki, who have been hard-pressed to maintain law and order as well as lockdown, testing positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection in the state, especially in Mumbai and Thane, has the city police personnel worried. So far, 11 police officers and 38 constables have tested positive for the coronavirus infection in the state. It’s learnt that several police personnel, especially the ones deployed at isolation wards outside Mayo Hospital and Government Medical College and Hospital, have been provided with PPE (personal protective equipment) kits and personal hygiene material around a week ago as they have been posted at these high risk zones for more than a month. A senior officer, supervising the containment zones of Satranjipura and elsewhere in Itwari from where at least 50 persons have tested positive, said he is taking utmost care not to contract the disease. “If I get infected, my family may also get affected. After reaching home, I first take hot water bath, wash clothes and take other precautions,” he said. Commissioner of police BK Upadhyay said he cannot take the risk of getting the personnel tested for Covid-19 as that would trigger panic within the force. “We need to be careful, but testing them would backfire with an adverse effect on the cops,” he said, adding the personnel are regularly being told to remain vigilant about their health and hygiene. A section of traffic police and personnel manning police stations have expressed concern about possibility of contracting the disease while getting too close to the violators for detaining them and seizing their vehicles. “Many a times, we need to ride pillion on the bikes of the violators or get into the cars of strangers to take them to police station for further action,” said a traffic cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/49-cops-test-ve-in-maha-city-unit-worried/articleshow/75281391.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Ramzan kits for all Muslim families in district||VISAKHAPATNAM: Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy, Visakhapatnam MP MVV Satyanarayana and tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday urged industrialists to come forward to help the poor who are reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister said lockdown would be implemented strictly in the containment zones in Greater Visakha, Narsipatnam, Yalamanchili, Padmanabham and Bheemili areas till May 3, while the remaining areas in the district would get some relaxation for industries and construction work. He also urged workers to maintain social distancing during agriculture, NREGS and related works. Vijayasai said he would distribute Ramzan kits to Muslim families in the city and district. The district has around 25,000 Muslim families and Pragati Bharati Trust would distribute the kits, he said. The leaders also met community elders and urged them to exercise caution during Ramzan prayers, and observe fasting at home.  “We generally distribute food after evening prayers. But it would not be possible this year due to the lockdown. The government should provide food to them by collecting details from heads of mosques,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ramzan-kits-for-all-muslim-families-in-dist/articleshow/75280056.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Elderly, chronically ill patients suffer as lockdown restricts medical assistance in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Hundreds of elderly people and those suffering from chronic medical conditions in Visakhapatnam are finding it difficult to get everyday medical assistance because of the lockdown, said doctors, hospital authorities and organisations providing homecare. The daily medical assistance, includes checking blood pressure and blood glucose level and administering insulin and injections. While assistants at local pharmaceutical stores are unavailable at most places, most private hospitals have stopped sending their personnel to houses to collect samples as a precautionary measure to protect their staff from the virus. Health-care experts said because of these factors, many people suffering from diabetes, renal ailments, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other diseases are finding it difficult to get their conditions monitored regularly or the medical support they used to get readily before the lockdown kicked in. V Ram Prasad, 59 years, a resident of Railway New Colony, is diabetic and recently his right leg, below the knee, was amputed because of gangrene. “My father is bed-ridden and needs physiotherapy. But now I am not getting any physiotherapist. I approached the hospital where he underwent the surgery but they failed to provide one,” said Kiran, Ram Prasad’s son. Similar is the case of a 65-year-old man living in Thatichetlapalem, who needs an injection to be administered every 10 days, which keeps his haemoglobin level normal. “My father is diabetic and his kidney is affected, too. Doctors said the injection can boost the haemoglobin level so that the vital organs are not further damaged. But the man who administers the injection is no longer available,” said her daughter. The doctor has told her to wait till the lockdown is over. “Many patients are reluctant to go to hospital because they are scared of getting infected by coronavirus. So, services such as nebulisation for patients suffering from COPD, or setting up oxygen cylinders, dressing wounds, administering intra-muscular injections and checking blood pressure have been seriously affected,” said Dr K Santosh Kumar, internal medicine specialist. The CEO of a private hospital in Ram Nagar said they are getting calls from people who have fever or other ailments like urinary tract infection and need to get complete blood count test done. “Two of my employees in the sample collection department have been quarantined at home after they went to collect blood samples of a person who later tested positive for Covid-19. So, we have stopped sample collectors from visiting houses,” said the CEO. Two of my employees in the sample collection department were quarantined at home after they went to collect blood samples of a person who later tested positive for Covid-19. So, we have stopped sample collectors from visiting houses||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/elderly-chronically-ill-patients-suffer-as-lockdown-restricts-medical-assistance/articleshow/75280074.cms||Reshma Jain
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||‘Use drones to keep watch on crowding’||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday asked city and rural police to deploy drone cameras with public announcement system to keep a watch on crowded places and also enforce lockdown norms like social distancing. Deshmukh, who took a review meeting of top-officers regarding law and order during lockdown, highlighted the success of such cameras in Mumbai. Deshmukh also urged cops to be more active with their surveillance of city roads and places where more crowding is expected, like markets and shops, where essential commodities are available. The home minister’s suggestion has now left city police juggling with the ideas of attaching some public announcements systems to their existing three drone cameras. City police chief BK Upadhyay and his team told Deshmukh regarding the nakabandi checking points at 65 places where violators are being filtered out from citizens moving with genuine permissions. Police told the home minister regarding their contribution to provide food to around 1 lakh population stranded at different places. Upadhyay told Deshmukh about the involvement of 700 volunteers as ‘Covid Yodhha’ at 33 police stations, who will create awareness among the citizens. Deshmukh, who visited the shelter homes and spoke to migrant labourers, told cops during the review meeting to keep an eye on them. IG K Mallikarjun Prasanna and SP Rakesh Ola told Deshmukh about the surveillance of highways and checking of interstate transports. Deshmukh also had a detailed discussion with cops regarding community policing plans that would be required to be followed during the forthcoming Ramzan period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/use-drones-to-keep-watch-on-crowding/articleshow/75281407.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Martyr status for health staff killed in line of duty||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced a financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh for each of the families of health professionals who lose their lives in the fight against Covid-19. The government will treat them as ‘martyrs’ and give them state funeral, he added. While making this announcement through a video message, Naveen said anyone preventing Covid workers from discharging their duties will be booked under the National Security Act (NSA). He said if the deceased person was a government employee, his or her family will receive full salary till the martyr’s age of retirement. Naveen said an award will be instituted in the name of persons who die while on duty and it will be handed out on days of national importance. “The state government, in convergence with the Centre, will ensure that Rs 50 lakh is given for all health personnel and members of other support services who lose their lives in the fight,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/martyr-status-for-health-staff-killed-in-line-of-duty/articleshow/75283458.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Nagpur||Bizman stabbed to death by father, son||Nagpur: A 45-year-old man was stabbed to death by a father-son duo on Tuesday over a property dispute in Bhande Plot area. The deceased has been identified as Haribhau Savarkar. The accused Bunty Sheikh and his father Noor Sheikh have been booked by Sakkardara police who have launched a search operation to nab them. According to police, Savarkar was into seat cover and bags business. It is learnt that Sheikhs used to run a shop in a building, which was also occupied by some doctors and Savarkar. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had demolished Sheikhs’ shop over some irregularities and declared the space as a parking lot. Since then, the father-son duo was upset with Savarkar and others. Several complaints and counter-complaints had been filed by both Savarkar and Sheikhs. Around six months back, Bunty had attacked a grocery store owner with a sword while his father had assaulted a doctor around a month back over the same dispute. Sakkardara police had then registered a case of attempt to murder and arrested Noor. Noor was recently released on bail in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. On Tuesday, the father-son duo went to meet Savarkar and attacked him with knife before fleeing the spot. Savarkar bled to death. The matter was reported to Sakkardara police who along with crime branch sleuths rushed to the spot. Zonal DCP Nirmala Devi, who also visited the spot, said, “We have formed several teams to arrest the accused. The dispute has been going on between Savarkar and Sheikhs for almost two years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bizman-stabbed-to-death-by-father-son/articleshow/75281411.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 22, 2020||Noida||Noida ‘shuts’ Delhi border, no passage without passes||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The Noida administration on Tuesday night virtually sealed the city’s borders with Delhi by announcing a bar on all traffic to and from the national capital, keeping the door ajar for only those engaged in essential services but with a stricter protocol. Where this order is more stringent than the lockdown curbs is it makes production of passes or authorisation, even by essential service providers and journalists mandatory to be allowed to pass. Identity cards have sufficed so far, but the Noida administration now insists no movement will be allowed without passes or authorisation. An exception has been made for vehicles carrying essential food items, ambulances and government officials—under-secretaries and abovewho can show I-cards and passes. Since the order came late in the night, leaving hundreds engaged in essential services who may have IDs but not passes or authorisation with no scope of getting one, Wednesday may be chaotic at the Delhi-Noida borders. Dear residents,As per the medical department advice, in the larger public interest, as a preventive measure to fig… https://t.co/e3N1fVZyBb— DM G.B. Nagar (@dmgbnagar) 1587487276000Chaos, arguments at border with UPMany claim they were stopped by men in uniform despite having valid passes. The Noida district information officer (DIO) said journalists could travel to Delhi using their identity cards on Wednesday but would need a DIO authorisation from Thursday. Only Media personnel requiring Delhi-Noida pass, pls apply in following email,Cahqgbn@gmail.comdiogautambudhnagar… https://t.co/ibr6pUJr3Z— DM G.B. Nagar (@dmgbnagar) 1587492576000In another part of NCR, Ghaziabad issued a similarly stringent order late on Monday. It led to a day of commotion at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border with long traffic holdups and many associated with essential services, including a Delhi quarantine inspection committee member, being stopped. The Ghaziabad administration clarified later it had asked Delhi government to issue passes to its staff, without which they won’t be allowed to travel. However, essential service providers and journalists living in Ghaziabad will not need passes and can continue to travel on the basis of their identity cards, the administration said, clearing the air after police enforced a near-total ban on travel between the two cities. “The aim is to stop the spread of the virus in the district. There are six reported cases of Covid-19 (in Ghaziabad) where the persons contracted the disease in Delhi. We have spoken to Delhi government officials and those from the home ministry and told them to issue only limited passes,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told TOI. Noida officials said the decision to close the borders had been taken as the source of 15 Covid-19 infections in the city had been traced to Delhi. “Those having medical emergency would be allowed, apart from the ones who are exempted. But identity cards along with the authorisation letter from the competent authority will have to be produced,” said Noida district magistrate Suhas LY. Even doctors will be required to show authorisation. Noida’s chief medical officer will verify the names of doctors and paramedical staff working in the city, and Delhi government has been requested to prepare a list of government and private doctors and medical staff required to work in the capital. Noida police commissioner Alok Singh said, “We will check everyone’s credentials before allowing them to the other side. Both the DND and Mayur Vihar routes are going to be under strict vigil.” The Noida DM clarified that police won’t stop vehicles carrying essential goods between Noida and Delhi. “However, these vehicles will be seized in case drivers or owners end up violating lockdown guidelines,” he said. On Tuesday, over 1,000 policemen from Delhi and Ghaziabad camped at UP Gate to manage the situation. Manish Pratap Singh, an Indirapuram resident and member of the Delhi state-level quarantine inspection committee, was among those who were stopped at the border. “My office is in Karkardooma. I was supposed to go for an inspection of several quarantine centres in Delhi,” he said. “Ever since the lockdown was announced, I was being allowed to go after showing my ID card. But not today.” Singh said the cops had clearly misunderstood the DM’s order. “I called up the DM but he didn’t respond. Then I spoke to the SSP, who said he couldn’t do much as the order had been passed by the DM. After arguing for almost an hour, I got a green signal from my office. For that, I had to call up the joint secretary of the health department,” Singh added. Rajesh Katarina, a corporation official, had to wait for two hours before being allowed to go. Neha Singh, an employee with the Delhi health department, said she was returning home to Vaishali after night shift but was stuck at UP Gate for almost four hours. Delhi Police blamed their counterparts in Ghaziabad for the confusion, saying they were not informed about the directive. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev said the movement of people from both sides would be restricted to ensure the lockdown protocol was strictly followed. “We are going to make it stricter along with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments. It is our shared priority in line with the orders of the Union home secretary,” Dev said. Watch COVID-19: Delhi-Noida border gets sealed, total chaos at various entry points||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-shuts-delhi-border-no-passage-without-passes/articleshow/75283006.cms||Shalabh
April 22, 2020||Mumbai||BMC grades containment zones by colour-coding||MUMBAI: The number of containment zones in the city has increased by over 90 since the weekend. With over 3,450 Mumbaikars testing positive for Covid-19, the city now has 817 containment zones, up from 721 just three days ago. Considering the rapid increase in the zones — which are designated areas from where a person tests positive for coronavirus and where his or her high- and low-risk contacts live — the BMC has graded them by a colour-coding system: Red is for congested pockets requiring tight lockdown, orange is for congested pockets that are manageable with less stringent restrictions, and blue is for buildings that are similarly manageable. In all, 297 zones across Mumbai are marked red, 129 orange and 391 blue.  Coronavirus live updates“There was a need to categorise the zones in order to decide how many BMC and police personnel need to be deputed to patrol a particular area. Red zones require the strongest presence of the authorities for ensuring stricter vigil,” said a civic official. The rise in the number of containment zones has also meant an increase in the number of people who are quarantined there. At last count, the number stood at 53,118. Initially, all of them were assigned home quarantine, but 4,292 were found to be living in congested homes and so were taken to institutional quarantine facilities. Goregaon corporator Sandeep Patel said the biggest challenge is locking down slum pockets once they are marked as containment zones. “Many of those living in slums have a hand-tomouth existence. If they sit at home, they know their families would go hungry. Hence, the authorities have a tough time convincing people living in slums to stay at home,” he said. A social worker said that for anti-Covid measures to be effective, the authorities need to ensure that the daily needs of those living in poverty in containment zones are taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-grades-containment-zones-by-colour-coding/articleshow/75283497.cms||Richa Pinto
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribal girl, 12, treks 100 km in 3 days from Telangana, dies before reaching home||HYDERABAD: In another tragic incident highlighting the misery of migrant workers amid the extended lockdown, a 12-year-old tribal girl died on April 18 while walking from Mulug district in Telangana to her remote village in the jungles of Chhattisgarh. Jeeta Madkami, along with 11 others, started walking from Kannaigudem village on April 15 to her native Aded village in Bijapur district, 150 km away. She died near Bhandarpal village in Bijapur on April 18 morning. The news came out on Monday. The girl, who worked in a chilli field in Mulug district, was 50 km away from reaching her home after having trekked through the forest with her parents — Andoram Madkami (32) and Sukamati (30). According to health officials, her samples tested negative for coronavirus and it is possible that Jeeta could have died of exhaustion, dehydration and electrolyte imbalance. Mulug district SP Sangram Singh Patil Ganapatrao said they were trying to ascertain as to how the family had trekked their way out. Family had trekked through forest: SPWe have placed barricades on all roads on the Chhattisgarh border. But this family along with others seems to have trekked through the forest area,” the SP told TOI. Jeeta was the only child of her parents. Local police officials said the girl reportedly had a meal on April 17 night, before she took ill. Apart from complaining of throat ache and stomach pain, she gasped for breath, officials said. Her viscera has been preserved after the post-mortem. The Chhattisgarh government has announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh for the girl’s family. Migrant workers from Chhattisgarh trek to Telangana through the forest and use the same route to go back. The girl’s family along with others travelled to Peruru village in Vajedu mandal in February for work. While paddy is cultivated predominantly in Mulug, chilli is grown in the border areas. “In forest area paths, there is no police patrolling. The family must have walked through the forest to reach their native village,” an official said. Thousands of migrant workers, who are stranded during the lockdown and left without jobs and shelter, have been setting out on long journeys on foot out of despair. Balala Hakkula Sangham honorary president Ch Achyuta Rao filed a complaint with the State Human Rights Commission urging it to seek a report on why the district administration was not able to prevent a minor girl from being made to work in the chilli fields and action taken against the authorities. He also demanded compensation to the girl’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-girl-12-treks-100-km-in-3-days-from-telangana-dies-before-reaching-home/articleshow/75283506.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Questions arise whether some Covid-19 deaths are being buried||MUMBAI: Patients labelled as ‘suspected Covid’ during admission to hospitals here are not being tested for the novel coronavirus even after death in a bid to dress up infection figures, charged opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday. He said at least 44 bodies of ‘suspected Covid’ patients have been released from the civic-run Nair Hospital — a dedicated Covid-19 facility now — without the coronavirus test. There are several such instances from other hospitals too, said Fadnavis, who tweeted details of the letter he’s sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.  Coronavirus live updates44 such bodies were released as suspected #COVID19 from Nair Hospital, Mumbai alone. There are many more which I k… https://t.co/MbHvbFQ3zq— Devendra Fadnavis (@Dev_Fadnavis) 1587477308000The BJP accused the state government of fudging the Covid numbers. Fadnavis said not testing all patients could artificially bring down the Covid-19 death numbers significantly, but result in further spread of the disease “for lack of high-risk contacts being traced, tested and quarantined”. Doctors said Covid-19 cannot be mentioned in death certificates without a positive test report. Dr Mohan Joshi, the new dean of Nair Hospital, said it would be unethical to mention Covid in a death certificate without adequate paperwork. “The family could face stigmatisation where they live,” he said. A senior forensic expert from the city said it was “nearly impossible” to miss Covid-19 deaths among patients who are hospitalised with fever, cough or any Covidlike symptoms as their samples are mandatorily sent for testing. However, a grey area could be the ‘brought dead’ cases. A doctor from KEM Hospital said there are at least 10 bodies in KEM at present that were not tested for Covid because they were either brought dead or died while waiting for admission. “Most of these bodies will be handed over to their families stating the patients had SARI (severe acute respiratory illness), but with no mention of Covid,” said the doctor. When a person has either died at home or on the way to hospital, the police rely on his medical history and whether he was suffering from fever, myalgia, cough or any other Covid-like symptoms in the past 5-7 days. “Such cases are labelled as Covidsuspect and their samples are collected,” said a doctor from Sion Hospital. Such bodies are stored in the mortuary and, if the report is positive, they are handed over to the family in a leak-proof body bag. If the report comes negative, an autopsy is carried out. In the third scenario, if the individual, brought dead to the hospital, didn’t have any Covid-like symptoms recently, the police rely on their family physician to furnish a death certificate. Sion dean Dr Pramod Ingale said in the ‘brought dead’ cases, Covid-19 test is not carried out. “If there is a clear medical history of heart, kidney or any longstanding ailment, the death is certified as natural and no tests are carried out,” he said. However, the doctor-on-call at Bandra Bhabha said they carry out Covid-19 test in ‘brought dead’ cases too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-questions-arise-whether-some-covid-19-deaths-are-being-buried/articleshow/75283512.cms||Clara Lewis
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Cops invoke UAPA against two||NEW DELHI: A separate FIR has been filed by Special Cell of Delhi Police to probe the “larger conspiracy” behind the riots in northeast Delhi. Police have invoked the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), apart from IPC sections on criminal conspiracy and sedition. Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haidar and Safoora Zargar were first arrested by northeast district police and then by Special Cell through this FIR. Seven others, including activists like Gulfisha and Khalid Saifi, have been arrested in this case taking the number of accused to nine. Six of the nine accused, including Haidar and Zargar, are now booked under UAPA. They have also been booked for sedition and promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion and rioting. Former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid, who is already facing trial for sedition in the Afzal Guru commemoration event of 2016, is also under probe in this FIR for his hate speeches given against Citizenship Amendment Act, a senior officer said. Haider and Zargar, who are members of Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), are in judicial custody. While Haider is a PhD student and president of RJD youth wing’s in Delhi, Zargar is an MPhil student at Jamia and the media coordinator of JCC. The communal riots, which broke out on February 23, led to the deaths of over 50 people. Police in northeast district have filed close to 750 FIRs in connection with the riots and have arrested many on charges of murder and attempted murder. The cases are now being probed by the Crime Branch. The Special Cell’s FIR has been lodged on a tip-off from intelligence agencies and inputs obtained by the special branch. The case has been lodged on the statement of a Special Cell sleuth saying that the communal violence was fallout of a “premeditated conspiracy”. A probe is on in Khalid’s two extremely provocative speeches in which he allegedly appealed to people to block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to make treatment of minorities in India an international issue. According to the latest FIR, the accused were assigned responsibilities to congregate people from different areas and make women and children block the roads under Jafrabad metro station to fuel tension in the area. This was something that reportedly triggered the riots. The FIR also focuses on the preparations for the riots that saw massive use of firearms, Molotov cocktails, acid bottles, bricks and stones. All these things were collected inside numerous homes and on terraces over a period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/northeast-delhi-riots-cops-invoke-uapa-against-two/articleshow/75283505.cms||Raj Shekhar
April 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Docking stations for sanitation staff||NEW DELHI: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to set up a docking station for its every Covid-19 containment zone, which will act as a mini-war room for the sanitation staff working in that area. The first centre has started functioning at B block in Jahangirpuri that has six containment zones. A docking station will be set up at a school or a community centre nearest to a containment area provided that the facility is not being used for any other activity such as food or ration distribution, said an official. Sanitation workers will report here and prepare for disinfection activities. “Each station will be equipped with fresh supplies, disinfectants, PPE kits, and resting and training areas for field workers,” the civic official explained. The decision was taken after it was noticed that these workers were facing trouble while spending gruelling hours in PPE suits in high-risk areas with no space for changing clothes or discarding the kits, he clarified. Standing committee chairman Jai Prakash said the workers would return to these centres after duty to remove PPEs and sanitise themselves. Additional commissioner Dr Rashmi Singh said the stations would ensure safety of the foot soldiers working for others on the ground. “The Jahangirpuri centre is the first such facility in the country. It will be strengthened with interventions like training and sensitisation sessions,” she said. Each docking station will have multiple areas managed by the sanitation and the public health departments. These include changing rooms, disinfection places, used equipment disposal area and medical check-up zone. Food will also be provided to the staff entering the containment zones. All equipment used during a drive will be sanitised at the docking stations, an official said. Sanitation inspectors will be responsible for safe disposal of used masks, gloves and PPE kits as biomedical waste. Each docking station will work under the supervision of the respective zonal deputy health officer. Meanwhile, the corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital on Tuesday got 400 PPE kits as donation from the Indraprastha Vishwa Hindu Parishad and will soon get two ventilators from the Prayas Foundation, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-docking-stations-for-sanitation-staff/articleshow/75283531.cms||Paras Singh
April 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No haleem on your plate this year as threat from coronavirus wipes out booming Ramzan biz||HYDERABAD: It is not haleem if it is not prepared in Hyderabad, so they say. The demand is such that the dish has grown into a multi-crore industry in the last one decade with the delicacy feted not just in India but across the world. Thanks to Covid-19 pandemic and an extended lockdown, the Persian delicacy -- prepared during the month of Ramzan --won’t be made for the first time in the last 40 years. A decision to not make haleem this Ramzan was taken by the Hyderabad Haleem Makers’ Association (HHMA) and the Twin Cities Hotel Owners’ Association. MA Majeed, president of HHMA, said they took the decision keeping in view of the seriousness of the pandemic. “The lockdown has already impacted the business of restaurants. Haleem made during Ramzan fetches huge moolah but we cannot risk the lives of people,” he said. According to industry experts, haleem business is estimated to be anywhere between Rs 600 crore and Rs 800 crore in Hyderabad. Mirza Ali, proprietor of Sarvi Café and Restaurant, said the financial loss would run into several crores of rupees. “Small traders and labourers who work hard to supply wheat, meat, spices and other essentials will be hit hard because of closure of haleem bhattis,” he told TOI. Hyderabadi haleem first made its appearance in the royal kitchen of the Nizam in the 19th century. Till 40 years ago, the recipe was confined to homes. Then Irani cafes and restaurants started offering it to customers — there has been no looking back since. Staring at huge loss, says ghota merchantApart from takeaways and online orders, restaurants and hotel owners leave no opportunity to reach out to customers during the Ramzan period. Mohammed Anwar, who has been supplying the essential ‘ghotas’ (large wooden spoon to mix the dish) for over 30 years, is at a loss for words. “On an average, we receive an order for nearly 1,000 ghotas from restaurants every year. However, this year, some of the orders which were placed a couple of months ago have been cancelled. I am in for a huge loss,” he rued. Similar is the fate of kalaiwalas (who coat the huge vessels before the dish is made), hundreds of shepherds who spend huge amounts to breed goats specially for Ramzan meat, farmers who supply wheat, spice traders, delivery staff, cleaners and several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-no-haleem-on-your-plate-this-year-as-threat-from-coronavirus-wipes-out-booming-ramzan-biz/articleshow/75283520.cms||Moulika.KV
April 22, 2020||Mumbai||BMC sets up three-tier care system for Covid-19 patients||MUMBAI: Hospitalization for a Covid-19 positive patient may now on entail moving from one kind of Covid hospital to another. The BMC has tweaked its discharge policy in such a manner that seriously-ill Covid patients who are admitted to Covid-only hospitals will be moved down the chain to a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC) once they start showing signs of recovery. This movement will ensure that intensive care beds — which are in short supply — are free for those who need it. On lines of central guidelines, the BMC has set up a three-tier care system, beginning with dedicated Covid hospitals at the top of the hospital pyramid, followed by DCHCs and with Covid care centres (CCC) at the bottom. The guidelines say that as segling to get ambulances to reach hospitals or get admitted.  Coronavirus live updatesThe BMC has decided to admit only critical patients to its dedicated Covid hospitals — Kasturba, Nair and Seven-Hills. They will be discharged and shifted to CHCs once they improve, but continue to have symptoms. If a patient further improves and becomes asymptomatic, the BMC will shift them to a CCC2. The decision on the new discharge policy has been taken on the suggestion of Dr Sanjay Oak, the chairman of rious patients recover in a DCHC, they could be moved to CCCs, which are divided into two types — CCC1 (located in hotels, lodges, halls, newly constructed buildings; they don’t have round-theclock medical care) and CCC2 (government centres with doctors and nurses 24x7). The BMC is struggling to increase bed capacity of Covid hospitals and CHC hospitals along with the required staff and doctors. There have been several complaints in the past week of people strugthe task force formed by the state government for patient management protocol for serious and critically-ill Covid patients. “A change in discharge policy will help to optimize use of Covid hospitals and facilities. It will help us to prioritize treatment and keep hospital facilities ready for those who need them most,” said a civic official. The BMC also took the decision to discharge high-risk contacts from CCC1s if their test reports come negative after seven days, and put them with a home quarantine stamp. High-risk contacts would be housed at CCC1s and asymptomatic Covid patients at CCC2s. Officials said treatment isn’t offered to people (high risk contacts) at CCC1s, but BMC will shift those who become symptomatic and also those who test negative to other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-sets-up-three-tier-care-system-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75283530.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||How prompt response helped Vizag stem coronavirus tide||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam district started receiving nearly two or three Covid-19 positive cases from March 9 to early April. But, now the number of cases seems to have been arrested. 11 of 13 districts in Andhra Pradesh have reported Covid-19 positive cases so far. Of these, Visakhapatnam has reported the lowest number of cases— 21, followed by East Godavari (26), as of April 21. While all other districts are witnessing a spurt in cases, Visakhapatnam seems to have managed to stem the tide. Doctors attribute this to an all-inclusive, multi-pronged approach, including prompt quarantining of foreign returnees as well as those on domestic trips since March. Further, mapping suspects and home quarantine cases through junior doctors, a robust command control centre, early precautions and spotting of suspects, testing as well as the strict implement of the lockdown, cluster containment in red zones and door-to-door surveillance helped the administration in curbing the spread of the novel coronavirus. Speaking to TOI, Dr PV Sudhakar, member of the Covid-control committees and AMC principal said, “Visakhapatnam started taking precautionary measures since March when passengers from abroad were arriving in the city. They were being screened at the airport and being quarantined either at home or in hospitals depending on their condition.” “We assigned every 10 families where there were foreign returnees to one junior doctor who mapped all home quarantine cases, traced contacts, got them tested. Every junior doctor reported to a pulmonologist,” Dr Sudhakar explained. Those susceptible to the virus and displayed symptoms were promptly brought to isolation wards in hospitals as per requirement. “There is also a rapid response team (RRT) for 98 GVMC wards, comprising 20 groups, each consisting of a doctor, a paramedic and a GVMC employee to locate houses. Upon receiving information about a suspected case, a team would reach the location within 10 minutes,” the AMC principal said. Dr Sudhakar credited district collector V Vinay Chand for devising multi-pronged strategy to ensure early contact tracing, quarantine, isolation, hospitalisation of suspects on one hand and preventing the spread of the virus by enforcing an effective lockdown on the other. Dr Devi Madhavi, in charge of quarantine facilities said, “Cluster containment of red zones is being done effectively. The 74 quarantine facilities where those with any travel history, including migrant workers, are being observed.” “GVMC and village ward volunteers are carrying out house-to-house fever surveys and the public is largely adhering to the lockdown,” said Dr Madhavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/how-prompt-response-helped-vizag-stem-coronavirus-tide/articleshow/75279889.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pan-district surveillance survey begins||Visakhapatnam: Authorities have started a surveillance survey across the district as part of the administration’s measures to check the spread of Covid-19. All 14 lakh households in the district would be covered under the survey. Tests would be conducted one more time on people who have recently recovered and discharged from hospitals, and their primary and secondary contacts. Sanitary workers, health department staff and ward volunteers would assist in the survey. District collector V Vinaychand said all rapid tests are being monitored by ICMR. “The test results and other data are also being sent to ICMR. The allegations about hiding the number of cases are baseless. No one can hide the test results,” he said. It may be recalled that 21 positive cases have been reported in the district so far, while 19 patients have been discharged after completing quarantine or isolation. The fourth survey in the containment areas of the district has already begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pan-district-surveillance-survey-begins/articleshow/75279914.cms||Siva G
April 22, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Nine Filipinos to be arrested after lockdown: Vashi cops||NAVI MUMBAI: Vashi police are waiting for the lockdown to end to arrest the nine Filipinos who had been booked for violating visa norms and prohibition orders two weeks ago. “We have taken necessary steps to ensure that they do not leave India when international flights resume after lockdown ends,” said Vashi police senior inspector Sanjeev Dhumal. On April 5, the police had registered an FIR against 10 Filipinos for visa violation norms as they had lived in a religious place in Vashi between March 10 and 16 without informing the local police after returning from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. Though three of them tested positive for Covid-19, they did not selfquarantine themselves. One of the affected Filipinos succumbed to the virus. Later, the office-bearer of the religious place, his son, a house maid and his 18-month-old grandson tested positive for coronavirus. The 10 Filipinos were booked for violation of prohibition order during lockdown under IPC Sections 188, 269 and 270, as well as the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Maharashtra Covid-19 Management Rule, 2020 and Foreigner Act, 1946.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/nine-filipinos-to-be-arrested-after-lockdown-vashi-cops/articleshow/75283539.cms||George Mendonca
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: This Akshaya Tritiya, order jewels online, receive after lockdown||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the lockdown extended till May 3 and Akshaya Tritiya on April 26, some jewellers in the city have decided to take orders online and provide digital certificates of possession and provide physical delivery at a later date. Many consider buying gold on Akshaya Tritiya to be auspicious. Therefore, jewellers are seeking out the online route since their sales have crashed since the imposition of the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, Rana Uppalapati, business associate at Tanishq, Visakhapatnam said, “Our company was making calls to customers asking them about their well-being. Over the last one week, customers have been enquiring if they could buy even a token amount of gold to mark the auspicious day. Hence, sales for Akshaya Tritiya began on the e-commerce platform on April 18 and will go on till April 27.” “Once normalcy is restored, customers can either opt to go to the store to pick up their jewellery or get it delivered to their doorstep,” he added. Ravi Vankayala, proprietor of Ram Jewellers said that Akshaya Tritiya will be celebrated differently this year. He too said that people have been enquiring on the phone about whether they will be able to buy gold on the auspicious day. “Although it won’t be possible to deliver it (the jewellery) that day, many people have agreed to invest on Akshaya Tritiya. We are happy that we’ll be able to keep the tradition going,” Ravi said. “Since most people purchase gold coins on Akshaya Tritiya, we will block gold in the name of the customer on the prevailing rate on the purchase date,” he added. M Kaushik, who purchases gold on Akshaya Tritiya said that he has placed an online order for 2grams of gold. “In these gloomy times, I want to observe Akshaya Tritiya. It will give me some hope,” Kaushik said. Meanwhile, the issue price for the sovereign gold bond has been fixed by the RBI at Rs 4,639 per gram of the yellow metal. The Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 2020-21-Series I will be opened for subscription from April 20 to 24. RBI said that SGBs will be issued in six tranches from April 20 to September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/this-akshaya-tritiya-order-jewels-online-receive-after-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75279947.cms||Reshma Jain
April 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Stuck at depots, bus batteries run out||VISAKHAPATNAM: Batteries and tyres of nearly 10 per cent of the buses run by Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Commission (APSRTC) seem to have suffered damages owing to the lockdown. A technical official of the RTC said that since the buses are not running, if batteries are not kept working, there will be some technical snags and there might even be fire mishaps. “In August 2015, an RTC bus parked at Yedukondala Bus Station burnt down because there was a short circuit in the batteries. Fortunately, there were no passengers inside the bus,” the RTC official said. The state has around 12,000 buses including 3,000 hired services. Each bus contains a pair of batteries. C Ravi Kumar, executive director of APSRTC Vizianagaram zone said that batteries of nearly 200 out of 3,000 buses in the zone have been damaged due to the lockdown. He said that each battery, when replaced, will cost around Rs 8,000 “We are reviewing losses and damage to property daily. Battery is one important issue. It has to be checked daily,” Kumar told TOI, while adding that the tyres of buses also need to be checked. According to Kumar, the cost of each tyre is around Rs 14,000. Explaining what the corporation is doing to avert further damage, Kumar said that teams are being sent every day to keep the bus ignition on for five to 10 minutes. The buses are being moved short distances so that the tyres and batteries remain in working condition. APSRTC union activist Y Srinivasa Rao said that the union is asking staff to take proper care and also help the department by taking care of the buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stuck-at-depots-bus-batteries-run-out/articleshow/75279967.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 22, 2020||Jamshedpur||Two coronavirus-linked suicides in Jharkhand||RANCHI: A loader at the Ranchi airport, who came in close contact with the former Jharkhand administrative officer who died in Gurgaon, jumped off the third floor of Lake View Hospital in Bariatu in Ranchi where he was quarantined. Identified as Mangal Kachhap, the man, in his mid-thirties, initially sustained injuries and was rushed to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) where he died during treatment. Meanwhile, in Giridih district, a 27-year-old teacher was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his residence while police recovered a note, apparently written by him, which said he has contracted Covid-19. In the first case, according to police, Kachhap came in contact with the septuagenarian at the airport when he was being flown to Gurgaon for treatment after he suffered a brain stroke on April 2. On April 18, when the elderly man died in Gurgaon and tested positive for Covid-19, Kachhap was quarantined at Lake View Hospital. The hospital staff, who came in contact with the elderly man, were also quarantined at the hospital. DSP (sadar) Deepak Pandey said, “Kachhap sustained severe injuries after jumping off from the third floor of the hospital building and was rushed to Rims, but died during the course of treatment. So far, we are yet ascertain the exact reasons behind this act, but his friends told us that he was eager to go back home.” Meanwhile, a 27-year-old teacher of a private school of Giridih district hanged himself to death in his bedroom on Monday and left behind a note saying he has contracted Covid-19. The incident took place at Vedapahari under Birni police station of the district. Giridih SP Surender Kumar Jha said the teacher did not have any travel history and was suffering from depression for the last two months. DC Rahul Kumar Sinha on Tuesday said, “Nobody can self proclaim about being corona positive. A screening was conducted on his family members and all of them were found to be asymptomatic.” He added, “We send people to quarantine or isolation when their contact is traced to some patient of Covid-19. However, the family has already cremated his body without informing police. On receiving the information, circle officer Sandeep Kumar Madhesia, along with a police team, reached Keshodih Ghat of Barakar River, but by then the cremation had ended.” Later, the team went to his house for a probe and found a three-page suicide note. According to police on Monday morning when the teacher did not open the door for a long time, the family members broke into his room and found the body hanging. The hand written suicide note mentioned, “I am infected with corona. Good bye for this. There is no need to worry.” According to the information, the teacher had visited Birni Community Health Center two days before committing suicide. He told the doctor that he was feeling weak. Dr Tajuddin, a medical officer here, said they gave him medicine and advised him to go home and take rest. The doctors also said that the teacher did not complain of cough, cold or fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/two-corona-linked-suicides-in-state/articleshow/75289471.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Some small-scale biz units begin work in Ramgarh||Patratu: Sonu Kumar, who owns a brick factory located on the outskirts of Patratu, heaved a sigh of relief as he his unit began production from Tuesday. The complete lockdown since March 25 had started creating a sense of panic among small-scale businessman like him in rural areas as they usually invest most of their savings in their businesses. But with the conditional relaxation of lockdown norms since Monday, Ramgarh district, declared as green zone with no Covid-19 cases so far, is slowly trying to limp back to normalcy. Kumar said, “All five workers in my factory are from the deprived class and they could not afford the shutdown. Hence, I used to pay them continuously despite no work on humanitarian grounds. It brought me immense relief that I can begin production now.” However, larger industries like beer production plants, cement manufacturing units and food processing units have not begun their operations yet. Many residents, too, were also seen trying to get back to their daily routine. While some started morning and evening walks, several others were seen taking out their vehicles in the town area to carry on with their normal businesses. However, many people in the villages are still unaware of the exemptions and continue to remain in lockdown mode. Vinod Saw, a shopkeeper at a local market here, said, “I do not know about exemptions given from Monday. Till I am informed officially, I will keep my shop closed.” The villagers have not removed blockades from entry and exit points of their areas. Harish Karmali, a villager of Palani on the outskirts of Patratu said, “I do not know about the exemptions given and even if area, entry of people from outside will be barred until the coronavirus pandemic ends.” Their urban counterparts also preferred to stay indoors because of the lockdown amid apprehensions of the rising Covid-19 cases across the state. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh had on Monday said urban areas will continue to be under lockdown until May 3 but exceptions are given to industrial and agricultural activities in rural areas besides regular movements of good carrying vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/some-small-scale-biz-units-begin-work-in-ramgarh/articleshow/75279965.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Trade bodies stage demonstration from homes||Ranchi: In a unique way of protest during the lockdown, members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and several other Left-backed trade outfits on Tuesday staged demonstrations from terraces and balconies of their house, holding banners and placards to press for various demands. Their demands include stopping any attempt to increase working hours, transfer of Rs 7,500 each to accounts of labourers, arrangement of food and shelter for migrants and end to retrenchment of workers. During their 10-minute demonstrations starting from 10.30am, the protesters displayed slogans like ‘‘bhashan nahi ration chahiye (we do not need speeches but food)”, “arthik sahyata do (provide monetary relief)” and “nagad do (give aid in cash)”. CITU general secretary Prakash Viplav said the protests were held at hundreds of residential colonies across the state and it was particularly successful in the coal belts. He said, “Such demonstrations were held at 26 places in five districts of the coal belt, including Bokaro, Hazaribag, Ramgarh, Ranchi and Chatra. We are sending the photos related to the demonstrations to the Prime Minister’s Office portal.” Viplav demanded that frontline warriors, including hygiene staff and surveyors, should be provided insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh on the lines of doctors. Apart from CITU, All India Trade Union Congress, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS), Akhil Bhartiya Janwadi Samiti, Student’s Federation of India, Janwadi Naujawan Sabha and Akhil Bhartiya Khet Mazdoor Sangh had given pan India call for the demonstrations. ABKS leader Sufal Mahto said members of his organsiation held similar demonstrations in rural areas, including at Rahe, Sonahatu and Silli in Ranchi district. The protesters also asked for smooth operations of agriculture activities, providing financial aid to farmers, immediate payments of pending wages under MNREGA and increasing its workdays to 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trade-bodies-stage-demonstration-from-homes/articleshow/75279898.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Centre’s review team begins job after MHA prod to West Bengal||KOLKATA/NEW DELHI: The central team that arrived in Kolkata on Monday for an on-the-spot assessment of the Covid-containment situation in four south Bengal districts had to wait for nearly 30 hours — and a letter from the Union home secretary to the Bengal government — before it could hit the streets with Kolkata Police escorts on Tuesday afternoon. The team, which had reached Kolkata around 10am on Monday, first left the BSF Eastern Region HQ in Ballygunge for Park Circus a little before 11am on Tuesday but had to return after cops stopped them. A letter from the Union home secretary to Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, directing the state government to cooperate with the team under Disaster Management Act provisions, cleared the logjam; the team finally left the BSF regional headquarters around 3.45pm and went around various parts of south Kolkata, like Gariahat, Santoshpur, Mukundapur, Chetla, New Alipore, Mominpore, Kalighat and Elgin Road. The visit by two inter-ministerial committee teams had prompted Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to shoot off a letter to PM Narendra Modi on Monday, alleging the Centre’s “unilateral decision” went against the country’s federal structure. She was intimated about the visit three hours after the teams reached Bengal, she wrote. Why is Centre fighting states: TMCTrinamool parliamentary leaders Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Derek O’Brien on Tuesday questioned “the Centre’s intent” and asked “why opposition-ruled states like Bengal” were being targeted when several BJP-ruled states like Gujarat were not being monitored by the Centre. “Unfortunately, when Bengal and all the other states are fighting the virus, the Centre is fighting the states,” O’Brien said in Delhi, alleging the Centre “delayed a lockdown when the virus was spreading apparently to instal a BJP government in Madhya Pradesh”. The tension continued in Kolkata, with the central team unable to meet the state chief secretary at Nabanna on Tuesday morning. This, in turn, prompted team leader Apurba Chandra to complain of “non-cooperation” from the state. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla’s letter, asking the state to provide all support to the central team, followed the morning drama. Bhalla reminded Sinha that the Centre could act under Section 35 of the Disaster Management Act. Sinha reached the BSF office around four hours later to talk to the central team. “Chandra and his team came and met me at Nabanna on Monday. Protocol demands that central teams should come and meet state chief secretary,” Sinha said. “The Kolkata team did that but the team for north Bengal did not,” he added. “Given our set-up, it would have been better had the Centre given us prior intimation of the visits,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centres-review-team-begins-job-after-mha-prod-to-state/articleshow/75282889.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Labour economists question inter-state movement bar on migrant workers||KOLKATA: Labour economists have questioned the rationale behind the ministry of home affair’s order that allows movement of migrant workers within the state but bars inter-state movement. They say the order is a knee-jerk reaction to industry’s lament on labour shortage that will do little to solve the festering crisis that migrant workforce are currently facing across the country. “The order appears to be based on unfounded assumption that intra-state travel is less risky than inter-state movement. It talks of skill mapping of migrant workers in relief camps for suitable deployment and transporting groups of migrant workers who wish to return to their places of work after limited testing. Allocation of workers to suitable places is a big task apart form skill mapping and getting skill demands. This will only create additional headache for all stakeholders, something that isn’t needed when all energies need to focus on monitoring the implications of substantial Covid-liberalization in rural areas and limited liberalization in urban areas,” said labour economist K R Shyam Sundar, who teaches at XLRI. There are around 6-7 crore migrant workers in India, mostly from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and east Uttar Pradesh, engaged in various construction sites, including infrastructure and real estate projects. Post-Covid though, they have been branded infection carriers and have either been driven out of the host state or declined by the home state. The situation has put the spotlight on the Interstate Migrant Workmen’s Act, 1976, that has been rarely implemented. Praveen Jha, who teaches labour and development economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, too, questioned the logic of not allowing migrant labourers who have reached state borders from crossing over, pointing out that the demarcation was administrative and not medical. “Set up camps on the other side and keep the workforce quarantined for the specified period instead of barring their entry. We have turned migrant labourers who keep our cities and towns moving to refugees in their own country. Why can’t there be better inter-state coordination to help these people, many of whom are migrant agricultural workers and worried about the fate of crops back home,” said Jha. They also felt the order was confusing and lacked clarity on key issues like providing food, shelter and subsistence money. “They need to be legitimately treated as unorganised workers and provided portable biometric ID cards. If they are not in relief centres, the local administration must provide temporary ration cards so that they get the rice/wheat and pulses till the Covid-led dislocation is over. And thirdly, they need to be provided cash relief by the Centre at the rate of minimum wages in MNREGA, i.e, Rs 202 per day or Rs 6,000 a month till this health emergency ends,” Sundar suggested, adding that migrant labourers should in future be registered with both the home and host state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/labour-economists-question-inter-state-movement-bar-on-migrant-workers/articleshow/75282831.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee takes take-care, stay-safe message to Kolkata neighbourhoods||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hit the streets on Tuesday, driving around Kolkata and stopping at intersections in several densely populated neighbourhoods to impress on citizens the need to stay indoors to win the fight against coronavirus. Banerjee stopped at Rajabazar, Park Circus, Tiljala, Mathpukur and Hazra to drive home the same message — over a cordless microphone — that staying indoors was the only way to stem the spread of a disease that had already claimed over 1.7 lakh lives across the world. Many of these areas fall in high-risk containment zones. “It feels bad that I cannot step out and meet you all in person,” Banerjee said, switching between Bengali and Hindi at different places. “You are abiding by the lockdown, which is unprecedented in our country’s history, and so am I. The Centre has imposed this lockdown and we have to abide by it. I know it is causing a lot of distress and pain but this is the only way to battle this disease,” she said, adding: “Stay healthy, eat healthy. I would urge you all to remain indoors and inform police if you need anything.” Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma was with her. The Trinamool Congress government in Bengal has been in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation with the BJP-led Union government over allegations of laxity in enforcing the lockdown and social-distancing norms. The state government has vociferously rebutted the charges, with state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha saying on Tuesday that over 28,000 people had been prosecuted and 3,100 FIRs lodged in the last four weeks for breaking the lockdown in the state. Banerjee, who earned her spurs as a street-fighter when she was an opposition leader, sought to convey several messages to her political opponents when she went back to the streets on Tuesday afternoon. One, Trinamool seniors said, was a signal to the Centre that she was not going to back down without a fight. Second, by including minority-dominated pockets in her itinerary, she sought to tell her political opponents that she was an even-handed, impartial administrator who could be firm with her “vote-bank” when the situation so demanded. Speaking at Tiljala and Mathpukur, she said: “I sincerely apologise for the inconvenience you all are facing. Please do not fear the disease. Stay at home and you have nothing to fear. If you must step out, ensure that you do not touch others or even breathe near them. Please wear masks. Police officials will help if you face any problem.” People with kidney ailments, diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments and bronchial pneumonia needed to be more careful, she said, adding that the “government would treat people free at quarantine centres”. Banerjee came across Kolkata Municipal Corporation sweepers, cleaning the streets, at the Hazra crossing. “Tomra khub bhalo kaj korchho (You are doing a great job). This is the most important work these days,” she said, stepping out of her car and handing over masks to them. “These can be washed and used for three days,” she said before explaining to them how to sanitise broom handles and helping them wear gloves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-takes-take-care-stay-safe-message-to-kol-neighbourhoods/articleshow/75282904.cms||---
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Two coronavirus-linked suicides in Jharkhand||RANCHI: A loader at the Ranchi airport, who came in close contact with the former Jharkhand administrative officer who died in Gurgaon, jumped off the third floor of Lake View Hospital in Bariatu in Ranchi where he was quarantined. Identified as Mangal Kachhap, the man, in his mid-thirties, initially sustained injuries and was rushed to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) where he died during treatment. Meanwhile, in Giridih district, a 27-year-old teacher was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his residence while police recovered a note, apparently written by him, which said he has contracted Covid-19. In the first case, according to police, Kachhap came in contact with the septuagenarian at the airport when he was being flown to Gurgaon for treatment after he suffered a brain stroke on April 2. On April 18, when the elderly man died in Gurgaon and tested positive for Covid-19, Kachhap was quarantined at Lake View Hospital. The hospital staff, who came in contact with the elderly man, were also quarantined at the hospital. DSP (sadar) Deepak Pandey said, “Kachhap sustained severe injuries after jumping off from the third floor of the hospital building and was rushed to Rims, but died during the course of treatment. So far, we are yet ascertain the exact reasons behind this act, but his friends told us that he was eager to go back home.” Meanwhile, a 27-year-old teacher of a private school of Giridih district hanged himself to death in his bedroom on Monday and left behind a note saying he has contracted Covid-19. The incident took place at Vedapahari under Birni police station of the district. Giridih SP Surender Kumar Jha said the teacher did not have any travel history and was suffering from depression for the last two months. DC Rahul Kumar Sinha on Tuesday said, “Nobody can self proclaim about being corona positive. A screening was conducted on his family members and all of them were found to be asymptomatic.” He added, “We send people to quarantine or isolation when their contact is traced to some patient of Covid-19. However, the family has already cremated his body without informing police. On receiving the information, circle officer Sandeep Kumar Madhesia, along with a police team, reached Keshodih Ghat of Barakar River, but by then the cremation had ended.” Later, the team went to his house for a probe and found a three-page suicide note. According to police on Monday morning when the teacher did not open the door for a long time, the family members broke into his room and found the body hanging. The hand written suicide note mentioned, “I am infected with corona. Good bye for this. There is no need to worry.” According to the information, the teacher had visited Birni Community Health Center two days before committing suicide. He told the doctor that he was feeling weak. Dr Tajuddin, a medical officer here, said they gave him medicine and advised him to go home and take rest. The doctors also said that the teacher did not complain of cough, cold or fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-corona-linked-suicides-in-state/articleshow/75279928.cms||---
April 22, 2020||India||Amid lockdown, aerosol levels at 20-year low: Nasa||NEW DELHI: Satellite data show that the levels of airborne particles (aerosols) over northern India dropped significantly since the Covid-19 lockdown began in the country, said the United States space agency, Nasa, on Tuesday. Aerosols are tiny solid and liquid particles, suspended in air, that reduce visibility and can damage human lungs and heart. The Nasa satellite sensors observed “aerosol levels at a 20-year low for this time of year in northern India” after just a week of reduced human activities such as closure of many factories and severely reduced vehicular and airplane traffic — a situation which allowed some in Punjab to report seeing a few Himalayan mountain ranges with the naked eye for the first time in many years. The space agency, however, noted that the story in southern India is a little hazier as satellite data show that the aerosol levels have not yet decreased to the same extent and the levels, in fact, seem to be slightly higher than in the past four years. It said though the reasons are unclear, it could be related to recent weather patterns, wind or other factors. “By all accounts, the 2020 lockdown reduced those human-made emission sources,” said a Nasa Earth Observatory report that analysed the data, retrieved by the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on Nasa’s Terra satellite. “We knew we would see changes in atmospheric composition in many places during the lockdown. But I have never seen aerosol values so low in the Indo-Gangetic Plain at this time of year,” said Pawan Gupta, a Universities Space Research Association (USRA) scientist at Nasa’s Marshall Space Flight Center. Though some aerosols have natural sources (dust storms, volcanic eruptions, and forest fires), the others come from human activities, such as burning of fossil fuels and agriculture fields. The Nasa Earth Observatory’s report on its portal by its science write Kasha Patel noted that the human-made aerosols “tend to contribute most of the smaller particles that have greater potential for damaging human health”. The report said such aerosols contribute to unhealthy levels of air pollution in many Indian cities. Scientists, however, expect the aerosol levels to increase slightly in upcoming weeks in parts of India as seasonal dust storms begin from the Thar Desert and Arabian Peninsula. “The hard part with understanding aerosols is that particles can move based on wind patterns and other meteorology. You have to disentangle what is caused by the human fingerprint versus a meteorological factor,” said Robert Levy, programme leader for Nasa’s MODIS aerosol products. On the lockdown and its effects on pollution, Levy said, “We have a unique opportunity to learn how the atmosphere reacts to sharp and sudden reductions in emissions from certain sectors. This can help us separate how natural and human sources of aerosols affect the atmosphere.” Earlier, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) - India’s national pollution watchdog - too in its report on ‘impact of Janta curfew and lockdown on air quality’ on March 31 noted substantial improvement in air quality in many towns and cities across the country. It attributed this improvement to stringent travel restrictions and shutting down of non-essential activities including those of air polluting sectors. The Board had analysed the real time air quality data of 115 cities from March 16 to March 29 to assess impact of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-lockdown-aerosol-levels-at-20-year-low-nasa/articleshow/75283536.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Generate own bill and pay online, JBVNL asks consumers||Ranchi: Having decided not to read electricity meters amid the lockdown, state-owned power distribution company Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL) on Tuesday issued a notice asking all domestic consumers to download the JBVNL Ezy Bill app and generate their own bill. The notice said that the power bill for commercial and industrial establishments, will be generated by JBVNL online based on the average of three previous months’ consumption on April 25. The notice, issued by Sanjay Kumar, general manager-cum-chief engineer of JBVNL (Ranchi), requested the customers to pay the bill online from the safety of their homes. For the current month, the last date of payment for domestic consumers is April 25 while commercial, industrial and other categories of consumers should clear the bill by April 27, he said. Consumers who face problems downloading the app or generating their own bills can make an advance payment of any amount. All such payments will be adjusted as per actual consumption once things normalize, the notice added. Speaking to TOI, Kumar said, “Amid the lockdown, we are trying to ensure the safety of our employees as well as the people. Reading power meters at residences of consumers would mean both come in contact with a large number of people. In an effort to contain the spread of virus, we have decided not to read meters during the lockdown.” JBVNL purchases power from a number of electricity generators and supplies it to domestic and commercial and industrial consumers, railways, military engineering services, agriculture, irrigation and others. The power purchased is brought to the state grid by transmission companies. “Since we need to pay the power generators and transmission companies on time every month to ensure uninterrupted power supply, it becomes paramount on the part of our consumers to pay JBVNL on time,” he said. Kumar added, "We also need to pay salaries to our employees. JBVNL staff have been working overtime even during the lockdown, risking exposure to the deadly virus, only to keep the state lit up. We appeal to all our consumers to pay their energy bills at the earliest so that uninterrupted power supply can be assured."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/generate-own-bill-and-pay-online-jbvnl-asks-consumers/articleshow/75280037.cms||Tapas Biswas
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Govt orders action against BJP MP for revealing patient identity on social media||Ranchi:The state government on Tuesday ordered necessary action under regulations against BJP MP Nishikant Dubey for revealing the identity Deoghar district’s first Covid-19 patient in a social media post. The MP has, however, defended his act and said there is “no such regulation” to hide a patient’s name. Dubey’s post drew sharp reactions from BJP’s political opponents in the state. On Monday night, Dubey, a three-time BJP MP from Godda, posted a photograph of the man sitting inside an ambulance on his Facebook wall. In the caption, he wrote, “What we apprehended has happened. Santhal Pargana’s first Covid-19 patient has been found. He is a resident of .... He came with 13 persons from Punjab on March 31. Deoghar district administration must close roads to Gamharia village and send ration there. The Hemant Soren government must supply testing kits to AIIMS, Deoghar. The report, slated for March 13, came today. Can there be a more irresponsible behaviour? It seems that the hard work done by my karyakartas, social workers and district administrations will go to waste. Jai Shiv.” Soon after, the state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni asked the Deoghar deputy commissioner, Nancy Sahay, to initiate action against Dubey as per rules. Kulkarni told TOI, “Identifying a Covd-19 patient has been prohibited under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act as it may lead to social stigma. Sahay did not respond when contacted for a comment on the issue. Speaking over the phone from New Delhi, Dubey defended his act and said, “All media outlets have revealed the identity of Kanika Kapur, who tested positive for Covid 19. If an action is to be initiated, then they must be booked, too. There is no such regulation to hide a patient's name. The law must be equal for all.” Reacting to his post, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “BJP MPs take pride in violating all norms and guidelines, simply because they are in power at the Centre. The party does not have discipline and regard for laws of the land.” Congress working president Rajesh Thakur said Dubey lacked common sense. “He wants to divide the state communally. The BJP MPs are flouting all lockdown orders. While Dubey revealed the identity of a positive patient, Ranchi and Dhanbad MPs travelled to Ranchi from New Delhi amid the lockdown. On the other hand, the state government is diligently adhering to the norms laid down by the Centre to mitigate this crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-orders-action-against-bjp-mp-for-revealing-patient-identity-on-social-media/articleshow/75280079.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 22, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Worli Koliwada can be a model for coronavirus containment’||MUMBAI: A five-member inter-ministerial central team (IMCT), which is in the city to assess the Covid-19 situation, feels Worli Koliwada can become a model for the rest of the country in containing the virus outbreak. Lauding the State’s efforts to contain the pandemic, the Central team said the doubling rate of patients in the State has increased. While the doubling rate in the state is now 6.3 days, it is 4.3 days in Mumbai.  Coronavirus live updatesBesides Kasturba Hospital and the BMC headquarters, the team, headed by additional secretary, Manoj Joshi, visited G-south ward on Tuesday comprising the slum pockets of Worli Koliwada and Jijamata Nagar, which have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots. The G-south ward has recorded the highest number of cases in the city. As on April 17, it had 389 Covid-19 positive cases. After that, the BMC stopped issuing the ward-wise break-up of positive cases. Significantly, tourism minister, Aaditya Thackeray, represents the Worli assembly constituency. According to a press release issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO), Joshi said Worli Koliwada can be the best example of a coronavirus-free zone in the country and if the work done in the area is replicated in other containment zones, it will help break the virus chain. Joshi had a prolonged discussion with CM Uddhav Thackeray, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardesi and police commissioner Parambir Singh on the administration’s preparedness to handle the outbreak. The team’s focus was on implementation of lockdown measures, supply of essential commodities, adherence to social distancing and quality of health infrastructure. The team asked the civic body to ensure adequate supply of oxygen cylinders and ventilators in BMC- and government-run hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-worli-koliwada-can-be-a-model-for-coronavirus-containment/articleshow/75283548.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Migrants run the risk of being phished in search of Sahayata app||Ranchi: The mobile application — Jharkhand Corona Sahayata app — meant to extend a one-time financial help to migrant labourers stuck outside the state, might have caused a lot of damage with several unknowingly uploading their personal details to unsecured websites. The problem happened when the state government did not put up the app on the Google Play Store and simply launched the URL — https://covid19help.jharkhand.gov.in — to download the app. Though the state government on Monday said the app will be uploaded to the play store within hours, on Tuesday, till the time of filing this story, the app was yet to make its way to the secure platform. A simple Google search — Jharkhand Covid Sahayata — throws up several results, top five of which are nowhere linked to the Jharkhand government or even the National Informatics Centre, which government sources claim hosts the URL where the application has been uploaded. TOI test checked a few of the URLs that offer money transfer to the accounts of the migrant labourers after they register their details in the app. One such URL is nsvrobhopal.com which has no links with any state government. Appearing to be an educational site, the The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) details reveal that the company hosting the URL is registered in Arizona, US. Hundreds of labourers have posted their grievances on this wesbite seeking help from the government. While some have complained about the app not getting downloaded, some of them have gone to the extent of posting their entire personal details including mobile number, Aadhaar number, bank account details and addresses in a hope to get the cash offered by the state government. A particular comment on the website read, “Main Telengana me fansa hua hu aur registration nahi ho pa raha hai (I am stuck in Telangana and cannot get regsitered.)” Hundreds of such comments are pouring in such websites that have no links with the state government or the Jharkhand Corona Sahayata app. Principal Secretary of the information technology department, Vinay Kumar Choubey, said, “The process of hosting the app on Google Play Store is underway and soon people will be able to download it from there.” Asked if labourers are at the risk of being victims to phishing due to several URLs to claiming to be original hosts of the government app, Choubey said, “Phishing risks could be there even if the app is available on the play store.” Meanwhile, BJP state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said the entire exercise is a waste of resources and lack of planning. “This government is functioning on a virtual platform instead of working on the ground. A labourer may not have a smartphone and even if he does, we can’t expect them to be tech savvy,” he said. Shahdeo also pointed out that these labourers might not have internet connectivity or the money to buy internet packs. “There are glitches in the app and it could not be downloaded on the day it was launched. Naturally, scamsters got an opportunity to come up with their versions to cheat labourers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrants-run-the-risk-of-being-phished-in-search-of-sahayata-app/articleshow/75280123.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
April 22, 2020||Ranchi||Couple names child ‘Lockdown’ in Jharkhand||BOKARO: A Giridih-based couple, who had a newborn boy on Saturday, has named the child as ‘Lockdown’. The 30-year-old mother, Anuradha, delivered her first baby at a private clinic in Chaitadih. Anuradha, a resident of Sihodih, said she thought the name as appropriate in times of lockdown and her husband and his family, too, agreed when she proposed the name for the child. “Neither grandparents have objected to the name. In fact, they have started calling the child as Lockdown. My husband, Pinku Verma, too, finds the name attractive,” Anuradha told local media. Verma said the name of the child will help them remember about the lockdown in future. “Amid the negativity, the birth of our child is a pleasant news and hence, we chose this name. It’s brought smiles in times of worry and fears over the coronavirus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/couple-names-child-lockdown/articleshow/75280184.cms||Divy Khare
April 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana recovery rate ahead of India’s||CHANDIGARH: Haryana government claimed on Tuesday that the state had a Covid-19 recovery rate of 57.6% and only 41.5% out of the total 255 positive cases in the state were active. This makes the state’s rate of recovery better that the all-India figure of 16.38% as well as that of neighbouring Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. According to the state, only 106 active virus-positive cases were there in the state till Tuesday evening and 147 persons had been cured after treatment. They were discharged after their two tests were found negative. The highest number of recovered patients are from Gurgaon, where out of 37 positive cases, 26 were discharged after treatment. Apart from this, 14 Italian nationals treated at a Gurgaon-based private hospital were also discharged after their reports turned out negative. Other districts with high number of recoveries include Nuh and Palwal with 23 cases each and Faridabad with 22 cases. Haryana’s claimed recovery rate is way better than that of Punjab, HP and UT Chandigarh. In Punjab, out of total 251 reported cases, 186 are still active and only 49 have cured. Similarly in HP, 23 of total 39 cases are still active. In Chandigarh, 14 out of 27 cases have recovered. Vij: Hry moving fast towards normalcySharing this data, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said the state was moving fast towards normalcy and even tests per million of population in Haryana are 548 compared to the national figure of 304. Meanwhile, a total of four new cases -- two from Sonepat and one each from Faridabad and Fatehabad – were reported in Haryana on Tuesday. The state health authorities have also started enhancing capacities of existing laboratories substantially. Haryana has increased testing. It is is being done at PGIMS, Rohtak, BPS Khanpur Kalan , ESIC Medical College, Faridabad, Kalpana Chawla Medical College Karnal, NRCE Hisar and PGIMER, Chandigarh, among other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-recovery-rate-ahead-of-indias/articleshow/75283576.cms||Ajay Sura
