April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||#LifeInTheLockdown: Senior citizens get tech-savvy to connect with family and run day-to-day affairs||When news of the coronavirus pandemic broke out, 74-year-old widow Sudha B knew that she had to step it up as far as use of technology goes, given that both her children lived in other cities. “Summer vacation is normally when I visit my children and they me, but with the lockdown in place, we are not sure when we can see each other again. In the past, my children and grandchildren have tried to teach me how to use video streaming, instant messaging and video calling on my cell phone, and it is only now that I am actively trying it. After a few hits and misses, I have even learnt to send voice messages and have been reconnecting with long-lost friends who live in other countries,” she says. Internet has made connectivity easy and cheapThe fact that his two daughters live in areas hard hit by the coronavirus – Boston and Dubai – had 69-year-old Kadaba Nagraj on tenterhooks. But technology has ensured that he can see and talk to his extended family whenever he wants. "Earlier, the cost of international calls was a deterrent, but with all these voice-over-internet apps, you spend a fraction of that and have amazing connectivity. Using technology to go cashlessSeptuagenarian and former railway official Surendran Nair’s biggest challenge, though, was to switch to non-cash transactions. “After demonetisation, I learnt how to use a PayTM wallet, which my children would recharge. But now that most people are on other payment apps like GPay and PhonePe, among others, I have had to learn that too. I am not too comfortable making financial transactions on a phone, but times are such,” he says, adding, "With the help of a few friendly neighbours, I even downloaded grocery shopping apps and linked the wallet." Helping with childcare from afar"Since our daughters and sons-in-law are working from home, and need to be able to focus on official stuf, we plan our calls with the grandchildren accordingly and keep them engaged, by telling them stories, or singing bhajans to them. This allows us to feel connected and involved in their life," says Nagraj. Catching on entertainment onlineOn her last visit to her children, Sudha had an OTT platform app downloaded on her phone. “My granddaughter taught me how to access episodes of some of the daily serials I watch. So, now, I have figured that I can watch it whenever I want,” she says. Making online activity safe for senior citizens- Do not click on links in text messages with promises of better connectivity, free internet, or free access to OTT platforms. You may end up installing malicious apps on your device. - Consult your family on the apps to download, based on where they live. A lot of instant messaging and video calling apps do not work in the Middle East, for instance. -Download only those apps that have good user reviews and a huge number of downloads as this ensure that you are in the right direction.  - Use strong passwords on your email or chatting app accounts. Do not use names of your family members, the place you work, anniversary and birthday dates as passwords. These are commonly known to others. Also, do not use the same password for all your accounts.  - Do not join free-wifis unless you are sure of it. In public places or while commuting, always pay attention if anyone is shoulder surfing your phone or laptop. (Source: Vijay Raj, Cyber Security Risk Evangelist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lifeinthelockdown-senior-citizens-get-tech-savvy-to-connect-with-family-and-run-day-to-day-affairs/articleshow/75299276.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
April 23, 2020||Chennai||#BehindTheLockdown: Chennai Corp is fighting COVID-19, one tweet at a time||A month ago, Greater Chennai Corporation’s (GCC) Twitter page had about 4,000 followers. 30 days, countless coronavirus-related notices and a re-energised social media strategy later, the page has over 41K followers and 10 million impressions. The aim of the page, which is being handled by a team of around 15-20 people, is to mediate health emergencies, apart from running campaigns and releasing daily case round-ups. The most heartening part of it all is that the reach is all organic, says a senior official from the team. “Chennai has the maximum amount of active internet users, compared to other cities in the country. So, it becomes important to use technology with brevity, especially in times like this pandemic,” he adds. So, how does the team work? For now, the coronavirus is utmost priority. “We work with a set of protocols where we design strategies and run campaigns. The core concentration is on COVID-19 related activities, until the situation becomes better,” the official adds. The page, which has its DMs open, helps people through its swift responses. But how challenging is it to filter and respond to over 400 messages a day? “90 per cent of the messages we receive are spam, where people ask us questions for which answers are already available in the public domain or on our page. We answer only important messages that have emergency concerns,” he notes. The team, which includes content writers and freelancers, work round the clock. Busting myths with innovationRumours and fear-mongering are quite common with any adverse situation and it is the same during the COVID-19 pandemic. GCC’s social media team, however, had the right way to bust these myths—through a hashtag. “Our hashtag #GCCMythBusters helped ease a few fears. When communicating with such a large number of people, it is important to stay relatable. That is why we work with a certain colour pattern and use a bilingual system of tweeting everything in Tamil and English,” the official observes. A Helping hand, in real timeThanks to this social media page, the GCC has come to the aid of several citizens in times of emergencies ever since the pandemic outbreak. An elderly woman suffering from arthritis recently ran out of her medicines that were sold out at pharmacies. But she got the medicines within 20 minutes of her daughter tweeting about it. “We forwarded the concern to our city medical officer, who swiftly acted and notified the zonal medical officer. Following that, a rapid response team landed at her location in about 20 minutes and took care of her,” says the official. In the pipeline A Facebook and WhatsApp chat bot to address corona concerns Campaign to get people to wear masks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/behindthelockdown-chennai-corp-is-fighting-covid-19-one-tweet-at-a-time/articleshow/75302189.cms||Sruthi Raman
April 23, 2020||Agra||UP: Teens found hanging from tree in Etah, police claim suicide||AGRA: Two teenage cousins — students of Class IX aged 16 and Class X aged 17, from Khandaua village under Bagwala police jurisdiction, some 140km away from Agra city — were found hanging from a tree in Etah district. Based on their initial probe, police have claimed the girl and boy committed suicide. The cousins were missing since late night on Tuesday. On Wednesday morning, their bodies were found hanging from a tree near a tubewell in neighbouring Mirzapur village. Vipin Tyagi, station house officer of Bagwala, said, “The cousins were involved in a romantic relationship, but their families were against it. We have found a candle, matchbox and vermilion case from the spot, where the two hanged themselves from the same rope,” adding, “Based on a written application of the boy’s father, we conducted autopsy of the bodies.” Data culled from the past 34 months shows that 58 couples, mostly young and unmarried, have committed suicide in West UP districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/teens-found-hanging-from-tree-in-etah-police-claim-suicide/articleshow/75303650.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||FC Goa need a rebuild||PANAJI: Hugo Boumous’ admission in a French magazine that he is unsure about continuing with FC Goa is the least of the club’s worry. The best player of the Indian Super League (ISL) has an existing three-year contract, so even if he decides to move elsewhere – probably closer to home in France or a higher league in Asia, like Japan – FC Goa will recoup enough in transfer fees to invest elsewhere. Whether they want to hold on to a player who is sulking – if he doesn’t agree – or cash in on his fabulous season, remains to be seen. More worryingly for the club is ensuring that crucial players commit their future, particularly during a season when they will debut in the AFC Champions League, a first for any Indian club. Let’s start with the foreign players. Carlos Pena has retired, so his replacement will be an Asian defender, a straight forward choice for AFC Champions League requirements. There is a World Cupper from Iran, top defender from Iraq – both expensive options -- and another one from Australia. If all three fall through because of budgetary constraints, a few other interesting names are on the shortlist. Edu Bedia has committed his future to the club, despite what WhatsApp forwards and other social media platforms have told you, while Mourtada Fall is playing hide and seek, leading many to believe that he is negotiating elsewhere. That brings us to Ahmed Jahouh. One of the consistent performers for the last three seasons, the Moroccan midfielder appears to be on his way out with former coach Sergio Lobera waiting with open arms at Mumbai City FC. Then there is Ferran Corominas. Can you continue to burden the Spanish striker alone, especially with an additional six high-profile games in the Champions League? “There is a possibility that one third or even half of the starting eleven may be new (players). What concerns more is that there may be a large void in leadership. The foreigners were leading and pulling Goa ahead. The leaders will be missed at the start,” said one source who has been tracking the club’s development. The fears are not unfounded. Only two of the six foreign players – Hugo and Edu – have committed their future to the club. Pena will definitely not be around, while it will be a mini miracle of sorts if Fall sticks to his word or Jahouh does a u-turn, this time without the ball at his feet. The appointment of coach will show which way the club wants to move. As exclusively reported by TOI last month, there are several big names who have applied for the coaching vacancy, but it’s more than likely that the club will show faith in a younger, more hungrier coach. According to sources, five names have made it to the final shortlist. “Goa are looking for a coach who demands more of the quality players that they have and takes the team a notch higher. Look at the losses. The team seems to go missing in key moments. Goa needs someone who can turn them into mentality monsters,” he said. From among the Indian players, Mandar Rao Desai’s exit came as a big surprise. The club captain was offered a three-year deal which would have made him the second best-paid Indian at the club. But Mandar had other ideas, instead opting to follow Lobera at Mumbai. Jackichand Singh (Jamshedpur FC), Chinglensana Singh (Hyderabad FC) and Manvir Singh (ATK) have all left the club. Amey Ranawade will leave too. But while that may not impact much since only Jackichand was a regular and the club has enough in reserves, the club will still be left with some rebuilding to do.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-need-a-rebuild/articleshow/75306302.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthani women collaborate on virtual ghoomar video during coronavirus lockdown||Just days after the lockdown announcement, when Rajnigandha Shekhawat posted on her social media account, urging women to be a part of her upcoming ghoomar video, she didn’t expect a lot of responses. But the Rajasthani singer was bombarded with messages from women expressing their desire to be a part of the video. Rajnigandha Shekhawat “The idea was to make a crowd-sourced video. I asked the shortlisted women to wear the traditional Rajasthani poshak, record their dance at home and send the videos to me. Then I clubbed all the clippings for my 10-minute song, which is a medley of eight popular folk songs of Rajasthan,” Rajnigandha tells us. The songs include hit numbers such as Ghoomar, Mehala Neeche Sa, Naina Ra Lobhi and Bajuband Ri Loom. The video features 12 Rajasthani women, including Rajnigandha, from various parts of the world, including England. “Women featured in the video are from various walks of life and places, including Jaipur, Sikar, Danta, Udaipur, Ujjain and even the United Kingdom. A 5-year-old girl has sent her video from England,” she says. Watch Singer Rajnigandha Shekhawat, 11 others collaborate on virtual ghoomar video||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthani-women-collaborate-on-virtual-ghoomar-video-during-coronavirus-lockdown/articleshow/75304547.cms||Neha Chaudhary
April 23, 2020||Business||Government readies lifeline for producers as Brent hits 21-year low||NEW DELHI: The government is readying a lifeline for oil producers such as ONGC and Oil India as the chaos in the global oil market deepened on Wednesday, with International benchmark Brent dipping just below $16, the lowest since 1999, before settling at $21.16. Government sources said the oil ministry has proposed a set of measures to help domestic oil producers tide over the oil price crash that has led them to lose money heavily on each barrel they produce and will turn their projects into white elephants. The options on the table at the “highest levels” of the government include a graded tax relief, soft loan from Oil Industry Development Board’s corpus created from cess on domestic oil production and pricing at par with the landed cost of imported crude. The department of public enterprises also reviewed the situation on Wednesday as part of the exercise. A relief package has become crucial for the survival of producers since the price crash since March has turned oil production into a loss-making proposition. For example, the total cost of a barrel of oil produced by ONGC works out to $45 after including royalty, cess and sundry other levies. So at Wednesday’s closing price of Brent, the company will actually end up paying from its pocket, affecting its dividend and corporate tax payout to the government. Read AlsoCrude crash to ease some Covid-19 pain for IndiaBlack Gold has fallen from grace. And How! US crude WTI sank into negative territory for the first time in history at -$37/barrel and Brent, the benchmark for two-thirds of the global oil trade, settled at 18-year low of $21.48 on Tuesday, sending traders and the global oil industry scurrying for“Hundred per cent of 0 is less than 50 per cent of 10. That should be the government’s approach. ONGC has given Rs 3.11 lakh crore as fuel subsidy when prices were high. It has paid over Rs 10 lakh crore to the exchequer as taxes and dividend. Now we are only asking for tax relief below $45/barrel as a temporary measure,” a company executive told TOI. ONGC is also losing Rs 6,000 crore annually on gas due to a pricing formula based on benchmarks in surplus markets. While it costs $3.75 to produce each unit, the current price is $2.39. ONGC, sources said, has asked the government to abolish oil development cess if price realized by producers is less than $45 per barrel. It also wants royalty that the central government charges on oil and gas produced from the offshore area to be waived. With the oil market set to dive further due to demand shock and storage space fast running out, ONGC is also looking at pruning its capex of around Rs 32,000 crore by 5-6% as the company prioritises projects. ONGC pays 10-12.5 per cent royalty to the Centre on oil produced from offshore areas. State governments charge 20% royalty on the price of oil produced from onland fields. Then there is 20 per cent ad-valorem oil industry development (OID) cess on the price that producers get. OID cess has increased from $3 to $13 over the years and causing financial stress to current and new projects. The cess is levied on oil produced as excise duty under the Oil Industries (Development) Act of 1974. The cess is being levied on crude oil from nominated blocks and pre-NELP exploratory blocks only. The OID cess was raised from Rs 2,500 per tonne to Rs 4,500 per tonne in March 2012. The price of the Indian basket of crude oil stood at around $110 per barrel then. With the fall in global crude oil prices in mid-2014, companies were asked for reducing the levy and converting it into 8-10 per cent ad-valorem. The government had changed the levy of the cess to 20 per cent ad-valorem in March 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-readies-lifeline-for-producers-as-brent-hits-21-year-low/articleshow/75306407.cms||Sanjay Dutta
April 23, 2020||India||Four ultras killed in J&K, curbs see no dip in terror||NEW DELHI: The ongoing lockdown seems to have had little effect on terrorist activity in Jammu & Kashmir with senior officials of the security establishment saying the levels of violence are more or less same as corresponding time of last year. However, forces claimed to have an upper hand with counter-terror operations in full swing, leading to nearly 50 terrorists being neutralised so far this year. As per statistics of terrorist violence accessed by TOI, six incidents of terrorist strikes in J&K hinterland were reported during the lockdown between March 24-25 and April 18. Of these, five involved standoff fire and one was a grenade attack. Four civilians, 10 security personnel (including five Armymen martyred in an operation along the LoC in Keran sector) and 14 terrorists were killed during this period. On Wednesday, four more terrorists were neutralised in Shopian with no casualty on the forces side. Between January 1 and March 24, a total 43 attacks were reported, with the maximum being in south Kashmir. A total 10 security force personnel were killed, though as many as 32 terrorists were also neutralised in this period. Among the terrorist attacks in this period, 19 were encounters, 16 grenade attacks, 7 standoff fire incidents and 1 petrol bomb attack. “Obviously, there is no lockdown for terrorists. The terrorist activity is following more or less the same trend as seen at this time of the year, with summer still away and terrorist activity yet to pick up. But the good part is that forces have an upper hand as counter-terror operations are continuing and terrorists are being neutralised every other day. Even today, we killed four terrorists in ‘hotbed’ Shopian, without any reverses on our side,” said a senior CRPF officer. Asked about the recent killing of three CRPF personnel in firing by terrorists on a naka party, the officer said work is on to trace the perpetrators. “We hope for success soon. Meanwhile, one must realise that given that counter-operations are being taken up aggressively, there are bound to be some reverses,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/four-ultras-killed-in-jk-curbs-see-no-dip-in-terror/articleshow/75306700.cms||Bharti Jain
April 23, 2020||India||Milkha’s daughter among desi docs in US in Corona fight||NEW DELHI: Every day at 7 pm, when Dr Mona Singh steps out of the Metropolitan Hospital in New York at the end of her shift, she is greeted with claps and cheers by local residents. The gesture — meant to thank doctors on the frontline of Covid-19 fight — helps her forget, momentarily, the stress and anxiety that are part of her daily life now, treating patients at the coronavirus ward in one of worst-affected cities in the world. As she walks home, it’s now her turn to give a pep-talk to her parents in Chandigarh, assuring them that she is healthy and safe. Like Dr Singh, the daughter of legendary athlete Milkha Singh, several Indian-American doctors are aiding America’s fight against the pandemic. According to estimates, 90,000 Indian-American doctors have settled in the US over the last two decades and now constitute the largest ethnic group of physicians in that country. For many, the satisfaction of helping their adopted country in such times is immense, but so is the sadness. Doctors on Covid-19 duty that TOI spoke to said they were afraid of never seeing their parents and friends back home or worried about when they would get to visit India or get any visitors “from home”. Dr Mona Singh, Milkha Singh's daughter works at a New York hospital “The key is to stay mentally strong and protect yourself and your patients. As my father would say, we are not running a sprint race, it’s a marathon,” said Dr Singh, an associate professor, (emergency medicine), at the hospital. But knowing that it will be a long haul only makes Dr Uma Rani Madhusdan in Connecticut miss her homeland more. “Sometimes, I can almost smell the aroma of Mysore Pak, the sweet delicacy form my home state of Karnataka,” said Dr Madhusudan who settled in the US in 2000. “My shifts are much longer than they used to be as hospitals are crowded with Covid-19 patients. It’s an intense experience and sometimes it can get overwhelming,” she said. This Saturday, Dr Madhusdan was taken by surprise when residents in her town of South Windsor carried out a parade of cars outside her house as a show of respect and gratitude. “This helps lift the spirits, health workers are scared too,” she said. The fears are not unfounded. At least five Indian-American doctors have died treating Covid-19 patients while others are battling the disease. Dr Prakash Satwani, associate professor of pediatrics, Columbia University Medical Centre, New York, was among those who contracted the virus, going right back to treating the patients as soon as he recovered. “My wife and I got sick at the same time. I had night sweats and sore threat and recovered in 14 days. My mother prayed daily, she was so stressed. She still is. So many of our relatives actually told us to return to India. I don’t know when that will be. What I do know is that a doctor’s job is to treat patients, that’s what I’m doing.” Families of doctors back home in India are worried sick. While Dr Singh sends a photo of herself in personal protective equipment (PPE) gear to her parents daily to allay their fears, for Dr Devang Sanghavi, director of medical ICU at Mayo Clinic Florida, the day begins with sending his health update home. “I tell my parents in Mumbai that I take all precautions, I sleep in a different part of the house since I live with my wife and son and I eat alone. All this often brings tears to their eyes. I want to see them but I don’t know when that will be,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/milkhas-daughter-among-desi-docs-in-us-in-corona-fight/articleshow/75306669.cms||Rohan Dua
April 23, 2020||India||Month’s pay cut for Kerala govt staff through 5 EMIs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Brushing aside protests by the opposition and staff associations, the Kerala cabinet on Wednesday decided to go ahead with a proposal to cut a month’s salary of all government employees drawing more than Rs 20,000, including doctors and nurses, in five equal installments from May to September. This works out to a deduction of six days’ pay each month. CM Pinarayi Vijayan said the government was “not in a position to heed the protests” against the proposed pay cut. “Proportionate salary for six days of a month will be deducted. In this fashion, 30 days’ salary will be cut over five months. This will be applicable to state government employees, teachers, university staff and workers of all state public sector units and government undertakings. However, employees drawing less than Rs 20,000 a month are exempted.” Seeking the “wholehearted cooperation” of all employees, Vijayan said willingness or refusal to give up a portion of their salaries for five months was immaterial in the context of the financial crisis brought upon the state by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Salaries and honorarium of ministers, MLAs, board members and elected members of local self-government institutions would be slashed by 30% for a year. However, considering the nature of work that Asha workers carry out to collect Covid-related data from households, the government will give them an additional incentive of Rs 1,000 each a month, the CM said. As many as 26,475 Asha workers will benefit from the decision. The state medical officers’ association and the medical college teachers’ association had appealed to the government to exempt health professionals from the salary cut and warned of protests if it did otherwise. “Health professionals are the frontline warriors against the pandemic. The government’s move to cut their salaries at a time when they are engaged in selfless service is highly deplorable,” the medical officers’ association said in a statement. Former CM Oommen Chandy had spoken out against the move to cut salaries of health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/months-pay-cut-for-kerala-govt-staff-through-5-emis/articleshow/75307142.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: 16 Jamaatis to be shifted to temporary jail||PRAYAGRAJ: Forty-eight hours after 21 members of Tablighi Jamaat, including an Allahabad University professor and 16 foreigners were arrested along with nine others who sheltered them, the district police have decided to shift them to a temporary prison in Ghurpur area as a preventive measure.  They would be transported either post-midnight or Thursday from Naini jail, where they were interned, to Ghurpur 15km away. Thirty people, including the Jamaatis were arrested late Monday in a follow-up to three separate FIRs lodged in different police stations in Prayagraj. Speaking to TOI, SSP Prayagraj Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said on Wednesday, the local administration decided to shift the arrested Jamaatis and the AU professor to another temporary jail to enable quarantine and secured isolation. An old school building has been turned into a temporary jail in Ghurpur. Police and district authorities are reviewing security arrangements before shifting them to the temporary prison, he said. The 16 foreigners were arrested under various sections of IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and the Foreigners Act (for violating visa rules), taking the total number of foreign nationals arrested in Uttar Pradesh to 341.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/16-foreigners-with-tablighi-jamaat-links-au-professor-likely-to-be-shifted-out-of-naini-to-ghurpur-temporary-prison/articleshow/75307359.cms||Kapil Dixit
April 23, 2020||Surat||Surat cop caught bringing liquor from Daman to Gujarat amid lockdown||SURAT: During the ongoing lockdown, when moving out on road can land a civilian in jail, a policeman and his associate were caught in Valsad bringing liquor from Union Territory Daman into the dry state of Gujarat. A team of Surat range Inspector General of Police (IGP) office nabbed the duo on Wednesday while carrying liquor worth Rs 82,800 in a car worth Rs 7 lakh. Police arrested Pradhyumansinh Rathod, 40, a resident of Rander Police Colony and his partner in crime Hemant Pardeshi, 41, a resident of New Rander area in the city. They were nabbed at around 2pm near Dhamdachi. Police stopped the red Suzuki Vitara Brezza for checking near Sarovar Hotel following specific information and recovered liquor from the car. The accused cop is currently posted in traffic branch of city and has criminal service record. He was caught in a graft case in Bhavanagar in past after which he remained suspended for over two years. He was reinstated in service around a year ago and posted in the city. Due to his notorious behaviour, he was transferred to traffic police as punishment by police commissioner in past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-cop-caught-bringing-liquor-from-daman-to-gujarat-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75307440.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 23, 2020||India||Railways offers to supply 2.6L meals daily, says states can pay later||NEW DELHI: The railway ministry has offered to supply 2.6 lakh meals daily at Rs 15 each from railway kitchens across the country wherever the district administration is able to pick up cooked meals for distribution among the needy. The national transporter said it has already informed district authorities and details of zone-wise kitchen in-charges have also been communicated to the states. The ministry said settlement of payments can be done by state governments later. Blog: Level the field - News producers can’t keep incurring the costs while digital platforms drain away profitsIRCTC, the ticket booking and catering subsidiary of the railways, has kitchens spread across the country. “The offer of 2.6 lakh meals per day is based on the kitchen capacities of the earmarked locations. If the need arises, more such locations can be ramped up to boost the supply,” an official statement said. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe railways has been distributing free hot-cooked meals to the needy during the national lockdown and by Tuesday this crossed the 20-lakh mark. “This is being done with the cooperation of IRCTC base kitchens spread over various zones. Distribution of food is being done with the help of RPF, GRP, commercial departments of different zones, state governments, district administrations and NGOs, even beyond the station vicinity to cater to the food requirements of needy people in areas surrounding the railway stations,” the official release said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-offer-states-to-supply-2-6-lakh-meals-a-day/articleshow/75307378.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||Jio accepts FB friend request, sells 10% stake for record Rs 43,574 crore||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: In what is being touted as the largest strategic investment for a minority stake by a technology company anywhere in the world, social media giant Facebook has agreed to invest $5.7 billion or Rs 43,574 crore for a 9.99% stake in Mumbai-based Jio Platforms, a unit of Reliance Industries (RIL). Between Jio's last reported subscriber base of 388 million and the 700 million-plus Indian users on the three FB platforms – Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram – their combined reach will be well over a billion, albeit with considerable overlap. The transaction gives Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook CEO and the world’s seventh richest man according to Forbes, an opportunity to deepen FB’s presence in India, which is its largest market in terms of users and where Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man, has upended the telecom industry with cheap data plans. “At the core of our partnership is the commitment that Mark Zuckerberg and I share for the all-round digital transformation of India,” said Ambani, chairman, RIL, in a video message. RIL believes that comprehensive digitalisation will be an absolute necessity to revitalise the Indian economy in the post pandemic era. Zuckerberg said there’s more to the financial investment it is making in Jio Platforms. “We are committing to work together on some major projects that will open up commerce opportunities across India,” he said on his FB page. Read also: Level the field — News producers can’t keep incurring costs while digital platforms drain away profitsThe transaction, which is among the largest FDI deals in India’s technology sector, will help RIL cut its $43 billion debt as about $4.1 billion is expected to be paid back by Jio Platforms to parent RIL. The Facebook investment values Jio Platforms--which runs apps like JioSaavn and JioCinema and holds investments in Reliance Jio Infocomm, operator of the world’s third largest mobile services network—at $57 billion (and $66 billion based on Reliance’s assumption of an exchange rate of Rs 70/$). If Jio Platforms were to be listed today, it would be the fifth most valued company in India after RIL, TCS, Hindustan Unilever and HDFC Bank. It is valued higher than India’s second and third largest technology companies - Infosys and Wipro - combined. Jio Platforms will also be 70% more valuable than its closest rival Bharti Airtel, which had a closing market capitalisation of Rs 2.73 lakh crore on Wednesday. In October 2019, RIL consolidated the digital platform business under a separate subsidiary to mirror the structure of global companies like Alphabet-Google, Tencent and Alibaba which are largely debt-free, making it easier to attract investors into the new entity. The RIL-FB transaction has been in the works since last year, with the first few meetings between the top teams including Ambani and Zuckerbeg revolving around understanding the potential areas of business collaboration. The conversations progressed with the initial target of closing the deal on March 31. But the outbreak of Covid-19 delayed the final lap of due-diligence. Facebook will get a board seat and an “observer seat” on Jio Platforms. The deal is a binding agreement, according to RIL, but will need approval from antitrust watchdog Competition Commission of India. The announcement boosted RIL’s shares to close at Rs 1,363.6, up by 10.2% on the NSE. The deal will also see a tie-up between RIL’s retail unit and Facebook’s WhatsApp to leverage each other's platforms to allow consumers to order items from their local kirana stores. This would enable Facebook to monetise its large user base, while also potentially serve as a platform to drive adoption of its payment business under WhatsApp which will compete with Google Pay, Alibaba and Softbank-backed Paytm and Walmart-owned Phonepe. “India has more than 60 million small businesses and millions of people rely on them for jobs. With communities around the world in lockdown, many of these entrepreneurs need digital tools they can rely on to find and communicate with customers and grow their businesses,” Zuckerberg said. Ambani, said industry observers, wants Jio to be known as a digital services platform like US-based Google and China’s Alibaba, and not just as a telecom player. Digital services contributed 25% to RIL’s operating profit for the nine months of fiscal 2020. Morgan Stanley and AZB Partners advised Jio Platforms on the deal while Bank of America-Merrill Lynch assisted Facebook||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jio-accepts-fb-friend-request-sells-10-stake-for-record-rs-43574-crore/articleshow/75307566.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 23, 2020||India||Covid-19: Mumbai firm seeks regulator nod for ARV trials||MUMBAI: In an indication of innovation in pharmaceuticals for Covid-19, Mumbai-based Glenmark may become the first company in India to offer an anti-retroviral, a class of drugs which has shown promise, and is being used as a potential treatment for the virus. Glenmark has developed anti-retroviral (ARV) drug Favipiravir, which has shown positive results globally, and has applied for regulatory approval for trials in India, sources told TOI. Faviparir has demonstrated good results against influenza viruses, including those that are oseltamivir-resistant, and has been approved in Japan and China. Globally, it is either anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, or anti-retrovirals/anti-virals like Favipiravir, Remdesivir and Lopinavir, that are increasingly being used for Covid treatment. Japanese company Fujifilm sells the drug Favipiravir under the brand Avigan which has been approved in Japan since 2014 to treat influenza, and other viral strains that don’t respond to other therapies. The drug which was earlier used to treat Ebola became off-patent last year, which implies that generic versions can possibly be launched anywhere in the world. When contacted, Glenmark confirmed it has submitted its application to tbe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for marketing approval of Favipiravir. Glenmark has developed the API in-house, which is believed to have been a big challenge as many firms are still trying to do so. Once the approval is in place, the company will conduct trials on 60-100 patients and launch the drug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-mumbai-firm-seeks-regulator-nod-for-arv-trials/articleshow/75308022.cms||---
April 23, 2020||India||Most Covid deaths in Gujarat has occured within 2 days of testing||AHMEDABAD: Even as Gujarat on Wednesday recorded 13 Covid deaths, taking the state’s toll to 103, data revealed that in 66% of the cases, death came to the positive patient within two days of testing. Analysis of 71 Covid death cases recorded till April 19 – for which data of admission, testing and death is available – showed that 66%, or two-thirds of the positive cases, saw death within two days. Out of 47 who died within two days, 13 passed away the same day they tested positive, 15 died a day after and 19 succumbed two days later. On the other hand, there were seven patients who were hospitalized for more than 10 days before they succumbed to the infection. A 69-year-old woman from Vadodara died on the 17th day after her report came positive. Experts said that in several cases, admission of the patients is late and that’s the reason for early death rate. “People with symptoms need to seek medical help early and not delay getting hospitalized once they get the symptom of difficulty in breathing. Majority of critical patients are coming late. Early detection and medical help can boost chances of survival,” said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare). Out of the 13 deaths on Wednesday, nine were recorded from Ahmedabad alone, while three were from Vadodara and one from Valsad, Ravi said, adding that the state recorded 229 fresh cases during the day, which took the positive count to 2,407. Possibly the only silver lining for the state on Wednesday was the discharge of a record 40 patients after they completed their treatment by fully recovering from coronavirus. With these discharges, Gujarat has 179 people who have trumped the virus. The state currently has a recovery rate of 7.4%, Ravi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/most-covid-deaths-in-gujarat-has-occured-within-2-days-of-testing/articleshow/75308127.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||Facebook deal may keep RIL on road to zero-debt plan||MUMBAI: The $5.7 billion (Rs 43,574 crore) investment by Facebook in Jio Platforms will help Mukesh Ambani deleverage Reliance Industries’ (RIL) balance sheet even as oil market uncertainties have cast a shadow on a potential multi-million-dollar investment by Saudi Aramco in its refining-to-chemicals business. RIL’s debt has ballooned to $43 billion (Rs 3.06 lakh crore) following its aggressive entry into the telecom sector four years ago. It has invested more than Rs 3.50 lakh crore in building digital infrastructure which included splurging on acquisitions. In the recent past, concerns were raised about RIL’s mounting liabilities but the company debunked those by saying it has a clear roadmap for debt reduction. Read also: Level the field — News producers can’t keep incurring costs while digital platforms drain away profitsAt the annual shareholder meet last year, Ambani announced plans to make RIL a “zero net debt” company by March 31, 2021. But, legal roadblocks, among other factors, have hindered his asset monetisation deals. Last August, RIL had said that it will complete the $15 billion investment by Saudi Aramco by March but a closure to the deal seems to be away. Analysts believe that RIL is on track to reduce its net debt this fiscal after Jio Platforms’ deal with Facebook and its fuel retail joint venture (JV) with BP got the European Union regulator’s approval on Monday. RIL will receive Rs 7,000 crore from BP in lieu of the 49% stake in the JV and the deal is expected to be closed this quarter. Read AlsoJio accepts FB friend request, sells 10% stake for record Rs 43,574 croreSocial media giant Facebook has agreed to invest $5.7 billion or Rs 43,574 cr for a 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms, a unit of Reliance Industries (RIL). Mark Zuckerberg said they plan on projects which will open up commerce opportunities across India. The transaction, which is among the largest FDI“The two transactions will accelerate RIL’s deleveraging story and give the company more time to work in closing other deals involving Aramco and Brookfield (in telecom towers),” said Narendra Solanki, head-equity research, Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers. RIL is also looking to unlock value in its entertainment channel business and has held talks with Sony Corporation for the same. RIL has a net debt of Rs 1.53 lakh crore ($20 billion) and according to foreign brokerage firm CLSA, the company’s net debt will come down by 20% in this quarter. “Leverage is getting more manageable and concerns around this should diminish,” wrote CLSA in its report post the Facebook-Jio Platforms announcement. Of the total $5.7 billion investment by Facebook, Jio Platforms will retain $2.14 billion (Rs 15,000 crore), while the remaining $4.08 billion (Rs 28,574 crore) will be used to retire debt it owes to RIL. “The Facebook deal will be a major cash boost for RIL since the current uncertainties in the crude oil market may cast a shadow on its deal with Aramco,” said Rajeev Shah, MD, RBSA Advisors. Ambani had said last year that there is a strong investor interest in the retail business and will induct a partner before taking the unit public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/facebook-deal-may-keep-ril-on-road-to-zero-debt-plan/articleshow/75308253.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 23, 2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Varanasi sends 4 tons of vegetable to UK||VARANASI: Amid the coronavirus lockdown, a good news made its way from the agricultural sector of Varanasi region as for the first time, a consignment of four tons of green vegetables including chilli, cucumber and lauki (gourd) left for Delhi to be exported to the UK, which is reeling under the onslaught of the virus. Earlier, vegetable consignments were sent only to the Gulf countries from Varansi region. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “On Tuesday, a truck left with four tons of farm fresh green chilli, gourd and cucumber in air-conditioned containers for Delhi. The vegetables grown by a progressive farmer, Anil Kumar Rai, in his fields in Ghazipur, will reach London by air cargo on Thursday from the Delhi airport.” “It is a welcome development for the Varanasi region as the dispatch to London will generate opportunities in the European market also,” he added. Given the potential of production of fruits and vegetables in Varanasi region which includes five districts of Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Chandauli of Varanasi division and neighbouring Mirzapur and Bhadohi, APEDA has begun the process of setting up agri-export hubs in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-lockdown-varanasi-sends-4-tons-of-vegetable-to-uk/articleshow/75308415.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 23, 2020||Business||Maharashtra govt to CBI, ED: Take custody of Wadhawans||MUMBAI/PUNE: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday that the government has written to the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to take the custody of the Wadhawan family as their quarantine period has ended. The 14-day period ended on Wednesday afternoon. Satara police communicated to both CBI and ED that they will hand over the custody of Wadhawan brothers Dheeraj and Kapil on Thursday. Satara superintendent of police Tejswini Satpute told TOI, “We have communicated this to CBI and ED as both are wanted in multiple cases.” Earlier on Saturday, the special lockdown court had stayed non-bailable warrants issued against and Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) promoters Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan till May 5 in the Yes Bank case registered by the CBI. This granted them relief from arrest in the case till May 5. The warrants were issued by the court on March 17. The court directed both to not leave the jurisdiction of Satara district without the district collector’s permission. It also said in case of an medical emergency, they could be grante permission to travel only to Mumbai. Also, on Wednesday, Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan moved anticipatory bail pleas before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court. The court directed the ED to not take coercive steps against them and to file their reply on Thursday. This is in connection with the ED’s case against them in the Yes Bank matter. Twenty-three members of the Wadhawan family violated the national lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala to after letter was issued to them by Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary of the home department. They were detained by the Satara police on April 8 and sent to institutional quarantine in April 9. Deshmukh said that the permission given by Gupta was a “grave mistake”. “We’ve already sent letters to CBI and ED on Tuesday, which I will share on social media. Until any of the agencies takes their charge, Wadhawans would remain in the Maharashtra government’s custody.” said Deshmukh in Nagpur during a Facebook address.The government will not allow anyone to flee the country, said Deshumkh. Gupta has been sent on compulsory leave and an inquiry has been constituted against him under Additional Chief Secretary, Manoj Saunik. Before the lockdown, the CBI had searched Wadhawan premises at different locations, including Mahabaleshwar but in vain. Subsequently, CBI approached the court to issue non-bailable warrant against the brothers. The enforcement directorate (ED) and CBI investigating the Wadhawans in two separate cases they have registered against Kapoor. In one of the case, it is alleged that Yes Bank then headed by Kapoor gave Rs 4,500 crore loan to DHFL group. In lieu of that, DHFL group paid Rs 600 crore kickback to Kapoor in form of loan to his daughter’s company-DOIT Urban Ventures. In the second case, related with the state owned Utter Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) employees provident fund amounts investments in scam tainted DHFL was diverted into several dummy companies. The Wadhawans are also accused in a money laundering case, the ED is investigating against late drug smuggler Iqbal Memon alias Mirchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/maharashtra-govt-to-cbi-ed-take-custody-of-wadhawans/articleshow/75308499.cms||Satyajit Joshi
April 23, 2020||India||Faith leaders call for reason amid Covid||NEW DELHI: Representatives of various religions and interfaith groups issued a joint statement on Wednesday emphasising that true religion must be in harmony with science and acceptable to reason. Coming in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, the statement was issued by faith leaders including Parmarth Niketan’s Swami Chidanand Saraswati; Imam Umer Ahmed Ilyasi, chief of the All India Imam Organisation; Archbishop of Delhi and Bangalore, Anil Joseph Thomas Couto and Peter Machado; Rabbi Ezekiel Malekar, chief priest of the Judah Hayam Synagogue in New Delhi; Swami Shantatmananda, secretary of Ramakrishna Mission in New Delhi; the office of Public Affairs of the Baha’is of India; and chairman of the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara, Paramjeet Singh Chandok, among others. Calling religion the “most powerful means for mobilising human conscience to serve the common good”, the faith leaders said, “It would be an unpardonable loss if the resources of faith are left scattered and in disarray and not allowed to come together as a singular force to lend impetus to this collective endeavour....A word of clarification is in order about the cases of religious fanaticism, superstition and contempt for science that are being expressed in the name of religion in the context of the pandemic. These have done incalculable harm not only by exposing thousands to the virus but also by vitiating public discourse with half-truths, falsehoods, conspiracy theories and doomsday narratives….What dispels this darkness is the principle that true religion must be in harmony with science and acceptable to reason,” they said. Warning against the ‘misuse’ of faith, they also said statements and prescriptions made in the name of religion must “not create confusion on how this pandemic must be addressed or contradict established scientific advice. It is in response to this urgent imperative that we, the representatives of various faiths and interfaith groups are issuing this statement to reiterate those principles common to all religions that have the greatest bearing on our response to the present crisis. We appeal to those of all religions to unite in a common commitment to these principles and, in the larger national interest, to put aside their differences,” the statement said. “The age-old habit of dividing the world into an ‘us’ and ‘them’ (many times evoked in the name of religion) and of restricting the sphere of concern to the particular group to which we belong, has shown to be a dangerous and life-threatening delusion in the context of the present crisis,” the faith leaders added in their statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/faith-leaders-call-for-reason-amid-covid/articleshow/75308637.cms||Swati Mathur
April 23, 2020||India||Karnataka to ease some curbs from today||BENGALURU: After days of dilly-dallying, the Karnataka government said it would ease lockdown 2.0 from Thursday, allowing a range of services — from private clinics and veterinary centres to home repairs involving carpenters, plumbers, electricians and mechanics. The government order issued on Wednesday stressed that the relaxations will not apply to Covid-19 hotspots and containment zones across the state. Sub-registrar offices will open in 11 districts, under strict social distancing norms. Educational institutions and transport services will remain shut. Funerals will be allowed with a limit of 20 people. State chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said IT & ITES firms will be allowed to function with minimum essential staff. “The government has left it to the companies to decide their minimum staff requirement and discuss it with the IT-BT (information technology-biotechnology) department before resuming work. We will allow only critical staff, who are identified and issued passes, to function. The others will continue to work from home,” he said. “The relaxation is primarily to revive the economy step by step. While there will be challenges, the government is geared up to meet them,” deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who holds the IT-BT portfolio, said. The order also specifies that companies should encourage employees with children up to five years and elderly (65 years and above) at home to work from their residence. “We would encourage IT-BT companies to use the services of contract carriages to ferry their employees or continue with work-from-home option. We want to restrict the movement of vehicles as far as possible,” said another senior official. “The self-employed who live on a daily income, such as carpenters, electricians, motor mechanics and plumbers, will be allowed to work, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. We are planning to issue special passes for them at local municipal/panchayat offices,” the official said. All private and veterinary clinics which were shut due to the lockdown may also reopen. Hotels, homestays, lodges and motels can function to accommodate those stranded in the lockdown, the order said. Before allowing the relaxations, the respective district administrations and city corporations must ensure that workplaces have social distancing arrangements in place, a senior minister said. Covid-19 protection and distancing protocol must also be ensured in agriculture, construction and other sectors where concessions have been made, officials said. Among other activities allowed to resume are: hotels for parcel services, agriculture producers marketing committee (APMC) yards and production of cement, steel, tiles and bricks. While inter-district and inter-state travel continues to be suspended, dhabas have been allowed to function on the highways at a distance of 20km from each other, primarily to ensure food for truckers. Other sectors in the ambit of relaxation are: courier services, food processing industries and cold storage and warehousing services, including at ports, airports, railway stations, container depots and individual units. Tea, coffee and rubber plantations have been allowed to work with 50% workforce; a similar exemption has been made for units processing, packaging and marketing the produce. The government also has allowed construction of Metro rail projects, roads and buildings, irrigation works and industrial projects, including MSMEs, outside city limits. Projects in industrial estates where workers are available on-site and are not required to be brought from outside can also resume.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-to-ease-some-curbs-from-today/articleshow/75308667.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 23, 2020||India||Private hospitals in fight for survival as footfalls drop||Private hospitals, big and small, have been struggling to survive since the outbreak of Covid-19 as their business has been hit hard with sharp drop in footfalls and occupancy by 40 to 75% and a consequent fall in revenue. When announcing the lockdown, the government ordered all out-patient services and elective surgeries to be suspended. These are the biggest earners for the private health sector. “Close to 70% of the routine activities in hospitals have been stopped. It’s a tough time,” said Dr R Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals And Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), Karnataka. Bigger hospitals and hospital chains remained open to offer emergency services as ordered by many state governments. However, even emergency cases shrank, as people stayed away from hospitals due to problems of transport during lockdown and because of fear as hospitals became hotspots for Covid-19 infection. Most small hospitals and clinics downed shutters as they could not afford to pay staff salaries with no revenue coming in. As they struggled to access safety gear, even emergency services in these hospitals were suspended citing lack of staff or infrastructure to deal with possible COVID-19 patients. Despite fall in revenue, there was no drop in expenditure, said many private hospitals. “We have to continue paying staff salaries and provide essential equipment like personal protective equipment for all the staff members. How are hospitals supposed to do everything? The way things are headed, many private hospitals will be left with no choice but to close down,” said a doctor who runs a 100-bed hospital in Pune. However, reports have come in from several states about private hospitals slashing salaries or even laying off staff. In Kerala, many of the hospitals are reported to have withheld, on an average, 30% to 50% of senior doctors’ salary last month. Some hospital managements have asked doctors and nurses to go on leave temporarily with no pay for the period on leave. According to Vidarbha Hospital Association convener and owner of a hospital Dr Sameer Paltewar, hospitals can survive for 19 days without any inflow of patients. “First phase of lockdown was somehow managed and we paid salaries of March to our employees. But, it’s not possible for April,” he said. A manager in Orchid Hospital, Ranchi, Santosh Kumar said that with acute shortage of patients they would “not be able to survive more than three to four months”. With partial lifting of lockdown in some areas, some hospitals have started offering out-patient consultations. Many, especially those in larger cities, are offering consultations using telemedicine, via video calls, social media apps or just phone consultations. Several doctors however expressed apprehension that telephonic consultation might lead to legal issues in case of any complication. Private hospitals in Andhra Pradesh welcomed the state government’s decision to include Covid-19 treatment under the state health insurance scheme that offers free treatment to patients in private hospitals. About 15 different Covid packages ranging from Rs 16,000 to Rs 2 lakh were announced. Meanwhile, hospitals across India have appealed to governments to clear pending bills for treatment given under various government schemes such as CGHS, ECHS and ESIS. Associations of private hospitals and health providers have also written to the state and central governments requesting interest-free loans to pay salaries, besides 50% waiver of electricity and water bills for at least three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-hospitals-in-fight-for-survival-as-footfalls-drop/articleshow/75308717.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar human rights body seeks reply from Araria DM, SP||PATNA: The Bihar Human Rights Commission (BHRC) on Wednesday took suo motu cognizance on the Araria incident in which a police chowkidar was humiliated by the district agriculture officer for asking him to show vehicle pass. “The incident demands quick and immediate action against the guilty officer and his associates,” the BHRC order reads. In the two-page order passed on Wednesday, BHRC acting chairman Ujjwal Kumar Dubey also demanded detailed report from Araria DM and the SP on the incident by May 6. Chowkidar Ganesh Lal Tatma was on Monday forced to do around 50 sit-ups by the Araria DAO after Ganesh on duty halted his vehicle and asked him to show pass for moving around during the lockdown. Infuriated over the chowkidar’s action, DAO Manoj Kumar, assisted by an assistant sub-inspector, not only forced Ganesh to publicly apologize, but also compelled him to do 50 sit-ups while holding his ears. The incident came to the notice of the state government on Tuesday after a video of the sit-ups went viral on social media. “The incident involves gross violation of not only human rights of the victim but also breaking down of laws and rules by the officers who are supposed to be the custodian of law and who stoop so low as to violate them. The incident demands quick and immediate action against the guilty officer and his associates,” Dubey said in the order. The matter will again come up for hearing before the commission on May 8, the order reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhrc-seeks-reply-from-araria-dm-sp/articleshow/75303324.cms||Madan Kumar
April 23, 2020||Patna||HC hearing on Kota students||PATNA: The state government on Wednesday sought a day’s time to respond to the Patna high court on the matter of safe return of students from Kota in Rajasthan amid the nationwide lockdown. Chief Justice Sanjay Karol had taken cognizance of a petition submitted via Whatsapp on Tuesday by advocate Ajay Thakur urging the court for direction that students stuck in Kota and other places be allowed to return home in Bihar after following government guidelines. On the directions of the Chief Justice, the high court on the administrative side ad written to the state chief secretary on Tuesday seeking a reply on the matter by Wednesday forenoon before any appropriate action is taken on the judicial side. The Chief Justice had expressed serious concern about the safety and security of the students in the letter. “The state government has pleaded for a day’s time to file its reply and the matter will come up on Thursday again,” Thakur said on Wednesday. The high court administration, in the letter, had sought to know if “students studying outside the state should or can be brought back within the constraints of the guidelines and directions issued by the central or state government” which is for the administration to consider and take appropriate action. In the letter, HC had asked the chief secretary that he may get in touch with his counterparts in Rajasthan and other states for ensuring appropriate action. Thakur said he had pleaded in his petition that permission be given for return of these student under government guidelines just like other states are doing as all education institutes are shut due to the lockdown. “The prayer is also that large number of students, due to poor quality of educational institutes in the state, were studying at Kota in Rajasthan and in other states. They were young and children and can’t be compared with category of those stuck outside who had gone for earning livelihood,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-hearing-on-kota-students/articleshow/75303270.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||Bangur super’s leap of faith from sealed-zone home to Covid hosp||Kolkata: MR Bangur Hospital superintendent Sisir Naskar — in charge of the state’s largest Covid-19 hospital — found himself at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic in more ways than one. While his job forces him to spend more than 12 hours every day in close proximity to scores of Covid suspects and patients, his Garia home is now in a containment zone, which made him go through a check every time he boards his car for his office. Even though he is now exempt from the check, his neighbourhood has had a Covid-positive case and the local authorities are struggling to restrict entry of outsiders. On Monday morning, Naskar’s car was halted and scanned by cops standing guard near his residence. The rigorous check was part of a containment plan by the police after the entire area was sealed to prevent people from sneaking in from adjoining Rajpur-Sonarpur municipality areas. A desperate Naskar had called up the divisional commissioner and the local OC, requesting special permission to drive to the hospital. He had to obtain a special approval from the police top brass to go back to his Garia residence at night. “I was worried when I came to know that my home location was turned into a containment zone. Policemen had stopped me close to my home and prevented me from proceeding towards my hospital. So, I called up some senior officers who noted my registration number and communicated the same to officers at the naka near my home. From the next day, I was not stopped,” Naskar said. However, this was not the first time that Naskar faced the Covid-threat so close to his home. A fortnight ago, a 52-year old businessman in the neighbourhood tested positive to Covid-19. He was admitted to MR Bangur, but later shifted to a private hospital off Bypass. Some of his family members are still in quarantine. Naskar lives with his 11-year-old son and wife. “On most days, my son stays awake till I return at 1am. I ask him to stay away. I change in the lobby and head to my room, isolated from the rest of my family. This has been the routine for the past few weeks,” he said. Local councillor Chayan Bhattacharyya conceded that it was a trying time for the administration fighting Covid-19 cases in some areas of Garia which share a border with Rajpur-Sonarpur municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangur-supers-leap-of-faith-from-sealed-zone-home-to-covid-hosp/articleshow/75305512.cms||Saikat Ray
April 23, 2020||Nashik||2 more Covid-19 deaths in Malegaon, Nashik division now has 162 patients||Nashik: Two Covid-19 patients who were undergoing treatment at the sub-civil hospital and Jeevan Hospital in Malegaon died on Wednesday taking the total number of coronavirus-related fatalities in the town to 10. Meanwhile, three fresh cases in Nandurbar and six in Dhule pushed the number of confirmed patients in Nashik division to 162. According to the officials, two individuals, who had been taking treatment for coronavirus, succumbed on Wednesday, taking the total numbers of death to 10 in Nashik district – all of them from Malegaon town. The deceased individuals are a 45-year-old man and a 49-year-old woman, who were admitted to the isolation wards on April 16, the official said. Another 35-year-old man, who had symptoms of Covid-19, also succumbed. His throat swab samples have been sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital laboratory in Dhule and results are awaited. The Nashik division comprises Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Nandubar and Ahmednagar districts. Nashik district alone accounts for 111 patients, followed by Ahmednagar (31), Dhule (8), Nandubar (7) and Jalgaon (5). Ahmednagar has 20 individuals who have been cured of the disease, while Nashik has two. Jalgaon too has two patients who have recovered. The first sample tests of the first 10 patients in Malegaon have reported negative. This means the patients are on the path to recovery. Another test of the patients will be done over the next few days. If the reports are negative then, the patients could be released from the hospital, the officials said. In Dhule, five patients from the city and one person from Shindkheda tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, the officials said. All of them were quarantined on Monday. In Nandubar, three cases were registered after the patients’ swab samples tested at GMCH, Dhule, returned positive. A 32-year-old woman from Akkalkuwa taluka and a 45-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man from Shahada taluka were found positive. The areas around their residences have been turned into containment zones. Nandurbar collector Rajendra Bharud has requested people to stay at home. “There were only four patients in Nandurbar, all from the same family. We suddenly have three more cases. This means people are travelling,” Rajendra Bharud said in a televised address. Jalgaon district has had five positive cases of which, one has been cured and two persons are recuperating. Two persons had died before their swabs test reports came back positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-more-covid-19-deaths-in-malegaon-nashik-division-now-has-162-patients/articleshow/75305368.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 23, 2020||Business||FB deal may aid RIL’s zero-debt plan||Reeba Zachariah | TNN Mumbai: The $5.7-billion (Rs 43,574-crore) investment by Facebook in Jio Platforms will help Mukesh Ambani deleverage the balance sheet of Reliance Industries (RIL) even as oil market and other uncertainties have cast a shadow on a potential multi-billion-dollar investment by Saudi Aramco in its refining-to-chemicals business. RIL’s debt has ballooned to $43 billion, or over Rs 3 lakh crore (of which net debt is Rs 1.53 lakh crore, or $20 billion) following its aggressive entry into the telecom sector four years ago. It has invested more than Rs 3.50 lakh crore in building a digital infrastructure, which includes acquisition spends. In the recent past, concerns have been voiced about RIL’s mounting liabilities, but it has dismissed them by saying it has a clear road map for debt reduction. At the annual shareholder meet last year, Ambani announced plans to make RIL a “zero net debt” company by March 31, 2021. But legal roadblocks, among other factors, have hindered his asset-monetisation deals. Last August, RIL announced it would close a $15-billion investment by Saudi Aramco by March, but that is still to happen. Analysts believe that RIL is on track to reduce its net debt this fiscal after Jio Platforms’ deal with Facebook and its fuel retail joint venture (JV) with BP got the European Union regulator’s approval on Monday. RIL will receive Rs 7,000 crore from BP in lieu of the 49% stake in the JV and the deal is expected to be closed within this quarter (see graphic). “The two transactions will accelerate RIL’s deleveraging story and give the company more time to work in closing other deals involving Aramco and Brookfield (in telecom towers),” said Narendra Solanki, head (equity research), Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers. RIL is also looking to unlock value in its entertainment channel business and has held talks with Sony Corporation for the same. According to foreign brokerage firm CLSA, the company’s Rs 1.53-lakh-crore net debt will come down by 20% in this quarter. “Leverage is getting more manageable and concerns around this should diminish,” wrote CLSA in its report after the Facebook-Jio Platforms announcement. Of the total $5.7-billion investment by Facebook, Jio Platforms will retain $2.14 billion (Rs 15,000 crore), while the remaining $4.08 billion (Rs 28,574 crore) will be used to retire debt it owes to RIL. “The Facebook deal will be a major cash boost for RIL since the current uncertainties in the crude oil market may cast a shadow on its deal with Aramco,” said Rajeev Shah, MD, RBSA Advisors. Ambani had said last year that there is a strong investor interest in the retail business and will induct a partner before taking the unit public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fb-deal-may-aid-rils-zero-debt-plan/articleshow/75307098.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bikaner woman alleges rape by two||JAIPUR: A woman has lodged a gang-rape case against two persons in Bikaner saying the accused abducted her when she was working in the field on April 3 and raped her multiple times. Police have started an investigation though no one has been arrested yet. The complainant alleged that the accused abducted her and held her captive till April 15. A case under various IPC sections, was registered against the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bikaner-woman-alleges-rape-by-2/articleshow/75306499.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Deepak Phenolics starts making IPA for sanitizers||AHMEDABAD: Deepak Phenolics Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Deepak Nitrite Limited, commenced production on Tuesday of isopropyl alcohol (IPA), which is widely used in manufacturing hand-sanitizers. In its official disclosure to the Bombay Stock Exchange, the company confirmed that it has commenced production of IPA at its manufacturing facility located at Dahej, which has an installed capacity of 30,000 metric tonnes (MT) per annum. “The company has commissioned its plant to make IPA from acetone. This will significantly reduce the country’s import-dependence for IPA, which is an important input in the production of essential pharmaceuticals as well as hand-sanitizers,” said a company spokesperson. “Due care will be taken while ramping up the capacity utilization, taking manpower constraints and process safety into consideration,” the spokesperson further added. At a time, when the government machinery is fighting to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country, the demand for hand-sanitizers has gone up significantly, not just across hospitals and healthcare institutions but for individual usage as well. The company has made an investment of Rs 200 crore to set up the IPA manufacturing facility at its complex in Dahej in addition to other projects. In the past, the company also announced plans to set up a power plant at Dahej, next to its manufacturing facility, to aid steam and power requirements for manufacturing of phenol and acetone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deepak-phenolics-commences-production-of-isopropyl-alcohol/articleshow/75305207.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 23, 2020||Business||RIL plans to bring kiranas closer to you||BENGALURU: At the centre of the Reliance-Facebook deal is the commercial partnership between Reliance Retail and WhatsApp to push out what it calls new commerce, which will allow consumers to order from neighbourhood kirana stores. The online-to-offline (O2O) commerce initiative could potentially change the landscape of retail, given WhatsApp’s reach of over 400 million customers in India. Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani said nearly 3 crore kiranas in the near future will be able to transact digitally with their consumers in their neighbourhood through JioMart — the new commerce platform, which it has already launched in Mumbai’s suburbs like Navi Mumbai and Thane. The orders are expected to be placed through WhatsApp, while Reliance had already started roping in kiranas in its network by offering them merchandise, working capital loans, and digital payment solutions, including point-of-sales (PoS) machines. Read AlsoJio accepts FB friend request, sells 10% stake for record Rs 43,574 croreSocial media giant Facebook has agreed to invest $5.7 billion or Rs 43,574 cr for a 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms, a unit of Reliance Industries (RIL). Mark Zuckerberg said they plan on projects which will open up commerce opportunities across India. The transaction, which is among the largest FDIThe idea is to make the best of the “high-quality front end” of WhatsApp and Jio’s feet-on-the-street execution. “With this partnership what WeChat has done in China becomes a possibility. Facebook is a technology company and is not into handling logistics or moving goods, very clearly what they wanted was a partner who can handle all of it,” said a person involved in the transaction.  The mini-apps inside messaging app WeChat, which has 1.15 billion users, did business of $115 billion in 2019 in China across online retail, food delivery, ride-hailing, paying bills and booking tickets. Besides tie-ups with kiranas, Reliance has 11,316 stores across consumer electronics, fashion & lifestyle, and grocery (as of December quarter). The development comes as consumers, amid the virus outbreak, are starting to warm up to the idea of ordering essentials from their local shops through individual WhatsApp chats, albeit at a small scale. “They have started work on WhatsApp collaboration. While Ajio (fashion and lifestyle) is fully operating on the O2O model, Reliance is in the process of taking it to the wider retail businesses in other segments. The O2O model, where supply is linked with the inventory at nearby retail stores and not large warehouses, works better with unstructured categories, like grocery and other essentials,” a person aware of Reliance’s O2O plans said. Grocery is a thin-margin business and the model should be scalable, which has led to multiple pilots in different cities across the country, this person added. Read AlsoFacebook deal may keep RIL on road to zero-debt planThe $5.7 billion (Rs 43,574 cr) investment by Facebook in Jio Platforms will help Mukesh Ambani deleverage Reliance Industries’ (RIL) balance sheet even as oil market uncertainties have cast a shadow on a potential multi-million-dollar investment by Saudi Aramco. RIL’s debt ballooned to $43 billionThe cautious approach is preceded by on-ground challenges that companies in India have faced while trying the O2O model in the country. It hasn’t got the kind of traction that it did in China. “The opportunity is immense but the execution at every small store is critical. The demand pattern is different across cities and stocking adequately in right locations is a challenge. This would impact the timing of delivery — which is important for day-to-day items,” said a senior e-commerce executive who has worked on this model. All said, the final interface of JioMart and WhatsApp would play a differentiator as consumers are used to the easy-to-use design of how WhatsApp messaging works. To bring chat-based commerce and customer services, it would be a challenge to keep the design framework simple. Reliance’s bullishness on the model is further seen in a spate of acquisitions — Fynd, an O2O startup that was backed by Google; Grab, a hyper-local logistics company, and chatbot platform Haptik, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-plans-to-bring-kiranas-closer-to-you/articleshow/75306938.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown woes: BJP fears negative effect on local polls||GANDHINAGAR: The complete lockdown due to the novel coronavirus pandemic will make things difficult for the BJP in the coming urban and rural local self-government elections, says the feedback from various levels to the party leadership. The state leadership of the BJP recently held a video conference with leaders of municipal corporations, municipalities, district and taluka panchayats, to gauge the impact of the lockdown on the party’s prospects in the coming polls. Elections for six municipal corporations, 150 municipalities, and all district and taluka panchayats will be held in October. The unanimous feedback from the cadre was that there is widespread disgruntlement among voters as the lockdown has hit them financially. With economic activity and employment thrown out of gear, the general sentiment is one of anger. The party cadre conveyed to the leadership that unless a slew of relief measures are announced, the BJP could suffer electoral losses in the local elections. A key source in state BJP’s core decision making body who was involved in getting feedback from the field level cadre, said, “The local leadership clearly stated that the post-lockdown period will be challenging for the party. The frustration of the people could reflect in the local elections scheduled for October.” The source added that the government usually announces a slew of measures to woo voters in election years, but all capital expenditure will be put on hold because of the lack of financial resources and revenues dwindling because of the lockdown. “The tendering process for various development activities will be delayed because of the lockdown and the monsoon will set in in June. So basically, the government will not be able to showcase any real work till the end of September,” the source said. Earlier, MP and MLA grants were also useful in wooing voters, but these grants have also been deposited with the treasury for a period of one year, to combat the pandemic, the source said. “With people from all sections of society having faced hardships due of the lockdown, it will be a big task for the party cadre to woo voters. However, we will fine-tune our strategy once the lockdown is lifted and things return to normal,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-woes-bjp-fears-negative-effect-on-local-polls/articleshow/75305314.cms||Kapil Dave
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now Covid-19 testing being taken to village doorsteps in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: To reduce the risk of spread of Covid-19 infection from the city to the outlying rural areas in Ahmedabad district, the district panchayat has launched a mobile van, which will collect samples from villages and bring them for testing to BJ Medical College. The novel facility, being introduced for the first time, will ensure that suspected patients do not have to travel from rural areas to the city, just for Covid-19 testing.The sample collecting vehicles will travel to taluka headquarters, nagarpalika headquarters and villages. Samples of suspected patients will be collected by health teams at community health centres (CHCs) or primary health centres (PHCs). “The broad aim of introducing this system is to ensure that people from Ahmedabad district do not have to travel to Ahmedabad city for testing. It will go a long way in checking the spread of Covid-19 from the city to the district,” said district development officer Arun Mahesh Babu. On Wednesday, the mobile van collected nasal and throat swabs of people living in and around Bopal area of the city. The DDO added that massive surveillance activity has already been carried out for a population of 3.87 lakh people, 6,038 people vulnerable to Covid-19 have been identified. “These people need to be tested, and if the need be, isolated and treated,” Babu said. As of Wednesday, there have been only 16 Covid-19 positive cases in Ahmedabad district, even as the number of cases in Ahmedabad city have crossed the 1,000 mark. The DDO said that there is a possibility that increased testing will reflect in an increase of Covid-19 positive cases in rural areas, but this will help in isolating affected persons who can be treated immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/district-panchayat-takes-covid-19-testing-to-village-doorsteps/articleshow/75305282.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||NGOs come together to make masks; Kolkata youths raise funds for needy neighbours||KOLKATA: Project Karuna, an initiative by SwitchON Foundation, Active Citizens Together for Sustainability (ACTS) and JITO, focuses on ensuring that everyone in the city has access to two cotton masks each.  In collaboration with the district rural development cells, the project started ‘Women Cotton Mask Ventures’ where over 200 women entrepreneurs from various self-help groups (SHG) are making masks across the districts. These women are being provided with entrepreneur kits, comprising fabric and other equipment needed to stitch masks. The process is taught via WhatsApp or by a resource person at the spot. “As use of masks have become compulsory, we are happy to partner with district offices to work with SHGs and create a market for their masks, both locally and for company CSRs and donors. We are thankful to the German Consulate General for supporting this project. Now, people can get high-quality masks at very low prices,” said Vinay Jaju, MD of SwitchON Foundation and co-founder of ACTS The project has started work in five districts and there are plans to expand. “The target is to train 1,000 women to make 10,00,000 masks. Till date, 45,000 masks have been made. Each woman can make up to Rs 15,000 a month from stitching masks. The products are being sold at Rs 20 in retail and Rs 15 in bulk,” Jaju said. In Kolkata, NSIC, Howrah, employee Sujit Kumar Shaha has distributed more than 2,500 masks among the needy around Dum Dum Cantonment. A group of college and high school students in Metiabruz have raised funds for more than 13,000 poor neighbours over the past 15 days. The Metiabruz Youths are giving each family 5kg rice, 2kg atta, 500g dal, 2kg potato, 1kg onion, 2 packets of instant noodles, 1kg salt, a packet of oil and a bar of soap. And locals on Sukeas Street have set up a kitchen and have been feeding around 200 daily wagers and pavement dwellers in the area over the past 20 days. Both Metiabruz Youths and the Sukeas Street locals plan to distribute masks as well. Also on Wednesday, Dum Dum Nagorik Samonnoy Mancha started a community kitchen to help 380 families suffering from food crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngos-come-together-to-make-masks-city-youths-raise-funds-for-needy-neighbours/articleshow/75305593.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM, deputy CM finish isolation, hold video meeting with cabinet||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and minister of state, home, Pradipsinh Jadeja, who observed weeklong isolation from April 14, resumed normal work from Wednesday. All three leaders had met MLA Imran Khedawala, who had tested positive for Covid-19.All three leaders and education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama met at the CM house from where they took part in the cabinet meeting held through video conference as all other ministers are in their respective constituencies. Providing details of the cabinet meeting, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM said, “The chief minister went through report of various measures taken by the district administration for ensuring provision of essential items, status of the industrial units which have been restarted, position of workers in such units etc, and the overall status of healthcare facilities. He instructed the district collectors and health department to follow the action plan diligently.” The state government has approved more than 34,000 industrial units to operate from April 20. This has enabled around 2,40,000 labourers to resume their duties. Around 17,400 workers are working at 254 construction sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-dycm-finish-isolation-hold-video-meeting-with-cabinet/articleshow/75305229.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Patna||Any toll-free no. for orphanages? asks Patna high court||PATNA: The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Vinod Kumar Sinha on Wednesday directed the state government to apprise the of Patna high court if there is any dedicated toll-free number to specifically deal with the problems of orphanages, old-age homes and centres for disabled persons in the lockdown scenario. The court also asked the state government if any nodal officer has been appointed in the backdrop of central government’s direction to regulate the work with civil society organizations (CSO) and NGOs. The matter would come up for hearing on Thursday. Advocate Parul Prasad filed a PIL urging HC to issue direction to state government for ensuring arrangement of food and other essential articles in orphanages, old-age and shelter homes for the disabled persons. TOI article ‘Tough to run old-age homes, orphanages’ published on April 15 has been attached as annexure in the PIL along with other central government’s letters. Prasad has urged the HC to direct state government to follow the guidelines of Centre and NITI Aayog for allowing CSOs and NGOs willing to aid and supplement efforts made by the state government in helping the needy persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/any-toll-free-no-for-orphanages/articleshow/75303227.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 23, 2020||Patna||Patna: Lawyers demand financial aid||PATNA: The Patna High Court (PHC) Lawyers’ Association on Wednesday urged CM Nitish Kumar to provide financial assistance to the lawyers during the lockdown period, as all activities in various courts of the state have come to a halt from March 6. PHC Lawyers’ Association executive member Manju Sharma wrote a letter to the CM on Wednesday urging him to provide a financial assistance of Rs 20,000 per month to the lawyers and Rs 10,000 per month to the clerks. She also informed the CM that the lawyers have raised a fund of Rs 2 crore to provide assistance to the needy advocates, but this is a ‘meagre sum’. “Suspension of all court-related work has put unprecedented financial constraint on the advocates and their clerks,” Sharma wrote in the letter addressed to the CM, pointing out that majority of the lawyers and clerks are on the brink of starvation and unable to support their families. Sharma, in her letter to the CM, has also mentioned that the lawyers are an indispensable part of the justice delivery system and the state government should provide financial assistance to them to safeguard their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lawyers-demand-financial-aid/articleshow/75303311.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||MCX’s negative price: Brokers move HC||MUMBAI: At least three brokers — Motilal Oswal Financial Services, Religare Broking and PCS Securities — have together moved the Bombay high court against Sebi, Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) and Multi Commodity Exchange Clearing Corp (MCX-CC). The three brokers have filed a plea against fixing a negative settlement price of Rs 2,884 for April crude futures contracts, resulting in a total payout of about Rs 410 crore for the buyers. In the petition, the three brokers alleged inaction on the part of markets regulator Sebi that failed to protect the interest of investors. They also said that a negative price for a commodity was “unprecedented and against the contours of law and rules” of MCX. They prayed that the MCX’s circular on negative settlement price be quashed.  The petitioners are aggrieved that the MCX circular was issued despite their representation to Sebi for the regulator’s intervention in fixing the settlement price. The petitioners, through advocate Ravichandra Hegde, sought a hearing via video-conferencing since this was an urgent matter. On Monday night, WTI crude contracts on Nymex closed at -$37.6/barrel, which caught these three brokers and some others on the wrong foot with their combined obligation ballooning to about Rs 410 crore. This is because, according to MCX’s rules for the last 16 years, the WTI closing price has been the reference rate for settlement of trades on the Indian bourse. On Tuesday, at first MCX had set a Re 1 per contract provisional settlement price, but was later changed under pressure from those who were to receive the payments from the brokers who lost heavily. The financial services firms are questioning if the new circular was not in violation of principles of natural justice and fair play. Those who sold the contracts and are the gainers in these MCX trades said that the petitioners’ contention that the price of a commodity can never turn negative is untenable if one looks at some of the recent developments in the global oil market. On April 15, six days before the expiry of the MCX crude contract, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the world’s largest derivatives bourse and also the parent of Nymex from where MCX derives its settlement price, had tested its systems for negative crude price. And on April 1, global financial major Goldman Sachs, through a research report, had warned that the price of crude could trade in the negative territory. The brokers who gained in the MCX trade have not been named in the petition. Exchange officials also said that the petitioners’ contention that they lost heavily due to the Covid-19 lockdown-induced change in market timings may not be tenable as well. When the trading hours for commexes were changed from March 30, it was done after consulting all the stakeholders in the system including Sebi, exchanges, brokers, banks and clearing corporations — the March 26 releases from all the exchanges show. On Wednesday afternoon, MCXCC said it has already completed the pay-ins and payouts, meaning settlement of trades through exchange of money, “including the settlement of April 20, 2020 crude oil contract”, and a payout of Rs 242 crore has been made to the brokers. Without mentioning the grievances of some of MCX brokers, the release from MCXCC said that international exchanges such as ICE Futures US, ICE Futures Singapore, DGCX and Moscow Exchange “having cash-settled Nymex WTI crude oil futures contracts have also settled their corresponding contracts at Nymex WTI crude oil front month contract’s settlement price of (-) $37.63”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mcxs-ve-price-brokers-move-hc/articleshow/75306875.cms||Partha Sinha
April 23, 2020||Patna||Speed up contact tracing, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: As Bihar continues to witness steep rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked the officials to increase the capacity of isolation wards in all district hospitals. He also directed them to increase the capacity of quarantine centres. Holding a review meeting with chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials on the current situation of Covid-19 in the state, Nitish asked all the health department officials to gear up and ensure proper monitoring of every case. Stressing on the need to accelerate the work of tracking, tracing and testing of suspected cases, the CM said, “The chain of Covid-19 can be broken only through thorough tracking of all contacts of new positive cases. The work of contact tracing is very important. We need to speed up this task. There should be no slackness in contact tracking and tracing.” He said there is an increase in the number of positive cases, but people should not panic as most of the new cases are related to a single positive person. The CM also called upon the people to follow the guidelines of lockdown and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speed-up-contact-tracing-says-nitish/articleshow/75303091.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Patna||Cop suspended, DGP phones chowkidar to boost his morale||PATNA: The assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who was caught on camera humiliating chowkidar Ganesh Lal Tatma for asking Araria district agriculture officer (DAO) to show his vehicle pass amid lockdown, has been suspended. State DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who personally rang up Ganesh on Wednesday and apologized for the incident involving DAO Manoj Kumar. He told Ganesh about the suspension of ASI Govind Singh, who had forced him to do sit-ups before the DAO under Bairgachhi police outpost in Araria district. The DGP has shared his telephonic conversation with Ganesh on his official Facebook page. The incident is being termed as first of its kind where the top boss of state police rang up a village chowkidar, the lowest in police rank, for apologizing and boosting his morale. “Aap chinta mat kariye. dukhi mat hoiye. Lekin jo hua uska mujhe bahut dukh hai … hum aapse maafi mangte hai. aisa nahi hona chahiye tha … humko iska behad afsoos hai..(You don’t worry. Don’t get disheartened. But I feel sorry for whatever happened. I apologies to you … this should not have happened. I extremely regret it…),” the DGP told Ganesh over phone. The DGP also sought details about why he had to fall on the feet of the DAO. “A vehicle had already sped away from the spot. At around 12.45pm, the DAO arrived with five persons in an SUV. I stopped them. He started hurling abuses. He also asked me to fold hand, bow down, hold ears or he will send me behind bars and get me kicked out of the job. I was finally asked to do 50 sit-ups,” Ganesh told the DGP. “Don’t lose your confidence. Government would take action against those who had committed mistake. Continue your duty with the same zeal and honesty,” DGP told Ganesh. “… Aap log bahut mehnat kar rahe hain ... (...you people are working hard),” Pandey said, adding all chowkidars and constables were a part of the government. When asked about his family, Ganesh told the DGP that he has three sons and three daughters. Two of his sons had completed BEd while one was in class X. His daughters are Intermediate passouts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cop-suspended-dgp-phones-chowkidar-to-boost-his-morale/articleshow/75303300.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 23, 2020||Business||Pharma retail biz grows 9% in March, respiratory tops||Rupali Mukherjee | TNN Mumbai: The domestic pharma retail market registered a growth rate of nearly 9% in March even amid a national lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, indicating evidence of panic buying of medicines for chronic diseases. Overall, respiratory, anti-diabetes and cardiac categories expanded in robust double-digits. During March, sales of respiratory medicines increased almost 23% from 18% in February, while anti-diabetes drugs grew 18% and cardiac drugs nearly 20% from 11% and 13% respectively. As against this, those for pain relief, gastro-intestinal medicines and vitamins posted lower growth rates of 4.8%, 6.4% and 3.7% respectively. Certain therapies’ growth rates slipped even into the negative territory during the month, including dermatology and gynaecology medicines at -1.7% and -3.9% respectively, according to data culled from pharma research firm AIOCD-Awacs. The strong growth in respiratory medicines could be attributed to the Covid-19 outbreak, as the virus is known to cause respiratory distress, experts say. The growth came as a surprise to analysts tracking the sector, while the increase in sales of chronic medication indicates stocking up by consumers, fearing disruption in supply in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Due to the nationwide shutdown, drug manufacturing plants slowed down and/or stopped production at several units across the country after their employees were not allowed to travel due to local administration. In others, the employees just refused to turn up. Chemist and druggist associations had also warned of supply disruptions during the month and potential shortages, with distribution of medicines from warehouses to distributors and dealers getting hampered. Growth in the domestic market during the January-March quarter was mainly attributed to the price increase (5.3%) and new products (2.7%), with volumes showing a reduction (1.7%), similar to the trend in the previous October-December 2019 quarter. Drugs under price control (NLEM) grew 11.8%, while non-NLEM medicines registered a growth rate of 8.3% during the month. The market was on a recovery path from a low growth of 7.7% in January to a strong double-digit 12.1% in February, led by top therapies at more than 10%. Highest growth came from respiratory (17.9%) among the top 10, followed by anti-infectives at 14.1% and cardiac at 13.3%. The top 10 corporates that outperformed market growth include Macleods (13.8%) and Intas Pharma (13.5%). Despite the nationwide lockdown, domestic growth is expected to remain more or less stable over the next few months. Exports’ growth, barring for one or two months on account of congestion in all major ports globally, is also expected to remain strong. The main reasons for this are currency benefit, slowdown in competition due to delay in new regulatory approvals that will be beneficial for existing players, and expected demand continuum across the world despite Covid-19. Some windfall is also expected in critical products — a case in point is hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an old malaria drug that is likely to be re-purposed as a prophylaxis for Covid-19 treatment in certain cases, an analyst from ICICI Securities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-retail-biz-grows-9-in-march-respiratory-tops/articleshow/75306955.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 23, 2020||Business||Sensex gains 743 pts riding on RIL rally to end at 31,380||Mumbai: A 10% rally in the Reliance Industries shares sent the sensex zooming 743 points on Wednesday with the energy-to-telecom major’s stock contributing over half of the BSE benchmark’s gain, which closed at 31,380. The sensex opened slightly higher and as the RIL stock picked up gains through the session, the index scaled an intraday high of 31,471 and closed a tad off that mark, but still up 2.4%. Other stocks that contributed to the index’s gain were HUL, Asian Paints and TCS, while L&T, ONGC and HDFC closed in the red. The day’s gains came despite a Rs 1,326-crore net outflow by foreign funds, while domestic funds were net buyers at Rs 864 crore, BSE data showed. Most brokerages are positive on the Facebook-Jio deal since it primarily helps RIL reduce its debt burden by about 12%, something that has been an overhang on the stock price for long. This deal, at Rs 43,574 crore, along with the already announced Rs 7,000-crore deal with BP for RIL’s petro-retailing business, is expected to cut the company’s net debt by about 20%, foreign broking major CLSA said. The brokerage has a target price of Rs 1,500 for the stock, a 10% gain from RIL’s closing price on Wednesday. Nomura, another foreign broking house which has a Rs 1,770 price target on RIL, said the strong synergy benefits between Jio’s business and Facebook and the deal would allay investors’ worries about RIL’s large debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-gains-743-pts-riding-on-ril-rally-to-end-at-31380/articleshow/75306998.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Work at ‘Samruddhi’ gathers momentum||Nashik: With the state and central government announcing relaxation in lockdown rules for carrying out activities in rural areas, the work at Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Expressway — Samruddhi — has gathered momentum. A limited activity was already being carried out at the Samruddhi site with the district administration’s approval, but the relaxation in rules has further boosted the construction activity’s progress. “Earlier, there was much regulated activity as low as 25%, but now we are back on track to the extent of more than 50%,” a senior officer from Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) in Mumbai said. The construction of the MSRDC’s 701km Nagpur-Mumbai stretch is also referred to as the greenfield project and most of the activities are being carried out far away from residential areas. The Samruddhi has its own Right of Way (ROW) to be used for the movement of its traffic from one point to another, except for the miscellaneous activities. “Basically being a greenfield project, the entire activity is automatically being carried out far away from the local population and since the workers reside in camps, they are least exposed to the infection outside. Having said that, all health advisory measures are in place,” the officer said. The workers stay in barracks while those who have families reside in villages where they have hired the quarters for themselves. The MSRDC officer said that all the necessary care and precaution is being taken to ensure that the families of workers, officers living in nearby villages, towns or even cities do not mingle with the local population so that there is no exchange of the infection in both ways. “A contractor has been asked to arrange for the transportation of every person with dedicated transportation facility. To ensure that the employees do not travel in their personal vehicles, a vehicle is assigned to pick them up from doorstep and drop off at their workplace and back home,” the officer added. Besides, the contractor has also been asked to arrange for daily supplies for the families or workers so that they do not have to suffer due to lockdown. Also, the workers in camps are also provided with all the essential items. The officer also said that health teams formed by the government come for check-ups of the workers and the employees periodically. All the employees have been instructed and trained to follow social distancing and cleanliness round-the-clock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/work-at-samruddhi-gathers-momentum/articleshow/75305386.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 23, 2020||Business||NBFCS, MFIs and Banks to get SIDBI funds for lending to small biz||Mumbai: Small Industries Development Bank — the apex institutions for financing of small business — has announced special liquidity lines to NBFCs, microfinance institution and banks to refinance their lending to MSMEs. The schemes are made possible because of a Rs 15,000 crore funding it received from the Reserve Bank of India last week. The RBI in its package of measures to support Covid-19 hit businesses had said that it was providing funding to SIDBI, Nabard and NHB. “The schemes would cover all eligible entities having investment grade ratings irrespective of the size of the organisation to ensure wider coverage,” SIDBI said in a statement. To qualify an NBFC should be registered with RBI as investment and credit company, be in business for at least three years and have minimum net owned funds of 20 crore and minimum asset size of Rs 50 crore. The company should also have a minimum external rating of BBB-. Similarly for a microfinance institution to quality it should be registered as a society, trust cooperative society, company or NBFC. It should also have a minimum credit rating of BBB-. In the case of banks, the lenders should be profit-making and have a minimum net worth of Rs 100 crore. They should also have a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 9% and non-performing assets below 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-mfis-and-banks-to-get-sidbi-funds-for-lending-to-small-biz/articleshow/75306917.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||Oyo cuts salaries, sends staff on leave||Bengaluru: Hospitality major Oyo is sending a large number of its 10,000 employees in India on leave with limited pay and is also cutting salaries of all employees earning over Rs 5 lakh by 25%. The move was announced internally on Wednesday morning at the Softbank-backed company which has been on cost-cutting spree as travel business takes a hit amid Covid-19 lockdowns. Oyo is expected to start putting employees on furlough starting May 4, the day after the lockdown in India is expected to end. The furlough is expected to last till August end. The 25% salary cuts are expected to be from April till July “Those going on this leave will avail benefits such as continuation of medical insurance and parental insurance, school fee reimbursement and ex gratia support,” Oyo India head Rohit Kapoor told employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oyo-cuts-salaries-sends-staff-on-leave/articleshow/75306923.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Changed test protocol to ease private hospital admissions||KOLKATA: Indian Council of Medical Research’s announcement to expand the category of people who can be tested for Covid-19 has paved the way for the revival of surgeries at city private hospitals that have been wary of operating asymptomatic patients, some of whom turned out to be positives later. According to the new guideline, which was issued on Tuesday, hospitals can test asymptomatic patients classifying them into an ‘others’ category, in case they don’t fit in any of the earmarked groups. Several city hospitals, which have either stopped surgeries or conducted very few since the lockdown started, plan to resume elective and emergency operations following Covid-19 tests to make sure patients are not infected and their health workers are not at risk.  The move towards normalizing health services came as a relief to thousands, who had been forced to defer their surgeries, said Woodlands Hospital CEO Rupali Basu. “Since 80% Covid-19 patients remain asymptomatic for several days, surgeries were stopped in our hospital. Both patients and doctors were wary of the risk involved. Now, with a test done, there will be no apprehension. It will help revive surgeries in hospitals, like ours, and allow patients who had been forced to defer their surgeries undergo them,” said Basu, who had written to the ICMR, seeking an expansion in the category of patients who can be tested. Other hospitals, too, welcomed the move. AMRI Hospitals said it was gearing up to test each patient before surgery. OT across all its three units had came to a grinding halt. “ The new guideline will help us operate on patients who have been waiting for different surgeries. Moreover, this will help us to ensure there is no cross-infection to our doctors and other healthcare workers,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. According to the new guideline, “symptomatic influenza-like illness patients in hospital/MoHFW identified clusters” have been brought into the purview of tests. An “others” have now been included with an instruction to select it “only if the patient doesn’t fall in any other category”. Other than renewing emergency procedures, it will lead to a better and early treatment of Covid-19 patients as well, said Basu. “It will help rationalize the use of PPEs, a valuable resource. Once we are sure a patient is non-Covid-19, we can reduce PPE use,” she said. At Peerless Hospital, patients seeking admission for surgery could soon be screened for Covid-19. “This will revive elective surgeries. Though we had not suspended non-emergency operations, there is an impression among patients that they have been stopped at all hospitals. It should now change,” said Peerless medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra. R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), too, plans to test other patients beyond the symptomatic in-patients. “We are in the process of ascertaining which other patients would fall within testing criteria, as the capacity to test is limited, compared to the number of surgeries or out-patients at RTIICS and Narayana Superspecialty Hospital Howrah,” RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/changed-test-protocol-to-ease-pvt-hosp-admissions/articleshow/75305397.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||SHG women make 13 lakh masks in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Women of self help groups (SHGs) across the state have made over 13 lakh masks during the lockdown, of which over 12 lakh have already been distributed among cops, sanitation workers and other frontline staff involved in battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Even as means of livelihood of women of SHGs was affected because of the lockdown, the Gujarat Urban Livelihood Mission (GULM) engaged the services of urban SHGs to make homemade masks. GULM has been collecting these masks and distributing them among frontline staff who are working to control spread of the pandemic. Lochan Sehra, secretary, housing, who is looking after the special project of producing masks said that revenue of women attached to SHGs in the state had been affected because of the lockdown. “We engaged the services of women in 129 cities and towns of the state for making masks. GULM provided them with good quality cloth and other materials required in making masks. Our staff collects the masks and these are then distributed among those battling the Covid-19 pandemic,” the official said. He said in less than two weeks, about 1,000 women have made over 13 lakh masks, of which over 12 lakh have been distributed in different cities and towns of the state. “It has helped women to get employment while working from their homes during the lockdown period. With the demand for masks being high, each woman has been able to earn around Rs 300 a day by making masks,” the official said. The official said that GULM expects to produce another 15 lakh masks in the next fortnight through SHG women. “With more women coming forward to produce masks at home, we expect that another 15 lakh masks will be made in the next fortnight,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-13-lakh-masks-prepared-by-shg-women/articleshow/75305300.cms||Kapil Dave
April 23, 2020||Patna||Lockdown heroes: ‘Can’t sit back & watch corona virus spread’||PATNA: The door-to-door Covid-19 screening started by the state government on the lines of the pulse polio drive may have been lauded by all, but it could not have been successful without the involvement of frontline health workers. Even health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar appreciated their efforts and called them the ‘Covid-19 warriors of Bihar’. One such “warrior” is Barun Kumar, a data entry operator at the Bind Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Nalanda. At present, he heads a team of two Anganwadi and two Asha workers and has covered altogether 930 households so far. The 28-year-old told TOI, “We set off early and conduct door-to-door screening from 7am to 1:30pm. If we come across a suspected patient, we get in touch with our PHC immediately.” Asked if he and his team are afraid of visiting different houses at a tough time like this, a confident Barun replied, “We have to continue our fight against coronavirus. We cannot sit back and let it spread its tentacles. Our family members are definitely worried, but we take all necessary precautions from covering our mouths with masks to washing our hands regularly.” Sharing the problems frontline health workers face during screening, Barun said, “There are some who do not reveal their travel history because they do not want to be quarantined. We talk them out of hiding information, make them comfortable and convince them to get themselves tested.” Barun, who is aware of the risks involved while working, ensures that he stays away from his family members after returning to his house in Tajnipur village. He said, “I live with my parents and make sure that they are safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cant-sit-back-watch-corona-virus-spread/articleshow/75303127.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held with 4 litres of booze denied bail, one with 50 litres gets it||AHMEDABAD: The city sessions court refused temporary bail to a prisoner who wanted to take care of his distressed family during the lockdown. He had been caught with four litres of country liquor. On the same day, the court granted regular bail to a prisoner who was caught with 50 litres of country liquor. Both prisoners were arrested on same set of charges under the Gujarat Prohibition Act, Sections 65E and 66B, for manufacturing and transporting liquor in this dry state. On Monday, Arun Mirapure (Marathi) urged the city sessions court to grant him interim bail. He has been behind bars since October 7, when Nikol police had arrested him with four litres of country liquor, worth Rs 80. He claimed he is the sole earning member of the family, and his presence is more important than ever in these troubled times. The court rejected his request because the state government cited the Supreme Court’s order and the high powered committee’s guidelines for the pandemic, saying that prisoners facing charges punishable with jail terms of up to seven years may be released on temporary bail. The government argued that Mirapure is accused of an offence punishable with more than seven years in jail and is hence not eligible for relief. On the other hand, Ramesh Thakor (32) got regular bail on the usual conditions from the city sessions court. He was arrested by Ranip police with 50 litres of country liquor, worth Rs 1,000, on April 9. There are other instances too. Sanntoshsinh Chauhan and Mangilal Vanaram were arrested on the same charges in different cases. Chauhan was imprisoned for bootlegging after a large haul of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) was seized from an SUV by city crime branch in February. He got regular bail on Monday on the ground of parity with his co-accused, who had been released earlier. Vanaram, however, was not as lucky, as he had sought temporary bail and the committee’s guidelines were cited, he was denied temporary bail. He had been arrested by Sabarmati police after a stock of IMFL was found in an autorickshaw on March 23. He wanted to be released to support his wife and three-year-old son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-with-4l-of-booze-denied-bail-one-with-50l-gets-it/articleshow/75305143.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Units in Kandla SEZ switch to making masks, coveralls||AHMEDABAD: Some industrial units in Kandla Special Economic Zones (SEZ) have switched to making masks, disposable coveralls and wearable personal protective equipment (PPE) considering the growing demand for such products amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Four companies have recently received the permission of the SEZ development commissioner to manufacture Covid-19 related products at their facilities in the Kandla SEZ. These companies include names like BVH Manufacturing India Private Ltd, Euro Toursers Manufacturing Private Limited, PPE Safety Private Limited and ITM Safety Private Limited. The firms are into manufacturing garments, apparels, workwear, madeups and protective clothing. Now, they have ventured into production of masks, coveralls and PPEs. According to minutes of the recent meeting of Kandla SEZ’s approval committee, BVH Manufacturing India got approval for making face masks from cloth, while PPE Safety received a go-ahead for making non-woven laminated/disposable coveralls. Euro Toursers has bagged the permission produce cotton masks (two ply) and PPE wearables. ITM got approval for surgical non-woven masks. “There are units in Kandla SEZ, which have commenced making essential items such as masks, oxygen for ventilators, gowns and coveralls,” said a source aware of the development. “These products are not their core business but they have recently switched over to making such essential products in their effort to join the fight against Covid-19. A Canadian company has started making masks from post-consumer fabric at its plant in Kandla SEZ and has donated these masks to the state government,” the source added. There are some plastics makers in Kandla SEZ, who have turned to making Covid-19 related products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/units-in-kandla-sez-switch-to-making-masks-coveralls/articleshow/75305252.cms||Kalpesh Damor
April 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lament of a Bettiah Covid-19 warrior’s widower||BETTIAH: A week is too short for the wound of bereavement to heal. It is thus natural for Reyazul Haque, 60, to be in a dazed void of mourning. A supervisor in the unorganised construction business, the daily wager has lost not only his soul mate. Alam Ara Khatoon, 56, was also the lifeline that sustained Haque’s family. She, an auxilliary nurse-cum-midwife (ANM) was, in her last few weeks, a frontline Covid warrior. Deployed at the Indira Nagar sub-health centre under the Chanpatia PHC in West Champaran, Alam Ara would be dropped at her work station by her husband each day. The battle against COVID took her to various home fronts to screen and detect suspected patients. “She would return fatigued,” he told this newspaper, adding, “ On April 14 she complained of chest pain...We took her to the MJK Hospital (and Government Medical College, at Bettiah).” Unable to overcome his personal loss, the economic uncertainties weigh heavy on the Haque family. The bread earning matriarch gone, Haque’s own lockdown unemployment is compounded with a jobless son and a young unmarried daughter to look after. In grief, as a dark world enveloping him, Haque’s conscience is being nagged with questions. Answers evade him. “My wife suffered from hyper-tension, diabetes and heart ailment... Her request for a leave reprieve turned down, she took on her responsibilities in this corona ‘mahamaari’ honestly,” says Haque whose memory of his wife’s final hours are vivid, “They gave her an injection in the emergency (room) and transferred her to the Mahila ( Women’s) ward. She was put on Oxygen.” Feeling slightly better in a while, Alam Ara – covid scare on top of her mind- panicked at the squalid condition of the hospital ward. “ Take me home... ai jaa ta infection ho jaiyye ( here, I’ll get infected),” Haque remembers heeding to his wife’s plea and taking her home. She passed away a few hours later. “She died of heart attack,” Haque shares his gut feeling. And then his wailing questions surge: “She was not tested for Covid-19... the unhygienic hospital ward compounded her anxiety...” The widower in mourning further bemoaned that no one from the district health department expressed any condolence, leave alone participating in her final rites. “I had conveyed the news of her death on the whatsapp groups ‘Corona Response Chanpatia’ and ‘SHC Chanpatia’. I had even conveyed the sad news on the official number of the Civil Surgeon,” Haque lamented. “Yes, the department received the news of the ANM’s death,” West Champaran civil surgeon Arun Sinha told TOI. “Whether she was tested for Covid-19 or not can be answered only by the medical college hospital authorities,” he said. “ The patient was admitted for symptoms other than corona...She had chest pain... Only patients with covid symptoms are taken to the special isolation ward and tested,” hospital superintendent Dhirendra K Singh said. “We have limited PPEs)....649 at the moment...and 178 VTMs (viral transport media)... the sample collecting equipment for transport to testing centres,” he said. Was a post-mortem performed? “I had informed (department) officials...No one came. We laid her to rest,” Haque said. “Only if family members complain of a suspicious death in case of a death at home, a post-mortem would be necessary,” the civil surgeon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lament-of-a-bettiah-covid-warriors-widower/articleshow/75303412.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
April 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ambulance driver sent to jail for stealing speakers||PATNA: An ambulance driver was sent to jail on Wednesday morning for allegedly stealing four speakers from three different hotels of Banka and Dumka districts on Tuesday. Banka’s Bounsi police station SHO Rajesh Kumar Yadav said the arrested youth was identified as one Mohammad Afsar (20), and is a native of Badi Khanjarpur in Bhagalpur district. During interrogation, Afsar told police that he had gone to Dhanbad from Bhagalpur to drop a patient. However, no pass was recovered from his possesion for movement. “He had stolen two speakers and around Rs 250 from a roadside hotel—Baba Gareebnath— at Paraiyahat in Dumka district of Jharkhand. From Dumka, he went to Banka. There he stole another speaker from Shivshakti Hotel located near Shayam Bazaar under the Bounsi police station area,” the SHO said. “He had entered the hotel looking for a cell phone charger,” the SHO said quoting the hotel owner. “He finally went to one Hotel Relax at Bounsi and stole another speaker. However, the speaker fell from his hands making a noise, after which the hotel staff caught him and informed the police,” Yadav added. “ Afsar was arrested on Tuesday and sent to jail. He was also screened for Covid-19,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ambulance-driver-sent-to-jail/articleshow/75303454.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Two men shot at in Bhojpur||ARA: Two persons were shot at when they tried to prevent some outsiders from entering their locality. The incident happened at Jawahar Tola locality under the Nawada police station area of Ara on Tuesday evening, where the residents had barricaded the entry point to check unnecessary movement of people in view of the Covid-19 threat.. The injured persons have been identified as Vinod Paswan and his uncle Sunil Paswan. Vinod’s brother Vikki said, “The residents had barricaded the entry point of the locality with bamboos to stop outsiders from entering the area. On Tuesday evening, a girl was trying to cross the barricade to which Vinod’s mother objected. Soon the girl called Phoolan and his son Shami alias Sunny, who started quarrelling with Vinod and Sunil, after they tried to reason with them. Amid the commotion, Sunny opened fire, injuring both Vinod and Sunil.” The duo were rushed to Ara sadar hospital where they are stated to be out of danger. Bhojpur SP Sushil Kumar said, “Both Phoolan and Sunny have been arrested and police have also recovered the firearms used by them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-men-shot-at-in-bhojpur/articleshow/75303488.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 2021 HS exam likely to be delayed; schools may take extra classes||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Higher Secondary Council officials have hinted at a possible delay in the 2021 HS examinations. School education department officials have also hinted that schools will be allowed to hold additional classes and special classes on Saturdays to make up for the lost time. “We will assess the situation once the pandemic is over and classes resume. We won’t be announcing the exam dates immediately. Considering the massive loss of instructional time, it will be a challenge to finish the syllabus. Also, the Assembly elections are due next year. We shall take a call after considering these aspects,” said a source. “Some of the private schools are thinking of cutting short the Puja vacations. Those who close schools for a month for winter vacation are also likely to cut down on the number of days,” a principal said. TimesViewThousands of college and university students still may not have clarity on what is expected of them after educational institutes resume normal functioning. Every higher-educational institution should reach out to students to allay their fears and give them an idea of what the future holds.The council is, however, against a reduction in curriculum load as has been suggested by the CBSE. “The candidates take national entrance examinations based on the HS syllabi. The reduction of the load has to be uniform. Else, students will suffer. Keeping in mind that the test-taking bodies won’t curb their syllabus, we can’t take the risk,” an HS official said. State-run universities have also been told to follow the instructions provided by chief minister Mamata Banerjee and hold the final semester examinations in both UG and PG. “The universities have been asked to follow their own decisions regarding holding of other semester examinations. Most universities plan to club the two semesters and allow students to appear in combined examinations in December and January,” said a source. The new academic year in the universities in Bengal are also likely to be pushed back by a month and start from September this year. On Monday, state education minister Partha Chatterjee had sought to address issues relating to both students and parents by requesting minister of human resource development (MHRD) Ramesh Pokhriyal Nikashank to discuss proposals related to changes in the education framework with the state before implementing them. Chatterjee also asked private schools to agree to the state’s appeal not to hike fees. The HRD minister has now assured the state governments that education being a concurrent subject, they can develop their own academic calendars and assessment schedules, and decide on having an early or usual summer break depending on the local situation. However, the state higher secondary council does not want a reduced syllabus. The Bengal education department already has a list of plans. On Wednesday, the government has instructed all private schools to send a letter of compliance and reports regarding what steps have been taken to roll back their hiked fee or to provide relief to the parents who have failed to pay the fees on time. In a letter, the government has re-appealed to the private schools in Bengal to abide by its earlier request to not increase the school fee. The letter sent on Wednesday mentions that the government is still receiving complaints from guardians that this request was not being followed. “They will have to consider it if guardians delay or can’t pay the school fee,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2021-hs-exam-likely-to-be-delayed-schools-may-take-extra-classes/articleshow/75305400.cms||Somdatta Basu
April 23, 2020||Patna||ECR runs 29 parcel trains||PATNA: Amid the extension of lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, the East Central Railway (ECR) is running 29 special parcel trains on different routes for the supply of essential commodities in the state and outside. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper on Wednesday that the Railway Board had prepared a special timetable for running parcel trains across the country. “With essential items like rice, wheat, sugar, salt, edible oil, petroleum products, healthcare products and medicines, these trains are travelling to Buxar, Ara, Danapur, Patna, Dhanbad, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur and other places under the ECR’s jurisdiction,” the CPRO said. He added, “Control rooms in different divisions can check the schedule and live status of the parcel trains as they have been linked with the national train enquiry system.” While the Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction-Saharsa, Amritsar-Howrah and New Delhi-Guwahati special parcel trains carry essential commodities daily, another parcel train runs between Howrah and New Delhi twice a week via the Dhanbad-Gaya-Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction route. “The ECR has unloaded 253 rakes of goods trains in Bihar since the implementation of lockdown and loaded 7.14 million tonnes of coal from Dhanbad during the same period,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-runs-29-parcel-trains/articleshow/75303093.cms||Kumod Verma
April 23, 2020||Patna||Water scarcity in summer may add to Covid-19 woes, says Bihar PHED minister||PATNA: The growing scarcity of groundwater with the advent of summer in different parts of the state has made the fight against Covid-19 more challenging. Washing hands every now and then and maintaining cleanliness require lots of water. It is really a herculean task for a vast majority of the people who do not have access to safe drinking water. If the health department advisory is to be followed, washing hands with water and soap for 20 seconds repeatedly after visiting a public place or touching a surface outside home, after coughing, sneezing or blowing nose and, of course, after using toilet or taking out garbage and before and after eating, would easily amount to 10 times a day. A single 20-second wash consumes at least two litres of water. And, for a family of four washing 10 times a day each means 80 litres just for handwash — an unimaginable luxury in most cities and villages of the state, say experts. In most slums of the city, there is one shared tap for every four or five households. “In these circumstances, people face a disconcerting choice of washing hands or maintaining social distance. It is difficult to practise both simultaneously for warding off the disease,” said environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh. “In most villages and mufassil areas, water is scarce and people depend on wells, tube wells or small ponds for meeting their drinking and domestic requirements. Ponds and wells imply stagnant water. Thus, the situation is likely to worsen further if contaminated water is consumed without adequate purification,” Singh said. According to a study carried out by the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB), groundwater reservoirs in as many as 11 blocks of the state are in semi-critical condition. These blocks are Gaya Sadar, Rajgir, Nagar Nausa in Nalanda, Meskaur in Nawada, Kurtha in Arwal, Birpur and Naokothi in Begusarai, Masaurhi and Sampatchak in Patna, Mushhari in Muzaffarpur and Tajpur in Samastipur district. These blocks would be in critical condition as soon as the development stage exceeds 90%, the study suggests. The study further suggests that at least eight cities, including the state capital, are likely to face severe water crisis soon. Gaya and Bhagalpur are already experiencing declining groundwater levels and consequent scarcity. And, the cities of Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Ara, Munger and Biharsharif are likely to face the crisis in near future, it adds. People of Gaya and Munger are facing acute shortage of groundwater due to over-exploitation of this resource over the years. “With the drying of aquifers and lowering down of the water level, harmful chemical elements are leaching into the groundwater system and contaminating it. How can people fight against deadly coronavirus with the contaminated water,” asks Munger University vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma. State PHED minister Vinod Narayan Jha, however, claims there is no such groundwater scarcity in the state and people would not face any problem in taking the precautionary measures related to handwashing or maintaining cleanliness. “The state had faced acute water scarcity last year, but there has been considerable improvement in the situation following the implementation of ‘Jal-Jivan-Hariyali’ scheme. In fact, the groundwater level has gone up by seven to 12 feet in different districts and, hence, there is hardly any problem of water for the time being. And, if any such problem arises in future, necessary steps would be taken through tankers in scarce regions,” Jha adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/water-scarcity-in-summer-may-add-to-covid-19-woes/articleshow/75303071.cms||B K Mishra
April 23, 2020||Patna||Two from Bihar's Gaya test negative for Covid-19 after death||GAYA: Two migrant workers, who had recently died and were Covid-19 suspects, subsequently tested negative. Whereas one migrant worker, a resident of Barachatti block area of the district died at ANMMCH a few days back, the other migrant worker died in Varanasi and his body was brought to his village home in Mohanpur block area of the district. Besides cremation as per Covid-19 protocol, swab samples were also collected from the bodies and sent for lab test. District magistrate Abhishek Singh also said that both the migrant workers tested negative. With these two posthumous negative cases, the total number of persons cremated as per Covid protocol and subsequently testing negative has gone up to five. Earlier, the driver of the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee, a young IITian and a woman from Asansol died of breathing problems and as such they were given a safe cremation. The district administration has heaved a sigh of relief after test reports came negative. “Had any of them tested positive, tracing their contacts and declaring the areas as containment zones would have put additional burden on an otherwise overworked machinery,” said a district official. Meanwhile, allaying apprehensions of shortage of PPE kits, the DM said that enough kits were available with the local distributors and more such kits would be procured in case of need. According to an official press release, as on April 20, 136 kits were available with the authorised distributor. Several private practitioners have also got PPE gifts. Private practitioners have got about 100 kits in the last few days. Moreover, PPE kits were needed only for doctors and paramedical staff directly engaged in dealing with suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-from-bihars-gaya-test-negative-for-covid-19-after-death/articleshow/75303377.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Bed-ridden for 26 years, he goes all out to help elderly||VADODARA: A brutal accident left him physically immobile, but it couldn’t confine 60-year-old Sunil Desai’s mind to the bed that he has been tied to for 26 long years. Desai had suffered a bus accident in Rajkot in 1994 and suffered severe injuries on his spinal cord. Hence he understands how difficult life must be for the old and infirm under lockdown. Ever since the lockdown was enforced, Desai has been a busy man. His phone keeps ringing incessantly and he answers all calls promptly, offering whatever help is possible from his side to ease lives for the old and needy. Desai has a team of volunteers and staffers of a care centre that he has been running for nearly a decade now. Whenever he gets a call for help, Desai contacts someone from his team and sends the volunteer to the needy person's house. “My men visit their homes daily to clean up the premises, perform all chores they wanted done and also give them medicines. Even now we offer people the same services,” he said. Bankim Gandhi, a resident of Nizampura whose mother, Sushila, has been bed-ridden had sought Desai’s help for all necessities of his ailing mother. “It would have been very difficult had we not got help from Desai’s care centre during the lockdown. The service provided by him has been of great help as the helper takes care of all the needs of my 77-year-old mother.” “As someone who has been bed-ridden for decades now, I realised how difficult it is for people like me to get help. So I decided to start a centre that can help the old, ailing and bed-ridden people. The helper cleans these people, cooks for them and also gives them medicines,” Desai said. Doctors had diagnosed him with quadriplegia following which Desai underwent a number of surgeries. But his condition didn’t improve and even leading him to think of approaching courts to request for euthanasia. However, he overcame it all and started the care centre. “In fact, a few such bed-ridden elderlies’ are unfortunate when their kin aren’t too keen on helping them stay clean. Their condition would have worsened in the lockdown had we not offered them help in time,” said Desai. He has given them letter that enables them to move around and help the needy. They produce the letter whenever cops intercept them. “However, the police have been more than co-operative now. I offer people all the help they require over phone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bed-ridden-for-26-yrs-he-goes-all-out-to-help-elderly/articleshow/75302425.cms||Tushar Tere
April 23, 2020||Patna||Biharsharif turns hotspot, under total lockdown||BIHARSHARIF: The Nalanda district and police administration tightened the lockdown provisions in Biharsharif, especially Khasganj, Sheikhana and Sakunat localities, as 27 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from these areas since April 13. These areas have been sealed and movement of residents and vehicles have been restricted. To assist with the lockdown measures, an additional superintendent of police and two deputy superintendents have been deputed in Nalanda district. “No one is allowed to enter or exit without valid reasons. Grocery and vegetable shops are not being to open, even medicine shops are shut which is causing difficulty but it is for the good of everyone,” said Mohammad Guddu, a resident of Sheikhana over phone. A 26-year-old woman tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday from this area. Last week on Saturday and Sunday, four others had tested positive from this area. Sonu Kumar of Sakunat said the entire locality has turned into a police camp soon after 16 positive cases were reported on Monday. “It’s a relief that policemen and other personnel deployed by the district administration have been delivering essential commodities, including food stuff here,” Kumar said. With a new case reported on Wednesday, the number of Covid 19 cases in Biharsharif jumped to 27 and 29 across Nalanda district. Altogether 26 positive cases were contracted by a single carrier who had returned from Dubai on March 22. The youngest person to be infected in Biharsharif is a 12-year-old boy of Sheikhana while the oldest are three 60-year-olds from Sakunat and the 60-year-old father of the carrier. The carrier is a resident of Khashanj locality who returned from Dubai on March 22. Among the 26 people he infected is his Patna based father-in-law. At least 17 positive cases, including the Biharsharif hospital doctor who had taken the sample of the carrier, are from Sakunat in Biharsharif. Six of them are from Sheikhana, including his nephew. Three members of his family, including his father, wife and sister-in-law, were the first persons to test positive for coronavirus after him on April 14. Nalanda district public relation officer Ravindra Kumar said samples of 1,554 people were sent for covid 19 test to Patna laboratory out of which 1,217 reports came negative, 28 reports were positive and rest 337 reports are awaited. Meanwhile, police on Wednesday arrested Biharsharif sadar hospital data entry operator Shashikant Kumar, who allegedly disclosed the names of Covid-19 positive patients of Nalanda in his Facebook post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/biharsharif-turns-hotspot-under-total-lockdown/articleshow/75303183.cms||Farrukh Nadim
April 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Harassed or stranded? Dial 100 for help||PATNA: The Dial 100 emergency service of Bihar Police, which functions from Patna, has come to the rescue of many facing troubles during lockdown. In addition, Dial 100 also receives calls from people regarding their near and dear ones stuck in other states. In some cases, police have also provided help to the stranded people through the disaster management department. On Tuesday, the Dial 100 service came to the rescue of a Muzaffarpur couple who were asked to pay double the amount of average rate of ultrasound as the woman had two fetuses in her womb. Police sources said the couple called Dial 100 for help and the Muzaffarpur police were immediately asked to give assistance to the couple. SHO of Muzaffarpur’s Bramhapura police station Vishwanath Ram received a call from Dial 100 about the matter and intervened immediately. “I called up the staff of the ultrasound centre and told them to take genuine amount from the couple. I guess the matter was solved as I didn’t receive any call thereafter,” he said. The Dial 100 service also received calls for assistance from people pressured by landlords to pay rent amid lockdown. “Such calls came from Nalanda and Lakhisarai districts. The police stations concerned were asked to take necessary action,” said a police officer preferring anonymity. “Police received calls on Dial 100 regarding gatherings on G M Road and Digha vegetable market in Patna and other places. The patrolling teams of police stations concerned swung into action and ensured social distancing,” he said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said Dial 100 service is playing a major role in assisting people during lockdown. “If help is sought from within the state, the police station concerned is immediately alerted. In case help is sought for anyone stranded outside the state, the nodal officer for state concerned in state disaster management department is contacted for extending necessary help to the needy,” the ADG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/harassed-or-stranded-dial-100-for-help/articleshow/75303243.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man caught with two bottles of IMFL||AHMEDABAD: Bapunagar police on Tuesday nabbed a Gomtipur resident, Richard Makwan, 32, with two bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from near Bapunagar Crossroads. He has been booked under prohibition laws. Police sources said he was carrying the liquor bottles in a school bag. When confronted by cops, he had tried to give the excuse that he had come out of home to buy essentials. Later, Makwan told cops that he and his maternal cousin Bablu Rathod had been planning to drink and he had bought the liquor from one Allahrakkha in Gomtipur. Police sources said that during lockdown patrol at Bapunagar crossroads, they saw a youth coming towards them on a bike. “We stopped him and asked why he was travelling during lockdown. He said he had gone out to buy some essential items. However, on checking his bag we found two bottles of liquor,” said a police source. Senior police officials said while they have arrested Makwan, they are looking for Rathod and Allahrakkha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-caught-with-two-bottles-of-imfl/articleshow/75305196.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru City Corporation to follow Bengaluru agency’s footsteps, present budget online||Mysuru: Ever since Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) presented its annual budget for 2020-21 online due to lockdown, the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is also making similar preparations to present its budget for this fiscal via online. Sources in the civic body told TOI that the authorities are planning to present the budget online and decided to seek approval from corporators after holding a video conference. MCC will be the second urban local body in the country to present its budget online after BBMP, said sources. Sources said that an informal budget advisory committee meeting comprising former mayors, key city corporation members, all standing committee chairmen, chairpersons, including mayor, deputy mayor, MCC commissioner and other key officials was held at MCC office on Tuesday. The meeting discussed the issue of presenting the budget online on the lines of BBMP, mayor Tasneem told TOI. Meanwhile, chairperson of MCCs taxation, finance and appeals standing committee and ward number 45 corporator Nirmala, who will present the budget outlay, told TOI that the MCC had presented a total budget outlay of Rs 781.25 crore in the last fiscal year. This year, the budget outlay will also be the same with little changes. Apart from expecting funds from state finance commission, Chief Minister’s Nagarottan Scheme, other state and central government funds, MCC is also expecting revenue from its various sources like property tax, from water and underground drainage maintenance taxes, from building license fee, road cutting charges, underground space rent, betterment taxes, water connection fee, UGD fee trade license fee, rent from commercial buildings owned by MCC and other sources. “The upcoming budget will focus on health and safety of all residents in the wake of Covid 19. MCC has planned to set aside some funds to fight coronavirus,” said Nirmala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-corporation-to-follow-bengaluru-agencys-footsteps-present-budget-online/articleshow/75301969.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mysuru||Poultry industry bounces back from corona scare||Mysuru: Chicken prices made an astounding comeback in the city, to close at Rs160-180 per kg on Saturday from a low of Rs 10-25 per kg just a few days ago. Badly hit by the false alarms over Covid-19 and bird flu on social media, the poultry industry and farmers farmers in Mysuru, other adjoining districts incurring enormous loss in mid- March this year. Several farmers in distress sold fowls at cheap prices ranging from Rs 10-25 per kg when the cost of production of a bird is around Rs 75-100, while some culled them following bird flu scare. Over 100 poultry farms, both broiler and layer farms, that particularly concentrated their business on the roads connecting to Gaddige, Bogadhi, Hunsur, Nanjangud and H D Kote, Bannur and T Narasipur including major egg suppliers like Mangaluru Coastal Broiler Supplies, Suguna, Venkateshwara, other poultry suppliers were devastated after the public refrained from consuming chicken despite government advisories. However, the industry has now bounced back from the scare after the Union and state government relaxed restrictions on the sale and marketing of chicken and eggs in both domestic and interstate market. In the past week, the price of chicken and eggs in wholesale as well as retail markets have stabilised. Speaking to TOI, Mohammad Ismail Sharif, a chicken seller near Alanahalli on T Narasipur Road, said: “After mutton prices touched Rs 700 per kilo in city limits, the demand for chicken has increased in domestic market. Due to the spike in demand for chicken, the Mysuru City Corporation has capped the price of chicken with skin at Rs 160 per kilo and skinless chicken at Rs 180 per kilo. “We have around 40 lakh broiler birds and 59,000 layer birds in Mysuru district. Poultry industry and the farmers are doing decent business in the last one week as the prices have stabilised in both domestic and interstate market,” said district veterinary officer Dr Ajith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/poultry-industry-bounces-back-from-corona-scare/articleshow/75302015.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Patna||Flyers rue airlines’ refusal to refund booking amounts||PATNA: The ministry of civil aviation has issued an advisory to refund the money of flight tickets cancelled owing to the nationwide lockdown, but the airlines are, instead, crediting the amount in the credit shell of the flyers to reclaim it on fresh ticket within a year. Many flyers have now taken to social media asking the airlines for refunds citing the ministry’s advisory. Anand, who works in Delhi, wrote: “Flight from Patna to Delhi has been cancelled by the airlines due to extended lockdown. Further, as per GOI guidelines, I want a full refund for the same in my bank account not in the form of credit shell (sic).” One of the ticket booking portals replied that credit shell amount was generated by the airlines. “GoAir is not refunding any amount for the flights suspended during the lockdown period. The airline allows the same flyer one-time free rescheduling of flight in any sector,” the executive said. Rahul Sahu, who works for the railways in Mumbai, said, “I booked my IndiGo flight ticket from Mumbai to Patna. The flight got cancelled due to coronavirus, but my booking amount is not refunded in my card/account. More so, the airline deducted Rs299 as convenience fee. I want my full booking amount refunded.” After the lockdown 2.0 was announced, some airlines opened booking window from May 4. Later, it was closed on April 20 following the statement issued by the civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri. “Since some airlines did not heed our advisory & opened bookings & started collecting money from flyers, a directive was issued to them on 19th April restraining them from doing so. They were also informed that they will be given sufficient notice & time to commence bookings (sic),” Puri had tweeted. The airlines again cancelled the tickets and put the money in the credit shells, causing inconvenience to those who had booked tickets. A GoAir executive said, “The current event is beyond our control. We are unable to offer free cancellations and refunds. The airlines automatically preserve the value of fare for a future booking.” Other airlines like SpiceJet, IndiGo and Air India have also put the amount of cancelled flights into the credit shell, asking passengers to make reservation with the same airline within a period of one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flyers-rue-airlines-refusal-to-refund-booking-amounts/articleshow/75303186.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Locked-down Bhopal using more water?||BHOPAL: Household water consumption has gone up during the lockdown in the state capital, according to Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). Despite commercial usage being minimal during the lockdown, currently, 106 MGD of water is being supplied each day in Bhopal, compared to about 90 MGD at the same time last year. BMC water supply officer, Rakesh Nigam, however, clarified, “people staying home has not increased water consumption” “Other factors are into play. Last year, there was an unprecedented water crises. Currently, the situation is comfortable. Upper Lake is only about 6 feet below full tank level (FTL),” Nigam added. The current level of Upper Lake is 1663.15 feet. The FTL level of the lake is 1666.80. About 40% of the city gets drinking water from Upper Lake. The rest are dependent on Kolar and Narmada, which which accounts for 60% of water supply. At the same time this year, water level of the Upper Lake stood at about 1654 feet. In second week of May 2019, the dead storage level of Upper Lake — at 1652 feet — was breached. Then, just ahead of the monsoon, water supply in Bhopal had dropped to 72 MGD per day. “BMC water supply is not utilised for construction activity. The parallels to lockdown and water supply consumption can be misunderstood. What we can indicate is that water supply would be comfortable during peak summers too,” said BMC city engineer, AK Pawar. The water consumption increase this year is attributed to last year’s bountiful monsoon and regular water supply in the current summer season. Last year, severe water rationing measures were employed in Bhopal to meet the water supply demand. About 10% of Bhopal’s water supply needs are still met by tubewells, hand pumps and other alternatives. Borewells up to 450 metres deep go dry in many areas during peak summers. Going by water pumped by the BMC in the city of lakes, each individual in Bhopal gets a quota of 166 litres per day. The national standard is 176 litre per day per individual. Over the years, BMC has identified 16 of the 85 wards which face severe shortage of water. As per the current trend, BMC should be able to supply about 90 MGD per day till the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/locked-down-city-using-more-water/articleshow/75305391.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||Kotak Bank plans to raise $1 billion||TNN Mumbai: The board of Kotak Mahindra Bank on Wednesday approved an equity capital-raise through the issue of 6.5 crore shares. At the current market price of Rs 1,151, this translates into a capital-raise of Rs 7,500 crore, equivalent to nearly $1 billion. According to Morgan Stanley analysts, the capital-raise would imply an equity dilution of 3.4%, enabling Uday Kotak to bring down the promoter holding marginally closer to what is prescribed by the RBI. On Wednesday, the bank’s shares opened at Rs 1,122 and touched a high of Rs 1,166 before settling at Rs 1,151 — up 1.8% from its previous close of Rs 1,130. However, the scrip is down 34% from its high of Rs 1,740 before the Covid-19 outbreak. “The capital-raise would increase proforma tier-1 capital adequacy ratio by 2.9 percentage points for FY20. For the same year, book value per share would increase by 10%, on our computations. The promoter shareholding would reduce to 29% versus 30% currently,” said Morgan Stanley. Last week, the bank had informed the stock exchanges that the board would consider a capital-raise either through private placement, follow-on public offering (FPO), qualified institutional placement (QIP) or a combination thereof. Given the slow loan growth, the bank appears to be raising additional funds to be prepared for a significant downturn in the economy. The bank has for two quarters voicing concern on risks to asset quality in retail loans. Increase in capital position would also provide the bank with the ability to grow marketshare in a stressed market. The RBI recently directed banks to not pay out any dividend for FY20 and conserve capital, which might be needed to provide for bad loans. In January 2020, Kotak Bank had reached a settlement with the RBI on the issue of diluting promoter stake. The RBI had originally asked the bank to bring down promoter holding to 15% of the bank’s paid-up capital by March 2020. In terms of the settlement, the bank was allowed to dilute promoter stake to 26% (by end June 2020). The promoters also agreed to cap their voting rights in the bank at 20% of the paid-up voting equity share capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-bank-plans-to-raise-1-billion/articleshow/75306913.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||Lockdown disrupts debit card delivery||Mumbai: Banks are finding it a challenge to replace the millions of debit and credit cards that expire this month. The lockdown has thrown up logistical challenges although the government has allowed courier companies to function in this period. There are 81 crore debit cards, most of which have a five-year validity and around 5.6 crore credit cards that have a shorter validity. “On an average 40-50 lakh cards come up for renewal every month. While banks typically begin the replacement process a month in advance, the current lockdown has now exceeded a month and many cards are stuck in the pipeline,” said an executive with a private bank. Bankers said that while the Centre has announced relaxations for businesses like courier services from April 20, the situation on the ground is different across cities. In many places, there are restrictions on the areas that the courier services can reach as they are not categorised as an essential service. Many private banks have integrated their systems with courier services like Blue Dart to ensure there is proper tracking and identification of the card. SBI is using India Post for card delivery but some banks say they do not have proper agreements with the department to ensure no card is lost. While some branches do offer ‘insta debit card’ branches that are equipped with these machines are few and far between. Debit cards are turning out to be crucial for not just cash withdrawal but also for regenerating forgotten netbanking passwords. A large number of accountholders also use their debit cards for online payments. “While banking has been classified as an essential service, this aspect of physical delivery of cards also needs to be classified as essential,” said a bank executive. A few lenders like SBI, allow their accountholders ‘cardless’ withdrawal from ATMs through their banking app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-disrupts-debit-card-delivery/articleshow/75306904.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||225 evacuees from Iran fly home to Leh from Jodhpur||Jodhpur/Jaisalmer: After sending 180 Iran evacuees from Jaisalmer to their home state Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on Tuesday, the second batch of 225 evacuees quarantined at Jodhpur’s Army Wellness Centre was airlifted from Jodhpur Airforce Station to Leh on Wednesday. All these evacuees belonged to Kargil and Ladakh region.According to Army sources, these evacuees were being sent to their respective homes in the wake of beginning of the holy month of Ramzan. “The decision has been taken after these evacuees passed a significant period in quarantine at the Army wellness centres of Jodhpur and Jaisalmer,” sources said. Last month, 484 evacuees, airlifted from Iran in three phases on March 15, 16 and 18, had been accommodated at the wellness centre of Jaisalmer. Similarly, 552 evacuees, who had been airlifted from Iran in two batches on March 25 and 29, had been accommodated at the Army wellness centre in Jodhpur. Of these 1,036 evacuees, 61 had tested positive and all of them had been admitted to the isolation ward of the AIIMS, Jodhpur. “Of these, 32 have fully recovered and eight of them have been discharged. Rest are recovering fast,” said Jodhpur ADM Mahipal Bhardwaj. Few days back, students among these evacuees demanded to be sent to their homes in J&K but their state government refused to take them until the lockdown period was over. After that, some evacuees at Jaisalmer began hunger strike demanding to be sent before the start of Ramzan. According to sources, Army was also interested in sending them back but it was not possible until the initiative had been taken by the central government. Sources said that IL76 cargo plane Globemaster reached Jodhpur on Wednesday. Two hundred twenty five passengers in six buses were taken to the civil airport in Jodhpur and flown to Leh. All these are residents of Ladakh and Kargil area. The Army will take them to their villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/225-evacuees-from-iran-fly-home-to-leh-from-jodhpur/articleshow/75306488.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur cases spike to 11 as four more test +ve||VADODARA: Four new cases of coronavirus were detected in Chhota Udepur town on Wednesday, taking their number in the district to 11. The four new patients had contracted the virus from Sohail Ranger, the seventh patient of the district, who is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Vadodara. District administration officials said after Ranger tested positive, samples of 20 people, including his family members, were collected. On Tuesday, nine samples including that of Ranger’s parents turned out to be negative. However, on Wednesday of the remaining samples, reports arrived where four tested positive and others negative. “These four patients are asymptomatic and are Ranger’s friends. As per information available with us, this group, including Ranger, was involved in social activities during lockdown so we are trying to track down the people who had come in contact with them,” said chief district health officer Dr Mahesh Chaudhary. On Wednesday, samples of these four patients’ family members were collected and sent to Vadodara for tests. Sources said around 50 of their family members have already been shifted to government quarantine facility at Polytechnic College. Of the 11 cases of the district, two patients have been discharged and others are undergoing treatment at hospitals in Vadodara and Chhota Udepur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-cases-spike-to-11-as-four-more-test-ve/articleshow/75302740.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: New Town boys rescue tortoise||KOLKATA: Two 11-year-old boys who sneaked out for a stroll in New Town’s Ghoshpara on Wednesday found a tortoise beside an open drain. They knew a forest department staffer in the locality and took it to him. The staffer identified it as an Indian soft-shell tortoise — an endangered species — and informed his seniors at the Salt Lake office, who took the animal. “There are no water bodies in the area where it was found. It looks like somebody had been taking it to the market when it fell. Thanks to the kids, it was saved,” said a rescue centre officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-boys-rescue-tortoise/articleshow/75305566.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Patna||Two special flights evacuate 258 Myanmar nationals from Gaya||GAYA: Myanmar Airways International on Wednesday operated two special flights to evacuate 258 pilgrims and tourists stranded in Bodh Gaya and nearby Buddhist spots. The Myanmar nationals were stranded following the sudden nationwide lockdown and cancellation of domestic as well as international flights. According to airport director Dilip Kumar, all precautionary measures were taken as per the protocols prescribed in view of the Covid pandemic. PPE kits were provided to the doctors, paramedics and CISF personnel deputed in the security hold area of the airport. The airline, as per original plan, was scheduled to evacuate 282 Myanmar nationals. But the final head count of passengers reporting at the airport turned out to be only 258. The stranded Burmese had reached Gaya by road on special permits granted to travel during the lockdown period. The evacuees included some students of Magadh University. Besides Bodh Gaya, the evacuees, as per reports, were stranded at several other places, including Delhi, Gurugram, Nalanda and Sarnath. According to civil surgeon Dr BK Singh, the Myanmar nationals were medically examined twice before being allowed to fly. Asked whether they were also subjected to Covid test, he said none of them did have any symptoms and as such there was no need for that. Asked how social distancing norm could be maintained inside the flight, the airport director said post boarding, it was not the responsibility of the AAI to ensure the distancing norms and it was for the airline to do things as per its own nation’s norms. As per available records, altogether 1493 international travellers disembarked at the Gaya airport between March 5 and 22. Screening of the international travellers began at the airport on March 5. The Gaya airport handled 170 landing operations in March with total 18317 footfalls (domestic as well as international). This was much less than about 40,000 footfalls recorded in February, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-special-flights-evacuate-258-myanmar-nationals-from-gaya/articleshow/75303355.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Man trying to smuggle liquor by boat arrested||BHOPAL: The number of lockdown violation cases is only increasing every other day. Police on Wednesday registered 94 cases against people violating lockdown order in 24 hours. Amid this, the bootleggers have come up with innovative ways to smuggle liquor. Earlier on Tuesday Koh-e-Fiza and Ashoka Garden police nabbed five BMC employees when they were transporting country made liquor in garbage pickup vehicle. In another such case, Koh-e-Fiza police nabbed a bootlegger when he was transporting around 50 bottles of country made liquor by his boat at Upper Lake near Karbala pump house on VIP Road early in the morning on Wednesday. The accused boatman had adopted the innovative way to smuggle country made liquor from Sehore by his boat through the Upper Lake to avoid police check points on the road route. Police registered a case against him and started searching for the supplier of the liquor. Koh-e-Fiza SHO Sudhir Arjaria said, “Police had received a tip off that a bootlegger was running his operations near Karbala pump house on VIP Road. According to tip off the accused bootlegger was going to bring a box of liquor by his boat.” Acting on tip off, police team kept an eye on the spot and nabbed the accused Shankarlal Bhoi, 23, a resident of Koh-e-Fiza, when he reached the spot by his boat along with a box carrying 50 bottles of country made liquor. Accused told police that he had brought the liquor from a supplier in Sehore. He avoided the road route as there were many police check points and used his boat to smuggle liquor via Upper Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-held-smuggling-liquor-in-his-boat-on-upper-lake/articleshow/75305414.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Locusts may strike again, admn alert in west Raj||Jaisalmer: Considering the possibility of a huge locust attack once again in western Rajasthan, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary said that a big group of locusts can attack in many districts in western Rajasthan and with this in mind, the agriculture ministers of Pakistan, Iran, Iraq and other countries have held talks in this regard through video conference. Machines ordered from outside to deal with the crisis will arrive soon.Planning is on to spray chemicals from helicopters to destroy the pest at the Indo-Pak border. The locust department from Wednesday started survey and Jaisalmer and Barmer district administations held a meeting on Wednesday in this regard. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locusts-may-strike-again-admn-alert-in-west-raj/articleshow/75306526.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Admn suspends three for dereliction of duty||Jaipur: The district administration on Wednesday suspended three government officials for being absent from duty during Covid-19 crisis. Administrative action has been taken against another official. A teacher of an upper primary school, Kamal Kumar Saroj; film operator at directorate of animal husbandry Ram Kishore Sharma and researcher at a higher secondary school Nahar Singh have been suspended for being absent from duty and failing to discharge their duties related to essential services during coronavirus crisis. Administrative action has been taken against executive officer of water resources department Shailendra Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/admn-suspends-three-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/75306520.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Ex-armymen volunteer to assist police in bandobast||Nashik: As many as 21 retired army personnel have volunteered to provide their services to the Mumbai Naka police for Covid-19-related bandobast. The retired army personnel have been appointed as special police officers by the Mumbai Naka police to ensure that people do not come out of their houses during the lockdown. The ex-servicemen said they had served the country while serving in the army and now when the entire country is facing a coronavirus threat, they could not stay away. They wanted to help the police personnel who are working hard to ensure a successful lockdown. Vijay Dhamal, the senior police inspector of Mumbai Naka police station, said the proactive involvement of the retired army personnel was welcome. A large number of police personnel are on the streets. One of their duties is to check for people trying to clandestinely get into Nashik from other Covid-19 affected places. At the same time, they also have to ensure that citizens stay indoor during the lockdown and maintain social distancing when they do step out for valid reasons. The ex-armymen would only be assisting the police in bandobast duties. The work of booking people and making cases will be done by the police personnel only. The Mumbai Naka police have also roped in youngsters as volunteers to keep a check on the movement of people in their respective areas. These volunteers are mainly deployed in the Bhabhanagar area said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ex-armymen-volunteer-to-assist-police-in-bandobast/articleshow/75305411.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers from various Raj dists stuck in Jaisalmer homebound||Jaisalmer: Thousands of labourers from various districts of the state, who had come to Jaisalmer district in January for the harvest season, are now being sent back to their homes. Around 3,000 labourers were sent home in 53 roadways and private buses on Tuesday night. After the state government’s orders, the district administration arranged the buses for the labourers. The labourers, who were glad to be able to return home, were screened first and the buses were also sanitised. On the other hand, over 10,000 labourers who have come from other states, have been kept in various shelter homes in the district as the Centre has not taken any decision in this regard. Every day, a small number of these labourers starts walking towards their home states. Although the district administration is making all efforts to stop them, yet the labourers are keen on leaving. District collector Namit Mehta said that after the directions from the state government, the process was started to send back the labourers who had come from various districts of the state, from Tuesday night. Around 3,030 labourers stuck in Ramgarh, Nachna, Sutharwala Mandi, Mohangarh, Chandhan, Basanpeer Juni, Dhaysar, Jaisalmer city, Jaluwala, Toweriwala, PTM Circle, etc. were sent through 53 buses and other means to their districts. He said the labourers were sent from Jaisalmer to Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Kota, Jhalawar, Bundi, Ajmer, Barmer etc., on buses. Around 1,500 more labourers were sent to their districts on Wednesday. Directions have been given for arranging for their journey, screening, registration etc., and that they do not face any problems during their journey home. District collector said that till now, no direction has been received from the government with regard to the labourers from other states. Until then, they will be kept at shelter homes and all facilities will be provided to them including food. At present, there are around 13,000 labourers in 96 shelter homes in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-from-various-raj-dists-stuck-in-jaisalmer-homebound/articleshow/75306511.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mangaluru||M’luru man airlifted from Coimbatore||Mangaluru: In a collaborative effort between officials of two states – Tamil Nadu and Karnataka – a 65-year-old man who is a managing director of a tea estate in Coimbatore, but a native of Mangaluru, was airlifted from the Tamil Nadu city to the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) on Tuesday evening. Durgadas Hegde, 65, reached the airport in the coastal city around 7.45pm, and was later taken to a private hospital in Kuntikana, MIA director VV Rao said. Hegde, a resident of Mangaladevi in Mangaluru, was keen on receiving treatment for an illness in his hometown, and sought relocation from Coimbatore. He was tested for Covid-19 prior to his departure from Coimbatore and tested negative. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that Hegde was shifted to an ambulance at the airport, and admitted to a private hospital in Kuntikana, where he was now in isolation. District health officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that, in accordance with protocol, his throat swab samples had been collected at the Kuntikana hospital to be tested for novel coronavirus. “The sample has been sent for medical examination. It may take a few days for us to get the results,” Dr Bairy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-man-airlifted-from-coimbatore/articleshow/75302096.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||SS colony police busy compiling list of people caught on drone cam||MADURAI: The SS Colony police have prepared a list of people caught on drone camera while they were loitering outside their houses. The video posted by the police on facebook shows people running for cover as the drone camera zoomed in on them. The police carried out the inspection after receiving a tipoff that residents from Madakulam, on outskirts of city, are wandering outside their houses unnecessarily recently. Though a team led by sub-inspector Dhileepan rushed to the village, they failed to find anyone roaming on the roads. Following this, the police conducted surveillance using a drone camera over farmlands and Madakulam tank. The police found a group of people taking bath together without maintaining social distancing in the tank. The camera also captured people wandering in groups in farm lands. When the drone swooped in on people, they ran. While a few of them ran into bushes in a bid to hide, others covered themselves with the lungi. Dhileepan said that a large number of cases are registered against those steeping out of house unnecessarily. Although, identity of all people caught on camera was not verified, action is taken against those identified. However, people still seen venturing out. A higher official from city police said that cases were registered against violators every day. In all, 457 cases were registered on Tuesday alone. Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham has instructed police personnel to prepare a list of persons found loitering outside their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-busy-compiling-list-of-people-caught-on-drone-cam/articleshow/75306517.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Ajanta guides seek financial assistance from government as site closed for over 37 days||Aurangabad: The approved guides working at Ajanta Caves have demanded financial assistance from the Union government as they do not have any source of income at present due to the lockdown. The world heritage site has been shut for over 37 days now. They said, “We are forced to face starvation and our families are in trouble.” The situation is similar across the country where scores of guides working at monuments and heritage sites are out of work. They have pleaded with the authorities concerned to ensure they get financial assistance. In a representation to Pralad Patel, the Union minister of tourism, Ajanta Tourists Guide Association’s senior member Syed Abrar Hussain said “We, the guides from Ajanta, are part of over 3,500 regional-level tourist guides approved by the tourism ministry, Government of India and registered in the regional tourist office (West) as cultural ambassadors of the country who the tourists from across the world interact during their visit to India and gain their experience.’’ He said “Our livelihood depends on daily or hourly honorarium received from the travel agents, tour operators on no-work no-pay basis. Our livelihood is dependent mainly on the arrival of international tourists.’’ The association also said that the guides at Ajanta were already facing financial crunch for the two years due to the slow pace of road construction work between Aurangabad and Ajanta. Abrar Hussain said, “The snail pace of work has already badly affected the tourist flow to the world heritage site and now Covid-19 has delivered a bigger blow to the tourism industry, as all the tours have been cancelled due to the pandemic from the beginning of March.’’ The association said “We do not have any other source of earning. Our licensing contract is being issued after we agree with the tourism minister’s condition that we will not join any other job. Like all other unorganised sectors, we are requesting the government to help us with a financial package during this crisis to run our families.’’ The association members also said that, “Our families are in great peril as most of us have children who got schools, have ailing parents and find it is difficult to make a living.’’ The association said that all the regional-level tourist guides need a financial package, as they do not get regular pay, have no job security, no pension or medicare facility.’’ Abrar Hussain also told TOI, “The association has made a similar request to other authorities concerned and hopes that pandemic comes to an end soon, but by then we hope that the ministry would address our issues and extend financial package.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ajanta-guides-seek-financial-assistance-from-government-as-site-closed-for-over-37-days/articleshow/75303838.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Varanasi||Admin to ensure food availability in Ramzan||Varanasi: Ahead of the commencement of holy month of Ramzan from Thursday, the district administration has geared up preparations to ensure proper availability of food materials for iftar and sehri in the hot spot areas and their buffer zones. The administration has also appealed to the interested NGOs to come forward for assisting in this exercise. Talking to TOI, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Strict restrictions are imposed in all the hotspots and buffer zones. Essential commodities are being made available in these areas in two shifts of one hour each per day. We are ensuring that all the articles including gram, gram flour, dates, fruits and others, which are consumed during iftar and sehri, are provided to residents of these areas through cart shops.” Besides, the food kits being distributed among needy will also include raw materials, he said adding that keeping these articles in food kits is being ensured at the time of packing. Of six hotspots and buffer zones five are in Muslim dominated areas of Madanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta, Nakkhighat and Pitarkunda. The administration has also directed the Jal-Kal, electricity department, Varanasi Municipal Corporation and other departments concerned to complete all preparations for uninterrupted supply of water and power and proper sanitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-to-ensure-food-availability-in-ramzan/articleshow/75304081.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Percentage of positive cases falling in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported 33 more Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the total number to 1,629, even as the government said there is a steady decline in the percentage of those testing positive. “There is a 10 percentage point decline from April 7,” said a senior epidemiologist at the Covid-19 control room. On April 7, when the state recorded 621 cases, it announced that nearly 13% of the 5,015 samples it had tested were positive. By Wednesday, 53,072 people had been tested and 3% were found to be infected. Two things made this happen, said health secretary Beela Rajesh. “First, the lockdown ensured people stay home preventing a rapid spread. Second, the state’s decision to ramp up testing across all districts helped,” she said. In the past two weeks, Tamil Nadu has tested at least 50,000 more samples. “Even if you remove the 5,000 repeat tests we do, we have so far tested 53,072 people in the state,” she said. Four more media professionals, two staff nurses from government hospitals, a front office staff of a private hospital, and a health worker were among 33 people who tested positive on Wednesday. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases in the state. Of the 33 cases in TN, 15 were from the state capital. Dharmapuri recorded its first case on Wednesday. “Eight other districts recorded a single digit increase. As of now, Krishnagiri is the only district in the state that has not reported any case,” said a senior doctor. A Chennai-based government doctor and 76 others were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of patients to 662 – 40% of those who tested positive for the viral infection so far. While in the first week of April, only people with travel history or close contacts of infected patients were screened, the state later expanded testing to cover everyone with influenza- like-illness. “We decided to use RT-PCR kits directly for diagnosis. Since ICMR has said antibody testing kits are only for surveillance, we continued ramping up RT-PCR testing labs and facilities,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The state now has 33 testing labs, of which 23 are in the public sector, where all tests are done free of cost. The emerging clusters among healthcare workers and media professionals increased the number of people queuing up before testing kiosks further. In the last four days, the state has screened more than 23,000 people. “On an average we screen 5,700 people a day,” he said. The 42-year-old doctor, who was discharged on Wednesday, said he was extremely emotional while he was wheeled out of the isolation unit of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital by doctors. “I was admitted on April 8. I was breathless and my oxygen saturation was going down. Many of my friends wanted me to move into a private hospital. I decided to stay back here because I was familiar with this place. I am alive because they cared for me,” he said. The state still has 946 Covid-19 positive patients in various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/percentage-of-ve-cases-falling-in-tn/articleshow/75306535.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Over 4,000 MP students head home from Kota in 143 buses||Kota: Over 4,000 Madhya Pradesh students who were stuck in Kota started leaving for their homes in 143 buses on Wednesday morning. The buses had reached here from MP on Tuesday night. Meanwhile, nearly 450 students from various districts of Gujarat and around 100 others from Diu were scheduled to leave for their homes on Wednesday night in 18 buses sent by Gujarat and Diu administrations. Nearly 12,000 students from Uttar Pradesh had already left for their destinations in over 400 buses sent by the neighbouring state. Kota ADM (adminstration) Narendra Gupta, who is overseeing the job, said the buses would continue to leave for their destinations as per schedule. In order to maintain social distancing, less than 30 students were allowed in each bus. Before departure, buses were thoroughly sanitized and every student was properly screened, he said. At least 15 buses, sent by the Gujarat government, are also parked at various locations and they are scheduled to depart with nearly 450 students who are stuck in hostels and PGs in Kota, Gupta said. Besides, three buses from Diu will also depart on Wednesday night with students, he added. Around 15,000 students from Bihar and Maharashtra are constantly making appeals to their state governments through social media to take them back, Nitesh Sharma of Allen Career Institute said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-4000-mp-students-head-home-from-kota-in-143-buses/articleshow/75306542.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: No mobile in coronavirus facilities, says health department||KOLKATA: The state health department has banned cellphones inside Covid-19 hospitals across Bengal. The order, passed late on Tuesday and addressed to district magistrates (DM)s, chief medical officers of health (CMOH)s and superintendents of Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, read: “Since mobile phones can be a potential source of spreading Covid-19 infection, no one will be allowed to carry, possess or use mobile phones inside Covid hospitals in the state. This applies to all persons inside the hospital, whether patient or staff on duty. The deposit of patients’ mobile phones may be taken and a receipt may be given to them. However, to ensure they have a communication channel to the hospital administration, intercom facility may be provided in the wards.” “What is wrong in reiterating the same guidelines? It’s for the benefit of patients, isn’t it?” said minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya. Ajay Chakravorty, director of health services, said, “On Tuesday, there were discussions regarding the use of mobiles in Covid-19 hospitals.” Senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan pointed out that a video clip, ostensibly recorded by a suspected Covid-19 patient at M R Bangur Hospital, had gone viral on Tuesday, prompting them to issue the order. The video shared extensively on social media showed a body, covered in plastic, lying on one of the beds at the hospital ward. “We have nothing to hide. It takes some time to remove a body, according to the protocol. But mobiles are not supposed to be used inside Covid-19 isolation wards for the sheer hazard and the transmission risk involved. You can check with private hospitals and find that the same stringent rule is in place everywhere. We have very clear instructions against the use of cellphones in these places,” said Sisir Naskar, superintendent at M R Bangur Hospital. The hospital on D S Road in Tollygunge was last month designated as one of the four “state-level” city hospitals, dedicated to the treatment of Covid-19 patients. NRS Hospital principal Saibal Mukherjee said, “I have not seen the order yet but we don’t allow mobiles in our isolation wards.” Naskar said the order was being implemented at M R Bangur from Wednesday, and patients either left their mobiles with their families or submitted them to nurses. “Patients can communicate with their families through attendants, who will speak on their behalf on the intercom. We have three such attendants on every shift, acting as the liaison between patients and families,” the MR Bangur superintendent said. About the video, he said, “It’s authenticity is yet to be verified. A video has a voice, saying the body had been lying in the ward for two hours. Going by the protocol, a patient is declared dead four hours after his/her heartbeat stops. After four hours, the body goes to the morgue. So, we have not erred even if the video is authentic.” Union minister Babul Supriyo tweeted on the ban on mobiles in hospitals, questioning its timing. He questioned whether the person who recorded the video had been “booked”. Kolkata Police responded it was completely incorrect and a misinformation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-mobile-in-corona-facilities-health-dept/articleshow/75305469.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Congress MP Vivek Tankha asks rights panel to protect cops from coronavirus||BHOPAL: Congress MP Vivek Tankha on Wednesday appealed to the Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission to give directions to the chief secretary and DGP so that human rights of police officers and personnel can be protected across the state. After the death of two police inspectors due to coronavirus infection, Rajya Sabha MP and lawyer Tankha asked for the protection of the police force with PPE kits and other equipment on Twitter. Tankha appealed to the state HRC chairman Justice N K Jain and said, “Satwinder Singh Lally, a retired additional SP has approached the HRC seeking the protection of human right among policemen pressed into Covid duty”. “Police personnel on duty has to be properly equipped with PPE kits and other protective gear. The state is mandatorily required by law to protect police personnel from getting infected with coronavirus as they stand exposed in public while performing their duty. Two police officials posted in Indore and Ujjain have succumbed to the deadly virus at Indore’s Aurobindo Hospital,” Tankha added. Tankha wrote that many police personnel and their families are in hospital or in quarantine due to coronavirus. “It doesn’t augur well for any government or administration. Who will protect the police?”, he asked. “Thousands of policemen on duty and their families are feeling unprotected as police personnel being members of a disciplined force are reluctant and/or feel diffident to articulate their concerns to their superiors,” Tankha added. Tankha further said, “The superiors in their overzealous efforts to please the state bosses forget that the force also needs protection from the virus. An earnest request to the HRC to use its legitimate power and authority over the state to ensure the protection of the police .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tankha-asks-rights-panel-to-protect-cops-from-corona/articleshow/75305465.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Bengaluru-based startup serves 16,000 meals a day to needy at 19 locations across Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Extending its’ support to migrant workers, daily wagers, underprivileged and homeless children, and frontline workers until post-lockdown at around 19 locations across the city, a Bangalore-based social impact startup is providing over 16,000 meals daily under the initiative of ‘FeedMyHyderabad’. “All our professional and personal achievements have no meaning if we can’t help the needy when they need our help the most,” said Sandip Patnaik, MD, JLL, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh who is a part of the four-member council leading the initiative. Part of a country-wide initiative, the organization has provided over two lakh meals in Hyderabad since March 30. Aiming to serve over 3 lakh meals across the city, they have collaborated with HungerBox, a B2B food technology company that has shared their partners’ kitchens in ensuring preparation of fresh meals in hygienic conditions to support the cause, inform council members. “Our heart goes out to everyone affected by this pandemic. With this initiative we stand by our pledge to feed daily wagers and their families,” said Sreeram Reddy Vanga, founder, InnoPark Group of Companies, council member. In Hyderabad, the meals are served in Kukatpally, Kothaguda, Manikonda, Gachibowli and other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bluru-based-startup-serves-16k-meals-a-day-to-needy-at-19-locations-across-hyd/articleshow/75306552.cms||Arya Sharan
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Trucks rams into bike, 2 killed||Rajkot: Two persons were killed when a truck collided head on with the bike they were travelling on in Pipartoda village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district on Tuesday evening. The deceased were identified as Nathu Varu (50) and his nephew Govind Varu (24).“The victims were returning to Lakhabaval village from Vadpanchasara village where they had gone for agricultural work. The truck driver who caused the accident fled from the spot abandoning his vehicle,” said B S Vala, sub-inspector with Lalpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/trucks-rams-into-bike-2-killed/articleshow/75303860.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon additional SP becomes father, but refrains from going home||Nashik: Even as most of us are safe in the confines of our homes, many public servants have to venture out to selflessly fulfil their duties. Sandeep Ghuge, additional SP of Malegaon, is one such public servant leading by example. As he works tirelessly to maintain order in the volatile town, which has seen rapid growth in Covid-19 infections and fatalities, he has had to make a big personal sacrifice. He became a father for the second time on April l0. However, Ghuge has had only a was a momentary glimpse of his newborn child and wife. Soon as the number of Covid-19 cases began to rise in Malegaon, Ghuge decided to stay away from his family to protect them and, therefore, shifted to a guest house. “I wanted to minimize my family’s risk of exposure to the virus. The virus is spreading fast in Malegaon. One has to be constantly rush from one place in the town to another. Since my cellphone also had been ringing almost continuously from morning till late in the night, it was better that I shifted moved out,” he said. His family also has been supportive. “Over a period of time, the family members of the police personnel have received very good orientation. Our family members know that society needs us. It is the same with my family, including my wife and three-and-a-half-years-old daughter. However, they keep reminding me to take all precautions,” added Ghuge. The additional SP said he is not sure when would be able to return home. The number of cases continues to rise in Malegaon. However, people have started understanding the gravity of the situation and they are not violating the lockdown orders anymore. A 2015-batch IPS officer, Ghuge had earlier served in Raigad and Osmanabad before being transferred to Malegaon in July 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-additional-sp-becomes-father-but-refrains-from-going-home/articleshow/75305446.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||1,437 industrial units get passes to reopen||Jaipur: State industries department has issued passes to 1,437 companies till Tuesday under the modified lockdown, a senior officer of the department said. This is besides the 14,000 passes given to 1,350 units which are into manufacturing of essential products. The state government as per the Centre’s order has allowed industrial units in rural areas and also special economic zones or industrial areas, both government and private within the municipal limits. But keeping in view the spread of coronavirus, the collectors of Jodhpur and Jaipur have decided againt allowing companies in SEZs and industrial areas within the municipal limits in these districts. Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, Industries Department, said, “We have set up a dedicated virtual control room for helping companies looking to get passes for restarting their business. This has helped clear doubts and made the process smooth. We expect more than 3,000 companies to apply for passes for transporting the labour through dedicated vehicles to restart their operations.” He said all the field officers have been given directions to issue online or offline passes on the same day so that there is no delay on the part of the department. District Investment Centres and RIICO offices will also issue passes offline till April 26 to further ease the process and help the companies. Earlier, some industrialists had said that getting passes is getting difficult and there is not clarity to the problems they face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1437-industrial-units-get-passes-to-reopen/articleshow/75306554.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Farmer hacks wife to death||A man axed his wife to death while they were working in a field in Sawai Madhopur’s Piloda police station area on Wednesday. Police said the accused is an alcoholic and killed his wife after drinking liquor. Police have register a murder case against 55-year-old Prithvi Meena for murdering 50-year-old Sukko Devi.  A case under IPC Section 302 (murder) and other sections was registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmer-hacks-wife-to-death/articleshow/75306558.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||HC comes to the rescue of the disabled||Hyderabad: Dealing with another PIL filed by advocate Ganesh Kilani who expressed concern over the way the system is neglecting disabled people, a bench headed by CJ Chauhan directed the state government to sensitise its medical staff to accord priority to such patients while extending medical care during the ongoing lockdown period. The bench also directed the polito grant them passes and ensure they reach their hospitals and homes safely. The bench referred to the list of NGOs furnished to them by advocate Kowturi Pawan Kumar and directed the state to coordinate with these NGOs to extend facilities to the disabled persons, including door delivery of essentials and medicines. The bench did not relish the reply given by the state counsel that they have a toll-free number for disabled. “Nobody knows about it, give it wide publicity first,” the bench said. The case will come up for hearing again on May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-comes-to-the-rescue-of-the-disabled/articleshow/75307368.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Avoid Ramzan gatherings, stay safe: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday, Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha said that people shouldn’t gather during the holy month of Ramzan, either to pray or for breaking fast. Jha said that by not gathering, people will be able to avoid the coronavirus infection. “During Ram Navami and Hanuman Jayanti, we did not allow people to gather and when they did, offences were registered against them,” Jha said. “Similar action will be taken against people gathering for Ramzan as well.” DGP said that permission given to good carriers is being misused by some people to smuggle liquor into the state. “Recently, a truck was caught near Balasinor and liquor worth Rs 11,40,000 was recovered from it,” Jha said. “The driver of the truck had a pass from a Haryana district magistrate. In another case, the state monitoring cell seized liquor worth Rs 16,80,000. The driver has a pass from a Punjab district magistrate issued for a vegetable vehicle.” Jha said trucks on the state and district borders were being checked thoroughly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/avoid-ramzan-gatherings-stay-safe/articleshow/75305758.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Doctors chart new course to beat coronavirus||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:The effect of a drug meant for parasitic infestations to kill corona virus may still be unknown, but the health team at Pathanamthitta associated with Covid management is pinning hopes on it to cure patients with prolonged periods of hospitalization despite being clinically stable. Six patients including the 62-year old woman who has been hospitalized for 43 days are being administered with ivermectin which is generally used for deworming and scabies. Spurred by research studies, the team began administering 12 mg ivermectin on alternate days in all the patients. The use of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is not advised beyond a period of 10 days and with patients showing signs of full recovery and being clinically stable, the team switched the drug even while continuing vitamin supplements. The samples given on Monday for all these patients came out negative on Wednesday and four of these patients were admitted in March and two of them were admitted in April. With double negative being the protocol, the samples were sent again on Wednesday and results are expected on Friday. We don't know whether it is the effect of this drug or not, because it needs further studies. This is a common drug and a harmless one .We were cautious regarding dosage and used it only on alternate days, hopefully the results are negative on Friday and all of them can be discharged,'' said a health official associated with the treatment. The use of ivermectine has precedence somewhere else in the world too. `Medical news today`, a web journal carried an article on a study paper published in the journal `Antiviral research` which says that ivermectin could combat severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-COV-2) which causes Covid19. The research was done by investigators from the Victorian Infectious Diseases Reference Laboratory (VIDRL) and Monash University, both in Melbourne, Australia. The study paper shows that in the first 24 hours there was a 93% reduction in viral RNA present in samples which were treated with ivermectin and by 48 hours, there was further reduction of viral RNA indicating that ivermectin treatment resulted in the effective loss of essentially all viral material by 48 hours. A medical board meeting is also scheduled on Friday to discuss further course of action regarding extended period of hospitalization for patients who are clinically stable. `` Their temperature is normal, vitals are stable, however tests don't come negative,'' the official said. In the case of 62-year old woman who was admitted on March 10, the result had come negative in the first week of April, however the consecutive test showed positive results forcing continued hospitalization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/docs-chart-new-course-to-beat-virus/articleshow/75303888.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 23, 2020||Varanasi||Three kin of Pitarkunda trader also test positive||Varanasi: Three persons, including daughter-in-law and two grandchildren of the 75-year-old betel trader of Pitarkunda, have also been tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. The elderly trader was diagnosed Covid-19 positive on April 18 after he was referred to BHU hospital by a private hospital in Mahmoorganj area, where he had gone for treatment for some respiratory problem. After the confirmation of three more positive cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Varanasi has reached to 19 of which one has died. Eight persons were discharged after getting cured on Tuesday afternoon. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has confirmed that 45-year-old daughter-in-law, 21-year-old grandson and 15-year-old granddaughter of the Pitarkunda trader have also been tested positive. Their report was received by the district administration on Wednesday morning after which they were sent to isolation ward of DDU hospital. The trader had no trvael history. He had reached a private hospital in Mahmoorganj area on April 17 for treatment of respiratory problem. The hospital staff conducted his CT-scan and after witnessing symptoms similar to of Covid-19, they referred him to BHU on the same day. His reports came on April 18 after which Pitarkunda was declared hotspot. The health department teams were engaged to collect samples of his family and others in his contact. The OPD of the private hospital, where he went for treatment, was closed while restriction were also imposed on admitting new patients. The hospital staff has been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-kin-of-pitarkunda-trader-also-test-positive/articleshow/75304140.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||JDA’s infra push set to begin in phased way||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is ready to resume construction of various infrastructure projects in a phased manner during the modified lockdown. A senior engineer at JDA said, “The construction of Jhotwara elevated road and railway overbridge (RoB) in Jahota village will start in the first phase. The projects in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) limits can only be started after May 3.” Officials believe it is necessary to start work as cost of multi-crore projects will escalate. However, sources in the department said with most labourers having gone back to their native states, JDA has an uphill task to complete the projects even after the lockdown is lifted. Moreover, contractors have expressed worries as the supply of raw materials from other states will take time to resume. A senior engineer of the project wing at the JDA said, “In a letter, contractors of the projects have asked for extension and relaxation as it’s a double-whammy for them. They are expecting to suffer huge losses due to the delay.” At present, construction of two elevated projects and five railway over bridges (RoB) worth approximately Rs 800 crore has been undertaken by the JDA. “The contractors have mobilised heavy machinery for these projects and the fixed cost is continuously being borne by them. A request has been made for financial assistance as it could not be decided at JDA’s level,” said an official source Sources further said pressure to repay instalments of approximately Rs 1,600 crore is also mounting on the JDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jdas-infra-push-set-to-begin-in-phased-way/articleshow/75306570.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: B R Singh Hospital doctor tests coronavirus positive, 10 quarantined||KOLKATA: A doctor of BR Singh Hospital in Sealdah is the latest healthcare worker to test positive for Covid-19. She is undergoing treatment at a private facility. According to officials at the Eastern Railway’s primary hospital in Kolkata, the doctor had attended duty last on April 14 and after that, she had been at home for feeling unwell. After the doctor’s positive test reports, the hospital has identified around 10 employees, who had come in contact with her. They have been sent on quarantine. “We are following all procedures and necessary steps like sanitization at the hospital,” said Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty, CPRO, Eastern Railway. Meanwhile, around 10 healthcare workers of RG Kar Medical College have been sent on quarantine after a doctor at the cardiology department, a nurse and a Group-D worker tested positive for Covid-19. With a rise in the number of healthcare workers being infected with the virus, hospitals are taking a slew of measures to reduce the risks. “We are taking more stringent measures in patient segregation and putting lesser number of healthcare professionals on duty to minimize the risks,” said a source at Medical College Kolkata Hospital, where 15 healthcare workers have already tested positive for the virus. However, the challenge comes from asymptomatic patients, who visit the hospitals for treatment of other ailments and later test positive for Covid-19. “Those coming to our hospital have to maintain hand hygiene and wear masks. They are screened first at the emergency isolation by doctors, who are in full personal protective equipment (PPE). While healthcare staffers in fever ward are in full PPE those working in other wards have to take basic protections like masks and gloves,” said Arindam Banerjee, MD Columbia Asia Hospital. “We are conducting only emergency surgeries. Even if a patient is asymptomatic, we are not taking any risk,” said internal medicine specialist Harsh Vardhan Agarwal, director, All Asia Medical Institute, Ballygunge. The state government has enough PPE, N95 masks, gloves, head covers, goggles, hand sanitisers for doctors and paramedical staff, diet boys and safai workers, said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha on Wednesday. Some junior doctors said that the city hospitals have a steady flow of PPEs, but it is still an issue with the hospitals on the outskirts. They also rued shortage of N 95 masks there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/b-r-singh-doctor-tests-positive-10-quarantined/articleshow/75305502.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Varanasi||CM orders fin aid for Gorakhpur man’s family||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of news reports of the death of a man from Dumrikhurd village of Gorakhpur in Delhi and his symbolic funeral by his family and directed officials to extend all possible help. The government is making arrangements to bring the body from Delhi. DM Gorakhpur Vijyendra Pandiyan visited the grieving family on Wednesday and handed a cheque of Rs 2 lakh to the wife of the deceased labourer and assured other help. Sunil (38) of Dumrikhurd village under Chauri Chaura Tehsil of Gorakhpur district died at a Delhi hospital on April 14. His family conducted a symbolic cremation on April 17 as it did not have the money to bring the body from Delhi. Chauri Chaura administration had provided food and grocery to the family and pooled Rs 75,000 with help of locals. On Tuesday evening, two tweet from the official handle of UP Government tweeted that CM Yogi has taken cognizance of the death of the Gorakhpur man in Delhi and issued directions to the nodal officer in national capital and Gorakhpur DM to immediately make arrangements for bringing the body. The CM also issued directions that financial assistance be provided to the family as per norms. On Wednesday, DM Vijyendra Pandiyan, SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta, SDM Arpit Gupta and other officials visited the family. The DM handed a cheque of Rs two lakh to Sunil’s wife Poonam. The government also transferred Rs 30,000 in Poonam’s bank account under National Family Benefit Scheme.  DM said that Poonam will get widow pension and a job as per her qualification and capabilities. The family will also be given land for farming. A house will also be given to the family under CM Awas Yojana and children will be admitted to school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-orders-fin-aid-for-gorakhpur-mans-family/articleshow/75304184.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||BHEL suffers Rs150 cr loss||Bhopal: The BHEL unit in the state capital is badly affected due to the ongoing lockdown. Senior officials have claimed that the unit has incurred around Rs150 crore loss in the last one month. An important overseas project of manufacturing transformers for a 660MW power station in Bangladesh has also been stalled due to the complete shutdown of the factory. With state-of-the-art facilities, BHEL-Bhopal manufactures a wide range of electrical equipment and the product range includes hydro, steam, marine and nuclear turbines, heat exchangers, hydro and turbo generators, transformers, switchgears, control gears, transportation equipment, capacitors, bushings, electrical motors, rectifiers, oil drilling rig equipment and diesel generating sets. A senior official of BHEL seeking anonymity claimed that the shutdown has made severe monitory consequences. “As the entire work is closed, there will be an effect in the turnover this year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhel-suffers-rs150-cr-loss/articleshow/75305490.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE seeks data on number of examination centres||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has sought data from all the districts about the number of exams centres needed to conduct the remaining board exams while maintaining social distancing. Due to lockdown, board exams of a few subjects of classes 10 and 12 are pending, which has become a cause of concern for students and the government. Future of students, especially those appearing for class 12 finals, is dependent on the results to get into colleges or for engineering courses. Jaipur district education officer Ram Chandra Palsaniya said they had already sent the list of centres to RBSE. “We have sent a list of 557 exams centres in government schools, colleges and private schools of Jaipur. We have to maintain at least three feet distance between children. We have planned to make them sit in verandas or special tents to maintain social distancing. Data has been sent and now RBSE has to decide the date to conduct exams,” said Palsaniya. There are around 35 exam centres that are situated in the city’s hotspot areas which will most possibly not be included. RBSE chairman Dharmpal Jaroli, however, made it clear that the board was yet to decide on the timetable to conduct exams. He said, “We have asked for the list of centres to be aware about our capacity and what more has to be done. But with the rising positive cases in the state, it seems to be difficult to finalise a date. When the lockdown will be lifted, we will conduct board exam as soon as possible. Around 8 lakh students will appear for class 12 exam while it will be around 12 lakh for class 10 exam. Our priority is to complete the class 12 exams, but the date is yet to be decided.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-seeks-data-on-number-of-examination-centres/articleshow/75306588.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Goa Inc asks banks to extend EMI moratorium for 6 months||PANAJI: At a specially convened state-level banker’s committee (SLBC) meeting to discuss the impact of Covid-19 in Goa, industry representatives asked bankers for financial support, especially a debt restructuring mechanism and a moratorium on interest payments for six months. A senior official said that the EMI moratorium scheme could also be floated for cooperative banks and credit cooperative societies. “Industry representatives have requested the SLBC to take up with each bank’s head offices the recommendation for a special package for private sector borrowers by way of interest subvention or deferment of instalments. We also asked for the moratorium period for EMIs to be extended to six months as against the present three months, to accommodate important sectors like tourism,” an official present for the meeting said. State Bank of India is the convenor of the SLBC, but the meeting was chaired by the finance secretary. All the bankers resolved to restore banking services to the pre-covid status while maintaining health safety protocols. Banks were also encouraged to restart lending to help MSMEs meet working capital needs. “Banks need to look beyond or extend the scope of the existing lending guidelines keeping in view the fluid situation that is unfolding. The Covid Emergency Credit lines should be expanded up to 30% of the fund-based exposure against the present 10% to 20%. Banks were asked to proactively formulate schemes to accommodate small and micro enterprises along with young entrepreneurs. Individual banks were requested to accommodate entrepreneurs under existing schemes, the minutes of the meeting said. Deputy general manager for Bank of Baroda, Amulya Kumar suggested that the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTSME) guarantee fee of 1.5% could be waived off. He also suggested that the CGTSME coverage be increased from 75% to 100% to make MSME funding more attractive for banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-inc-asks-banks-to-extend-emi-moratorium-for-6-mths/articleshow/75306581.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 23, 2020||Ajmer||Railways make trolley for swab collection in Ajmer||AJMER: The carriage store department of the railways in Ajmer has developed an innovative movable chamber for throat swab sample collection and handed it over to the railway hospital here. This will help save lives of doctors and medical staff moving to serve Covid-19 patients in ICU wards. Considering the problem of the spread of infection among doctors and medical staff in the coronavirus ward, the carriage department initiated an idea to develop a portable sample collection chamber which is a modified light-weight trolley of about five kilogram. Chief medical superintendent of railway hospital and additional divisional railway manager Aditya handed over the trolley to the hospital. The person behind the innovation is Yatindra Sahwal, senior material manager of the carriage store department, North Western Railways. Sahwal said sue to the scarcity of PPE kits, doctors and medical staff were under high risk treating coronavirus patients. He said the idea was mooted by railways. The portable trolley will be used in the railway hospital to collect samples from ICU wards. “Utmost care has been taken to ensure personal protection. A provision for small fan has also been made in the chamber for staff to stay for longer durations to collect samples in one sitting,” added Sahwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/railways-make-trolley-for-swab-collection-in-ajmer/articleshow/75306571.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Special helpline from Thursday, measures to keep cops safe||AURANGABAD/NASHIK: Hundreds of policemen deployed across the state can call a dedicated helpline operated by doctors to speak about their anxiety, stress over working in containment zones during the time of pandemic and also seek guidance if they show any symptoms of Covid-19 infection. Starting Thursday, the state police force will have a dedicated helpline operated from Pune, which cops can call to speak with doctors and seek advise. So far, as many as 64 state police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra. Of them, 32 belong to Mumbai police . Additional director-general of police (administration) Sanjeev Kumar Singhal said the exclusive helpline (9132953295) for answering Covid-19 related queries of policemen from across the state, manned by medical practitioners from Pune, would kick start from Thursday. “This helpline would work from Pune police commissionerate office daily from 9am to 8pm,” he said. The state police office has already supplied masks and sanitizers in large quantities. In addition, all superintendents and commissioners of police have been authorized to use welfare fund for purchasing articles like masks, sanitizers and relevant gears, Singhal said. Also, the Covid-19 treatment has been covered under the state insurance scheme under pulmonary emergency. All the commissioners and superintendents of police have been told to release Rs 1 lakh as advance from the welfare fund to any policemen, who get infected with Covid-19. Different police units across the state have adopted measures to ensure those at risk – such as personnel over 50 and with existing medical conditions – do not come in direct contact with the public. Along with Mumbai police, now even the Nashik police are taking steps to give hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a medicine used known to have some preventive effects against Covid-19, to its personnel. A team of four doctors is conducting survey of 3,500 police personnel of Nashik city and already spoken to 1,700 of them. The team is checking whether the policemen have blood pressure, diabetes or are on any medication. Based on the information, they will be given the drug. Nashik’s deputy commissioner of police (HQ) Pournima Chaugule told TOI that the state director general of police’s office had passed on the AYUSH ministry guidelines regarding use of HCQ. “The survey is important as the medicine cannot be given to all. Those with blood pressure, diabetes and on medication cannot be given the medicine as it could have certain side effects,” said Chaugule. Aurangabad police are giving its personnel medicine to boost immunity. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI, “Apart from taking all the precautionary measures, boosting immunity remains vital in fighting this disease. As a solution, we got over 3,500 bottle of a homeopathy medicine and the distribution has already started. Each family member of the policemen is expected to have four pills on empty stomach in the morning for three consecutive days,” Prasad said. Aurangabad superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil has instructed all policemen to submit information about their health status daily through google form formats. that we have passed on to all the police station in-charge. It is to be given along with the daily roll call,” she said. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar said that apart from not deputing any policeman above the age of 52 at checkposts and places of high footfall, they have set up circulatory duty system in which those with duty in high-risk areas get a breather before they get their next turn at the same place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/special-helpline-from-today-measures-to-keep-cops-safe/articleshow/75305485.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mob pelts stones, injures four cops||AHMEDABAD: In yet another incident of aggression against cops, a police team came under heavy stone pelting in Chamundanagar, Sardarnagar on Wednesday afternoon after they tried to disperse a gathering intent on conducting a religious ceremony “Purvaj Amavas”. DCP Zone-4 Neeraj Badgujar said four policemen including inspector Hemant Patel of Sardarnagar were injured in the attack. Police sources said reinforcements went to the spot and used needed force to disperse the mob. “We have rounded up 27 persons including two women,” Badgujar said. On Monday, a Danilimda police team faced stone pelting when they tried to disperse a mob at Parikshitlalnagar in Behrampura. Badgujar said police received a message on Wednesday afternoon that some 50 people had gathered at Chamundanagar for a religious ceremony called “Purvaj Amavas”. “As it was clear-cut case of violation of Section 144 inspector Hemant Patel of Sardarnagar with his team went to the spot and tried to disperse the gathering. However, the people started heavy stone pelting and injured four of our men,” Badgujar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mob-pelts-stones-injures-four-cops/articleshow/75305754.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur school turns into relief kitchen to feed poor||UDAIPUR: After lockdown in Udaipur, a schoolowner has converted his building into a relief kitchen to ensure food for needy people in the neighbourhood. Girish Bharti, owner of this secondary school, has been running a community kitchen since March 28 and serving food to some 500 people two times a day. “A week after the lockdown, some daily workers from neighbouring area of Rata Khet Kachhi Basti came to me seeking help as their grocery stock had dried up. They said kids were starving and they did not have money to feed them. I was moved by their plight and thought of setting up a relief kitchen where poor people could collect food for their family,” Bharti said. He created a WhatsApp group and sought help from close friends who lent a helping hand. With public contribution in form of grocery and grains, utensils, gas stoves, Prerna School transformed into a kitchen next day where a cook and few helpers have been employed to prepare food. Currently, we are serving food to families from Ratakhet, Rampura Kalbeliya Basti, Seetamata Oad Basti, Sisarma, Gudiya Bawdi, Gorela and Kodiyat areas dominated by people of lower strata of the society. People come and collect food as per their daily requirement. The food is not served in the premises to ensure social distancing. “When curfew was imposed in the area after reports of four positive cases, we shifted the kitchen to a farm house on Sisarma Road for 10 days. I am thankful to some 60 of my friends and associates who have been donating generously so that we are able to continue providing food to needy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-school-turns-into-relief-kitchen-to-feed-poor/articleshow/75306586.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Selfless TNSTC driver contented transporting GRH staff every day||MADURAI: He was half-hearted and concerened when the authorities asked him to tranposrt staff to Government Rajaji Hospital during lockdown. But the once-reluctant TNSTC driver, who had to accept the job willy-nilly then, not only does the work now without fear but finds it immensly satisfying. Sakthivel A, 43, of Keelapanangudi says that he joined the service in 2010 and his recent duty was on the Tirunelveli bypass rider. Then the lockdown started, and bus services were stopped and staff were told they would get leave with pay. Then in early April, they decided that buses were needed for transporting workers to the government hospital, and some of the drivers were called for duty. “I too took up the offer reluctantly, after my branch manager K Muthumani sir, and depot incharge Selvam, convinced me that our services were needed,’’ he said. Now, for the 23rd day in succession, he has been plying on the Madurai Goripalayam to Alagarkoil route without takng a single day’s leave. ``It is not that I don’t have leave, but I don’t want to take it because I feel I am really doing something for society, and my heart goes out to the staff when they go to work,’’ he said. He reports to the Pudur depot at 5.30 AM and reaches Alagarkoil at 6 am. Picking up the staff on the route from Alagarkoil to the GRH, he arrives there at 7 am. During return, he takes the workers who have completed their night shift and drop them home. Then it is lunch break, for which he goes home and the evening shift starts at 5.30 PM and goes on till 9 AM. About 120 passengers, including police personnel on duty, travel in his bus on a daily basis. While travelling wiht him, some of his passengers share with him the stories about isolationwards and the difficulties they face. “These stories make me believe that god put me on this duty with a purpose, and I never fear that I could get infected,’’ he said. Sakthivel says that his family had initially been concerned when he started this duty. ``They used to ask me to maintain a distance. But now my wife even wakes me up at 4.30 am for my duty,’’ he said. Pudur branch manager of TNSTC, K Muthumani said that Sakthivel’s dedication to this cause was appreciable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/selfless-tnstc-driver-contented-transporting-grh-staff-every-day/articleshow/75306575.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus pangs for transgenders||JAIPUR: Priya Sharma, a 27-year-old transgender from Jaipur city, has been surviving on leftover ration in her home since the lockdown. She is one of the thousands of transgenders in Rajasthan who are facing immense challenges during the lockdown. Narrating her plight, Priya says, “I used to earn Rs 500 to Rs 1,500 per day from marriages and celebrations, which is now zero. After the lockdown, there will be no marriages this year. Till then, it is very difficult for transgenders to survive as majority of us are daily wagers. We have no support from the government or the society. I have some savings, but after that is over, I don’t know what will happen.” Majority of the transgenders in the state do not possess Aadhaar cards or any other identity card, which is making it difficult for them to get ration from government shops. On April 15, Rajasthan High Court said that no discrimination should be done against the transgender community and they should be provided with necessary assistance without any identity proof. The community’s members say that the judgement has not been implemented yet. Pushpa, founder of NGO ‘Nai Bhor’, who is working for the rights of transgenders says, “We are still being asked to show identity cards to get ration or any government benefits. Recently, the government announced to give Rs 2,500 to economically backward people but transgenders are not included in that. There are no arrangements to get us checked or provide necessary medicines to us. Our community is already secluded from the society and this lockdown has made it worse.” There are around 75,000 transgender people in Rajasthan, majority of whom are daily wagers, earning livelihood by begging, dancing in marriages or through sex work. Malini Das, country’s first transgender engineer, explained that most of the transgenders leave home after puberty as they are not accepted for who they are. “Their priority is to live with their identity, and not to think about the documents that time. Most of our people are ignorant about the laws and without any initiative from the government, they are vulnerable. I know transgenders who beg on railway stations and with that money, they recently got their sex reassignment surgery done. Being broke amidst the pandemic, they can barely make the two ends meet,” said Das. Pushpa, with her own efforts, arranged for some ration packets but due to the strict lockdown, Jaipur district administration is not allowing the truck to get into the city. “I have made many calls to the collector. With the rising number of cases, we cannot pressurize the government too much, as they are also busy but at the end of the day, the transgender community is suffering,” said Pushpa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-pangs-for-transgenders/articleshow/75306596.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
April 23, 2020||Hubballi||4-month-old, mother test +ve in Kalaburagi||Basavaraj.Kattimani Hubballi: Kalaburagi was the only district in North Karnataka to report fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Five people tested positive for coronavirus, taking the tally in the district to 35. The new cases include that of a four-month-old baby and its 35-year-old mother. The three others are a 26-year-old woman, a 46-year-old woman and a 57-year-old man. The 26-year old woman had come in contact with P-329 and the 46-year-old with P-222. The travel history of the 57-year-old is yet to be known. Four people have died of Covid-19 in Kalaburagi and five recovered. Due to the spurt in the number of cases, almost all the roads in residential areas in the city have been closed by residents. At 43, Belagavi has the highest number positive cases in North Karnataka followed by 35 each in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura. All the districts in the region have stepped up measures to strictly monitor containment areas. As the spread of virus in Vijayapura is linked to Maharashtra, the district administration has decided to seal the border. Deputy commissioner Y S Patil has also ordered closure of other border areas to prevent the entry of people from Maharashtra and neighbouring districts into Vijayapura. The ban order will not be applicable to the movement of essential items and ambulances. In case of emergencies, the tahsildars and other taluk officials are authorised to review the situation and issue permission for the movement of such vehicles, said Patil. The DC has also constituted a committee involving DHO Dr M Kapse and district surgeon Dr S Katti to recommend the district administration for the testing of throat swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. "The district administration will send the throat swab samples of suspected patients for testing as per the recommendation of this committee," Patil added. The authorities in Dharwad, Bagalkot, Gadag, Bidar, Davanagere, and Chitradurga have heaved a sigh of relief as there has been no fresh cases there in past 3-4 days. Koppal, Haveri, Yadagir and Raichur districts have not reported any cases so far. With inputs from Sushilendra Naik||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/4-month-old-mother-test-ve-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75302217.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Allahabad||No gold dazzle on Akshay Tritiya, jewellers rue losses||Prayagraj: With shops shut and buyers forced to stay indoors due to the lockdown enforced in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, jewellers in Prayagraj are staring at a loss of over Rs 100 crore on Akshay Tritiya this year. There are 3,000 jewellery stores Prayagraj, which have been shut because of the lockdown. Akshay Tritiya will be celebrated on Sunday this year. It is believed that buying gold on the day opens doors for good fortune into one’s lives. President of Prayag Sarafa Mandal Kuldeep Soni said, “Around 5,000 employees work at the various jewellery stores and workshops across the city. Most of them are daily wagers. The association is taking care of their needs by distributing food packets and essential commodities.” “Despite the losses, jewellery store owners are well aware about the importance of the lockdown and how crucial it is for the safety of the public.” President of Civil Lines Vyapaar Mandal Sushil Kharbanda said, “There are around 3,000 jewellery shops in the city and most of them are located in areas like Civil Lines, Chowk and Katra.” “It’s been over a month since the lockdown was announced and jewellery shops have remained shut since. Gold and silver traders are afraid that they might not be able to make up for the losses they suffer during this period — especially those suffered during a day like Akshay Tritiya when gold sales hit record heights. ”According to traders’ estimates, around 33 tonne of gold was bought on Akshaya Tritiya last year across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-gold-dazzle-on-akshay-tritiya-jewellers-rue-losses/articleshow/75304425.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man murders wife, kills self by drinking phenyl||AHMEDABAD: A day after the bodies of a couple were found from a flat in Gota, police on Wednesday said that the man had killed his wife by slitting her throat and then committed suicide by taking poison. Sola police on Tuesday afternoon found the decomposed bodies of Kalosana Roy, 45, and his wife Paromita Roy, 40, residents of Shayona Tilak-3 flats in Gota from their flats after residents called police complaining of a foul smell coming from their house. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said that they have found clues in the case which suggest that Kalosana, who worked as a mechanical engineer at a textile firm in Khatraj, might have first slashed his wife’s throat and then ingested phenyl. “We have found a blade soaked in blood from the house and a phenyl bottle which was half empty. A postmortem analysis conducted by a panel of doctors reported that Paromita died of wounds on her throat and Kalosana died from ingesting poison,” said Jadeja. Prima facie investigation indicated that the couple did not have a happy married life as they had constant quarrels, which might have increased during the lockdown. Jadeja said that Paromita was also suffering from mental illness . City police had on Tuesday found bodies of Kalosana and his wife in a flat in the Gota area of city. According to cops, the bodies were decomposed when they found them and they might have died around three days ago. “As a foul smell was coming from their flat, residents of the apartment called up the owner of the flat who came there and broke down the door,” a cop said.  The couple did not have any child and allegedly had a stressed relationship for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gota-man-murders-wife-kills-self-by-drinking-phenyl/articleshow/75305750.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Newsmen throw caution to wind at minister’s presser||MADURAI: Social distancing norms were flouted at a press meet called by minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar int the city on Wednesday. At a time when news of nearly 30 mediaperson in the state testing positive for Covid-19 is grabbing headlines, journalists were seen attending the press meet without exercising caution. The minister after inspecting the wholesale shops near the Meenakshi temple met mediaperson, who vied with each other to get the minister’s sound bites. Warnings by some of the senior journalists to refrain from crowding were not heeded to. Media associations have been demanding that all press meets be conducted through video conferencing during the lockdown for the safety of the reporters and photographers. In a statement released in the evening, Udayakumar urged mediaperson to exercise caution. “I reiterate my request to be extra cautious and observe social distancing and maintain personal hygiene,’’ he said. Meanwhile, minister for information,Kadambur C Raju, who spoke to reporters at Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district, said that the ministers were reaching out people and had not gone into hiding. He said that private hospitals were asked not to treat Covid-19 patients as a measure to curtail the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/newsmen-throw-caution-to-wind-at-ministers-presser/articleshow/75306603.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Trimbak police seize liquor worth Rs 9,000||NASHIK: Trimbakeshwar police have seized liquor worth more than Rs 9,000 from a person after receiving information that he was clandestinely transporting liquor Velunje Bramhan Wade village in his truck. PI Ramchandra Karpe said the police intercepted the truck and found that the driver was carrying 24 boxes of country liquor and another 48 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). Karpe said due to the lockdown, liquor shops across the district and the state are closed. As a result, there is a huge demand for liquor. Those who have stock, are trying to make some fast money by selling liquor at marked-up prices. However, the police are maintaining a strict vigil. Karpe said that a few days ago, they had seized liquor worth Rs 10,000 during nakabandi at the Amboli checkpost. The police said that they are maintaining a strict vigil and have also alerted their informers to keep an eye out for the illegal sale of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trimbak-police-seize-liquor-worth-rs-9000/articleshow/75305518.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana needs Rs 45,000 crore to buy paddy, other farm produce||HYDERABAD: The extended lockdown has thrown a big challenge to the state government to not only procure a record paddy, jowar, sunflower, maize and bengal gram but also raise over Rs 45,000 crore to purchase them from farmers. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had said he would have liked to be among the farmers and dance along with them in celebration of a bumper rabi crop. But, the bigger challenge for his government is to procure the produce and to do that, the government requires Rs 45,000 crore. The government is faced with the challenge of procuring 1.05 crore metric tonnes of paddy, the highest ever paddy produced in the history of Telangana, which otherwise would have been sold by the farmers directly to private traders in the open market. Normally, the government procures certain percentage of paddy for distribution through fair price shops. In all the cases, farmers have the option of either selling it to the government or the private traders in the open market. “Due to the lockdown, not many traders have come forward to buy their agricultural produce. Even those who have come forward offered very little following which the famers have demanded that the government come to their rescue,” officials said. The CM had obliged, they added. However, officials are not sure how the government intends to raise Rs 45,000 crore. Also, with marketing facilities not available and unseasonal rains, the woes of farmers have multiplied, farmers sanghams’ leaders point out. Meanwhile, the government has given counter-guarantee to the agriculture and civil supplies departments to obtain loans to procure the farm produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-needs-rs-45k-crore-to-buy-paddy-other-farm-produce/articleshow/75305546.cms||Roushan Ali
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Amid lockdown, poachers on the prowl||Jaipur: With sparse public movement during lockdown, the state forest department has reported a surge in the movement of armed poachers inside national parks and sanctuaries. A fresh incident was reported from Keoladeo National Park in Bharatpur where four poachers were caught on a camera trap with weapons in their hands. Bharatpur DFO (wildlife) Mohit Gupta said, “After movement of poachers was reported inside the park, we arrested two of them who hail from Azad Nagar village, 16km from the park. While they were produced in court, two more still remain at large.” Following the incident, the forest department has increased patrolling in Keoladeo. Reportedly, these poachers entered the park to hunt wild boars and peacocks. “As movement of villagers and authorities is restricted, poachers are trying to take advantage of the lockdown. Killing peacocks at night is easier and hence poachers in nearby villages have become active,” the official added. On April 1, a father-son duo was nabbed with a gun at Kala Devi Sanctuary in Karauli district. Besides poaching, forest officials are facing another problem of indiscriminate felling of Khair as the tree is in high demand due to its medicinal values and for making ‘kattha’, the main ingredient of paan. Cases of illegal felling are also being reported from Chittorgarh during the lockdown, which were earlier prominent in Kota, Baran and Jhalawar. Chittorgarh DFO (wildlife) Savita Dahiya said, “A total of 31 forest and wildlife related offences have been registered. The felling incidents have increased here after the lockdown. So far, we have imposed fine of Rs 1.68 lakh in Sitamata wildlife sanctuary and Rs 59,200 in Bassi wildlife sanctuary on the offenders for cutting trees.” Another official said, the cost of a Khair tree is four times than usual ones. At present, its wood is sold between Rs 5,000 and Rs 50,000 as per market demand. The tree also has medicinal value and is used for making drugs for treating ailments like skin, neck, tooth, diarrhoea and lung infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amid-lockdown-poachers-on-the-prowl/articleshow/75306611.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kozhikode||With hotels shut, farmers struggling to feed pigs||Kozhikode: Thousands of pig farmers in the state have been severely hit with Covid-19 lockdown shutting off their supply of food waste from restaurants, which make up for most of the diet of pigs grown in commercial farms. The hopes of farmers on resuming supplies were dashed after permission for allowing dine-in service in restaurants in many districts as part of lockdown relaxations were withdrawn on Monday. Farmers say they are struggling even to provide maintenance feed to the animals to keep them alive. While the cost of leftover food materials collected from restaurants and markets were around just Rs 2 per kg by way of collection charges, the cost of dry feed comprising rice and wheat was around Rs 30, making piggery operations unsustainable. “The piggery sector is facing an unprecedented crisis with farmers left with no resources to feed thousands of animals. More than 90% of feed for piggery units in the state comes from hotels and organic material from markets. Since we cannot let the animals die, farmers are giving costly dry feed as well as banking on unconventional feed like jackfruits, leftover pineapples and whatever else they manage to get,” K Bhasi, a pig farmer based in Palakkad and joint secretary of the state pig farmers’ association. “There has been a fivefold increase in daily feeding cost per animal after the lockdown — from Rs 10 per day when fed on food-refuse from hotels to Rs 60 when fed on dry feed comprising wheat, rice, coconut oil cake etc,” he said. He added that cost of feed made up for 80% of the operating cost of the piggery unit. Dr N Sudhodanan, retired deputy director, department of animal husbandry and farm consultant, said farmers were finding it difficult to transport even the limited available food waste from community kitchen, Kudumbashree hotels and canteens due to lockdown restrictions. “While poultry and dairy feed are allowed to be transported during lockdown, pig farmers are finding it difficult to transport even the scarce food remains they can find to their farms,” he said. Sudhodanan said there were 5,083 registered pig farms in the state which were providing livelihood for thousands of families and also helping in recycling food waste from hotels and other organic waste markets into fodder, making pork production an environmentally sustainable enterprise as well. He said around 9,000 live pigs were being slaughtered every week in the state and only one third of the demand was being supplied from the farms in the state. “I have been feeding around 500 pigs I have in my farm with boiled rice mixed with turmeric. Also we have been giving jackfruit and other stuff to the animals. However, it is not sustainable in the long run due to the cost involved and it does not meet dietary requirements for fattening of pigs,” Jose P, a farmer based at Aryanad panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/with-hotels-shut-farmers-struggling-to-feed-pigs/articleshow/75303953.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||2,717 MP students from Kota on their way home||BHOPAL: Over 25,000 students of Madhya Pradesh, who were stranded in several coaching institutes at Kota in Rajasthan, are expected to reach their homes late in the night. The state government had sent 150 buses to bring back the students who were stuck up since the lockdown was announced. By 7pm, around 140 buses with students on board had left Kota, and around 80 buses had entered Madhya Pradesh. Ten buses have been kept on stand by till Thursday afternoon in Kota in case some students are left behind. The move has come following instructions from chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who was closely monitoring the developments. He had asked that the move be kept a low key affair considering the safety of students, said sources. Additional chief secretary ICP Keshari who was monitoring the entire operation, said: “It is a work of great responsibility. The chief minister was closely monitoring the entire exercise. Medical screening of students was done there also and also at the entry points in the state. We had made preparations for the past few days before sending the buses to bring back the students. These students would be dropped to their homes. District collectors will ensure that their medical screening is done once again when the students reach their districts, and then they would be dropped home”. “We have kept 10 buses in Kota till tomorrow so that if some students have been missed the bus, they can also be brought back. Among those being brought back, there are students from almost all the districts in the state. Largest numbers of the students are from Rewa, Satna and Singrauli districts”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-2500-students-from-kota-to-reach-home-today/articleshow/75305525.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||Six Covid patients discharged||Kolkata: Six persons, who recovered from Covid-19 infection, were discharged from a private hospital in Salt Lake on Wednesday, making the total number of novel coronavirus survivors in the state to 79 so far. Though the risk of mortality is higher among elderly people, four of the discharged patients were senior citizens, including a 72-year-old Chetla resident, who had been put on ventilation for respiratory distress. On April 11, the septuagenarian was admitted in AMRI Hospital’s Salt lake unit that has been turned into a Covid hospital. Another resident of Abhay Mitra Lane in Shaympukur (77), was released after two consecutive tests showed he was free of the virus. A 63-year-old man from Salt Lake, a 60-year-old man from Park Circus, a 48-year-old man from Howrah and a 34-year-old woman from Garia Station Road were the four others sent home on Wednesday. All of them have been advised home isolation for the next 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-covid-patients-discharged/articleshow/75305549.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Special helpline from today, measures to keep cops safe||Nashik/Aurangabad: Hundreds of policemen deployed across the state can call a dedicated helpline operated by doctors to speak about their anxiety, stress over working in containment zones during the time of pandemic and also seek guidance if they show any symptoms of Covid-19 infection.Starting Thursday, the state police force will have a dedicated helpline operated from Pune, which cops can call to speak with doctors and seek advise. So far, as many as 64 state police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra. Of them, 32 belong to Mumbai police .Additional director-general of police (administration) Sanjeev Kumar Singhal said the exclusive helpline (9132953295) for answering Covid-19 related queries of policemen from across the state, manned by medical practitioners from Pune, would kick start from Thursday. “This helpline would work from Pune police commissionerate office daily from 9am to 8pm,” he said.The state police office has already supplied masks and sanitizers in large quantities. In addition, all superintendents and commissioners of police have been authorized to use welfare fund for purchasing articles like masks, sanitizers and relevant gears, Singhal said.Also, the Covid-19 treatment has been covered under the state insurance scheme under pulmonary emergency. All the commissioners and superintendents of police have been told to release Rs 1 lakh as advance from the welfare fund to any policemen, who get infected with Covid-19.Different police units across the state have adopted measures to ensure those at risk – such as personnel over 50 and with existing medical conditions – do not come in direct contact with the public. Along with Mumbai police, now even the Nashik police are taking steps to give hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a medicine used known to have some preventive effects against Covid-19, to its personnel.A team of four doctors is conducting survey of 3,500 police personnel of Nashik city and already spoken to 1,700 of them. The team is checking whether the policemen have blood pressure, diabetes or are on any medication. Based on the information, they will be given the drug.Nashik’s deputy commissioner of police (HQ) Pournima Chaugule told TOI that the state director general of police’s office had passed on the AYUSH ministry guidelines regarding use of HCQ. “The survey is important as the medicine cannot be given to all. Those with blood pressure, diabetes and on medication cannot be given the medicine as it could have certain side effects,” said Chaugule.Aurangabad police are giving its personnel medicine to boost immunity. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad told TOI, “Apart from taking all the precautionary measures, boosting immunity remains vital in fighting this disease. As a solution, we got over 3,500 bottle of a homeopathy medicine and the distribution has already started. Each family member of the policemen is expected to have four pills on empty stomach in the morning for three consecutive days,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/special-helpline-from-today-measures-to-keep-cops-safe/articleshow/75303947.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 23, 2020||Allahabad||Woman’s gun attack claim foxes cops||Prayagraj: A 40-year-old woman was allegedly shot at by two men while she was out on a morning walk on Wednesday near Muradpur, under Naini police station. Police said the attacked woman was identified as Neelam, a resident of Muradnagar, who runs a self-help group. The woman was attacked around 5.30am. When the police started investigating the attack, they found the details to be sketchy. Initially, the woman had claimed that she was attacked by two men on a motorcycle. However, she kept changing her statement. Inspector (Naini) Awan Kumar said, “We later found out that the woman had six criminal cases were pending against her. During her medical examination, doctors at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital claimed the her injuries did not appear to be caused by firearms.” Kumar said that after being pressured by the police, Neelam finally admitted that she was attacked by two of her co-workers over a monetary dispute. Police said that Neelam had been accused of misappropriating funds and following which she had a dispute with her co-workers. Neelam’s husband Babu too has a criminal past. Police said that there were no CCTV cameras installed in the area and none of the local residents appeared to have heard gun shots. Kumar said that action would be initiated against the woman once police compiled ample evidence against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/womans-gun-attack-claim-foxes-cops/articleshow/75304385.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Allahabad||Competent authority can ordercompulsory retirement, says HC||Prayagraj: Allahabad high court on Wednesday ruled that competent authority has the power to pass an order of compulsory retirement of an employee after recording its satisfaction in public interest. The aggrieved employee can not challenge the order of his compulsory retirement on the ground that he was not heard before passing of the order of compulsory retirement, the court added. Allowing a special appeal filed by UP State Electricity Board (UPSEB), a division bench, comprising Justice Biswanath Somadder and Justice Dr Y K Srivastav said that under the rules, the authority has the power to pass the order of compulsory retirement after recording its satisfaction. UPSEB had challenged the single judge order dated April 17, 2019, whereby compulsory retirement order passed against the petitioner, Raghuraj Singh, was quashed and writ petition was allowed. The single judge had allowed the writ petition on the ground that there was no material on record, which could support the opinion that continuance in service of the petitioner was not in public interest. It was argued by the UPSEB before the division bench that order of compulsory retirement dated December 23, 1994, was passed on the recommendation of the screening committee and the order of the UPSEB dated February 22, 1991. A counter-affidavit was filed and stand was taken therein that impugned compulsory retirement order was passed on the basis of adverse reports, gross negligence in performance of duties and indiscipline by the petitioner. It was said that the single judge did consider the stand of the Board and allowed the writ petition and quashed the compulsory retirement order. The court, after considering the rival submission of the parties, set aside the single judge order and dismissed the writ petition. The bench said that the concerned authority, after recording satisfaction in the order, had formed the opinion that continuance in the service of the petitioner was not in public interest and, therefore, had passed an order of compulsory retirement. The bench said that under the Regulation 2 (b) of 1975, the Authority has the power to pass the order of compulsory retirement. The single judge had failed to consider the stand taken by the Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/competent-authority-can-ordercompulsory-retirement-says-hc/articleshow/75304459.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown movies are making a scene online||A cast of one per scene (physical distancing protocol in place), actors in masks (pandemic measures taken), the house as a shooting spot (isolation rules followed)… lockdown-hero, budget-zero movies are taking the internet by storm as filmmaking enthusiasts get together (while apart of course) to create short films, often with a message. Take the case of law student buddies N Soorya, Sachin Raj, and R Eneyan, all of them quarantined in various parts of TN but together in spirit. “Filmmaking has always been a passion for me,” says Soorya. So after practising his violin for days on end, and writing short stories and blogs, Soorya decided to get down to filmmaking to beat the quarantine blues. The storyline of his nine-minute, made-at-home short ‘3 In Corona Out’ is simple a comedy about three bachelors stranded in one house and how they manage the situation. “We made the film from our homes in Velachery, Alwarpet and Dharmapuri,” says Soorya, a fourth-year student at Chennai’s School of Excellence in Law. “The film took us three days to put together. I learned how to do it by watching online tutorials,” says Soorya. Read the full on story on TOI+ Lockdown movies are making a scene online||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-movies-are-making-a-scene-online/articleshow/75306615.cms||Kamini Mathai
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to seek postal department help to trace 5 lakh card holders||HYDERABAD: Over five lakh white ration card holders are yet to receive the Rs 1,500 financial assistance. Senior officials said bank account numbers of 5.26 lakh card holders are either not available or are not functional. The government is now trying to reach them through the postal department. “We were able to get the bank account numbers of over 96% card holders through Aadhaar-enabled bank documents. We are trying to reach the remaining 5.26 lakh card holders through postal department,” said an official. However, the postal department faces a challenge. Tracing the residential addresses of the card holders in the rural areas should not be a problem for it. But finding a lakh of the 5.26 lakh card holders from Greater Hyderabad and other towns should be a headache. They may have changed their residential addresses as people keep shifting from rental premises to another in cities and towns. “Our target is to extend the financial aid to every poor family in addition to the 12-kg rice which has already been distributed free,” a civil supplies official said. The exercise of tracing the 5.26 lakh card holders assumes significance as the government has decided to extend 12-kg rice and Rs 1,500 assistance to all the 87.55 lakh card holders in May also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-seek-postal-dept-help-to-trace-5l-card-holders/articleshow/75305571.cms||Roushan Ali
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||‘T must speed up paddy procurement’||Hyderabad: AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan said the Telangana government should step up efforts to procure paddy and maize to help farmers tide over the crisis. “The government has promised to open 7,500 procurement centres to purchase rabi produce. But it has opened only 4,380 procurement centres,” Sravan said in a letter to CM KCR. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-must-speed-up-paddy-procurement/articleshow/75305561.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jail within jail: Quarantine must for new prisoners||AHMEDABAD: With over 2,500 prisoners, the Sabarmati Central Jail is like a small township. Like the rest of the world, the jail is taking steps in response to Covid-19. The jail authorities have set up a jail within the jail. In fact, all 33 jails in the state have created a quarantine ward where every new prisoner is housed for 14 days before being shifted to a barrack. Additional DGP jails K L N Rao said that the jail staff, and doctors and paramedical staff of jail hospitals, are being advised through video-conferences about dealing with the sickness of colleagues or prisoners. “We have compiled a list of hospitals with their telephone numbers in every district so that anyone who shows Covid-19 symptoms can be sent for treatment immediately, ” Rao said. On Tuesday, to check the preparedness of the jail staff, a mock drill was conducted at the Sabarmati jail. The task was to deal with a prisoner who starts showing symptoms of Covid-19. “The jail staff give the prisoner oxygen and then a police ambulance takes him to a designated hospital,” Rao said. The police ambulance, jail staff, and doctors are then sanitized and all get back to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jail-within-jail-quarantine-must-for-new-prisoners/articleshow/75305749.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Central team hails measures taken by Raj to combat Covid||Jaipur: A five-member central team on Wednesday took stock of the preparations to combat the spread of COVID-19 infection in Jaipur and visited SMS Medical College, the quarantine centres and the shelter homes in the district. Appreciating their efforts, they pointed out that the job of district administration, health workers and police was that of the service towards humanity. The team visited the quarantine centre at Manipal University on Ajmer Road and the one at Jyoti Vidyapeeth. They enquired about the routine of the people, snacks and food being provided to them, their sampling, and sanitization etc. T Ravikant, commissioner, JDA, gave details about the quarantine facilities. They also visited a shelter home at Dahmi Kalan and enquired about food and other facilities provided to them. Under the leadership of Additional secretary to the department of financial services Sanjeev Kaushik, the central team on Wednesday took a meeting with the officials and representatives of the district administration, Sawai Mansingh Hospital, Jaipur municipal corporation, agriculture department, animal husbandry department, industry, food and civil supplies at the district collectorate to understand the efforts being taken by the district administration to fight the spread of virus. The other members of the team include Dr. Harshal Salve, Bindu Tiwari, S K Jena and Devendra S Uike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/central-team-hails-measures-taken-by-raj-to-combat-covid/articleshow/75306618.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Thrashed by policemen, Delhi youth suffers broken jaw||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old man and his brother were brutally thrashed by two policemen while they were returning home with groceries in Nihal Vihar of outer Delhi on Friday. One of the youths suffered a broken jaw and severe injuries on his chest and back. A similar incident was reported from Nathupura where the secretary of an RWA, a YouTuber, suffered a fractured arm after being beaten up at a police post. The man had approached police to report a suspected corona patient in his locality on Tuesday evening. Another such incident was reported from Timarpur on Tuesday where volunteers of a relief distribution campaign being run by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari were beaten up by policemen. In the Nihal Vihar incident, the victim, Pankaj Verma, claimed that he was returning home after dropping his grandmother to her residence nearby. He had bought groceries on the way. “Two policemen sitting at a picket near my house had seen us leaving, but didn’t say anything then. They stopped us on our way back and asked why we were roaming around,” he added. Before Verma could give an explanation, one of the cops allegedly hit his brother on the face a few times. When he tried to intervene, he was held by the throat and pushed away. The policemen then allegedly kicked and punched him. “I couldn’t see their name plates as I was dazed by the attack. They asked my brother to pick up my mobile phone and leave,” Verma said. He will be approaching Nihal Vihar police station with a complaint against the two cops. “If I was at fault, they could have taken legal action against me. Instead, they thrashed me,” he added. At Nathupura, the attack on YouTuber Narender Kumar was caught on CCTV where policemen were seen beating him with a stick. “When I saw the suspected patient in my colony, I informed the sub-inspector in charge of our area. He asked me to report it to the police post. When I reached there, two policemen suddenly attacked me. I was talking to the sub-inspector when the incident occurred. Later, when I lodged a complaint, I was pressured to withdraw it saying that a cross-FIR would be registered against me,” he said. DCP (Outer-North) Gaurav Sharma said, “We have taken note of the video and started an inquiry. Strict action will be taken against anyone found at fault.” At Timarpur, BJP youth wing member Vikas Kumar alleged that while they were waiting for the relief truck to arrive near Indra Basti, three cops approached them and started hurling abuses. When the youths tried to reason with them, they were thrashed and chased away. “I saw the names of the policemen and filed a complaint with the SHO. He assured us that strict action will be taken against the culprits,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/thrashed-by-policemen-youth-suffers-broken-jaw/articleshow/75307423.cms||---
April 23, 2020||India||UP to facilitate stranded migrants’ return||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has said it would help people, who are stranded in UP due to lockdown, reach their native places if their governments allow them to return. There are about 22,000 people from other states who are currently stuck in Uttar Pradesh. About 7,000 of them are staying in shelter homes run by the revenue department. “There are about 20,000 people in shelter homes of whom 7,133 are from other states. Others are spread across the state, some working in factories while others living with relatives and friends. Most of them are from Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Some are from Jammu & Kashmir and Maharashtra,” a senior official said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has, however, said the lockdown should be strictly implemented, especially in those districts where there are 10 or more cases of Covid-19. “Lockdown means ‘total lockdown’. Ensure that it is implemented totally,” the CM said. There are 10 districts in UP where all positive cases have now tested negative and there are no new fresh cases as of now. The CM has said that such districts should not lower their guard and ensure that lockdown protocol is still maintained and random testing continues to ensure that no fresh cases come up. During a review of the lockdown on Wednesday, the CM said, “All those people who have been sent home from quarantine shelters and students who returned from Kota (Rajasthan), should be spoken to routinely through the CM Helpline 1076 and asked to remain in mandatory home quarantine for 14 days.” He said in coming days, he would personally speak to some of the students and ask about their wellbeing. Reviewing the situation of districts where there are 10 or more cases of Covid-19, the CM stressed on the need to intensify testing in the state. He said special attention should be given to districts like Aligarh, Saharanpur and Moradabad where Covid-19 cases were on the rise. He said testing labs should be set up in every divisional headquarters while medical technicians be trained to ensure that test results are given on time. The CM said people running community kitchens and those maintaining supply chain should also be tested for coronavirus infection. He said all employees of the secretariat attending office should be provided a bottle of sanitizer each. Meanwhile, principal secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi said 77% harvesting has taken place in the state and more than 30 lakh quintals wheat has been purchased. Around 62% of this was purchased directly from farmers’ doorstep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-to-facilitate-stranded-migrants-return/articleshow/75308770.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||No salary cut for employees: South Central Railway||HYDERABAD: Despite the suspension of passenger train services between March 25 and May 7, South Central Railway (SCR) has assured its employees, both permanent and contract, that it would release full salaries for the month of April. “All the railway employees have been paid their salaries for the month of March and being a national transporter we have no plan to cut neither salary nor allowances of the loco pilots, engineers and other employees. If there are any issues of delay in payment, we are dealing with them at an individual level,” Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officers, SCR, told TOI. Meanwhile, SCR achieved a feat during the lockdown by transporting 1,507 tonnes of parcels in a nine-day period. This is the second-highest transportation of parcels amongst all zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-salary-cut-for-employees-says-scr/articleshow/75305582.cms||Arya Sharan
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||With Covid-19 not abating, NTCA for continued closure of tiger reserves||Nagpur: With Covid-19 cases continuing to rise, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has asked the states to keep tiger reserves and parks closed indefinitely. TOI on Wednesday reported opposition by even guides and Gypsy drivers against reopening of parks owing to Covid-19 scare. NTCA member-secretary Anup Kumar Nayak said, “The decision should not be looked upon as anti-tourism. In the light of limited knowledge of the virus vis-a-vis its human community transmission besides possibility of transmission from humans to animals, it is advised to keep the parks closed until further orders.” Nayak said, “Though the lockdown has been extended till May 3, after consulting several wildlife experts, I feel the parks should not be opened till Covid-19 is completely eliminated from the country. We have 75% of the world’s tiger population and you never know about the lurking danger.” NTCA officials dropped enough hints to close the parks during this tourism season which ends in June. “By October, when new tourism season starts, we hope things will be better,” they told TOI. Maharashtra PCCF (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar stated, “Obviously we are not in a position to start tourism immediately and plan to keep the parks closed till May 15. We’ll take a call on whether to continue closure of parks after that.” On day-long machan (water hole) census on Buddha Pournima on May 7-8, Kakodkar said, “We will withdraw the orders on conducting Nisarga Anubhav. Though we can still conduct the exercise by staff, the basic purpose is to inculcate liking about forest and wildlife among people.” Anish Andheria, president, Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), welcomed NTCA decision. “National parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves should remain closed for the remainder of the 2020 summer tourist season. We cannot afford to catalyse congregation of people and increase the spread among tourists, hotel staff, wildlife and the frontline forest staff, who are extremely important for protecting our forests,” he said. Andheria added, “Currently, because of remoteness, the virus has not spread among frontline staff. However, with tourists going to these parks, there is likelihood the staff will get exposed to the virus and may need to be quarantined, leaving our parks unguarded. The lockdown has resulted in reverse migration of labour force and villagers, thereby increasing their dependence on forests for subsistence.” On the other hand, executive director of Tour Operators for Tigers India (TOFT) Vishal Singh said NTCA was issuing directives but doing nothing to take care of guides and locals who are completely dependent on tourism. “I feel with Covid-19, the restriction of tourism in 20% of the park area should be removed so vehicles are distributed widely. Secondly, lodges can be operated with 50% of their capacity and restrictions should be imposed on tourists from hotspots. Visitors should be allowed inside only after thermal scanning. Some guidelines need to be issued by NTCA to strike a balance,” said Singh. Andheria said, “During these unprecedented times, we need vigilance of our forest guards and watchers more than ever before to avoid a disproportionately high number of offenses against forest and wildlife, and also to attend to increasing instances of human-wildlife conflict.” “I insist that both state governments and MoEFCC should issue directives regarding closure of India’s parks for tourism for the remaining of this summer season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-covid-19-not-abating-ntca-for-continued-closure-of-tiger-reserves/articleshow/75327390.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Sec’bad RWAs provide PPEs to 1.1k workers||Secunderabad: Recognising the sanitation workers’ services during the lockdown, the RWAs in Secunderabad Cantonment, have come forward and are providing Covid-19 preventive material, such as surgical masks, sanitizers and PPE kits to over 1,100 sanitation workers. “We are strictly following measures of self-quarantine in our houses whereas sanitation workers are attending to sweeping in the lockdown. On an humanitarian aspect, we have responded to keep their health better,” a member of Arihant Enclave RWA, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/secbad-rwas-provide-ppes-to-1-1k-workers/articleshow/75306661.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Road trip for woman from Delhi ends in Covid ward in Kerala||KOTTAYAM: The woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 in Idukki, had been quarantined along with her 71-year-old husband in Delhi for 14 days, before the couple embarked on a 3,500km road trip home to Pala. The trip, however, ended at Cumbammet on Kerala-Tamil Nadu border when Kerala police personnel stopped them and directed the couple to a quarantine centre there. On Wednesday, the 65-year-old woman tested positive, and since she hails from Kottayam, she will be shifted to the medical college here at the earliest, according to Idukki district medical officer N Priya. Kottayam has been without Covid-19 patients for a few weeks now. Circle inspector of Cumbammet police G Sunil Kumar said the couple from Pala had gone to Melbourne, Australia, to be with their son on March 6. They returned to Delhi on March 20, where they were quarantined in a hotel. They opted to remain quarantined, but since the daily room rent came to Rs 6,000, they decided to drive down to Kerala, with the help of a relative working with the Delhi police. The relative drove the car and they reached Cumbammet on April 16, the officer said. The relative, however, returned since he was not allowed to enter the state. After being informed by police, the health department officials shifted the couple to the isolation facility at Cumbammet, and collected their swabs for testing. While the woman tested positive, her husband’s result was negative. The details of the person who drove the car have been handed over to the authorities in Delhi, the Idukki district collector said. Two doctors, one nurse test positive in Kozhikode Meanwhile in Kozhikode, Covid-19 was detected in two house surgeons of Kozhikode Medical College and a nurse who worked at a private hospital in the district. All three were admitted to the isolation ward of MCH and their health condition is reported to be stable. The surgeons, who toured Delhi last month, hail from Kozhikode and Kannur respectively. They took the Hazrat Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Express and arrived in Kozhikode on March 22. In the coach they travelled, there was a man from Alappuzha who attended the Tablighi Jamaat prayer meet and he later tested positive for Covid-19 on April 3. The doctors then went on home quarantine for 28 days after they received news that both had travelled in the coach with Alappuzha patient. They remained asymptomatic and MCH conducted a test before their 28-day isolation period ended on April 20. The nurse who worked in the ICU wing of Iqraa Hospital contracted the disease from the patient who tested positive on April 11. The hospital had asked the nurse and other staff who treated the Edacheri resident to remain in home quarantine. (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/road-trip-for-woman-from-delhi-ends-in-covid-ward/articleshow/75303994.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
April 23, 2020||Mysuru||Hundreds gather to buy fish near Nanjangud without social distancing||Hundreds of people from more than 10 villages near the Covid-19 red zone of Nanjangud rushed to Doddakere lake in Harathale village to purchase fish on Tuesday, completely disregarding precautionary measures and social distancing norms. The news of fish being sold at Harathale spread like wildfire among people upset over skyrocketing prices of both chicken and mutton, soon leading to the large gathering at the village. After a video showing the chaos at Harathale went viral on social media, Nanjangud tahsildar Mahesh Kumar requested people to follow the guidelines of maintaining distancing and wearing masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hundreds-gather-to-buy-fish-near-nanjangud-without-social-distancing/articleshow/75302290.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Donate textbooks to students, say teachers||Aurangabad: A teachers’ group has appealed to students and their parents to donate textbooks instead of scrapping it, as there might be shortage of textbooks in the next academic year as the factories producing the textbooks are affected due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Kailas Gaikwad, the Aurangabad district secretary of state-level association of primary teachers, said the state education department might face difficulties in the distribution of textbooks for students of Class I to Class VIII at the outset of the upcoming academic year . “The production of textbooks and the distribution are likely to take a hit. In such a scenario, old textbooks donated by students and their parents will be of huge benefit,” he said. Maharashtra State Bureau of Textbook Production and Curriculum Research, commonly known as Balbharati, every year produces textbooks for students enrolled in schools running under the education department of the state government. Gaikwad said that donating old textbooks would avoid a possible academic loss to students getting promoted in higher classes. “A few schools including our zilla parishad school at Khandi-Pimpalgaon has inculcated a habit of donating textbooks among students. It helps in saving paper required for the production of textbooks and financial saving for parents,” he said. Pradnya Sawale, a parent, said, “I have two children and I have decided to donate their old textbooks to the students in need students. While Balbharati authorities could not be reached for their comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/donate-textbooks-to-students-say-teachers/articleshow/75303999.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kanpur||Samples sent back by Jhansi College to be tested in other labs||KANPUR: The swab samples of 250 suspected coronavirus cases of Kanpur which were returned by Jhansi Medical College without being tested last Monday, will now now be tested in other labs. Jhansi Medical College had sent the samples back without testing, stating that medical norms were not complied while sending them. As per rules, the samples must be ice-packed and the cold chain must not be broken, but the samples they had received that the cold chain was not maintained. Kanpur Nagar CMO Dr Ashok Shukla said, “Each sample has now been ice-packed and kept in a big box, ensuring there is no break in the cold chain. Samples remain intact till five days. Since labs aree overloaded right now, they will be tested as soon as the pressure eases.” District health authorities had 250 sent samples to Jhansi Medical College on Sunday. The samples collected were of persons who came in contact with corona positive patients. The police had collected the travel history of infected persons and identified as many as 2000 persons who came in contact with the infected ones. Samples sent to Jhansi were of the secondary contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/samples-sent-back-by-jhansi-college-to-be-tested-in-other-labs/articleshow/75304655.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: One held for posts ‘demoralizing’ cops||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime police station of Ahmedabad registered a cas against a resident of Odhav, Vishnu Thakor, for posting comments on social media aimed at fomenting discontent among policemen. He had commented that cops work in adverse conditions but are not appreciated. He also posted that police do not have any right to protest though everyone else in the government does. Thakor was arrested on Tuesday under the provisions of Disaster Management Act. According to the FIR registered on April 20, police received a letter from higher authorities to check the comments made by Thakor. “We found that he had posted comments highlighting inequities he imagined were faced by Gujarat cops. He had further commented that everyone in the government has a right to protest but the police does not. These comments could have agitated the police and lowered their morale. It could also have created breach of law and order in the state,” said inspector Sajjan Mucchal of cybercrime police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-for-posts-demoralizing-cops/articleshow/75305746.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu expats reach out to migrants in SA||Hyderabad: The Telugu expat community is lending a helping hand to migrant workers who are suffering in South Africa. There is a large number of migrant workers from Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi who are going through difficult times because of the lockdown on account of spread of Covid-19. Various Telugu associations have come together to support nearly 1,000 families in Thembisa, Ivory Park, Diploot and Mooiplas around Johannesburg. They are being provided with essential supplies, according to Nagaraju Gurrala from Telangana. The Telangana Association of South Africa, Andhra Association of South Africa, India Cares, South African Hindu Service Council, Sri Sai Darshan Charitable Organisation, South African Telugu community and TRS South Africa wing in Johannesburg are involved in the distribution of the essentials to the needy. In addition, the Telugu expat community has identified daily wage earners who were suffering on account of the lockdown. The community distributed 1,000 food hampers. Each food hamper can sustain a family of four for nearly 10 days. Some more areas where people need help have been identified in Thembisa township and also two orphanages in Midrand. The Telugu community intends to donate sanitisers, face mask and head visors to police and medicinal personnel who are involved with the care of Covid-19 positive patients in the second phase of their distribution. The Telugu expat community said the help of the church of scientology was taken in packing and delivering 20,000 bags of esentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-expats-reach-out-to-migrants-in-sa/articleshow/75305603.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Big cat found dead in Aurangabad district||Aurangabad: A female leopard was found dead inside a well in a farm in Vaijapur taluka of Aurangabad district on Wednesday morning. Forest department authorities said that the big cat might have slipped and fallen into the well in search of water or prey during the night. The incident, however, has prompted conservationists to call for proper investigation into the death of the big cat for possible poisoning. With this, a total of four leopards have died in Marathwada within less than 10 days. Deputy conservator of forest of Aurangabad range S P Wadaskar, on Wednesday, said that farmer Ashok Chandane from Mauje Kangoni village in Vaijapur taluka spotted the deceased leopard inside the well in his farm at around 7 am.  “The well was around 55 feet deep and filled with water at a height of 15 feet. The leopard was fished out of water in a dead condition. The big cat was of female sex and was cremated as per norms after carrying out the post-mortem report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/big-cat-found-dead-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/75304026.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Start helpline for seniors, Delhi high court tells AAP government||NEW DELHI: Taking note of the problems being faced by senior citizens during Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the AAP government to create a dedicated helpline for them. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and S Prasad said a dedicated helpline number would be helpful in addressing their problems on an urgent basis. It asked the government and other stakeholders to widely publicise the helpline number to make seniors aware of the facility. With these directions, the HC disposed of a PIL filed by a 61-year-old man seeking the court’s intervention to help senior citizens such as him struck hard by the unprecedented lockdown. The plea by Ajit Kumar had sought directions to the government and police to make effective arrangements for banking, health, groceries and other basic facilities to senior citizens at their doorsteps and to allot special hospitals/clinics for their medical emergencies. Appearing for Delhi government, additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal earlier told the bench that government machinery at all levels was already doing its best to contain the spread of Covid-19. “All requests of senior citizens, including requests regarding groceries and medical supplies, are being addressed through the helpline no. 1291 provided by Delhi Police.” Kumar’s plea had underlined that as per medical research, while people of all ages can be infected by the new coronavirus, older people and people with pre-existing medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes and heart disease, appear to be more vulnerable to becoming severely ill with the coronavirus and dying from it. “Senior citizens face the fatal effects of Covid-19 because one's immune system weakens with age. Since this unprecedented situation has happened for first time in India, it is most humbly submitted that this Hon’ble Court may issue appropriate guidelines for the protection of senior citizens from Covid-19 and may be pleased to direct the Government to provide all type of assistance to these poor and helpless Senior Citizens by way of providing medical and other facilities at their doorsteps so that they are not compelled to go out to shop, banks and hospital/clinic by risking their life till the lockdown is over In an epidemic of contagious disease till the vaccine is developed,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/start-helpline-for-seniors-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/75307446.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Drunk man quarrels with woman, held||AHMEDABAD: A 20-year-old woman of Sardarnagar lodged a complaint at Airport police station alleging that a man, later identified as one Naresh Tekwani of Sardarnagar, had quarrelled with her on Tuesday night while he was drunk. The woman had gone out with her dog at the time of the incident. Airport police arrested Tekwani under Sections 110-117 of IPC for indecent behaviour in public. According to the complaint, the nearby police control room van got a message at about 10pm that a man in inebriated condition had got into a fight with a 20-year-old woman near Sai Baba Temple. Police went to the spot immediately and found the man was drunk and behaving indecently and abusively in public. “The man was so heavily drunk that the cops had to use force to take him into the PCR van. He was taken to the police station,” said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunk-man-quarrels-with-woman-held/articleshow/75305744.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||IMA opposes Kerala govt's decision on homoeo drugs for Covid-19||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state committee of the Indian Medical Association has opposed chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan giving the nod to preventive homoeo medicines. On Tuesday, the CM had said that the government has decided to allow the distribution of homoeo preventive medicine for Covid-19. "World over several efforts are ongoing to discover a vaccine and a remedy for the Covid-19. At this time the state government should not support a medicine that has not been scientifically proven as effective for Covid-19. Even the Supreme Court has said it is not the time for experimenting,’’ said Dr Abraham Varghese, state president of IMA. The IMA argued that the government's decision will create confusion in people as they would believe that this medicine is going to make them safer. The health guidelines in place are regarding the treatment and prevention of the Covid-19 and so far there are no scientifically proven preventive drugs available. IMA general secretary Dr P Gopakumar said the state government would be responsible for the all eventualities caused due to this decision. If the people are not taking adequate preventive steps advised by the WHO and are taking such medicines, then no one should be blamed for it, he said. The state IMA leadership said that while various international agencies are at the forefront of developing a medicine, the state government should not have come up with such an order. "The IMA requests the government to immediately withdraw the decision," informed the IMA leadership in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ima-opposes-govt-decision-on-homoeo-drugs/articleshow/75304042.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kanpur||Docs, staff of 2 hosps say no to PPE kits made in China||Kanpur: The junior doctors of Lala Lajpat Rai and Kanshiram hospitals refused to use Chinese Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits on Tuesday claiming them to be substandard. The kits were supplied by Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation (UPMRC). According to a source, junior residents at LLR hospital and doctors and paramedical staff of Kanshiram hospital refused to wear the kits. The administration of both the hospitals have lodged complaint to the government in this regard. The UPMRC had supplied 250 PPE kits on Monday. On Tuesday, 40 PPE kits were given to the junior doctors deployed in the isolation ward, flu OPD and Covid-19 hospital at LLR, but they refused to wear them claiming that the Chinese PPE kits were substandard, the source added. Chief superintendent of LLR hospital Prof RK Maurya confirmed the incident and stated that the doctors had refused to wear the Chinese PPE kits and he had apprised the authorities about the same. Dr SK Pandey, CMS of Kanshiram hospital said that the Covid-19 hospital staff has also lodged a written complaint in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/docs-staff-of-2-hosps-say-no-to-ppe-kits-made-in-china/articleshow/75304685.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||80 cops quarantined after coming in contact with six jail inmates who tested positive||Bareilly: At least 80 police officials and 11 jail staff were quarantined after six jail inmates they came in contact with were found Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. The jail inmates include five accused of attacking a team of health staff and policemen in Moradabad on April 15. Five people have already died of Covid-19 in Moradabad while one has been discharged after recovery. Two corona warriors – a government doctor and a ward boy – were among 21 infected in Moradabad as the district's tally rose to 94. According to administrative sources, all 80 policemen have been kept in four hotels turned into quarantine centres. Meanwhile, two more women accused of pelting stones at the policemen on April 15 were arrested. “Till now, 22 accused, including nine women, have been arrested and sent to jail,” additional superintendent of police Amit Kumar Anand said. Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said that there are 88 active cases in the district currently. A three-year-old boy and a teenage girl are among 21 new positive cases, the CMO said. Deputy inspector general of prisons BP Tripathi reached the district jail to take stock of the arrangements and measures taken up there. After a mob had attacked a team of health staff and cops in Nawabpura area on April 14, as many as 17 accused were arrested and shifted to the district jail. However, the next day after the jail inmates created ruckus over lodging 10 accused with them, the local administration shifted them to a temporary jail set up at a public school on the Delhi Road. Moradabad SSP Amit Pathak said that as many as 73 policemen were deployed in arresting the 17 accused and shifting them to the jail. “A total of 80 policemen are quarantined and their samples have been sent for tests,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/80-cops-quarantined-after-coming-in-contact-with-six-jail-inmates-who-tested-positive/articleshow/75302333.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 23, 2020||Kanpur||Cancer patient, five others test positive, Kanpur tally now 83||KANPUR: The number of coronavirus cases continues to rise in Kanpur with six more people on Wednesday evening testing positive for Covid-19 infection, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 83 in the district till now. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla said three family members and a neighbour of the wholesaler from Kidwainagar who earlier contracted the virus tested positive. “The wholesaler’s wife, son, sister-in-law and neighbour tested positive. Likewise, a resident of Quli Bazar pocket has tested positive,” he added. Besides, a 60-year-old cancer patient, a native of a village in Saifai tehsil of Etawah district, who is father of a lady sub-inspector posted at Rail Bazar police station, also tested positive. CMO Dr Shukla said, “We came to know that the Cancer patient has infection when he underwent Covid -19 test at a private lab before his surgery.” The doctors of private hospital and his family informed district health authorities following which he was admitted to hospital. “The doctors and paramedic staff of private hospital, and lab attendants of two pathologies where the patient went have been quarantined,” said Shukla. The OPD of private hospital and the ECG and X -ray room of a private pathology were sealed and sanitized. The cancer patient had also visited Rama Dental hospital for treatment and so it has been sanitized and two doctors, one intern and half-a-dozen paramedical staff have been quarantined. The health department has collected the sample of his daughter, a sub-inspector posted at Rail Bazar police station. If she tests positive, then the entire staff of the police station would have to go in isolation, said inspector Dadhibal Tiwari. Health officials have alerted their counterparts in Etawah to trace his source of infection and screen his contacts besides taking other preventive steps. Etawah district authorities said the village with a population of 1,200 people in Saifai tehsil was declared containment zone and sealed on Wednesday. The man had left for Kanpur on April 15. Etawah district magistrate JB Singh said, “The supply of essentials and medical goods in village will be ensured through teams under supervision of SDM rank official. All movement in the areas has been restricted.” Disinfectants were sprayed in the village by Etawah civic department officials to sanitize the area. There are 74 active cases in Kanpur district, since seven persons have been cured while two died. All 74 patients are in isolation at hospitals and are stable. Close contacts of these patients have also been quarantined and put under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cancer-patient-five-others-test-ve-kanpur-tally-now-83/articleshow/75304718.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 23, 2020||Mysuru||Authorities focus on SARI cases in Mysuru||Milton.Lawrence Mysuru: With a drop in new Covid-19 cases stemming from the Tablighi Jamaat conference and the Nanjangud ‘cluster’, the district administration is fousing on cases of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection/Illness (SARI) in Mysuru. The district administration has asked private hospitals to report SARI cases to the health authorities immediately and has warned of action, in case of failure. Even as the officials are yet to identify the source of infection of two SARI cases reported in the district last week, they have started screening all individuals undergoing treatment at hospitals across Mysuru. Everyday, samples are being collected from hospitals across the district, said health officials. The move comes days after a senior citizen with respiratory illness tested positive for Covid-19. Another person with a similar respiratory complaint too had tested positive for Covid-19 creating a sense of anxiety among officials at the forefront of fight against the virus. Health officials maintain that the two SARI-Covid positive individuals may have come in contact with either the positive patients or their primary or secondary contacts. Mysore Medical College and Research Institute dean and director CP Nanjaraj said, “About 156 samples from SARI patients being treated at various health care units in Mysuru have been collected for testing.” “These samples are being tested to rule out community transmission. Testing of all employees of pharmacy firm and their contacts is almost completed. Now the focus is on SARI cases,” said Nanjaraj who heads Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory in Mysuru — the Covid laboratory for Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu. The Covid laboratory in Mysuru is conducting 90 tests a day on average and rest of the samples are being sent to National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bengaluru. District health officer Dr Venkatesh said: “We are trying to find out how SARI cases contracted Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/authorities-focus-on-sari-cases-in-mysuru/articleshow/75302340.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops bust gambling den run from inside laboratory||AHMEDABAD: Ghatlodia police on Tuesday busted a gambling den from a laboratory in Ghatlodia and arrested 11 persons including a laboratory technician under provisions of the Prevention of Gambling Act and for violation of lockdown norms. Inspector Pushpa Gamit of Ghatlodia police said that they got an input about some persons having gathered at Krunal laboratory in Tejendranagar Flats in the area. When a police team reached the place, they found the shutters of the laboratory half open. Cops went into the shop and found 11 persons playing with cards and with money in front of them. Police identified all the persons, noted down their names and seized money and other articles. Cops later booked them under the charges of violation of lockdown notification and Epidemic Diseases Act as they had gathered at one place without valid reason, and also booked them under the laws to prevent gambling. Gamit said that the main accused, owner and technician of laboratory, Dharmendra Patel, 58, resident of Hira-Moti society in Ghatlodia, had been running the gambling den inside the laboratory for around a year. No one doubted him and he kept running his operations even during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-bust-gambling-den-run-from-inside-laboratory/articleshow/75305741.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Boy, 4, tests positive for Covid-19 in Ichalkaranji||Kolhapur: A four-year-old boy tested positive for Covid-19 in Ichalkaranji late on Tuesday night, two days after his grandfather, aged 60, tested positive for the contagion. Kolhapur district health officer Yogesh Sale told TOI on Wednesday that they have traced 11 of the close contacts of the senior citizen, 10 of whom tested negative. “However, the senior citizen’s wife, son and daughter-in-law as well as two other close contacts have tested negative,” he said. According to Sale, the area around Kole Mala in Ichalkaranji has already been declared a containment zone. The area has a population of 4,000 people with around 800 families. “We have launched a survey in the containment zone, where ae disinfection drive was organised. After the second case, that of the child, the area was once again disinfected. The contact tracing of the four-year-old boy, who could have gone to the neighbouring homes, is also being done,” he said. Sale said that during the survey, they found two potential suspects with symptoms of Covid-19. “They were been brought to Ichalkaranji’s Indira Gandhi Memorial (IGM) Hospital. A check-up will be conducted, following which a clinical decision will be taken on whether to send their swab samples for testing.” Another official from the IGM said that the boy is asymptomatic and stable and that there is nothing much to worry about. His grandfather has already been shifted to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) hospital, where he is also said to be stable. The grandfather is said to have underlying conditions, like hypertension and diabetes. Sale said that considering the current situation, a three-day stricter lockdown is being observed from Wednesday while appealing to citizens to cooperate. Earlier, he had said that the 60-year-old man had no travel history, but his son had a travel history from Baramati. BOX 15K families get essentials The district administration has distributed essential kits among more than 15,000 underprivileged families, said deputy collector Smita Kulkarni. Each kit contains 10 different items, which can last at least for two weeks for a family of four or five people, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/boy-4-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-ichalkaranji/articleshow/75304055.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Website for donors, benficiaries||Hyderabad: GHMC on Wednesday rolled out a website — https://covid123.in/ — for donors as well as beneficiaries to donate and receive food and essentials. People can also apply as volunteers. Their services will be utilised for coordinate distribution of food, rations, etc, mostly in their neighbourhood. Donors, beneficiaries and volunteers have to provide their name and mobile number, following which GHMC official will get in touch with them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/website-for-donors-benficiaries/articleshow/75305630.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Religious bodies, politicos provide relief materials in Madurai||MADURAI: Religious bodies and political entities in the state have come forward to lend a helping hand to people during the lockdown period. In Tirunelveli, the Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamath (TNTJ) distributed grocery kits worth Rs 810 to 1,000 families on Wednesday. Each grocery kits has 10kg rice, 1kg dhal, one litre oil, 1kg vermicelli and 2kg sugar. They have also distributed medicines worth Rs 4 lakh to 1,617 people, in Melapalayam in the city, since the beginning of this month. “After coming to know that we were distributing medicines free of cost, many people from across the state and abroad have started contributing to the cause. That helped us mobilise funds for the grocery kit distribution. Most of the beneficiaries are beedi workers whose livelihood have been affected in this lockdown period,” said treasurer of the Tirunrlveli unit of TNTJ, V M Mohammed Mydeen. Mydeen attributed the story on their free medicine distribution that was published in the Lockdown Heroes series in TOI as one of the factors that helped them raise funds for their cause. “We shared it on the social media and it received good response. One of the benefactors working in the Gulf sent a sum of Rs 17,500 after coming across the news item,” he said. In Tuticorin district, MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi distributed grocery kits worth Rs 1,000 to 2,125 families including sanitary workers in Ottapidaram area. She also distributed disinfectants. Tiruchendur MLA Anitha R Radhakrishnan and Ottapidaram MLA M C Shanmugaiah were also present. In Madurai, the arch bishop of Madurai Catholic Diocese, Antony Pappusamy, handed over grocery items worth Rs 10 lakh to district collector T G Vinay. The items included 5,000kg rice, 1,000kg dhal, urad dhal, cooking oil, spices and soap for 1,000 families. Spokesperson of the diocese Paul Britto said that the diocese has also distributed monthly provisions to 8,300 families in Madurai, Theni, Virudhunagar and Dindigul districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/religious-bodies-politicos-provide-relief-materials/articleshow/75306632.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt depts to function even in red zones||Thiruvananthapuram: The general administration department of the state government has published the guidelines for the functioning of government offices during the relaxed lockdown period. All departments and collectorates need to function even if it falls under the red zone or hotspots with a skeleton staff. At least 50% of the employees should work daily from the A and B groups. From the group C and D groups, 33% of the employees should work. The remaining employees can opt for work from home. Group D employees would be asked to work from office only in emergencies. All departments and offices which have been declared as emergency services for the Covid-19 related activities should function without fail. Since there is no public transport available, the department heads and other concerned officers should ensure attendance. The employees from other districts should not be asked to come to the office until the public transport facility is made available. If there is a shortage of staff, they can be asked to come for work. The police department should provide necessary passes to such employees. Specially challenged, pregnant and parents of children below five years should be exempted from duties and also from coming to the offices. However, all these would not be applicable for the employees who are working in the departments which have been declared as emergency services. Meanwhile, the state-level bankers committee has decided that the banks in the red zones; four districts Kasargod, Kozhikode, Kannur and Malappuram will work only between 10 am and 2 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-depts-to-function-even-in-red-zones/articleshow/75304083.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Forest department keeping close watch on fire, trespassers||TRICHY: At a time when the entire government machinery is focused on keeping people indoors to contain the spread of Covid-19, the forest department is toiling to prevent trespassers from entering reserve forests. With the mercury rising with every passing day making the forest prone to fire, the forest department has been resorting to different measures to prevent people from venturing into forests. There is no separate department for carrying out forest fire management except the forest department. Fire map of Trichy forest division was created and places prone to forest fire were identified based on previous year’s data. "While we have ascertained the cause of fire in multiple places, there is adequate reinforcement of field-level forest personnel where there was history of man induced fire, said a field level officer in the forest department. Issuing warning against those venturing into reserve forests, chief conservator of forest (CCF), Trichy circle, V Thirunavukkarasu said that any involuntary and voluntary fire will be taken up seriously and anyone found guilty of inducing forest fire will be put behind bars. Saying that intelligence in villages bordering reserve forests has been intensified, he said the all the workforce is mobilised for keeping a close watch on trespassing. "Trichy and Thuraiyur forest ranges are prone to forest fire and six incidents have been reported in the last month," said district forest officer D Sujatha. While the mild rainfall received last week was a relief, increasing temperature is indeed a matter of concern, she said. However, suitable measure are being taken such as reducing fuel load on forest floor, clearing fire line to prevent forest fire and its intensity, she said. A Whatsapp group has been created by the forest department with informers from villages close to the forest. They have been trained on passing on information related to forest fire and trespassing inside the forests, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/forest-dept-keeping-close-watch-on-fire-trespassers/articleshow/75304065.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rs 943cr sanctioned to aid labourers in state||Thiruvananthapuram: Government has sanctioned over Rs 943 crore as financial assistance to labourers facing unprecedented crisis during the lockdown that was imposed to combat Covid-19 situation. Labour minister TP Ramakrishnan said on Wednesday that 68,02,984 workers with membership in 16 different labour welfare boards have been sanctioned Rs 943,20,95,500 as immediate assistance. All labourers will get Rs 1,000 as relief fund. Welfare boards with better fiscal standing have sanctioned more funds. “LDF government came out with such a scheme to address the financial problems faced by labourers due to lockdown,” he said, adding that welfare pension for four months, including April, were sanctioned in lump sum. Also, government sanctioned over Rs 58 crore to almost four lakh labour welfare society members registered with societies under various government departments. With this, the total funds sanctioned by the government for labourers reached Rs 1,002 crore, the minister said. As per government order, members of Abkari Workers Welfare Board would get Rs 5,000 as financial aid and Rs 10,000 as interest loan. As many as 919 workers in bar hotels are eligible for this benefit. Under the motor vehicle workers’ welfare, bus workers get Rs 5,000, goods vehicle workers Rs 3,500, taxi workers Rs 2,500. Auto rickshaw/tractor workers and automobile workshop workers would get Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,000 respectively. Members of toddy workers’ welfare fund board are eligible for Rs 5,000 assistance and Rs 10,000 as interest free loan. Construction workers and farmers, who are members of their respective welfare boards, are eligible for Rs 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rs-943cr-sanctioned-to-aid-labourers-in-state/articleshow/75304111.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Six more with co-morbid conditions succumb to Covid-19, 68 fresh cases||PUNE: Six more critically ill patients diagnosed with Covid-19 infection succumbed to associated complications at different hospitals in Pune on Wednesday. Besides, 68 people tested positive for the contagion on Wednesday, taking the total case count to 881 in Pune Metropolitan Region. “With the fresh deaths (see box), the tally in PMR has reached 59 so far,” a health official said, adding, “All the patients had co-morbidity issues.” Technical expert to state government Dr Subhash Salunkhe said all efforts were being taken to ensure that private hospitals also take on the responsibility for treating patients with co-morbidities. “The technical team appointed would guide them instead of sending all such patients to Sassoon hospital,” he said. When it comes to 68 fresh cases in PMR, a total of 66 were reported from PMC limits, while 1 each from PCMC limits and rural areas. Rs 500 fine for people without masksPimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Wednesday announced a fine of Rs 500 on people found venturing out of their houses without wearing masks. The power to collect this fine has been granted to all sanitary inspectors, chief sanitary inspector and assistant health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-more-with-co-morbid-conditions-succumb-to-ncov-68-fresh-cases/articleshow/75307468.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Docs call off protest after Centre’s ordinance||Kolhapur: The central government on Wednesday brought in an ordinance making attacks on doctors, nurses and Asha workers a non-bailable and cognisable offence punishable up to seven years in prison and fine of up to Rs 5 lakh. Owing to this, the medical professionals decided to call off their "White Alert" protest. The medicos across the country had raised their voices and concerns against the rising attacks on the medical staff amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Speaking to TOI, current co-chairman of Maharashtra state IMA, said, "The central government has passed an ordinance which is an amendment in the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, that is currently in force across the country due to coronavirus crisis. However, we will continue to demand a law within the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for punishing the attackers. This ordinance, however, has secured the lives of the doctors and other health personnel." Among other demands put forth by the medical professionals were providing good quality personal protection equipment (PPE) kits for those who are working in the frontline and handling coronavirus patients. According to doctors, asking them to fight without proper protection was detrimental as cases of medical professional getting infected by coronavirus while treating the patients is on the rise across the country. "The PPE being supplied to the doctors have ben donated by people. Hence, there is a need to check the quality of the PPE kits as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. Despite all these odds, doctors, nurses and other staff are performing their duties," Jadhav said. To protest against the attack on medicos, the doctors had decided to light candles on Wednesday at 9pm. But after the ordinance was passed the protest was called off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/docs-call-off-protest-after-centres-ordinance/articleshow/75304098.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||To retain Covid-free tag, Chandapur shuns recovered couple||NAGPUR: A couple from Chandrapur has landed in institutional quarantine at Vanamati despite being discharged from GMCH on Wednesday following full recovery. The reason: Authorities in their home district want to eliminate the risk of spread of the coronavirus there and retain Covid-free status. The couple was discharged from the Government Medical College and Hospital with dean Dr Sajal Mitra, medical superintendent Avinash Gawande, doctors and other staff giving a round of applause. The joy, however, was short-lived as the couple was taken to Vanamati and quarantined again. Interestingly, the discharge card states both have recovered fully and need to be home quarantined for 14 days. Nagpur collector Ravindra Thakre told TOI, “Chandrapur collector Kunal Khemnar requested us to keep the couple in institutional quarantine in Nagpur as Chandrapur has not reported any case till now. The additional 14-day institutional quarantine in Nagpur will help them.” Khemnar said, “I am in touch with the couple. Guidelines say Covid-19 positive person will require hospital treatment till tested negative twice after completion of 14 days, followed by 14-day home quarantine after discharge.” “The couple is coming from red zone (Nagpur). Just to be on safer side, we have taken a decision to keep both under institutional quarantine in Nagpur. Thereafter, we will bring them to Chandrapur after getting Covid-free certificate from Nagpur. Otherwise also, both would have been home quarantined for 14 days,” he said. The husband, 39-year-old real estate businessman, told TOI, “We should be allowed home quarantine. We arrived in Nagpur on March 24 and our samples were not taken in time. I got myself tested on April 3 and reports came positive on April 6. We were shifted to GMCH where samples of my wife (32) were taken on April 8 and reports came positive on April 11. It has been almost 30 days since we arrived in the city.” The two are among the four Tablighi Jamaat couples who had gone on a religious tour to Indonesia. All reached New Delhi on March 22. They stayed at Nizamuddin Markaz and landed in the city on March 24. Remaining three couples had tested negative, completed institutional quarantine and returned to Chandrapur on Tuesday. 5 more likely to be discharged today: Five more persons are likely to get discharge from IGGMCH on Thursday. Person from housing society in front of Gandhisagar has reportedly tested negative on Wednesday. Two persons from Khamla and Jaripatka, along with their daughters, are also likely to get discharge on Thursday. With Chandrapur couple, till now 14 positive persons have been discharged. One of them — cap seller from Mominpura — has been quarantined again at MLA Hostel for not following home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-retain-covid-free-tag-chanda-shuns-recovered-couple/articleshow/75306648.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||CCMB trains UoH volunteers in testing||Hyderabad: Nineteen students and faculty from UoH are being trained at Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for conducting Covid-19 tests. CCMB, a CSIR laboratory, is one of the few institutions given permission to test samples. To scale up testing capacity in the city, UoH was recently identified as one of the five testing centres for Covid-19 under the city clusters by the Centre’s department of biotechnology (DBT). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-trains-uoh-volunteers-in-testing/articleshow/75305644.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Drop online classes idea, urges NGO||Hyderabad: Questioning the logic behind telecasting classes through TV and apps to government school students, child rights activists on Wednesday said the government should concentrate on supplying ration to all students, instead of introducing ‘fancy’ initiatives. They said majority of students have no access to TV or mobile phones. Achyuta Rao of Balala Hakkula Sangham said the state should first think of feasibility before copying private schools. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drop-online-classes-idea-urges-ngo/articleshow/75305660.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Long wait to get home getting longer||AHMEDABAD: Sonika Chaturvedi works in Ahmedabad and travels every weekend to be with her family in Bangalore. However, ever since the nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 and eventually extended, she has been waiting to get home. “I booked a ticket for April 16 initially, but the lockdown got extended till May 3. Now I have booked another ticket for travelling in May. Let’s see how soon I am able to travel to get home,” said Chaturvedi. The nationwide lockdown and cancellation of flights and other transport has left many stranded and away from their families. Even as the government has extended the lockdown till May 3, airlines are currently not accepting bookings till May 15. According to a notification by the DGCA, no decision to commence the operation of domestic/ international flights with effect from May 4, has been taken yet. “Passengers willing to travel can book tickets from May 16. Booking of tickets for travel immediately after the lockdown will not resume in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of civil aviation. A final decision on resuming operations will only be taken based on further directives by the ministry,” said a source from SpiceJet. Similarly, state-owned carrier, Air India, is also in no hurry to resume bookings. “Currently, travel bookings are being offered for travel from June 1 onwards. Majority of our flights are operating across international destinations and therefore, there is great uncertainty over resuming operations,” revealed a source in Air India. Well-placed sources confirmed that even Indigo Airlines is accepting bookings only from June 1. “In case the operations do not resume by then, or in case passengers have previously booked tickets for May, they can always reschedule at no extra cost,” said the source. Sources in the aviation sector revealed that even as airlines resume operations after the lockdown is lifted, it will be in a staggered manner and the frequency of flights will be very limited in the initial stage. Sources also said that the flight movements will be in accordance with the summer schedule. The plight of international flyers is even worse, as there is greater uncertainty over flights getting resumed. “I came from the US with my 6-month-old child to visit my parents, and now I am stuck as the lockdown got extended,” said Niki Sanghavi, who is currently in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/long-wait-to-get-home-getting-longer/articleshow/75305736.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||If social distancing rules are not followed, markets will be closed: Mayor||Kolhapur: Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar has warned the citizens and vendors of strict action if they continue to flout social distancing and lockdown rules. Ajrekar held a meeting with civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti and other officers on Wednesday raising her concerns of overcrowding at various markets across the city. She pointed out at the increasing crowd at Laxmipuri and Shahupuri market from the past couple of days. She also asked the authorities to come up with an urgent solution to manage the crowds ineffective ways. “If chaos and crowd continue on the ground, we will have no other option than to close the decentralised markets. In crowds, the chances of spread of coronavirus are high. Despite repeated appeals to people and vendors, they are not following the social distancing rules nor wearing masks. I have asked the authorities to plan the markets in such a way that the citizens follow queue and they stay at an adequate distance from each other. I have also asked the officials to step up the action on the vendors for not using masks and gloves. I have suggested them to start the mobile vegetable and other essentials vending vans which can go to the narrow lanes of the city and the citizens do not flock to the markets,” she said. Ajrekar also suggested to keep the vegetables closed for one or two days a week in a rotation manner. However, the officials claimed that the state government has asked the civic bodies to ensure the supply of essentials be available round the clock and every day of the week. Meanwhile, organisations are taking up initiatives to make the lives of the citizens easy. A city-based Shri Veershaiva Co-operative Bank has started 'ATM on wheels'. The vehicle with the ATM passes through different locations of the area. The citizens with an account in any bank can withdraw the money from it. The other banks too are planning to start such a facility so that rush observed at different banks is reduced. Individuals are also coming forward by taking different initiatives in their fight against coronavirus. A group of architect students, who are well in drawings and paintings, have started a campaign to make people donate funds to the covid disaster fund of the state and central government. “We draw the portraits of the persons suggested by the individuals. The portraits are drawn for free but the individuals have to make the donation to the covid funds,” said Gaurav mali, a architect student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/if-social-distancing-rules-are-not-followed-markets-will-be-closed-mayor/articleshow/75304118.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan governor urges clerics to tell Muslims to stay at home during Ramzan||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra has urged Dargah Ajmer to appeal to the Muslims across the country to offer prayers and break fast inside their houses in the month of Ramzan. During a video conferencing with the Khadim community, he asked them to share the message among the followers of Sufi. Mishra called up the Khadim community of Dargah and greeted them on Ramzan. During a discussion, he discussed ways to spread the message among the community to fight the battle against the coronavirus. “I am heartened to learn that how Dargah Khadims have already guiding their followers to not visit mosques during Ramzan. I believe that the followers of Khawaja Sahab will follow the message of their Khadims,” Mishra said. Syed Bilal Chishti, a khadim and an international Sufi speaker, assured Mishra that they will ask the devotees to abide by the rules. “If you are in a pandemic hit area, don’t go out and if you are out of the pandemic-hit area, don’t come is the saying of our prophet which is what our rule of law says. So abiding lockdown is a religious duty of all Muslims,” Chishti told the governor. Mishra concluded the session by saying Muslims should pray to Allah to end this pandemic and bring prosperity again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-governor-urges-clerics-to-tell-muslims-to-stay-at-home-during-ramzan/articleshow/75306670.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala reports 11 new cases, seven of them in Kannur||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Three more people working in the health sector tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. They are a health worker and two house surgeons at Kozhikode medical college hospital. Eleven new cases were reported in state on Wednesday, of which seven were from Kannur, two were in Kozhikode and one each in Malappuram and Kottayam. Only person from Palakkad tested negative. The total number of Covid-19 cases in state stands at 437 and 127 of them are being treated at hospitals. At present, 29,150 people are under observation, of which 346 are admitted in isolation wards. Of the 20,821 samples sent for testing, 19,998 tested negative. Kannur with 61 active cases has the maximum number of cases in Kerala with 3,238 persons kept under observation. Residents have been told to follow lockdown rules to check the spread of the disease. CM Pinarayi Vijayan said a special vigil was ordered in state’s border districts as there were reports that several people from neighbouring states were using illegal routes to gain entry. All vehicles will be screened before entering the state to detect stowaways. A decision was taken to constitute teams led by deputy SPs in border areas to check illegal crossing. All these decisions were taken after a positive case was reported in Kulathupuzha in Kollam from a person who came from TN. Now, all persons who came in direct contact with this person have been quarantined. Vijayan said government has decided to provide a special incentive of Rs 1,000 for ASHA workers involved in Covid prevention activities. A group of nurses from Jaslok Hospital in Mumbai complained that 23 nurses, who tested positive, were denied basic facilities during quarantine. Vijayan said the issue was brought to the notice of Maharashtra government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-reports-11-new-cases-seven-of-them-in-kannur/articleshow/75304163.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Plan to resume Smart City work shelved||MADURAI: The Smart City work undertaken by the Madurai Corporation, which was scheduled to begin from Monday, has been postponed after the state government decided against providing any relaxation during the lockdown period. The corporation has convened a meeting with contractors of Smart City project a few days ago to resume work. It was decided to provide special permit for vehicles to carry materials from the northern districts. But, the plan was shelved after the state government’s decision. “Madurai continues to be a hotspot for Covid-19. So, we will resume work only after May 3,” a corporation official said. Officials said they will start work after May 3 utilising the available materials and the required workforce. About 270 guest workers are still in Madurai. They are staying at the Periyar Bus Terminal and Meenakshi Amman Temple and are taken care of by their respective contractors and corporation. Medical checks have been conducted on them. “Repair works in Veli streets to restore damages caused by Smart City work and cobble stone laying at Chithirai Street have already been completed. Similarly, works at Kunnathur Chatram and arrival plaza at Periyar are nearing completion. Only curating works is allowed at present using a few employees. Contractors have been asked to ensure social distancing while carrying out works,” the official added. Another official said the timeline for Smart City work completion will be extended by the number of days affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. There is a clause in agreement, which allows time extension for contractors if projects are delayed by disaster or political instability in the state. A policy decision would be taken state-wide, since Smart City projects are carried out in 10 cities to ensure uniformity in relaxation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plan-to-resume-smart-city-work-shelved/articleshow/75306660.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Aurangabad||First Covid-19 case in Nanded, Jalna gets second patient||AURANGABAD: Nanded district reported its first confirmed coronavirus case after a 64-year-old man from the Pirburhan area tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Jalna district, meanwhile, reported its second positive patient on Tuesday night with a woman from Partur testing positive for the infection. With these two cases, the tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Marathwada’s eight districts went up to 60. The number includes 28 active cases with Aurangabad district having the highest number (18), followed by Hingoli (6), Jalna (2), Parbhani and now Nanded (1 each). Nanded district deputy collector Prashant Shelke said the 64-year-old patient was admitted to the state-run health facility on April 20 following symptoms that included fever, cough and breathlessness. “The patient belongs to a large family of more than 15 members. All his close relatives have been quarantined as a precautionary measure. The patient has denied having any travel history and, therefore, we are trying to trace the possible source of his infection. An area of 5km-radius around his residence has been sealed,” Shelke said. In Jalna, the second confirmed Covid-19 patient hails from Shiroda village in Partula taluka. The 39-year-old woman was admitted to the state-run health facility for fever and cough on April 13. “The woman had sought medical treatment at two separate private hospitals since April 6 and had turned up at the government health facility as a suspected Covid-19 case. Her throat swab sample sent to the laboratory had tested negative on April 14, but her symptoms persisted. Another test for Covid-19 was done and she tested positive on Tuesday night,” an official release said. The Jalna district administration said eight high-risk contacts of the woman and another 41 low-risk contacts have been under observation and their throat swab samples have been sent for the lab-testing. On Tuesday, six jawans of SRPF, Hingoli, had tested positive for Covid 19 after returning from bandobast duty in Malegaon town of Nashik district. One Covid-19 patient from Hingoli was released from the hospital after recovery. Similarly, Latur and Osmanabad districts have recently reported recovery of eight and three Covid-19 patients, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1st-covid-case-in-nanded-jalna-gets-second-patient/articleshow/75304145.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan governor urges clerics to tell Muslims to stay at home during Ramzan||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra has urged Dargah Ajmer to appeal to the Muslims across the country to offer prayers and break fast inside their houses in the month of Ramzan. During a video conferencing with the Khadim community, he asked them to share the message among the followers of Sufi. Mishra called up the Khadim community of Dargah and greeted them on Ramzan. During a discussion, he discussed ways to spread the message among the community to fight the battle against the coronavirus. “I am heartened to learn that how Dargah Khadims have already guiding their followers to not visit mosques during Ramzan. I believe that the followers of Khawaja Sahab will follow the message of their Khadims,” Mishra said. Syed Bilal Chishti, a khadim and an international Sufi speaker, assured Mishra that they will ask the devotees to abide by the rules. “If you are in a pandemic hit area, don’t go out and if you are out of the pandemic-hit area, don’t come is the saying of our prophet which is what our rule of law says. So abiding lockdown is a religious duty of all Muslims,” Chishti told the governor. Mishra concluded the session by saying Muslims should pray to Allah to end this pandemic and bring prosperity again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rajasthan-governor-urges-clerics-to-tell-muslims-to-stay-at-home-during-ramzan/articleshow/75310178.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Use iftar funds to feed the poor: Shabbir||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir said the government should utilise funds allocated for dawat-e-iftar to feed the poor. “The government, in its budget for 2020-21, earmarked Rs 66 crore towards dawat-e-iftar and another Rs 1.83 crore towards iftar-cum-dinner to be hosted by the CM. Now, there is no possibility of holding iftar parties or distributing clothes. We request you to use the amount to distribute ration kits to the poor,” Shabbir wrote to CM KCR. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/use-iftar-funds-to-feed-the-poor-shabbir/articleshow/75305674.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vadodara||Anand’s Covid-19 numbers climb to 37||VADODARA/ANAND: With four more persons including two from coastal town Khambhat and two others from Umreth testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the total number of cases in Anand district has reached 37. In Khambhat, a 37-year-old female and a 53-year-old female from Dantarwado, which has already been declared a containment zone, tested positive for the virus. In Umreth, a 22-year-old male and a 38-year-old male, both residents of Vohrawad, tested positive. All the four are those who had come in close contact with other Covid-19 patients in their respective localities, officials of Anand health department said. With this, while the total number of cases has reached 37 in Anand, four have been discharged while two have died so far. Samples of 343 individuals have tested negative in the district. A total of 1,532 people are currently under home quarantine and 48 at government quarantine facility. A majority of patients – 20 – are currently under treatment at civil hospital in Anand while nine others are being treated at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. One patient each is being treated at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad and S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. Of all the patients, four are currently being treated with oxygen support while health of 27 patients is normal, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anands-covid-19-numbers-climb-to-37/articleshow/75302813.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man stabbed in Bapunagar||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Bapunagar, Prakash Rabari, 28, was stabbed over an argument regarding the removal of a barricade put at the gate of the society where he lives. Rabari has named four persons, Dilip Patel, his uncle Arvind Patel, Mayur Patel and a youth named Bobby as accused in the FIR lodged at Bapunagar police station on Tuesday and stated that Dilip Patel had stabbed him in the chest. Bapunagar police lodged a complaint under Sections 324, 323 and 114 of the IPC. According to the FIR, on Monday Prakash had warned the assailants to remove the barricade. They attacked him on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-stabbed-in-bapunagar/articleshow/75305733.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mall salesperson tests positive, police search for shoppers||PUNE: A salesman testing positive for Covid-19 compelled the civic authorities on Tuesday to seal the mall near Mhatre bridge where he worked and set a daunting task for police to trace all the people who had visited the facility in the past four days. Many residents of housing societies near Nal Stop would visit the mall to buy vegetables and groceries. The health officers have already quarantined the family members of the salesman, who is a resident of Karve Road. “Eight of his colleagues have also been quarantined,” said senior inspector Kalpana Jadav of the Alankar police station. Both the Deccan and Alankar police stations have speeded up tracking of people who visited the mall to buy groceries and vegetables in the last four days. They are tracing people by visiting different places in the Erandwane and Karve Road areas. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Shivaji Pawar said the police teams were tracing the persons who came in contact with the salesman in the mall and elsewhere. “The police are gathering cellphone call records to spot the people. All those who visited the mall will be traced and alerted. The people should report to the nearest hospitals if they have any symptom of Covid-19,” he said. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale admitted that tracing and tracking all the people was a “Herculean task”. He said, “A team of 15 policemen remains engaged in tracking down such people. Once a positive patient is found, we collect details of his cellphone and ascertain the places he had visited in the past 14 days.” The police teams take note of only two types of contact persons. “In the first group are those who were in less than one metre of distance of a positive person. In the second group are those within three metres of the positive person. The people who were within one metre of the Covid-19 positive person are contacted. The medical teams working on the ground subsequently take them to quarantine facilities,” Morale said. The police said only the grocery and vegetable sections of the mall near Mhatre bridge were allowed to function ever since the lockdown was imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mall-salesperson-tests-positive-police-search-for-shoppers/articleshow/75307486.cms||Gitesh Shelke
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur registers 3 more cases, Satara 1||KOLHAPUR: Solapur city on Wednesday registered three more Covid-19 patients, taking the total tally to 33 cases. Since April 16, the city has been witnessing one or more cases every single day. District collector Milind Shambharkar of Solapur district said that the three of the two cases are connected with the deceased woman from Indira Nagar. While the other one is from the Shivganga Nagar area. According to the Solapur district administration, they have formed nine containment zones across the city and surveying are underway in all the areas. The health department officials said that they are using the Zilla Parishad’s manpower for the door-to-door survey. Meanwhile, Satara district too reported a positive case on Wednesday. The health department stated that a three-year-old boy contracted the infection through the earlier positive patient. The boy was in close contact with the said patient.“The treatment is being done at the Satara district hospital and his condition is said to be stable,” an official said. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh on Wednesday issued strict containment zone guidelines at Karad. According to him, out of the total 18 positive cases, eight are from Karad town and rural area. He added that the Karad and Malkapur town will see the imposition of Criminal Procedure code 1973’s section 144, under which the curfew orders will remain active there until further instructions. “All the passes given earlier hereby stand cancelled and the departments have been asked to issue fresh passes to the concerned designated officials,” said Singh. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary too has cancelled all the market operations due to the unnecessary crowd in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-registers-3-more-cases-satara-1/articleshow/75304154.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Indore||Coronavirus not in air, Indore drive waste of money: Covid-19 team||INDORE: From tankers to drones, Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) is leaving no stone unturned in disinfecting public places and spending around Rs 75,000 to 1 lakh per day to prevent virus spread. But, experts termed the disinfection drive as ‘directionless waste of money’. “The virus does not stay in air. So, carrying out sanitization work on road or tree is just waste of money and time. To get better results, the solutions, which is prepared with proper combination of chemicals, should be used on floors inside house, tables, chairs, handlebars and stair-railing.., which are touched frequently,” Dr Jugal Kishore, member of Centre’s team said. Instead of spraying randomly across the city, the disinfectant solution should be distributed among people for use in households, he suggested. IMC health officer Akhilesh Upadhyay said the civic body has roped in total 52 tractors, 16 mist blowers, five pressure jets, 19 pressure tankers along with around 300 handheld machines to spray about 700 litre solutions on daily basis. About 500 workers are involved in spraying chemicals. Official sources claimed that around Rs 70,000 to Rs 1 lakh is spent per day in spraying the disinfectant. This excludes other expenses, like salary/wages of the workers. According to IMC additional commissioner Rajneesh Kasera, big vehicles and machines are being used to spray at outer surface of the houses including wall, gates and even vehicles parked there while handheld machines are being used to carryout sanitization inside houses of positive and suspected patients. “On regular basis, we are sanitizing graveyards, crematorium, offices, which are operational, ambulances and other vehicles through the solutions,” he said. According to IMC officials, there is no specific guideline as to where to spray the solutions and they are following general instructions in this regard. Experts claimed that the disinfectant could have been used in better ways if distributed among locals to disinfect the objects/places including tables, chairs, handlebars and stair-railing, which are touched frequently. Ratlam medical college dean Dr Sanjay Dixit said, “Effective way is to carry out sanitization inside the houses to kill the virus, rather than sanitizing outer surface of the buildings or on roads”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/virus-is-not-in-air-so-drone-disinfection-drive-is-waste-of-money/articleshow/75305696.cms||Sagar Choukse
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribal girl’s death: Complaint against farmer||HYDERABAD: Following the death of a 12-year-old tribal girl who walked from Mulug in Telangana to Bijapur in Chhattisgarh, the Mulug district administration conducted an enquiry and found that a farmer had engaged the girl along with others to work in his chilli field. Officials have lodged a complaint against the farmer, M Santosh, in Kannaigudem police station. They sought that a case be booked against the farmer under the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act and other relevant sections as applicable. It may be mentioned here that the girl, Jeeta Madkami, who undertook a 150-km journey by foot through the forest along with her relatives and others on April 15, died on April 18 in Bijapur due to exhaustion. It is learnt that a group of tribals from Chhattisgarh had been working in the chilli fields in Gurrevula village. Jeeta, who came along with her relatives, was also engaged for work in the fields.  Meanwhile, officials have begun to check all places where migrant labourers are working to see if any children are employed in Mulug district. An official said farmers have been advised against employing child labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-girls-death-plaint-against-farmer/articleshow/75305694.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Two outsourced staff, two others test positive in Madurai||MADURAI: Four more people, including two outsourced staff at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) tested positive in Madurai on Wednesday taking the total number of cases in the district to 50. The new cases from Madurai and one from Dindigul took the total in the southern districts to 348. Among the four new cases, two are from the containment zones in Madurai Corporation. A 49-year-old man from Anna Nagar with fever and cough for two days tested positive for Covid-19. He has been admitted to the isolation ward at the GRH. A 68 year old man from Vandiyur, also a containment zone and had no history of travel and reportedly with symptoms of cold and cough for two days, tested positive. Two others were workers at the GRH. A 25 male from Kariselkulam, who was a supervisor from a private agency, and working at the hospital for two years and an 18-year-old worker from Rajakoor in Kallandiri also working in the same agency, tested positive. The 25-year-old worker was on duty to spray disinfectant in the wards in the hospital. He was staying on the hospital premises in the Trauma Care Centre, where accommodation was arranged for the past 15 days. Five days ago, another sanitary worker who had worked in the isolation facility had tested positive for the disease and is undergoing treatment. GRH sources said that all his contacts would be screened. With one new case on Wednesday, the total number of cases in Dindigul went up to 77. Meanwhile, many patients were discharged from the isolation wards at government hospitals in the southern districts. One was discharged from Madurai, two from Sivaganga and four from Tirunelveli.  A total of 104 people have been cured and discharged in the southern districts till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-outsourced-staff-two-others-test-ve-in-madurai/articleshow/75306673.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Rajesh Tope says Maharashtra will rope in additional private labs to increase Covid-19 testing||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the government plans to rope in more laboratories to increase testing facilities. At present, 6,500 tests are done in a day at 38 government and private laboratories. In Pune, nearly 500 tests are being done at seven laboratories. As many as 750 samples were tested in Pune on Wednesday. The state is awaiting approvals for more private laboratories from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for testing. “We want to ramp up our testing facilities and more private laboratories will seek approval for conducting these tests,” the minister said. At present, all these government laboratories are operating to 90% of their capacity, director of Maharashtra Health Services, Satish Pawar, said. All civic bodies are conducting surveillance and sending swab samples of those approaching the flu clinics set up in the red zone areas of Pune and Mumbai. “As of now, both private and government laboratories are working to full capacity. We do not know the number of proposals with ICMR. If more private laboratories come in, it would help ramp up the facilities,” state health department director Archana Patil said. The state had tested 83,111 samples till Tuesday. The ICMR has told the state to hold on to rapid testing for two days, Patil said. With over 400 active containment zones, there are a total of 6,611 surveillance squads working across the state and over 26 lakh have been screened. Assessing the volume of tests, health expert Raju Jotkar said till date the country has undertaken 170 tests per million population, Maharashtra tests about 525 tests per million and Pune revenue division tests 363 per million. “One has to work out the volume of tests per million specifically and enhance its volume to match the testing volume. The active contact tracing in cluster containment zones (hot spots) as well as fever clinics are expected to fetch new eligible persons for testing. As conceived, the proposed pooled testing is likely bring further efficiency and volume in testing,” he added. Anant Phadke, co-convenor of Jan Arogya Abhiyan,the tighter lockdown in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad should be accompanied by intensive testing of contacts of Covid-19 patients, including all persons who the doctors feel, based on standard criteria, have the infection. On Wednesday, the central team in Mumbai told the Maharashtra government to increase the number of people in institutional quarantine facilities by ramping up the bed strength from 1,200 to 2,000 and to conduct more aggressive testing. The team expects a spike in new cases, a health official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-says-state-will-rope-in-additional-private-labs-to-increase-covid-19-testing/articleshow/75307493.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fetus dumped on road in Ahmedabad's Amraiwadi||AHMEDABAD: A four-month fetus was found on a road near the Rameshwar Temple in Amraiwadi on Wednesday. Police registered an offence against an unknown person for dumping the fetus on the road. Plice sources said Dilip Rathod, a resident of Mahalaxminagar in Amraiwadi, saw a group of people gathered near Rameshwar Temple. “He informed the police control room about the fetus,” said a police official, who added police are checking CCTV footage from nearby spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fetus-dumped-on-road-in-amraiwadi/articleshow/75305732.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer’s dargah area reports 79 cases in 24 hours||AJMER/JAIPUR: The densely populated Muslim Mochi Mohalla in Ajmer’s Dargah area has emerged as the latest Covid-19 hotspot in the state. In the last 24 hours, the area has reported 79 cases from 11-15 houses. The city’s total number of positive cases beginning March 28 stood at 103 on Wednesday. This has left the Ajmer administration stunned as the city’s positive cases were in single digit until a few days ago. The number of positive cases in the city shot up to 103 by Wednesday afternoon, forcing the administration to plan random testing in the area on the lines of Ramganj in Jaipur. A probe by the health department found all 79 patients were migrant workers living in congested rented accommodations in the densely populated area with narrow lanes and bylanes, which mirrors Ramganj in Jaipur. “The way most cases have appeared from city’s one area, it is clear that we need to increase testing on the lines of Ramganj to detect positive cases,” said Sanjiv Maheshwari, additional principal of the Jawaharlal Nehru Hospital in Ajmer. Ajmer is under the lockdown since March 22. First positive case in the city was reported on March 28. Four contacts of this positive person too reported infected with the virus in next 2-3 days. Second case of a single source infecting many others was reported on April 16; it infected 19 persons. Third single-source case was reported on April 20. The next day there were 35 positive cases and on April 22 there were 44 positive cases more. “Like in Ramganj, the entire families are being found to be positive. Here too people live close to each other and share the same socio-economic background,” said a government official. Most of the positive patients have been engaged in household works, are salesmen or work in hotels and restaurants. Reports said many of them have been meeting local residents seeking food and other assistance during the lockdown. The total number of samples collected from the area is 329, out of which the results of around 200 have come with 79 positive casess. The remaining 129 test reports are expected by Thursday. Ajmer SP Kunwar Rastradeep said, “The area falls under four police stations and has been under curfew. Barricading of lanes and bylanes has been done in areas where people have a history of lockdown violations. Only government vehicles will be allowed to provide ration and vegetables to minimise the human to human contact.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmers-dargah-area-reports-79-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/75306685.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district to have two Covid-19 testing labs||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district will soon have two fully functional Covid-19 testing laboratories — one at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) the civil hospital and the other at the Government Medical College’s Shenda Park premises. Kolhapur guardiand minister Satej Patil told TOI that the work related to the establishment of the labs is in progress while funding has been provided through the district planning committee. The minister said 200 testing kits have been received from the state, which are provided by the Centre, and that around 5,000 more such kits are required. According to Patil, the labs will help in early detection of cases and provide extra time to the administration to execute decisions related to Covid cases. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai said the lab work at the CPR hospital has been completed and the second lab will be ready by April 26. “We are waiting for approval for the first lab from the ICMR, which is likely to be received by Wednesday evening.” Desai clarified that both the labs will be available for testing swab samples from Kolhapur district only. The Kolhapur health department used to send swab samples to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. However, a testing lab was set up in Miraj and the samples are being sent to this facility, which has a low capacity, resulting in the delay in the results. According to the health department data, of the 1,269 swab samples, 1,060 tested negative, while 10 were Covid-19 positive till April 22. A total of 169 reports are pending while 40 samples were rejected. Kolhapur has recorded 10 Covid-19 cases till date, of which two patients have recovered and discharged while few more are on the way to recovery. At present, the number of active cases stands at eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-to-have-two-covid-19-testing-labs/articleshow/75304194.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||No distancing during namaz, 4 booked||AHMEDABAD: City police on Tuesday booked four persons including a 78-year-old man for allegedly not maintaining safe distance inside a mosque in Paldi when offering namaz (prayers) there. An FIR filed by sub-inspector K J Karapda of Paldi police states that he and his team on Tuesday evening found namaz being offered without maintaining social distancing at the Mohammedi mosque in Faiz Mohammed Society in Paldi. Karapada said the four were booked for violation of lockdown notification and under ED act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-distancing-during-namaz-4-booked/articleshow/75305730.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Parents seeks CM help for home delivery of textbooks, fee concession||Ranchi: The All School Parents’ Association (ASPA) on Tuesday said the online system of education adopted by private schools in the state during the lockdown have many drawbacks and sought chief minister Hemant Soren’s intervention to make arrangements for the schools for home delivery or supply of textbooks and assignments on the campus for the new academic session so that students can begin their studies. ASPA chaiperson Ajay Rai said, “Most schools are providing online classes and study materials, like assignments, to the students. However, in a home where there are two or three students, it is hard to carry on with their studies as there is only one or two phones. Hence, we demand that the schools provide textbooks and assignments to their students at home through proper channels or devise a roster to give it to parents on campus following social distancing norms.” Rai also said providing mobile phones to children can have serious implications like surfing adult websites and harming their eyes. ASPA also requested the CM to issue an order to all private schools to waive school fees for lockdown period. In a letter to the CM, ASPA said, “Various district administrations of the state had appealed to private schools in their areas to consider fee waiver for the period of lockdown while district administrations like Ranchi have not bothered yet to come out with a recommendation on the issue. Hence, there is a need for an statewide order.” Earlier, education minister Jagarnath Mahto had also pitched for fee concessions for the lockdown period and had indicated that action will be taken against the violators. Many private schools said that decisions on the issues brought up by the parents can be taken after the lockdown ends. Several other schools said if they provide fee concession, they will not be able to pay their staff. Rai, however, said, “If they are really facing issues, they should go for an open audit. I am sure most of them are able to give concession to their students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-seeks-cm-help-for-home-delivery-of-textbooks-fee-concession/articleshow/75280369.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot demands wheat from Centre||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday demanded an additional allocation of 30,000 metric tons of wheat every month from the Centre to cater to those who were excluded from the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in the state. Gehlot said the NFSA families were selected on the basis of 2011 census and now around 60 lakh people including destitutes were not covered under the Act. “If the Centre does not heed to our demand, the state government will procure the same quantity of wheat from market at Rs 21 per kg and distribute it at 10 kg per family free of cost,” said Gehlot. The chief minister said this while speaking at the regular media briefing. Gehlot said when the population of Rajasthan was 6.86 crore in 2011, the ceiling under NFSA was fixed at 53% and 69% of population in the urban and rural areas, respectvely. He said currently 4.46 crore people were given over 2.32 lakh metric tons of wheat. He said the population in 2019 was 7. 74 crore of which rural and urban population was 5.82 crore and 1.92 crore, respectively. The chief minister said the outbreak and lockdown had left the daily wage earners and poor on the verge of starvation and free ration was the only way for their survival. Gehlot appealed to the people to follow the restrictions during the upcoming Akshya Tritiya and Ramzan. Gehlot said after the modified lockdown was implemented from April 20, many industrial and manufacturing units in rural areas have started functioning. “I can say, the response of the industrial units was beyond our expectation,” he said. About the directive of the Centre not to retrench any employees and pay them for the lockdown period, he said those who were able to pay are paying but many of them were not able to bear the burden. He said the Centre should help such industries to meet their obligations. PM-CM meet on April 27 Chief minister said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a meeting with the chief ministers on April 27 to discuss the lifting of lockdown on May 3. He said he would again raise the issue of migrant labourers demand to allow them to go home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-demands-30000-mt-additional-wheat-from-centre/articleshow/75306702.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mangaluru||FB help sought to track identity leak||Jaideep.Shenoy Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district police will seek the help of Facebook to track down a ‘netizen’ who revealed the identity of the district’s first Covid-19 victim on the social media platform. While the victim, a 50-year-old woman from Bantwal has been officially designated as P-390, the netizen posted a picture of the victim and her husband along with a derogatory comment. Having drawn a lot of flak for this lack of netiquette despite repeated advisory from the ministry of home affairs, the ‘netizen’ who subsequently expressed regret for posting the photo, merely removed the photo while retaining the offending comment. When the comment continued to draw fire online, the account was subsequently deactivated. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police B M Laxmi Prasad said a case has been registered in Bantwal town police station based on a complaint from the son of P-390. “We obtained the complaint from him on e-mail and after obtaining permission from the jurisdictional court registered a private complaint. A recent order under Disaster Management Act now permits the SHO – PSI to register a private complaint in such cases,” he said. Police has named one William Pinto and another person as accused. The district police chief said an FIR has been registered and submitted to the court. “Our initial enquiry based on his profile that he was from Koppa in Chikkamagaluru has drawn a blank,” SP said. He also requested people with information on the accused person to contact police. “In the interim, we will also seek help from Facebook India to track down the accused,” he added. In a related development, Gowd Saraswath Brahmin (GSB) community was livid with another netizen – B R Bhaskar Prasad for suggesting that P-390 is from GSB community. Prasad wrote that community was opposed to her cremation in the city and it had to be done in police presence. Bhaskar also wrote that son of P-390 had wielded influence and had not quarantined himself, despite being directed to do so, earning the ire of other netizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fb-help-sought-to-track-identity-leak/articleshow/75302459.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 14 injured as TDP, YSRC workers clash||VIJAYAWADA: Tensions prevailed at Kinikanapadu village under Kanchikacherla mandal in Krishna district after 14 people were injured when two rival groups of YSR Congress (YSRC) and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) clashed with each other on Tuesday night. According to Kanchikacherla police, the incident occurred over a long-pending dispute between both parties on the post of an office bearer at a fishermen society in the village. Sources said the YSRC claimed and took over the post after the assembly elections last year. After the lockdown was imposed, both parties objected to the other’s distribution of essential commodities in the area. Hostilities between the parties increased and eventually led to the clash. Police reached the spot upon receiving information and detained some suspects involved in the violence. The injured cadre were admitted to a local government hospital. A case has been registered against both groups, police said, and further investigation is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/14-injured-as-tdp-ysrc-workers-clash/articleshow/75304228.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur police widen probe, seek CCTV footage of toll plazas||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur police are joining the dots during its detailed investigation into a container’s journey from Mumbai to Kolhapur with 29 passengers, two of whom have tested Covid-19 positive, on April 17. Surprisingly, the container driver escaped unchecked, despite the lockdown, by many toll plazas and police checkpoints till the Kini toll plaza, where he was eventually caught by police. “We have started checking CCTV cameras of the toll plazas on the National Highway from Mumbai to Kolhapur to find out that at what time the container left Mumbai and passed through toll plazas,” an officer attached to the local crime branch, Kolhapur, said on Wednesday. “We have sought the CCTV footage of the toll plazas to speed up and help the investigation.” Kishor Kale, deputy superintendent of police, Jaysingpur, said the container driver pretended that he was carrying medicines from Mumbai to Bangalore. “The driver managed to escape from the toll plazas as well as police checkpoints because vehicles carrying essential items are exempt from the lockdown,” he said. Kale said that vehicles carrying medicines are sealed by the Food and Drug Administration and state excise department officials after loading the containers, and police rarely check these vehicles. The driver had put a sign on the windshield of the container stating that the vehicle was carrying medicines. “When the container came at Kini toll plaza, our police team questioned him about the type of medicines he was carrying. When he failed to give a satisfactory answer, police asked him to open the locks of the container and found 29 passengers inside,” he said. “All the passengers were labourers and their families, residents of Hanuman Nagar area of Santa Cruz in Mumbai and were returning home in Hasan district of Karnataka as they had no work to sustain themselves over there because of the lockdown,” he said. The two travellers who tested positive for Covid-19 are being treated at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-widen-probe-seek-cctv-footage-of-toll-plazas/articleshow/75304230.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Police seize more than 9,000 bikes since lockdown||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur police have seized over 9,000 motorcycles and recovered Rs 23.56 lakh from the lockdown violators since March 23. All the seized motorcycles have been kept at various police stations in the district. “All the actions we have taken against the motorcycle owners are under section 180 of IPC. Immediately after the lockdown was imposed, we started taking action against people that were found violating lockdown rules. Initially, we warned people on bikes but we soon realised that this was not sufficient enough to prevent people from coming on the road. So we started seizing their motorcycles after they were found roaming on the road for no valid reason. This helped us in keeping a check on the flow of people on the roads in the district,” said a senior police officer. The officer said that they had strict orders from the start government and that was the reason they started taking action against the lockdown violators. Maximum action was taken by police stations coming under Ichalkaranji jurisdiction, which witnessed more than 2,000 motorcycles seized. This was followed by Kolhapur city traffic branch which seized 1,353 vehicles. “A total of 2,000 motorcycles have been detained by all the police stations from Kolhapur city, apart from the action by the city traffic branch,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-seize-more-than-9000-bikes-since-lockdown/articleshow/75304246.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||R’seema reports 30 cases, Kurnool crosses 200 mark||Tirupati: Covid-19 cases continued to rise across Rayalaseema, with Kurnool, Chittoor and Kadapa districts reporting 30 of the 56 new cases in the state on Wednesday. Kurnool reported 19 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 203. The district, as of Wednesday, accounted for a quarter of all Covid-19 cases in the state. Of the 203 cases, 160 have been reported from urban areas. Another 43 cases have been reported from rural areas in the district, including Nandyal, Panyam, Banaganapalli, Chagalamarri, Kodumur, Sirvel, Gadivemula and other places. On Wednesday, Nandyal reported 10 cases, while Kurnool city and Nandikotkur each reported four cases and one case was recorded at Chagalamarri. Kurnool district police wing led by SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa have taken steps to ensure the lockdown is strictly implemented in view of the increase in positive cases. The district police wing slapped 116 cases against violators under different sections of the IPC. Police also booked 1,686 cases under the Motor Vehicles Act and imposed fines to the tune of Rs 9.16 lakh on Wednesday. Six new cases were reported under Srikalahasti Municipal Corporation Limits on Wednesday, which accounts for 40 of the 59 Covid-19 cases in the district. Meanwhile, 10 patients have been discharged from Sri Padmavathi Covid-19 hospital in Tirupati. The patients are from Chittoor and Kadapa districts. “Out of the 10 patients, four were from Tirupati, two from Renigunta, one from Nagari and three from Kadapa district. As per protocol, they were discharged after testing negative during two rounds of mandatory coronavirus screening tests on April 17 and 18,” said Dr B Vengamma, director and vice-chancellor of Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rseema-reports-30-cases-kurnool-crosses-200-mark/articleshow/75304251.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Total lockdown in Kulathupuzha||Kollam: Authorities enforced lockdown in Kulathupuzha, Thenmala and Aryankavu panchayats on Wednesday after a youth who visited Puliyangudi in Tamil Nadu tested positive on Tuesday. Police barricaded Bharathipuram, Arippa, Thenmala dam areas to restrict public movement. Authorities said lockdown will be enforced till May 20 and only during emergencies will people be allowed on roads. Action will be taken against those violating restrictions. Forest department will monitor roads adjacent to TN border. Meanwhile, police and health department decided to prepare separate route maps of the youth and compare the data to prepare a final route map. Authorities said more people will be brought under observation as the available route map data showed that he had met many people. His 23 primary contacts were been admitted to a hospital while 30 others were placed under home quarantine. Among them are grama panchayat members and those who brought food from the community kitchen. Meanwhile, a meeting chaired by collector B Abdul Nasar evaluated preventive measures that need to be taken. He visited affected areas and asked the police to ensure that nobody sneaked in or got out using narrow roads. Vehicles with stowaways will lose their permit and the licence of driver will be cancelled. Goods vehicles coming to the district should carry food and water and cannot have food from outside. Merchants will not be allowed to cross the border to buy vegetable and fruits. Collector said that those who roam outside will be quarantined forcefully.  Collector also asked authorities to engage volunteers to begin a community kitchen. Ration shops will remain open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/total-lockdown-in-kulathupuzha/articleshow/75304254.cms||---
April 23, 2020||India||Covid-suspect nurse dies in MP, report due||INDORE: A covid-19 suspect, who worked as a nurse at Indore’s MGM Medical College, died during treatment late Tuesday night, leaving the medical fraternity shaken. Her corona report is yet to come in. What added to the shock was that another nurse of the same hospital died around the same time. She was a heart patient. MGM is the state’s biggest government-run hospital and at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus. The two deaths came as a shock to colleagues. The Covid-19 suspect was admitted to the chest ward of MY Hospital after she developed the symptoms, said MY Hospital’s superintendent Dr PS Thakur. “She had served in the hospital till April 5 before being home-isolated. Her test report is awaited,” Thakur added. The other nurse had heart disease and was ailing for a long time. “She didn’t show any symptom of Covid-19, so her sample wasn’t taken,” Thakur said. The hospital management and staff have expressed their condolences. Indore –MP’s covid hotspot – is the only city in the country where two doctors (private practitioners) have died of coronavirus. At least five nurses of MY Hospital have been found Covid-positive in the past month. They were working in SICU, gynaecology ward and other important sections of the hospital. One of them has been discharged after fighting off the infection. A lab technician and a lab attendant of MY Hospital’s blood bank have also tested positive. The administration has quarantined many employees since they were primary contacts of these patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-suspect-nurse-dies-in-mp-report-due/articleshow/75308939.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC starts door-to-door waste collection in every ward||KOLHAPUR: The door-to-door collection of waste is now being carried out in all the 81 wards of the city with the help of 104 auto-tipper vehicles. Earlier, the door-to-door collection of waste was limited to only 20 wards. However, due to the lockdown and restriction on the movement of people, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has extended this service to other wards as well. The civic body has also placed bins in several wards to refrain people from dumping waste in the open as the number of garbage collection vehicles is proving insufficient. Vijay Patil, in-charge of solid waste management, said, "Since last one week the garbage collection vehicles have been deployed in all parts of the city. Since the number of vehicles are limited we are ensuring the door-to-door collection is done at least once in two days mainly in the suburbs that are located far from the waste processing sites. We are planning to buy around 45 new auto-tippers to ensure all wards in the city are made bin-free and daily collection of waste is made possible." Even though the restaurants and road-side eateries have been closed due to the lockdown, the daily collection of waste still stands at 200 tonne. The waste is sent to the Kasba Bawda-based waste treatment and Puikhadi’s waste to power plants. In addition, waste from few wards are being brought to the decentralised processing plant at Sambhajinagar. Prakash Mulik, a resident of Rajopadhye Nagar, said, "Earlier no garbage collection vehicle was deployed in our locality for door-to-door waste collection. Now, the auto-tippers are arriving, but the drivers of these vehicles seem to be in a hurry. We also want the vehicles to come every day and not once in two to three days." Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has asked the sanitation staff to ensure the collection vehicles are full of waste and not partially or half filled. The staff at the processing sites has been told to weigh the waste regularly and act against errant drivers. The capacity of the compartments fixed for both dry and wet waste is around 400 kg each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-starts-door-to-door-waste-collection-in-every-ward/articleshow/75304258.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Ragpickers left in the lurch due to lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: Ragpickers who live on the outskirts of the city have been badly impacted by the lockdown. All 750 families of identified ragpickers have been facing problems after the city was declared a red zone. The IAS Officers Wives Association (IASOWA) extended their support to them, with the help of a voluntary organisation, and donated necessary groceries. Ragpickers are dependent on the daily collection of plastic waste on the street. Movement on streets is restricted after the lockdown came into force. To add to their misery, all scrap buyers closed their stores. Rag pickers have lost their livelihood and are waiting for support from the government. Dalit Bahujan Resource Centre (DBRC), which is working on the welfare of the rag pickers, spoke to Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh on the issues faced by the ragpickers in the city. In response, Prasanna Venkatesh and his wife Manasa Venkatesh—with the help of IASOWA and CREDAI—donated grocery kits to all families of ragpickers. Each kit contains five kilograms rice, one kilogram of toor dal, sugar, two kilograms wheat flour and one litre cooking oil. Members of an NGO distributed the kits to rag pickers. “Ragpickers are among the most neglected sections of the society. We are happy that IASOWA and the VMC commissioner responded to their problems,” said G Jhansi Rani, city coordinator of DBRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ragpickers-left-in-the-lurch-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75304260.cms||Venu Lanka
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Malayinkeezhu and Varkala exempted from hotspot list||Thiruvananthapuram: In an apparent corrective step, the district administration on Wednesday announced that Varkala muncipality and Malayinkeezhu panchayat have been exempted from the list of Covid-19 hotspots in the state. Hotspot status for Thiruvananthapuram corporation will be lifted on Thursday, with restrictions limited to 10 to 12 wards only. Sources in the government said recommendation to lift the 'hot spot' status of corporation was approved by chief secretary Tom Jose on Wednesday night. “The area surrounding Ambalathara ward where the lone active case in the city belongs to will be retained as hotspot while the rest of the city region will be granted relaxations,” said a source. An order in this regard will be issued on Thursday after finalising how many wards around Ambalathara will be part of the new containment zone. Lifting hot spot status will provide relaxation such as movement of private vehicles on odd-even number basis. On Thursday, vehicles with even numbers can be on road. The inclusion of Varkala, Malayinkeezhu and areas under city corporation in the list of hotspots identified by a state executive committee chaired by the chief secretary had raised many eyebrows owing to an erroneous statistical methodology adopted, which did not use real-time data. Rural SP B Ashok said that the police will be maintaining vigil despite the relaxations in the restrictions. “The relaxations are on the functioning hours of shops, which has been extended to 7pm from 5pm. We will be strictly enforcing this deadline. Motorists, who hit the roads without valid reasons will still be booked,” the Rural SP said. Meanwhile in the city, the police are continuing strict vigil as it continues to be a hotspot. On Wednesday onwards the police started booking people who stepped out of homes without wearing masks. As many as 62 persons were booked in this regard invoking provisions of Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. City Police Commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay said that the police will be booking people who do not wear masks in the coming days too. The entry and exit to and from the city are still restricted to just six points at Maruthoor, Vetturoad, Kundamanbhagam, Vazhayila, Pravachambalam and Vizhinjam-Mukkola. As many as 133 cases were registered in connection with lockdown violation. Out of these, 124 persons were booked under Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance for not adhering the norms regarding the number of passengers allowed in each vehicle. Most number of cases were recorded at Fort, Nemom and Pattom police stations. The police also seized as many as 75 vehicles on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/malayinkeezhu-and-varkala-exempted-from-hotspot-list/articleshow/75304298.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19: 17 samples sent for testing from Kottayam||KOTTAYAM: A fruit shop in the market was closed by health department authorities on Wednesday after it was found that a truck driver from Tamil Nadu, who had primary contact with a Covid-positive person, had mingled with as many as 17 people in the market, including the fruit shop owner and load workers.  The truck carrying water melons from Tindivanam in Tamil Nadu had reached Kottayam on Tuesday. The samples of all those who had come into contact with the driver have been sent for lab tests and all of them have been sent to home quarantine. Health workers said none among them have symptoms of Covid-19. The results will be available on Friday. The health officials swung into action after receiving information that a person, who travelled in the same truck, and who got down in Palakkad, later tested positive for Covid-19 and was sent into isolation. Another person who was in the truck had left for Palakkad the same day. Health officials tracked down the person who left for Palakkad at Ernakulam on the wee hours of Wednesday and he was taken to the Ernakulam General Hospital where his samples were taken. The man was later shifted to the isolation ward of Palakkad General Hospital in an ambulance. So far, only three Covid-19 cases were reported in Kottayam and all three have recovered. The district was classified as a Green Zone for the Covid-19 outbreak and authorities have been easing restricitons in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/17-samples-sent-for-testing-from-kottayam/articleshow/75304315.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Two new cases, three more from Satranjipura test positive for Covid-19||NAGPUR: Five more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Wednesday, taking the district’s total to 98. In some worry, two of the positive patients are new cases, and not from existing chains. Also, one positive patient is a tuberculosis (TB) patient and one from Timki, the first positive case in this locality. The officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI, “The 33-year-old woman, who is a TB patient, is a resident of Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura. She was having health problems and was being treated at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). She started to get fever and her samples tested positive on Wednesday,” they said. NMC officials have started investigations as the woman resides in the same area as the 16 who had tested positive, including cap seller, son of his landlord, seven Jabalpur-based Tablighi Jamaats (TJs), two persons in service of the TJs, and five family members of one of the two persons. NMC will trace, examine and quarantine family members of the woman, and find if any of them has had contact with earlier 16. With the latest case, the number of cases from Mominpura has increased to 18, with one TJ, who was camping at city’s Markaz Lal Building, testing positive on Tuesday. The worry is that TB is considered as high-risk in Covid-19. The 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, the city’s first and only death, was also a TB patient. The 56 persons who came in contact with the deceased and his family members had tested positive till Wednesday. The second new case is from Timki, which is situated between containment zones of Mominpura and Dalalpura. This 38-year-old man was also admitted at IGGMCH earlier and tested positive on Wednesday. NMC will declare Timki as new containment zone and trace, examine, and quarantine all his family members and close contacts. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Two new cases does not mean community spread. We are investigating and the two case might have links to either Mominpura or Satranjipura.” The remaining three positive tests — aged 20, 80 (males) and 55 (female) — are connected to the Satranjipura case. Here too, there is a worry as one of the three is 80-year-old, the oldest among all positive cases in the district as yet. With latest three, the number of positive cases from Satranjipura has increased to 57. Many reports in the case are awaited. Due to large number of cases from single patient, NMC has continued containment zone at Satranjipura despite completion of 17 days. Four more containment zones — Dalalpura, Bairagipura, Shanti Nagar and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar — are continuing due to Satranjipura. NMC on Wednesday notified Bhaldarpura as new containment zone with boundaries at Chitnis Park, Agrasen Chowk, Tarekar Bhavan Post Office, and Tata Parsi School. Dawa Bazaar has been excluded as it supplies wholesale medicines to entire city and Nagpur division. There are now eight containment zones in the city. Timki will become the ninth, when notified on Thursday. One containment zone is at Gittikhadan, where a youth had tested positive. Scared Covid-19 positive woman tries to flee One of those from Satranjipura link found positive attempted to flee from IGGMCH around 9pm on Wednesday. The woman in her 30s was brought from Symbiosis Campus quarantine centre. “Doctors and cops had to hold her as she was crying and nervous,” said a doctor. She was alone when brought and perhaps got frightened. Actually, she had to be admitted at GMCH but was by mistake brought to IGGMCH," said a doctor. The patients was surrounded by cops and doctors inside the IGGMCH campus. As doctors were discussing to send her to Mayo, she attempted to flee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-new-cases-3-more-from-satranjipura-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75306744.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Additional water troughs to prevent wild animals from venturing out||TRICHY: Two water troughs were raised this year inside reserve forests by the forest department taking the total number of to 15 in all the four forest ranges in Trichy division. Troughs are vital in preventing wild animals venturing outside the forest areas in search of water. Water streams and ponds often go dry during the summer. There are a few check dams constructed across water streams in a few places, these check dams too could store water only for a few days as the streams are not perennial. Creating artificial water source for the wild animals, the forest department has constructed water troughs in some places with considerable wildlife population. In addition to the 13 troughs in all the four forest ranges in Trichy, the department set up two more troughs this year in Manapparai forest. These troughs prove vital to prevent wild animals especially spotted deer and Indian gaur from venturing out of the forest in search of water. Manapparai reserve forest on the Trichy-Dindigul NH 45 has become an accident-prone zone. Same is the case with the Thuvarankurichi forest range in the close vicinity of Trichy-Madurai highway. Finding greenery on the other side on the patta lands, wild animals from the RF often fall victim to the speeding vehicles while crossing the road. The additional water troughs will help increase source of water within the forest for wild animals, said Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha. Water is sourced from nearby areas to fill these tanks, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/additional-water-troughs-to-prevent-wild-animals-from-venturing-out/articleshow/75306732.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||From plague of 1896 to Spanish Flu two decades later, Pune has braved many pandemics and recovered||“There were always just sufficient people about to save Poona from being called a city of the dead. But there was a grim stillness over everything — the hush of a great mourning — that almost chilled. Rows upon rows of empty shops, rows upon rows of deserted houses, whose shuttered doors and windowless walls gave one the impressions of coffins.” This report was published in The Times of India on August 23, 1899, with the heading, “The plague in Poona. A tour of the city”. Pune under curfew today will easily relate to the narrative in the TOI report as it battles the coronavirus spread by shutting its shops, restaurants, multiplexes and other establishments. Still, the present situation is far better than what it was 124 years ago, when Mumbai and subsequently Pune were caught in the grip of the 1896 bubonic plague. “Before the plague, cholera had wiped out a third of Pune’s population in 1629. In 1720, following a drought, it was cholera again that forced the entire population of Vadhu and areas on Nagar road to flee Pune," veteran history scholar Pandurang Balkawade said, pointing out that Pune has faced many pandemics in the past. History researcher Mandar Lawate said that though the city reported 4,500 plague-related deaths in 1896 and scores of casualties in 1918 because of influenza (Spanish Flu), it bounced back in a couple of months both times and even celebrated the annual festivals. Lawate said, “It had become an annual ritual for many people to abandon their homes in the Peths and stay in makeshift shelters put up on Fergusson College grounds as the plague saga continued even after 1896.” Balkawade said it was common during the years of the plague for people to leave Pune and return after the epidemic had subsided. Another TOI report, published on August 21, 1899, corroborated Balkawade’s observations. The TOI correspondent who had arrived in Pune by train wrote: “There were scarcely any natives in the train which brought me to Poona. Everything had a gloomy look. The people who peered out through the bars of the waiting room seemed anxious for the moment to arrive when they would be borne away from the infected city.” From the railway station, the correspondent went to the city hospital and further wrote: "People were dying like flies, and there was no one to save them. The General Plague Hospital was a death-trap, where the sick were taken to die. No food could be had at the place; the nursing was a farce. The dead were all piled in a shed one on top of the other, without regard to caste or creed, and soaked in carbolic. Husbands seeking wives, wives seeking husbands, and children their parents, had to lift down corpse after corpse, until they came upon that for which they sought.” Balkawade’s family lost three members during the plague. “Similar was the case in most households in Pune and Mumbai. Yet, both cities came out of this worst-ever epidemic,” he said, stressing that current Covid-19 spread cannot be compared to the plague which was severe. Yet, since Sunday, social media platforms have been drawing a comparison, especially after the authorities declared the entire city a containment zone by invoking powers under the same Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 which was first imposed in Pune and Mumbai 123 years ago to contain the plague. Interestingly, terms like “institutional quarantine” and “isolation centres” are not new for the two cities. “A huge institutional quarantine centre was erected by the British at Sangamwadi in 1897. While patients were shifted to this centre, their families who were not affected by the plague were shifted to temporary sheds put up at Swargate,” Lawate said. Another topic for discussion by Netizens is the century-old murder of Walter Charles Rand, an Indian Civil Service officer and chairman of the Pune Plague Committee. Indian revolutionaries including Damodar Hari Chapekar and his brothers Balkrishna and Vasudeo had assassinated Rand on June 22, 1897, for his excesses during the plague. A Marathi film produced by noted director Nachiket Patwardhan and titled "22 June 1897" — the day on which Rand was assassinated — had become hugely popular in the state three decades ago. "We have shown in the film that the measures initiated by Rand did help curb the spread of the plague in Pune. But we have also explained what led to the anger against him," Patwardhan told TOI. "No one doubts Rand's efforts to curb the plague, but he was criticized for using culturally insensitive methods and excesses," Balkawade said. "Rand's team would enter houses to look for those affected by plague. They burned all the belongings of plague-hit people. He would also strip people,” Lawate said. The callousness hurt the people and their sensibilities. A decade ago, the Pune Municipal Corporation renovated the memorial of the Chapekar brothers, originally set up in 1971, along the footpath opposite the Pune Central mall on Ganeshkhind road, exactly at the spot where Rand was shot. A little ahead of this spot, the brothers had shouted the now famous code words, "Gondya Aala Re", to alert each other that Rand’s horse carriage was approaching after a function held at Raj Bhavan to celebrate Queen Victoria's diamond jubilee. Due to a confusion, the brothers also killed Lt. Charles Egerton Ayerst who was in another horse carriage. The brothers and their friend, M V Ranade, were hanged by the British for the two assassinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-plague-of-1896-to-spanish-flu-two-decades-later-pune-has-braved-many-pandemics-and-recovered/articleshow/75307520.cms||Abhijit Atre
April 23, 2020||Vadodara||Coronavirus cases cross 200-mark in Vadodara city||VADODARA: The total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city crossed the 200-mark with 10 new cases being reported since Tuesday night. Vadodara district now has 207 cases, including 198 in Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits. The fresh cases reported since Tuesday night include nine in VMC limits. A majority of cases in the city limits were from northern zone, including five from Nagarwada and surrounding areas, and one each from Karelibaug, Nyay Mandir, Rajmahal Road and Kishanwad. The case of a 51-year-old woman from Karelibaug MIG Flats has perplexed health officials. Despite efforts, teams of the civic body were not able to ascertain an epidemiological link regarding the place from where she could have received the infection. The north zone of the city continues to remain the worst affected with eight of the nine fresh cases being reported from this zone. Out of the 207 cases reported so far, 176 are from this zone followed by 11 from east zone that also saw a fresh case on Wednesday. As many as 189 people remained hospitalized due to Covid-19 in the city. These included two in serious condition on ventilators and five on oxygen support. VMC data revealed that 5,083 people are in home or government facility quarantine so far. These included 3,832 people advised home quarantine and 68 government quarantine facility. The remaining 1,183 are labourers and others from outside the city or even state kept at different facilities due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/coronavirus-cases-cross-200-mark-in-vadodara-city/articleshow/75302861.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Over 6 lakh workers given job under NREGA in four days: Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday said over 6 lakh workers were given employment in the last four days under the MGNREGA scheme in the rural areas of the state. Only 62,000 workers could be employed till 17 April due to the lockdown. Keeping in view the utility of MGNREGA in rural areas in generating income for the rural household, emphasis was laid on employing more workers, due to which the employment of workers has increased from 62,000 to over 6 lakh in just four days, Pilot said in a statement. The works of individual beneficiary schemes sanctioned under the MGNREGA include construction of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, construction of cattle shed, construction of vermin-compost units, fencing and levelling of fields among others. He said efforts are on to achieve the goal of employing maximum workers by motivating them and making people aware that more works could be sanctioned only on demand. The deputy chief minister on Wednesday also inspected arrangements under the Panchayat Samiti Chaksu and interacted with officials. He reviewed the arrangements for personal hygiene and social distancing by MGNREGA workers and also instructed officials about following coronavirus guidelines. Pilot said the economic activities are almost closed due to lockdown, so MGNREGA works can be the main source of income in rural areas. The wages received under the scheme will increase the purchasing power of people, which will support the rural economy, he said. Wages and working hours under the scheme were revised in the state a few days ago. Now, unskilled workers will be paid Rs 220 per day against the earlier Rs 199 per day. Skilled and semi-skilled workers will be given Rs 235 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-6-lakh-workers-given-job-under-nrega-in-four-days-pilot/articleshow/75306747.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Provide assistance to all workers: Labour unions||COIMBATORE: Members of the joint committee of the trade unions of all unorganised construction workers association on Wednesday urged collector K Rajamani to take steps to provide aid worth Rs 2,000 and essential commodities to all workers. “Following the state government’s direction, the labour department has been distributing the assistance and essential commodities worth Rs 650 to the construction workers and auto drivers who are registered with its welfare board. But so far, only 40% of them had received it,” said R Velusamy, a board member of the district monitoring committee of the welfare board. Pointing out that the department had the details of the workers who had earlier availed benefits like the marriage assistance fund, he said that the officials are still in the process of collecting details from the remaining registered workers. “Due to manpower shortage and other practical difficulties like slow internet connection, there has been a delay in uploading the details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/provide-assistance-to-all-workers-labour-unions/articleshow/75305782.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Lonara quarantine facility to be shut after last 50 complete 14-day isolation||NAGPUR: Within 15 days of starting, the Lonara-based Central India College of Pharmacy has stopped taking anymore Covid-19 suspects and would be shut after the 50 inmates completed their 14-day isolation period. Over 250 persons used the facility. Around 10 positive cases have been reported from the centre which was started on April 5. The remaining suspects are from Satranjipura and Mominpura links. On the first day itself, it ran into controversy after 12 foreign returnees were taken there but released the next day following apprehensions of getting infected. Unlike other quarantine centres, the college doesn’t have hostels and close contacts of Covid19 patients were kept in large classrooms and halls where beds were put up. The common toilets and bathrooms too were on the top floor forcing every person to pass through all the corridors to use the facility. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI that it was already decided to shut the Lonara facility. “Our first preference is separate rooms. Our existing facilities are having enough space right now. The college doesn’t have rooms. Many are getting discharged from MLA hostel and other places after completing 14-day isolation,” he said. Mehmuda Gramin Vikas Bahuddeshiya Sanstha mentor Anees Ahmed said even now 20 rooms would remain available for the administration to use them for quarantining people in emergency. “The number of suspects are going down and the administration is preferring government-owned facilities such as MLA hostel, Ravi Bhavan and Vanamati to quarantine people. In the beginning too we had offered our white building having 20 rooms for individual isolation but the sub-divisional officer preferred the red building with large classrooms. The red building didn’t have attached toilets so it was becoming a worry for all of us as people would mix up,” he said. Meanwhile, the city police on Wednesday morning intercepted five migrant labourers who were travelling from Bangalore to their hometown Gwalior on foot. The migrants were intercepted at Chhatrapati Nagar from where they were sent to MLA hostel, said a cop who was present at the nakabandi. However, senior PI of Pratap Nagar police station said that the migrants were handed over to NMC officials at one of the shelter homes. It is not yet clear where the migrants were taken. Recently, around 15 migrant labourers heading from Wani to Chandrapur and some from Bilaspur were taken to the Lonara quarantine facility by cops. As per officials, they were intercepted on state border. On Thursday, these 15 are likely to be given travel pass to reach their hometowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lonara-quarantine-facility-to-be-shut-after-last-50-complete-14-day-isolation/articleshow/75306751.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Deputy speaker, family show negative in rapid kit test: Health department||COIMBATORE: Days after his security officer tested positive in the rapid antibody test, it was revealed on Wednesday that deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman, his family and staff were not at risk and that they have tested negative in the rapid test. Meanwhile, five more Covid-19 patients from the district were discharged from the ESI Hospital on Wednesday. Pointing out that the security officer, a sub-inspector, was tested positive in the rapid kit test on Monday and not Tuesday, Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said Jayaraman and his family members were screened the same day. Brushing aside the reports that the sub-inspector’s nasal swabs have already been collected for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) antigen tests, the official said his samples were taken only today (Wednesday). Speaking to TOI on the implications of the security officer testing positive for the virus, the official said that won’t be a sign of community spread. “The rapid kit test shows he has already developed antibodies for the virus, and his body has either fought it off or is in the process (of doing that). Since he is asymptomatic, we have asked him and his family members to remain in home quarantine to avoid the possibility of them silently carrying the infection around. Since he has antibodies, he is likely to test negative in the PCR antigen test.” The official said the health department had also subjected more than 40 policemen in Pollachi to the rapid kit test after the security officer tested positive. “They all tested negative. We will investigate further only if he tests positive for Covid-19. In that case, his family members will also be subjected to PCR tests. His test results will come tomorrow (Thursday).” Meanwhile, the district health department officials have notified their counterparts in Tirupur about the movement of Annur police sub-inspector, who tested positive for the virus, in their territory, including places in and around Avinashi, in the past fortnight. A health department official said, “Of the 46 contacts identified, some are in Tirupur. Her contacts in the district will be subjected to the PCR test by Thursday.” With the lockdown in force until May 3, the district’s chances of entering the yellow zone are minimal. The district shouldn’t report any positive cases for the remaining 14 days to get into yellow zone, which would ensure slight relaxation of norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dy-speaker-family-show-ve-in-rapid-kit-test-health-dept/articleshow/75305803.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||‘Central law to protect doctors unsatisfactory’||Jaipur: The doctors’ associations in Rajasthan said the central ordinance to protect corona warriors from attacks by amending the Epidemic Act is unsatisfactory. The central government on Wednesday brought an amendment to the Epidemic Diseases Act making attacks on doctors, paramedics and ASHA workers a non-bailable offence with seven years’ imprisonment and fine up to Rs 5 lakh. According to the ordinance, police will investigate the case in one month and the case will be fast-tracked with the final judgement to come within a year. Those found to be vandalising private clinics or vehicles belonging to a doctor will be asked to pay twice the market value of these assets. The central amendment was necessitated after the Indian Medical Association had threatened to observe April 23 as a Back Day if the Centre fails to bring legislation to protect them from attackers. Dr Ajay Chaudhary, president of All Rajasthan In-service Doctors Association, said the new amendment is ‘useless’. He said the ordinance covers only the doctors on duty during Covid-19. He said the law should have been a permanent one to protect the doctors in all circumstances. He said there is law in Rajasthan to protect the doctors, but what is required is its strict compliance. Jaipur District Resident Doctors’ Association president Dr Ramchandra Jangu also expressed similar sentiment. He said the amendment was brought under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Which means this law will be enforced only during an epidemic. “The doctors want protection from unruly elements in all seasons,” he added. He said the Centre’s action is half-hearted and unsatisfactory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/central-law-to-protect-doctors-unsatisfactory/articleshow/75306752.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lockdown ‘unclogs’ sewer lines in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The sewerage division of Kerala water authority (KWA) is having a trouble-free time during the lockdown. Just like KWA, which is getting fewer complaints over non-availability of water due to closure of commercial institutions, sewerage department is recording fewer cases of blocks in sewer lines. Senior officials of sewerage division of KWA said that though they are attending complaints on time even during lockdown, cases of overflowing of sewer line or blockades are few. “Due to the lockdown, majority of restaurants are not functioning in the city. Despite several attempts to prevent it, restaurants used to dump their waste into sewer lines, thereby causing blockades and overflowing of manholes. There is drastic reduction in number of such cases,” said an official. Regarding reports that irresponsible dumping of waste is causing blockades in sewers, officials said that the number of cases of waste dumping too have reduced due to lockdown.  “No cases of dumping of masks or other waste into sewer lines came to our notice,” said officials. Though there is relief regarding regular maintenance works, the department is not able to start pre-monsoon maintenance works due to the lockdown. “The cleaning of sewers, including work to remove all accumulated waste, was completed in several wards around Attukal temple prior to the pongala festival. Now, works are pending in areas in and around Sastamangalam. We are planning to take up the works when government announces relaxation in lockdown norms. The contractors assigned for each area will be responsible for works,” officials said. Meanwhile, the sewage treatment plant (STP) which began its operations in June 2013 continues to work during lockdown without any break. Officials of STP said that staff were provided pass for essential services and are working in various shifts to ensure continuous functioning of the plant, which has a capacity to treat 107 million litres of sewage per day. Due to poor sewerage connectivity, only around 75MLD is reaching the plant for treatment. “The amount of sewage reaching the plant is almost the same even after lockdown. Earlier, there was a peak hour when sewage flow will be maximum during the morning when people get ready for school or office. Now the flow is almost consistent throughout the day,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lockdown-unclogs-sewer-lines-in-capital/articleshow/75304364.cms||Jisha Surya
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore man quarantined in New Delhi passes away||COIMBATORE: A 60-year-old man from Coimbatore, who had tested negative for Covid-19 but under quarantine in New Delhi, died on Wednesday.Mohamed Mustafa, who held a senior position in Sipcot and retired two years back, had visited Delhi in March to participate in Tablighi Jamaath congregation. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, Mustafa along with 500-odd more from Tamil Nadu were quarantined in Delhi. They were kept in various places including the police quarters in Sultanpur, where Mustafa was quarantined. On Wednesday morning, a friend of Mustafa’s son who was also quarantined in Sultanpur telephoned the family members to informed them that Mustafa fell unconscious and was being rushed to a hospital in an ambulance. Hours later, the family was informed that Mustafa died without responding to treatment. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M H Jawahirullah said in a statement that Mustafa was tested for Covid-19 twice in Delhi and the results were negative and charged that those quarantined there were not given proper care. Mustafa was a diabetic. “His wife told me that Mustafa and others are not being given proper food and medical attention,’’ he said, demanding that the Tamil Nadu government representatives should pay attention to the complaints of the quarantined people there. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-man-quarantined-in-new-delhi-passes-away/articleshow/75305794.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Puttur man combats unscrupulous traders||Mangaluru:The initial days of lockdown saw the prices of vegetables and pulses soar. Despite warnings by the district administration, unscrupulous merchants took advantage of the situation and continued to reap profits. When Krishna Kumar Rai, director, Kedambadi Keyyur Primary Agricultural Credit Society saw this happening at his village in Puttur taluk, he first tried convincing merchants not to hike prices, but to no avail. Then, through the Society, he got vegetables directly from farmers in North Karnataka. Rai is also the taluk president of Sahakar Bharati, through which he sold agricultural produce sourced from farmers in North Karnataka, to different Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS) in the region. He said: “I saw merchants selling onions for Rs 50-60/kg. I requested them to sell at the market price. When they refused to listen, and since I run other businesses with employees from Hubballi and Davanagere, who have farms back home, I checked the prices with them. I requested if they could arrange for the transportation of a load of onions. The first consignment that arrived was of 30 quintals, and we started selling onion for Rs 22/ kg through the society. As soon as this news spread, a few merchants put up boards outside shops, stating the price of onions as Rs 20/kg. In this way we were able to control prices and procure more essentials and extend this mechanism to other PACS. Onion is currently selling at Rs 15/kg,” he said. At present, nearly 30 PACS are part of this system across Dakshina Kannada. The same happened with Byadagi chillies. At two shops in Kumbra and Olamogaru, the cost was fixed at Rs 440/kg and at a few other places it was priced at Rs 250/kg. “We managed to get it at Rs 228/kg. The whole purpose was to put an end to the artificial scarcity and prevent prices from soaring so that people are not affected during this hour of crisis. People cannot buy in bulk and each family usually gets 1kg of a vegetable. We faced opposition from merchants. Fortunately, we had informed the assistant commissioner and MLA before getting the commodities. Currently, we are providing onions, red chillies, tomatoes, coriander seeds, potatoes and tamarind,” said Rai. Since experts have suggested that this is a win-win model for both the farmer and the buyer, Sahakar Bharati and PACS are planning to take this beyond the lockdown period. From the past five days, PACS have started earning a narrow profit margin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/puttur-man-combats-unscrupulous-traders/articleshow/75302555.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 23, 2020||Kozhikode||4-month-old baby tests positive in Malappuram||Malappuram: A four-month-old baby in the district tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Wednesday. District collector Jafar Malik said that the babygirl of a couple from Payyanad near Manjeri in the district was admitted to Kozhikode medical college hospital on April 21 with high fever and breathing difficulties, and her swab sample was tested positive on Wednesday. According to district health administration the child was suffering from heart diseases. After she developed some breathing difficulties on April 17 at her home in Payyanad, she was taken to a private hospital in Manjeri.On Tuesday, her health deteriorated and she was shifted to Kozhikode medical college. The child’s swab sample was collected for Covid-19 test on the same day and the virus infection was confirmed on Wednesday. So far a total of 20 persons tested positive in Malappuram district. Apart from the four-month-old girl, six persons are under treatment at Manjeri medical college. On Wednesday, 33 more persons were brought under observation in the district. On Wednesday, district collector Jafar Malik said that seven grama panchayats were included in the revised lists of hotspots in the district. Vengara, Chungathara, Thennala, Ozhur, Thalakkad, Kannamangalam, AR Nagar panchayts were inlcuded in the revised list. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/4-month-old-baby-tests-positive-in-malappuram/articleshow/75304371.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan tourism creates virtual tours to keep tourists hooked||JAIPUR: When summer holidays arrive, vacationing thoughts cannot be held back. But this time around, there is no choice but to stay at home as Covid19 pandemic rages. Despite the handicap, you can still walk around in the innards of the imposing Mehrangarh fort in Jodhpur in a visual tour guided by a voice, vividly narrating the intriguing stories of the architectural marvel. Knowing that the holiday thoughts cannot be bottled up especially in summers, the tourism department is creating virtual experiences designed around destinations, culinary journeys, and musical extravaganzas to keep the travellers hooked to the state’s attractions. These campaigns have invaded social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube etc. “We wanted to keep the tourists engaged during this lockdown period so that whenever the restrictions are eased, Rajasthan will have top brand recall on their minds. That’s why we came up with this ‘rajasthanfromhome’ campaign,” said Sreya Guha, principal secretary, department of tourism. She said through this initiative, virtual experiences of various tourism products and attractions of Rajasthan are showcased like historic forts, all world heritage sites, luxury train Palace on Wheels, wildlife etc. “A large number of visitors have hooked on to our social media handles and website and it is continuously getting more eyeballs and visitors,” she added. The series of experiences and virtual tours were started on April 9, 2020 with four to six creative posts daily on different destinations and experiences. “So far more than 100 creatives and posts have been amplified across all social media platforms of Rajasthan tourism such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, etc and have garnered a very large number impressions and engagements,” she said. In addition, a competition for chefs of Rajasthan has been launched on Rajasthan tourism social media for which entries have been sought until April 30, 2020. “Through these initiatives, brand Rajasthan tourism will get further strengthened and once the lockdown is lifted, we will be at a better vantage point to drive tourism traffic,” Guha said. There are also teasers, asking the readers to identify places. For example, one of the posts says “This is a craft village situated near the lake Fatehsagar. It is considered to be the living museum to depict the folk and crafts of the people of western India. Can you Guess the Place? And readers have also joined offering their answers. BOX Raj, Maha ministers thrash out ways to revive tourism Jaipur: In a bid to boost domestic tourism and compensate for the absence of international travellers post-coronavirus crisis, Rajasthan tourism will shift focus to the domestic travellers. Similarly, tourists will also need to be reassured on all hygiene standards being followed at hotels and other locations, said Rajasthan tourism minister Vishvendra Singh in a video conference with his Maharashtra counterpart b Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday. Attended by senior officials of both the states including Rajasthan tourism director Bhanwar Lal, the discussions focused on drafting a rejuvenation plan for the tourism industry post-corona crisis. “Both states will be focusing on short term measures to boost tourism in their respective states. They will also coordinate with the Union government and respective health departments to set up and improve guidelines over the coming weeks,” a statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tourism-creates-virtual-tours-to-keep-tourists-hooked/articleshow/75306756.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore gets more PCR units, not to compromise on screening||COIMBATORE: The public health department in the district has begun ramping up polymerase chain reaction (PCR) antigen testing facilities, which would come handy to screen more people as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has ordered all the states to stop using the rapid antibody test kits for two days. With PSG Hospitals getting permission to conduct Covid-19 tests on Monday and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) receiving an additional PCR testing unit, the number of units in the city has increased to five from the earlier three. Presently, the district could run around 1,500 PCR tests a day. While the public health department has been using rapid test kits that allowed mass testing and surveillance of people since Monday, there was a direction from ICMR on Tuesday not to use the same for the next two to three days, until their quality was ascertained. The move was widely welcomed by many epidemiologists and doctors. A senior virologist in the government sector said, “The problem is that the rapid test kits might bring down the dependence on PCR tests, because results take longer, process requires manual involvement and PCR antigen kits are numbered. If the rapid antibody tests are inaccurate, we will be missing many positive cases.” The district administration, however, said it didn’t have any plans to cut down on PCR tests for now. “In fact, we have increased our PCR testing facilities by allowing a private hospital to test and getting one more unit at CMCH. Now, we have five units in total - two in CMCH, one in ESI Hospital, one in Microbiological Laboratory and another in PSG Hospitals,” an official said. Health department officials said around 1,500 samples could be processed in the district in 24 hours, up from 500 samples until recently. “Now, CMCH can process more than 500 samples a day, Microbiological Labs 600, ESI Hospital 200 and PSG Hospitals 100. So, if we receive PCR antigen kits from the government regularly, we can fully utilize our capacity,” an official said. PSG Hospitals, meanwhile, confirmed that they have the required facilities to test Covid-19 and also received the official permission to conduct tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-gets-more-pcr-units-not-to-compromise-on-screening/articleshow/75305822.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Pregnant SI prefers Covid-19 duty to maternity leave||BHUBANESWAR: Any woman in the eighth month of pregnancy would avail maternity leave. But sub-inspector (SI) Mamata Mishra posted in Mayurbhanj district preferred the dangerous Covid-19 duty, winning accolades from different quarters, including DGP Abhay. “During my Mayurbhanj visit yesterday (Tuesday), I met SI Mamta Mishra. This braveheart in eighth-month of pregnancy insists on working. In view of her health, she is given duty at Betnoti police station and not on road or checkpoint. My compliments to her,” tweeted DGPs Twitter handle on Wednesday. Mamata’s unwavering commitment to Covid-19 duty is similar to that of scores of other police personnel doing so and hailed as frontline Corona warriors, is akin to healthcare professionals. Mamata, who was recruited by Odisha police recently, joined Betnoti police station as her first posting on January 20, 2019. “It was my own decision to discharge Covid-19 lockdown duty, though my seniors and colleagues have been persuading me to avail maternity leave. I am planning to apply for leave after the end of extended lockdown on May 3. For my and baby’s safety and good health, my seniors are not assigning me any arduous duty,” said Mamata, who is not conducting patrolling in vehicles and registering FIRs in police stations. Mamata also exhibited tremendous resolve in the crisis situation by taking care of herself. “My husband Bedaprakash Nanda is also a police sub-inspector, posted at Bisoi police station, about 85 km from my police station. He is unable to visit me regularly because of the tight schedule of lockdown duty. I have to take care of myself and my baby. My family members and in-laws are also not able to visit me due to the lockdown,” said Mamata, who belongs to Jajpur district. Earlier on Monday, DGP Abhay was all praises for two women police personnel in Sundargarh district after the duo postponed their weddings and joined Covid-19 duty. Home guard Tilotama Meher’s wedding was scheduled for April 12 while constable Sunita Adha was supposed to tie the knot on April 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/pregnant-si-prefers-covid-19-duty-to-maternity-leave/articleshow/75302584.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||18-month-old boy youngest to defeat Covid-19 in Gujarat||RAJKOT: An 18-month-old boy became the youngest patient in Gujarat to survive novel coronavrius infection and recover completely. The baby boy, Ayan Shaikh, was discharged from Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital on Wednesday. Ayan’s parents, who are natives of Ajmer, had come to Bhavnagar to sell perfumes. They were living at a relative’s house in Sandhiyawad area which was put under cluster quarantine after several cases were reported from there On April 14, Ayan was brought to the hospital after he showed some symptoms during community surveillance. He tested positive the next day. The hospital administration kept his mother in the room with PPE kit as the child required regular feeding. Hospital administrator Hardik Patel said, “The PPE kit is required to be changed every seven hours. We ensured that she kept changing it.” Before discharging the child, the hospital administration also tested his mother who tested negative. The source of infection for the child is not known as both the parents tested Covid negative. Another patient, 23-year-old Aadil Ganeja, also a resident of Sandhiyavad, was discharged on Wednesday. In all, 19 patients have been discharged in Bhavnagar so far of the total 33 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/18-mnth-old-boy-youngest-to-defeat-covid-in-gujarat/articleshow/75304411.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||High prices, lockdown troubles prompt many to try and quit smoking||NAGPUR: Every puff of a cigarette is now turning more money into smoke for regular smokers. With cigarette manufacturers as well as sellers shut across the country, the few grocery stores with stocks of cigarette are charging a hefty premium. Even domestic brands earlier priced at Rs160 for a pack of 10 are now being sold at Rs200-300, with prices of imported cigarettes almost doubling. More and more people are also seeing the lockdown as an opportunity to give up the cigarette habit, which almost all of them have been trying to give up anyway. Yogesh Thakur, a pan shop owner at Trimurti Nagar, has kept his shop closed since the lockdown. “This is a no-win situation for all. Even my manufacturers and distributors are out of work,” he said. He admits, though, that those who have stock are selling one stick costing Rs12-13 for Rs20-25 rupees. Many grocery shop owners in the city have cigarette stocks, which they are selling at high rate, which smoking addicts are forced to pay. “From paying Rs13 for one, I am now spending double,” said Debashree Patil (name changed). Pan shop owner Ajay Vishwakarma expressed disappointment over the sale of cigarettes at high rates by some people, but added, “We cannot stop them. But we cannot open our shops, as cops hound us for coming on the streets.” On the other hand, people grounded at homes are finding it difficult to light up in front of their wives or family and children. Priya Bapat (name changed), a student, has already started to see the brighter side of this situation and cut down her cigarette consumption. “I am not a chain smoker but used to have a puff once a day. Now, I have not smoked for three days straight, which is great progress, as I always wanted to quit,” said Bapat. Another smoker Atul Nagrani (name changed), a salesman, said, “I do feel the urge to smoke, but staying with family and kids makes it difficult. I now only smoke one cigarette as against five earlier. The lockdown has made me realize I can quit if I want to,” he said. Interventional pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat believes this is the best time for chain smokers to quit for better health. “The lockdown and high prices are a good opportunity for people who took up smoking due to peer pressure or work life stress,” he said. People with respiratory problems and active smoking habit have a higher risk of catching coronavirus or any other viral infection too, he said. “People should understand their lungs are being compromised. Also, falling ill will risk the life of their family and children too.” Talking about the psychological perspective of quitting smoking, Dr Naznin Chimthanwala, a consulting psychologist and counsellor psychotherapist, said only abstaining will help get rid of the addiction. “To get rid of the habit, replace it with something else. Mouth fresheners and fennel seeds (without sugar) are the best option, as sugar too can be addictive,” she said. More than giving up cigarette now, once the lockdown ends and cigarettes are easily available again, there is a higher risk of the habit coming back, she said. “One the pressure is gone, smokers will run behind cigarettes like anything. The only solution is self awareness, abstaining and replacing,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-prices-lockdown-troubles-prompt-many-to-try-and-quit-smoking/articleshow/75306759.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Dearth of tourists haunts Ooty’s blooming gardens||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Unmindful of the global pandemic and the lockdown, the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) and the Government Rose Garden (GRG) in Ooty are in full bloom. The gardens are the most popular tourist spots in the hill town during April and May, when mercury soars in other parts of the country. While there are no tourists this time, the gardens are maintained well as they are the twin crowns of Ooty, a horticulture department official said. The flower show committee had in February announced dates for the annual flower show and other shows as part of summer festival to be held during the month of May. If the summer festival is not held, GBG will be skipping the annual flower carnival, a rare case since its introduction more than a century ago. Regarded as one of the most popular botanical gardens in the world, GBG witnessed the first flower show in 1896, organized by the chairman of the Nilgiris Agri-Horticultural Society J H Tremenhere, who was also the collector of the Nilgiris. Spread over 22 hectares, GBG now houses over 680 rare botanical species of which 340 are rare trees of over 100 years old. Over 107 species of ferns, about 80 species of orchids apart from 60 species of annual flowers and 27 species of climbers adorn the garden. The GRG is situated on four hectares and on five terraces on the sloping land called Elk Hill since its inception in 1995. More rose varieties were added over the years and the garden now boasts of over 35,000 rose plants of over 4,200 varieties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dearth-of-tourists-haunts-ootys-blooming-gardens/articleshow/75305846.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: One dead, 153 test positive in Rajasthan, total count at 1,888||JAIPUR/KOTA: The state reported 153 Covid-19 cases Wednesday, taking the total count to 1,888. A 55-year-old woman from Weir in Bharatpur district, who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital on April 18 and died two days later on April 20, tested positive after her death. She was suffering from diabetes. It was the first death case in Bharatpur and 27th in the state. The districts which reported cases include Jaipur (68), Ajmer (44), Tonk (17), Kota (6), Nagaur (4), Jodhpur (11) and one each from Bharatpur, Dausa and Sawai Madhopur. In Ajmer, the situation worsened in the past 24 hours as 79 persons were found infected. Despite a month of the lockdown, Ajmer reported cases in bulk. Mochi Mohalla is one of the worst affected areas where 35 persons were found infected on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 44 more persons tested positive. The 44 patients who were found infected from Dargah Bazaar area are from Malviya Nagar of Delhi, Gorakhpur, Bihar, Kolkata, Jharkhand and residents of Mochi Mohalla. The health department officials had imposed curfew in a 1-km area after a salesman was found infected on March 28. Since then 103 persons have tested positive. Out of the 68 cases in Jaipur, 14 were reported from MD Road, 36 from Ramganj (Top Khana, Gangapole, Subhash Chowk, Futa Khurra, Jagannath Shah Ka Rasta, Bishtiyon Ka Mohalla), two each from Ghat Gate, Purani Basti and RD Hostel and one each from Kho Nagoriyan, Rani Nagar, Paldi Meena, Chandi Ki Taksal, Sanganer, Chaman Colony, Sethi Colony, one resident from another state and four from other areas of the city. The total cases increased to 725 in Jaipur. In Kota, six persons were found infected. A 27-year-old youth, an ECG technician from New Medical College and Hospital and a 43-year-old staff nurse from the same hosptial residing in Subhash Nagar Circle, Anantpura, were tested positive. A 20-year-old woman from Kolipada, a 45-year-old woman from Anantpura and a 12-year-old girl were also found infected in Kota taking the total positive cases to 114. According to the health department report, 344 patients have recovered, while 133 have been discharged till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-die-153-test-positive-in-state/articleshow/75306760.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Fighting the other viral scourge: Fake news||NEW DELHI: Students and professionals are taking out time to be part of a social media campaign to fight fake news and hate speech during the Covid-19 pandemic. The campaign #KaroNa aims to debunk the lies behind incendiary messages on WhatsApp and other platforms by creating a repository of such news to disprove their authenticity whenever they appear on social media. Tanvi Vartak, an associate at the Young Leaders for Active Citizenship, which has initiated the campaign, explained that in the prevailing situation, people “are facing a host of challenges such as struggling with mental health issues, fake news around health remedies, challenges of migrant labour, social ostracism of Covid patients and frontline workers”. She added, “Our aim is to create a one-stop repository for positive, uplifting and useful content that counters fake news and hate speech and puts together information on resources such as mental health, rations, personal protection equipment, etc, for vulnerable individuals and communities.” The repositories will be available on Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram, among popular platforms. “As a volunteer, I spend some time every day verifying the genuineness of news floating on social media,” said Srishti Jayswal. The Class XI student of Ahlcon International School, attended a workshop on fake news two years ago. “And when I saw this campaign, I jumped at the chance of putting my learning to use,” she said. “I believe that people can tackle this big problem. We often believe what we receive on WhatsApp without verifying its truth. That is why this campaign is so important.” Bindushree D, a consultant at Delhi firm and a campaign volunteer, informed, “Volunteers from school and colleges also make content for the campaign, including Instagram posts.” She said that there’s no hard target for the campaigners. “Many of the volunteers have come from where fake news and lies affect them and hence they want to act on them. If any volunteer comes across any piece of news that is fishy, we bring it to the notice of others in the volunteer group and discuss it for its authenticity,” she said. Whenever the encounter suspicious news going viral, the #KaroNa campaigners will post them on social media with information on how and why the stories are fake. Vartak said the campaign would have a pan-India presence and that they are also working on a report about people’s perception about and impact of hate speech and fake news on their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fighting-the-other-viral-scourge-fake-news/articleshow/75305841.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam medical college sets an example in Covid care||Kochi: Work of the isolation ward at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, began in January, when the news regarding the return of students from Wuhan to Kerala came. The ward could be opened within five days after completing all civil and mechanical works. That was the first step towards the transformation of the medical college into a Covid-19 hospital with most modern facilities. “The building which housed MBBS students’ hostel was soon converted into isolation wards with bath-attached independent rooms. Public works department completed the civil works fast. We arranged piped oxygen connectivity to the isolation ward immediately. The entire works were completed in a week,” said Dr Ganesh Mohan, resident medical officer (RMO), Government Medical College, Ernakulam. The machines and other facilities required for the isolation ward were installed under the supervision of officials with biomedical wing of the medical college. “In fact, we had set up an isolation facility during Nipah outbreak last year. Installation of medical gas pipeline also was done immediately. We could open the isolation ward by January 25,” an official with biomedical department said. Medical gas pipeline connection was given to B and C wards, where the combined bed strength is more than 60. “Now, these wards also can be used as isolation wards if more cases are there. Medical oxygen can be given to the patients without any interruption,” the official said. “Medical gas pipeline connection is being given to ten more beds in another ward also. Now, we can admit 100 patients in the isolation facility, including the existing 30 beds,” he said. The most important facility being readied at the medical college is a new ICU with the most modern patient care features. “The ICU with 22 beds for Covid-19 patients can be opened within a couple of days. There are five new sophisticated ventilators in the ICU among others. Point of care arterial blood gas (ABG) machine, which is to measure partial pressure of oxygen and electrolytes, etc. is there. As this machine helps conduct the test at the bedside itself, it will avoid delay in getting results from normal ABG machine, which is a big one installed in another room,” an official with the medical college said. Similarly, it took less than a week to set up reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing facility at the medical college. “Though the government approved the project, unavailability of machines and other devices required for it was a hindrance. District collector S Suhas took the initiative to bring many components from Bengaluru and Chennai. He arranged a truck which transported the machines up to Palakkad. Then, we used another vehicle to bring it to Kochi. Still, we required many other components for opening RT-PCR testing facility. For instance, we required a pipette for drawing swab samples from patients. After much effort, we arranged it from a startup firm in Kochi. So, we could start the testing facility within a record time of one week,” an official with microbiology department said. Similarly, operations of all other departments in the medical college were reduced in a phased manner before they all were shifted to other hospitals like Ernakulam General Hospital and Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-medical-college-sets-an-example-in-covid-care/articleshow/75293340.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: One dead, 153 test positive in Rajasthan, total count at 1,888||JAIPUR/KOTA: The state reported 153 Covid-19 cases Wednesday, taking the total count to 1,888. A 55-year-old woman from Weir in Bharatpur district, who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital on April 18 and died two days later on April 20, tested positive after her death. She was suffering from diabetes. It was the first death case in Bharatpur and 27th in the state. The districts which reported cases include Jaipur (68), Ajmer (44), Tonk (17), Kota (6), Nagaur (4), Jodhpur (11) and one each from Bharatpur, Dausa and Sawai Madhopur. In Ajmer, the situation worsened in the past 24 hours as 79 persons were found infected. Despite a month of the lockdown, Ajmer reported cases in bulk. Mochi Mohalla is one of the worst affected areas where 35 persons were found infected on Tuesday. On Wednesday, 44 more persons tested positive. The 44 patients who were found infected from Dargah Bazaar area are from Malviya Nagar of Delhi, Gorakhpur, Bihar, Kolkata, Jharkhand and residents of Mochi Mohalla. The health department officials had imposed curfew in a 1-km area after a salesman was found infected on March 28. Since then 103 persons have tested positive. Out of the 68 cases in Jaipur, 14 were reported from MD Road, 36 from Ramganj (Top Khana, Gangapole, Subhash Chowk, Futa Khurra, Jagannath Shah Ka Rasta, Bishtiyon Ka Mohalla), two each from Ghat Gate, Purani Basti and RD Hostel and one each from Kho Nagoriyan, Rani Nagar, Paldi Meena, Chandi Ki Taksal, Sanganer, Chaman Colony, Sethi Colony, one resident from another state and four from other areas of the city. The total cases increased to 725 in Jaipur. In Kota, six persons were found infected. A 27-year-old youth, an ECG technician from New Medical College and Hospital and a 43-year-old staff nurse from the same hosptial residing in Subhash Nagar Circle, Anantpura, were tested positive. A 20-year-old woman from Kolipada, a 45-year-old woman from Anantpura and a 12-year-old girl were also found infected in Kota taking the total positive cases to 114. According to the health department report, 344 patients have recovered, while 133 have been discharged till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/one-die-153-test-positive-in-state/articleshow/75310581.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government-funded colleges struggle to pay staff salaries||NEW DELHI: Trouble is far from over for hundreds of teachers and non-teaching staff at 12 Delhi government-funded Delhi University colleges. While the government had released funds last month so that the salaries of two months (January and February) could be paid, the colleges are now struggling to pay salaries to their staff for the months of March and April. So far, nine of the 12 colleges have paid salaries for March either from their savings or have diverted funds from some other accounts. Hem Chand Jain, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyay College, informed TOI that the college had to divert funds from their savings to pay salaries to its teachers and non-teaching staff members. “We have heard that Delhi government is in the process of releasing funds.” Three DU colleges are, however, yet to pay salaries as they do not have adequate funds at their disposal. These include Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women, Keshav Mahavidyalaya and BR Ambedkar College. “We managed to pay the salary of our non-teaching staff for the month of March. But we are unable to pay salaries to our teachers. If the funds are not released by May, we may not be able to pay the salary for April either,” said Payal Mago, principal of Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women. “March salary of thousands of employees has not been paid in DU colleges. Under this extreme environment of lockdown due to Covid-19, Delhi government has not released sufficient grant to these colleges. This is shameful and inhuman,” said Sujit Kumar, professor at BR Ambedkar College. Kumar alleged the problem was due to “conflicting interests of two political parties to grab the control of the governing bodies of these colleges.” Last month, TOI had highlighted how the 12 colleges without GBs were not getting the funds as the government insisted on the formation of GBs before releasing the funds. EC member Rajesh Jha claimed that the DU was yet to send the names of the panel members to the colleges. A senior DU official, however, said: “Due to the lockdown, the technical process was not completed and hence the delay in sending the approved list.” Denial of salaries “amounts to violation of human rights,” said DUTA president Rajib Ray. Delhi government officials were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-funded-colleges-struggle-to-pay-staff-salaries/articleshow/75305892.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 23, 2020||Vadodara||Karjan man’s death takes toll to 10||VADODARA: A 63-year-old resident of Methi village of Vadodara's Karjan taluka passed away at GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri on Tuesday night. Govind Vankar, who was admitted to hospital on Tuesday, had tested positive for Covid-19 just a couple of hours before he succumbed to the deadly virus. With Vankar’s death, the toll in Vadodara due to Covid-19 reached 10. According to officials, the victim had co-morbid conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic kidney disease. He had developed breathlessness after which he was brought to Vadodara where his samples were collected for the test. Of the nine cases that have surfaced from rural areas of Vadodara so far, Vankar’s is the first death. Meanwhile, senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao, who has been appointed OSD for Covid-19 in Vadodara, on Wednesday visited Savli and Dabhoi to check preparedness. Sampling work in Savli municipality and GIDC Manjusar areas was started on Wednesday and total 15 samples were collected from there. Rao also visited the proposed corona care centre at Ayurvedic hospital on KJIT campus, Savli which can accommodate up to 100 patients. According to him, Allopathic, Ayush doctors apart from oxygen and ambulance service are available with the campus. Preparedness of care centre at Dadabhagwan premises at Kelanpur was also checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/karjan-mans-death-takes-toll-to-10/articleshow/75302891.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Many contacts of Palakkad Covid-19 patients yet to be traced||PALAKKAD: Authorities who tracked the contacts of a driver from Salem in Tamil Nadu, one of the four people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday, indicated that he had come into contact with at least 14 people, who are yet to be traced. They include the helper in the lorry and loading and unloading workers of Salem. Besides his parents, wife and daughter, the other primary contacts include his brother, sister-in-law, their two children, employees and customers of a bakery, staff at Walayar check post, and one of his Mundur-based friend. The route map that showed where a Covid-19 patient from Thiruvegappura travelled to indicated that he got into contact with 23 people, including his father, sister, her husband and her sons. The travel history of a shop owner from Chennai who reached Palakkad in a goods vehicle and was admitted to Mangode Medical College after testing positive for Covid-19 was also released on Wednesday. He had reached Palakkad on April 18 in a lorry and was picked up from the streets by police who took him to a public health centre. It is almost impossible to trace his contacts authorities said as he had come into contact with lot of people before getting admitted to the hospital, including employees from Malappuram and Bengal who worked at his shop. A guest worker from Uttar Pradesh who also tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday used to work at Kanjikode industrial area and had come into contact with nine people, including an autorickshaw driver, his co-worker and roommates. The route map of the Kavilpad resident, another Covid-19 patient, who came from Sharjah on March 14, shows that he came into contact with 10 people, including a taxi driver who picked him from Coimbatore airport to Palakkad. Meanwhile, a man hailing from Chathanoor in Thrithala, who was under treatment for Covid-19 in the district hospital, was discharged on Wednesday. Now, there are six Covid-19 patients under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/many-contacts-of-palakkad-patients-yet-to-be-traced/articleshow/75304493.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||School helps families of 500 students in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Ten days into the nationwide lockdown, G Sadhasivan, headmaster of the Thiyagi NG Ramasamy Memorial Higher Secondary School in Varadarajapuram in the city, asked teachers to call up students and check how they were doing. The teachers were shocked to learn that the parents of several students, who were labourers, had lost their jobs and their families were left without livelihoods. The teachers informed Sadhasivan about the plight of the students. “We identified as many as 400 students whose families needed help,” said Sadhasivan. The teachers conducted discussions on how to help the students. “They were ready to contribute. Our parents-teachers association and alumni also came forward to help the students,” said the headmaster. “Some people gave us rice and dal. With an initial fund of Rs 3lakh, we bought 14 essentials and provisions such as rice, dal, rava, oil, sugar, tea, mustard, pepper and face masks for the 400 families. We handed over the materials to the families in a span of three days.” The government-aided school used its bus to transport the essentials to the students’ homes. A teacher in each area was assigned to facilitate the distribution. After launching the initiative, the school started getting more requests, said Sadhasivan. “Initially we couldn’t reach some students. They started calling us and we found that their families were also struggling. Hundred families were shortlisted this time. We are in the process of packing materials for them. We are involving six teachers in a shift basis for the work on our school campus,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-helps-families-of-500-students/articleshow/75305878.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Only 23% cases identified through SARI, ILI||AHMEDABAD: At the onset of the Covid-19 outbreak here, the state government sought help from private medical practitioners to report all cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) to the health department. This was also made mandatory for the government-run clinics. A little more than a month after the first case was reported, the state health department said of 2,178 Covid-19 cases recorded till the evening of April 22, only 22.7% or 496 had been identified through this method. All the other cases were identified through the patient’s travel history, contact tracing or community-level scanning. Data from the health department shows that of the Covid-19 positive cases with ILI and SARI, only 16 were identified through reporting of private hospitals/practitioners. All of these cases were not even tested. The dat reveals that of the 25,000-odd ILI cases, samples of only 15% were taken for Covid-19 testing. The ratio was better in SARI cases, where 83% were tested.There was no uniform reporting of cases across the state – of 390 Covid-19 cases with SARI reported from government hospitals, 218 were reported from Surat city alone, followed by 71 in Ahmedabad. Likewise, of 90 ILI cases, 66 were from Ahmedabad city.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said that the symptoms help identify the Covid-19 cases quickly and reporting has been made mandatory. “We have also encouraged doctors to download the DrTeCHO app for reporting of these cases,” she said. As of Wednesday, about 3,500 doctors had downloaded the app, health department officials said. “Covid-19 attacks the respiratory tract and death takes place when respiratory failure happens. Before the critical condition, a patient develops signs and quick identification can be life-saving. Often, patients come late to the formal medical setting,” said a health department official, adding that a large number of Covid-19 patients in Gujarat remained asymptomatic for long and thus had not been detected through the medical setting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-23-cases-identified-through-sari-ili/articleshow/75306008.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kochi||DMRC hopes to resume Metro works on Friday||Kochi: The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) expects to restart the work of Kochi Metro between Thykoodam and Petta on Friday. The Metro authority informed that by the time the contractors will be able to mobilize labour force required to proceed with the works. “The contractors of Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers have been accorded with the permission to resume works. If Kochi Metro’s contractors obtain permission from the state government, they can go ahead with the work. It is the responsibility of the contractor to get the sanctions,” said DMRC spokesperson. The Metro authority also informed that in all possibility their office will start functioning from Monday. The tentative plan is to carry out disinfection activities on Saturday and Sunday. “However, those officers and employees having own vehicles and residing in Ernakulam and neighbouring districts will be able to report for work,” he said. Earlier, DMRC expected to complete the work by March 31. But due to the lockdown all works at Kochi Metro’s sites were stalled. The Metro authority has to complete civil works, and Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) will have to undertake finishing works. The Metro agency has conducted trial run along the Thykoodam-Petta stretch. DMRC spokesperson said that they will be able to begin commercial operations along the stretch once the Commissioner for Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) issues clearance. “As of now we can’t say when the CMRS will come down to the city for inspection,” added the spokesperson. More than 90% of civil works on the stretch have been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dmrc-hopes-to-resume-metro-works-on-friday/articleshow/75293376.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dist panchayat to offer free dialysis for eligible patients||Thiruvananthapuram: In the wake of soaring grievances about lockdown affecting treatment for dialysis patients, the district panchayat is set to provide free dialysis treatment for eligible patients for one year.  A total of 1,171 patients have been identified in rural areas across different panchayats. District panchayat president V K Madhu said government staff and those who are already enrolled under Karunya benevolent schemes will not be eligible for the project. “We have two hospitals at Nedumangadu and Neyyatinkara with 25 and 11 units, respectively. At present we give Rs 500 as dialysis aid for BPL patients and Rs 600 for APL patients. A single process could cost them an average of Rs 1,400 since reagent and medicine would cost around Rs 660. We will arrange free dialysis for eligible patients,” said Madhu. He said, in addition to this, those who undergo dialysis at private hospitals will be given Rs 900 as aid by district panchayat. The panchayat will finalise an agreement with respective private hospitals and amount will be reimbursed to the hospitals by the panchayat. “The beneficiaries can submit medical records, doctors’ certificate at district panchayat and register for this scheme before May 10. We will issue a medical card to the beneficiaries and based on this card treatment can be availed,'' said Madhu. The district panchayat will also bring patients who have undergone kidney and liver transplant under this scheme. Medicines will be distributed through 12 medical shops under district panchayat. “Many people have run out of jobs and have not been able to purchase medicines or to undergo dialysis. We will make use of our network of medical shops to make available the necessary medicines to patients who have transplanted kidney and liver. The crisis resulted by the pandemic is huge and panchayat is trying to mitigate the impact,” he said. The scheme was announced in the panchayat budget for 2020-21. The project registration will be completed by May 10 and by third week of May people can avail the benefits of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-panchayat-to-offer-free-dialysis-for-eligible-patients/articleshow/75304518.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chemists to stay open from 9am to 5pm in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The majority of chemists in Ahmedabad will now restrict their store timings, staying open from 9am to 5pm only. The Ahmedabad Chemists’ Association (ACA) took this decision on Tuesday, citing health risks to chemists and medical store owners. “While medical stores provide essential services, chemists are also at risk of contracting Covid-19 and we thus decided to restrict store timings. About 3,000 members began following the restricted timings on Wednesday itself,” said Babu Patel, president, ACA. ACA estimates that Ahmedabad has some 7,000 pharmacies and medical stores, including standalone stores pharmacy chain outlets. The decision however, will not be applicable to pharmacy chain stores, who will themselves decide whether to restrict their timings, said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chemists-to-stay-open-from-9am-to-5pm/articleshow/75306007.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Kolar man in home quarantine threatens self-immolation||KOLAR: A 38-year-old man in quarantine in Nidaghatta, Malur taluk, Kolar district threatened to commit suicide by immolating himself in a gram panchayat office on Wednesday. Manjunath and his family were put in home quarantine after a veterinary surgeon from Bengaluru visited them on Sunday. Across Kolar district, anyone receiving guests from other districts are put in quarantine. The district is Covid-free and officials are working to keep it that way. A task force in Nidaghatta put Manjunath and his family in home quarantine. However, Manjunath and his family left their house and went straight to the gram panchayat office in neighbouring Santhehalli. Manjunath alleged some members of the task force had taken their pictures in quarantine and are circulating it on social media to defame him and his family. Carrying a bottle of petrol, Manjunath entered the panchayat office along with his family and locked himself up, threatening to commit suicide. Later, Malur legislator KY Nanje Gowda arrived at the spot and assured Manjunath that action would be taken against those responsible for circulating his pictures. On those assurances, Manjunath and his family later returned home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/quarantined-man-in-kolar-threatens-self-immolation/articleshow/75304557.cms||K RANGANATH
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Traders at NDMC markets may face fine for rent default||NEW DELHI: Despite a section of shopkeepers’ repeated demand to extend the deadline for submitting the monthly licensing fees for April in Lutyens’ Delhi, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is unlikely to give any such relief. Those failing to meet the deadline unnecessarily may face penalty, an official said. There are around 3,600 shops and kiosks in the NDMC markets, including Connaught Place, Khan Market and Palika Bazar. An official claimed that 60-70% of the shopkeepers had already submitted the fees online. The rental slips for April was issued in the first week of the month and the deadline was April 21. The shopkeepers at Palika Bazar, however, argued that traders were suffering losses in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic as they couldn’t open shops due to the lockdown and had to pay salaries to the staff. “In April, we were served the rental slip, that too at a 10% increased rate. When the civic agency is giving relief to people living in hostels, old age homes from paying increased rentals till May 31, why traders should not get the similar treatment,” asked a trader. The rents are increased by 10% twice a year as per NDMC’s norms. As soon as the process started, the Palika Bazar Shopkeepers Welfare Association wrote to the licensing department for suspending it till the Covid-19 lockdown gets over, said its chairman, Baljit Singh Kohli. The association also wrote to the chief minister and the Union home minister after NDMC didn’t give any “suitable answer”, he claimed. “We have paid for this month due to pressure but for May, we have started pursuing the CM again. We have been assured that the matter will be looked into,” Kohli claimed. A senior NDMC official said, “No final decision has been taken as all staff are not coming. However, the property tax and the licensing fees are the main source of revenue and used for paying salaries.” Considering that 70% of the traders have already paid, “we request the others to do the same. We may impose a fine if they delay payment unnecessarily”, he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-at-ndmc-markets-may-face-fine-for-rent-default/articleshow/75305933.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Narottam Mishra is ace in Shivraj Singh Chouhan's Covid-cabinet, gets home and health||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday allocated portfolios among his five ‘covid cabinet’ colleagues, who were sworn in the previous day. Narottam Mishra got both home and health, the two most crucial departments in the fight against coronavirus, reinforcing his clout in the new regime and state BJP. Scindia loyalist Tulsi Silawat -- widely expected to get back his health department, if not more – was given water resources. Govind Singh Rajput, who had the prize portfolios of transport and revenue in the Kamal Nath government before breaking away from Congress along with the Scindia camp, has been allotted food and civil supplies and cooperatives. BJP long-timer Kamal Patel, who is back in the political mainstream after quite some time, was assigned the key agriculture portfolio and Meena Singh has been given tribal welfare. CM Chouhan said: “Departments have been allocated, as of now, keeping in mind the task of controlling coronavirus pandemic in the state. Once the cabinet is expanded, we shall have a look at portfolio allocation in its entirety and decide the issue in consultation with other leaders in the party.” Wishing new ministers to tide over Covid crisis: ScindiaAsked for his reaction on the formation of the cabinet and portfolio allocation, Jyotiraditya Scindia told TOI: “I wish them all the best to resolve the crisis, which MP faces. They should be committed to the cause and do justice to the heavy responsibility that is on their shoulders. I am also available for whatever service I can render through Scindia Foundation, or whatever means.” The allocation of water resources to Silawat came as a surprise to many. He was health minister in the Nath cabinet and the Congress government’s campaign against adulteration, named ‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’, had become synonymous with “Milawat Ke Khilaf Silawat”. After he broke away from Congress with other Scindia loyalists and joined BJP, it was speculated that he might be made deputy chief minister along with Narottam Mishra. But, while Mishra walked away with the lion’s share in the portfolio allocation, Silawat had to be content with water resources. On Tuesday, when the mini-cabinet was sworn – nearly a month after Chouhan took over as CM – each minister was given two divisions to monitor the fightback against coronavirus. It seemed that portfolio allocation would take place when the cabinet is expanded after the lockdown ends, but the CM recommended portfolios for the five ministers to Governor Lalji Tandon on Wednesday morning, who approved it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/narottam-is-ace-in-shivraj-covid-cabinet-gets-home-health/articleshow/75305923.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Keeping fear aside, teachers at forefront of Covid-19 fight||BHUBANESWAR: Their daily work has moved beyond the classroom and into the open. From collecting data in the containment zones to distributing allowances and groceries to beneficiaries of state schemes, government teachers in Odisha are undertaking a host of services during the lockdown. And these are not all. They are also taking online classes, delivering textbooks to the homes of schoolchildren and distributing midday meal tokens. “Hundreds of teachers are risking their lives and doing the work assigned to them, showing lot of courage. The fight against coronavirus would have been difficult without their help and support. These teachers should be considered as corona warriors,” school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das said. The teachers may not be coming in direct contact with the Covid-19 patients like doctors and nurses, but they are getting exposed to the virus during their field trips. “We are engaged in collecting swabs from households in the containment zone where a large number of Covid-19 positive cases have been detected. We were initially afraid, but we know how important this is for the state and the people,” said Madhusudan Dey, headmaster of Bomikhal High School. Apart from conducting awareness drives on the precautionary and hygiene measures to prevent coronavirus infection, they are also making people aware about the various policy decisions taken by the government in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Besides, in rural areas teachers are also in-charge of the panchayat-level Covid-19 hospitals and sample collection centres. “We have been going to the field wearing masks and gloves and also collecting data from people and asking them about their health condition – if they have any symptoms of cough and cold or had been outside the state in the recent past or had come in contact with one who has come from outside. Most of the time people cooperate,” said Madhusmita Rout, a teacher in Jagatsinghpur. Prakash Chandra Mohanty, the general secretary of Odisha Secondary School Teachers’ Association, said, “Teachers have always fulfilled the high expectations of the government. They have no knowledge of the disease but are still engaged in collecting samples. They are also distributing allowances and groceries among people who have returned from other states, putting their lives at risk. But when it comes to naming them as corona warriors, no one talks about them. I would request the government to acknowledge the services rendered by the teachers at the time of emergency.” (EOM)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/keeping-fear-aside-teachers-at-forefront-of-covid-fight/articleshow/75302710.cms||Minati Singha
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Covid +ve man from Kerala dies in Dubai a day after hospitalisation||THRISSUR: A 55-year old man hailing from Kottappadi near Guruvayur died in Dubai after he tested positive for Covid-19. According to information received by relatives, Thazhissery Panakkal Baburaj died at Rashid Hospital in Dubai at 2:30 pm local time on Tuesday. The relatives said Baburaj was admitted to the hospital two days ago. He is survived by his wife and a son. Relatives said he was working as driver with a rent-a-car firm in Dubai. M S Shaju, brother-in law of the deceased, said Baburaj had tested negative for Covid-19 about ten days ago. Baburaj was admitted to hospital on Monday and he was tested positive. “We had spoken to him on telephone about an hour prior to his death on Tuesday, and he appeared fine then. He did not have any major ailments like blood pressure, diabetes or cardiac problems,” Shaju said. He said Baburaj had come home six months ago. The last rites will be performed in Dubai itself, the relatives said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-ve-man-dies-in-dubai-a-day-after-hosp-admission/articleshow/75304536.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Spl surveillance sample collection starts in dist||Kochi: District health officials have started collecting samples from healthcare workers, police personnel, Asha workers and patients who visit hospitals with symptoms of fever and cough as part of increasing surveillance to prevent community spread of Covid-19. The special surveillance sample collection started on Tuesday in Kalamassery municipality limit after taking the healthcare workers and others to the medical college. Those who come in contact with people en mass are tested through special surveillance sample collection. "The number of people placed under isolation have come down in Ernakulam. Those including healthcare workers who came in contact with large number of people will be tested by collecting their samples. Symptomatic and asymptomatic local residents too will be tested after collecting samples at the medical college. Samples of healthcare workers especially those who worked at Covid care hospitals will also be collected. Samples of patients who approach out-patient sections in hospitals with symptoms of fever and cough and those who undergoing treatment at ICU due to breathing difficulty will also be tested. Asha workers, Kudumbashree and Anganwadi workers and other frontline Covid warriors will also be tested in the coming days," said a health official in Ernakulam. The samples will be collected local body wise on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. People whose samples are to be collected will be brought to the hospitals identified in the district for swab collection, while testing will be done at Kalamasssery medical college. "We are planning to test 60 to 70 samples per day in the district. We have been collecting around 10 samples from Kalamassery municipality limits itself.We will also collect samples from other local bodies too," said the officer. District hospital, Aluva, government Maharaja’s taluk hospital in Karuvelippady, general hospital, Muvattupuzha, taluk head quarters hospital and Covid care quarters at government ayurveda college in Tripunithura, taluk hospitals in North Paravur and Perumbavoor have been equipped to collect swab samples. Samples collected at these hospitals will be transported to the medical college as per government guidelines for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/spl-surveillance-sample-collection-starts-in-dist/articleshow/75293414.cms||T C Sreemol
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 4,677 potential super spreaders screened, 7 test Covid-19 +ve||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation screened some 4,677 persons providing essential services and detected seven cases of Covic-19, as part of its drive to eliminate super spreaders. Potential super spreaders are those who are providing essential services and come in contact with large numbers of people. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that on February 20, when the campaign was launched, 2,513 such persons were screened and 413 samples were taken for testing. Of these, three were found to be positive. On the second day, 2,164 such persons were screened and 141 samples were collected. Four of these returned positive. Thus, seven super spreaders have been found. “All seven zones of the AMC have been asked to intensify the drive to check on potential super spreaders,” said Nehra. Nehra said such person who contract the virus become super spreaders because of their work profile. If we had not detected these seven infected persons, they could have infected thousands within weeks,” he said. The AMC has now achieved a testing rate of 2,600 per million people, one of the highest in the country. Nehra said 2,195s tests were done through passive surveillance and 13,725 through active surveillance. These active surveillance cases were cases detected by field teams of the AMC. Of the 13,725 tests, about 1,064 returned positive. Thus nearly 75% of the 1,420 total cases were identified through field staff. Nehra said the city will get a new Covid-19 care centre with 4,000 beds in the western part of the city. “Since the Samras hostel and other Covid care centres will now have teams appointed by the government, the AMC team will manage a new Covid-19 care centre in a week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4677-potential-super-spreaders-screened-7-test-ve/articleshow/75306009.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Asymptomatic patients to be shifted to care centres||GANDHINAGAR: With a steep rise in the number of asymptomatic patients, the state government has decided to shift such cases to Covid care centres (CCCs) while the Covid hospitals will focus on those who need more intensive care. Government officials said that since 70% to 80% of Covid patients are asymptomatic and do not face any serious threat, they will be shifted to CCCs in line with the Government of India guidelines. While this will reduce the burden on Covid-19 hospitals, patients with co-morbid conditions and other high-risk patients can be treated at Covid hospitals. In case asymptomatic patients develop any complications, they will be shifted to Covid hospitals. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health & family welfare department, said: “Patients in Covid hospitals who are doing well will also be shifted to CCCs. The focus will be on vulnerable patients.” The state government is making arrangements to lodge over 5,000 asymptomatic Covid patients at the Samras hostel and other facilities in Ahmedabad. Ahmedabad, which is the worst affected because of the pandemic, has a 1,200-bed Covid hospital and an additional 22-bed facility at SVP hospital. The state government is adding 300 beds on Civil hospital campus and another 300 beds in SVP hospital. Moreover, three private hospitals of the city have been given approval to admit and treat coronavirus patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asymptomatic-patients-to-be-shifted-to-care-centres/articleshow/75306011.cms||Kapil Dave
April 23, 2020||Surat||Four arrested for playing cricket in Navsari||SURAT: Four youngsters were arrested for playing cricket in a housing society located in Navsari on Wednesday. Police raided Alka Society located on Chapra Road in Navsari town and arrested the four youngsters who were playing cricket in violation of lockdown rules. Accused Tejas Gandhi, Ashish Naik, Maharshi Barot and Siddharth Shah are residents of Alka Society. Police inspector MP Patel said, “We had received information about the youngsters playing cricket during lockdown. We raided the residential society and arrested them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-arrested-for-playing-cricket-in-navsari/articleshow/75304552.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Four portable sample collection units on the move in Malkangiri||KORAPUT: The Malkangiri district administration has started collecting samples from suspected Covid-19 patients through portable sample collection units. Official sources said the portable unit mostly moving in border and remote areas resembles a public telephone booth, consists of a small cubicle mounted on a vehicle and can be taken to any location. Keeping in view the geographical location of the district where villages are scattered, the mobile portable sample collection units have been very useful in collecting samples from suspected Covid-19 patients as they are no longer required to come to the district headquarters hospital, said Arun Kumar Padhi, chief district medical and public health officer, Malkangiri. According to the officer, the administration has readied four portable sample collection units and the vehicles have been stationed at Motu, Malkangiri and Mathili from where they move for collection of samples. Each unit consists of a microbiologist, a laboratory-technician, a supervisor and a record keeping staff. Official sources said the benefits of such units is many as one side of the unit is made up of glass with two holes where removable and disposable gloves are fitted from outside. “This procedure of sample collection ensures safety of health workers while collecting samples from suspected persons. While using this method the health professionals don’t have to change their personal protective equipment after every sample is collected and social distancing is maintained,” said Padhi. Official sources said the person from whom samples is to be taken is asked to come close to the portable unit and a health worker equipped with personal protective equipment stands inside the booth and collects his or her sample and follows the sanitisation process before the next sample is collected. Till Wednesday, laboratory tests of as many as 204 out of the 348 suspected Covid-19 samples have been found to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/four-portable-sample-collection-units-on-the-move-in-malkangiri/articleshow/75302751.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
April 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha cops on alert along coastline to prevent influx||BHUBANESWAR: Apprehending possible influx of people from neighbouring states through the sea route during the lockdown, Odisha police have issued an advisory to all the 19 marine police stations in the state to intensify coastal patrolling. The state police have also requested the coastguard to keep vigil on suspicious movement of boats in the Bay of Bengal in the state territory. Odisha’s coastline is spread over 487 km. As lockdown patrolling has been stepped up on roads and inter-state borders to prevent entry of people from other states, the vast and unguarded sea route has posed bigger challenges for the government during the Covid-19 outbreak. The government is worried after a boat with 27 fishermen from the state and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh sailed to Dankuri on the Odisha-AP inter-state border from Chennai on Monday evening. While 17 of the men are from Andhra, nine are from Pati Sonepur and one from Krushna Prasad. “Information and intelligence inputs have been received that several people from outside of the state are trying to take the sea route to reach Odisha by boats. We have asked superintendents of police (SPs) to alert the marine police stations under their jurisdictions to remain vigilant near fish landing centres,” additional director general of police (coastal security) Pranabindu Acharya told TOI. According to the advisory, the marine police stations have been asked to intercept all boats and gather details of the identities and antecedents of the sailors. Cops have been asked to make special surveillance at fish landing points where fishing boats are anchored. If the cops come across sailors from other states, the former will immediately inform the district administration and facilitate their quarantine as per the relevant practice. However, it will be a testing time for the marine police to conduct coastal patrolling in view of lack of infrastructure and manpower. “We have got only 13 boats under Centre’s coastal security scheme for all 18 marine police stations. At present, the boats are available in those marine police stations that are having jetty facilities. We need at least two boats for each marine police station,” another police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-on-alert-along-coastline-to-prevent-influx/articleshow/75302728.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha cops on alert along coastline to prevent influx||BHUBANESWAR: Apprehending possible influx of people from neighbouring states through the sea route during the lockdown, Odisha police have issued an advisory to all the 19 marine police stations in the state to intensify coastal patrolling. The state police have also requested the coastguard to keep vigil on suspicious movement of boats in the Bay of Bengal in the state territory. Odisha’s coastline is spread over 487 km. As lockdown patrolling has been stepped up on roads and inter-state borders to prevent entry of people from other states, the vast and unguarded sea route has posed bigger challenges for the government during the Covid-19 outbreak. The government is worried after a boat with 27 fishermen from the state and neighbouring Andhra Pradesh sailed to Dankuri on the Odisha-AP inter-state border from Chennai on Monday evening. While 17 of the men are from Andhra, nine are from Pati Sonepur and one from Krushna Prasad. “Information and intelligence inputs have been received that several people from outside of the state are trying to take the sea route to reach Odisha by boats. We have asked superintendents of police (SPs) to alert the marine police stations under their jurisdictions to remain vigilant near fish landing centres,” additional director general of police (coastal security) Pranabindu Acharya told TOI. According to the advisory, the marine police stations have been asked to intercept all boats and gather details of the identities and antecedents of the sailors. Cops have been asked to make special surveillance at fish landing points where fishing boats are anchored. If the cops come across sailors from other states, the former will immediately inform the district administration and facilitate their quarantine as per the relevant practice. However, it will be a testing time for the marine police to conduct coastal patrolling in view of lack of infrastructure and manpower. “We have got only 13 boats under Centre’s coastal security scheme for all 18 marine police stations. At present, the boats are available in those marine police stations that are having jetty facilities. We need at least two boats for each marine police station,” another police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/cops-on-alert-along-coastline-to-prevent-influx/articleshow/75318322.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Norms relaxed in Kottayam||Kottayam: Amidst confusions prevailing regarding restrictions in the district which is in the green zone during the lockdown period, the district administration issued a press note late on Wednesday. As per the note, establishments involved in production, distribution and sale of food products are allowed to function. All services in the health sector including Ayush, veterinary, agriculture-related activities including fishing, cattle/poultry are allowed. Those government offices which are included in the essential services can function in full strength. However, in other government offices the maximum attendance should be only 33%. Courier services, banks including those in the private sector, financial institutions which has the approval of the Reserve Bank of India, cooperative loan societies and insurance companies are also allowed to function. All activities connected to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme are allowed. The movement of goods and the industrial units in special economic zones, industrial estates and industrial units outside the municipal area are allowed to function. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/norms-relaxed-in-kottayam/articleshow/75304595.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||89 cops quarantined till date in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: As many as 89 police personnel have been quarantined in Uttarakhand since the outbreak of Covid-19 for coming in contact with either coronavirus-positive persons or their contacts. A total of 27 cops had gone in self-quarantine in Udham Singh Nagar district in March. Of these, 19 cops were quarantined after they intercepted members of Tablighi Jamaat while entering Uttarakhand and later four of those Jamaatis tested Covid-19 positive. The most number of cops, 22, have been quarantined in Haridwar, followed by Nainital and Champawat, where 11 cops have been put in isolation each. However, in Dehradun, only one policeman has been put in quarantine. Speaking to TOI, Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order said, “The Uttarakhand Police force is fighting on the frontline of the Covid-19 battle by putting themselves in risk. For coming in touch with coronavirus-positive cases or their contacts while performing their duties, 89 police personnel have been quarantined till date in the state.” “As of Wednesday, many of the 89 quarantined cops have resumed their duties after completing the quarantine period, while the rest of them will be joining as soon after they end their quarantine period,” said a senior police official. Notably, 6,000 police personnel and an additional 20 companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) have been pressed into service in Uttarakhand in the fight to contain the spread of coronavirus in the hill state. For effective implementation of the lockdown, the state has been divided into 102 zones and 500 sectors by the state police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/89-police-personnel-quarantined-till-date-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/75304554.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Five SMS Hospital staff test positive for coronavirus||JAIPUR: Five Sawai Man Singh Hospital staff, including a 55-year-old assistant professor of general surgery, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. They have been admitted to the same hospital for treatment. The four other infected healthcare staff are a 26-year-old computer operator, 29-year-old male nurse, 43-year-old ward boy and a 27-year-old trolley man. So far, nine doctors, including four from general surgery, four from the anesthesia department and one from the medicine department, from the hospital have been found infected with the virus. Out of the nine doctors, three surgeons were found positive for the virus late on Tuesday. They had operated upon an emergency hernia patient who tested positive. The three have been put in isolation at the same hospital. Before that, four anaesthetists and one physician had tested positive. In addition, three nurses and two ward boys of the same hospital, which is the main Covid-19 treatment hospital in the state, were found infected. Besides, 18 family members and close relatives of one of the two wards boys were also diagnosed with Covid-19 earlier. Jaipur: “Healthcare workers take the maximum risk in the coronavirus battle. We are strongly committed to protect them. We will not leave any stone unturned in providing maximum possible protection to them. However, if they unfortunately get infected, the best possible care will be provided to ensure their speedy recovery. They are the true corona warriors and the nation salutes them,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). The computer operator, who tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, was working at the lifeline drug store in the hospital. The lifeline drug store has been disinfected. Since, many patients buy medicine from the drug store daily, health department officials are taking details of patients who have been supplied drugs from the store. SMS Hospital officials are taking all necessary precautions to prevent its staff from being infected, claimed Dr D S Meena, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital. “We have been screening our staff for Covid-19 thrice daily.”, Dr Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-sms-hosp-staff-testpositive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/75306889.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Here, the motto is ‘thou shalt love thy neighbour’||Thiruvananthapuram: Vivekananda Nagar is a serene residential area bordering the military camp at Pangode. There are 257 families residing here and the area is known for the unity and camaraderie of the residents. When Covid-19 crisis hit the region like anywhere else, the first thought that flashed among the residents was how their neighbours live. And, that led to the unveiling of a new philanthropic model. The Vivekananda Nagar Residents’ Association has provided financial assistance to all families in their region which had faced crisis due to lockdown. The association utilized its welfare fund and distributed Rs 1,500 each to as many as 29 families. “We are all aware that daily-wage workers and autorickshaw drivers are having a difficult time as they cannot go for work during lockdown. We have around 20 autorickshaw drivers living in our locality and some widows, whose children are daily-wage workers. They do not have any other source of income, so we decided to help. Our representatives went to each of the houses and handed over the amount to a female member of the family,” said P C Jain, president of the association. The association had a low-key Onam celebration last year and the fund thus saved was used for providing relief to the needy families. The women’s forum of the Vivekananda Nagar Residents’ Association Vanithavedi has also joined the campaign. The women collective arranged financial assistance and vegetables to around 24 affected families. “They receive provisions from ration shop which is a big support from the government’s end. But they do not have any money to purchase anything else, like milk and vegetables. We, the residents’ association members know each other personally. When we came to know about the crisis, we decided to do our bit. We arranged the vegetables and financial help utilizing the Vanithavedi fund and individual contributions. There are more people who need help and we are trying to arrange fund to purchase essential food and other things for them too,” said Sreelatha S, a resident. The residents’ association also provided provisions and vegetables worth Rs 10,000 for the community kitchen functioning at Mudavanmugal, under Poojappura ward, on Tuesday. “Poojappura ward councillor B Vijayalekshmi had asked our support for the community kitchen. The association bought grocery worth Rs 10,000 from a nearby shop for the community kitchen. We are looking at possibilities to arrange more funds for the people as the lockdown will continue till May 3,” said R Haridas, secretary of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/here-the-motto-is-thou-shalt-love-thy-neighbour/articleshow/75304577.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Curfew relaxation in Banbhoolpura ahead of Ramzan||Nainital: With the holy month of Ramzan starting from Thursday, the Nainital district administration said that it will provide relaxation to the people of the curfew-imposed area of Banbhoolpura. “We have given three-hour relief from curfew to sector 3 and 5. Similarly, on Thursday relief will be given to sectors 1, 2 and 4. If everything goes planned, all the sectors in the state locality will be given the three hour relief in curfew,” the district administration said in the press statement. Meanwhile, Doon Qazi Maulana Mohammed Ahmed Qasmi has appealed to the Muslim community of Dehradun to conduct their prayers inside their homes and not go to the mosques during the month of Ramzan. The administration said even when the curfew is relaxed, people will have to follow the lockdown norms and maintain social distance. "The relief will be given between 8 and 11 am. The window will be to get the essential items," the administration has said. Both Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal and senior superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Meena held a meeting with the religious leader of the minority community from the area on Tuesday evening and urged them to tell people to stay inside their homes and offer prayers during the month of Ramzan. "We are yet to fully contain the Coronavirus therefore it is necessary that people offer prayers inside their homes or on their roofs during the month of Ramzan as well," the SSP said. Meanwhile, Qazi Maulana Mohammed Ahmed Qasmi has appealed to the Muslim community of Dehradun to conduct their prayers inside their homes and not go to the mosques during the month of Ramzan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/curfew-relaxation-in-banbhoolpura-ahead-of-ramzan/articleshow/75304574.cms||Prashant Jha
April 23, 2020||Hubballi||Dr Raj fans shun pomp on his anniversary, say thespian was a responsible citizen||Hubballi: He was a matinee idol, and yet few were as humble, and unaffectedly simple. In addition to his natural talent, which was phenomenal, such were the attributes that have secured for Dr Rajkumar a permanent place in the hearts of Kannadigas. To his legion of fans, April 24 – his birth anniversary – is no less sacred than a festival, and it is celebrated with as much fervour. However, with the lockdown in place this year, and keeping in mind the late thespian’s regard for the law, his admirers in North Karnataka have decided to shun pomp in favour of a more artistic tribute to ‘Annavaru’, as he was fondly called. Most of his fans across the state have decided to watch Dr Rajkumar’s iconic movies on his birth anniversary, and pay a most fitting tribute to their idol. The late actor’s bond with North Karnataka was forged when he was still a struggling artiste, but even after he touched dizzying highs as a star, he never forgot his special tie with the region, which he visited frequently. Dr Rajkumar also conducted and participated in several charity events to raise funds when North Karnataka was in distress. President of the Dr Rajkumar Abhimanigala Sangha, Dharwad Shivanand Muttannavar said that, above all, the actor had been a responsible citizen who abided by the law. “Keeping this in mind, we will garland his statue at his memorial at Gabbur Cross, after which we will distribute provisions to the needy in Dr Rajkumar’s memory,” said Muttannavar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dr-raj-fans-shun-pomp-on-his-anniversary-say-thespian-was-a-responsible-citizen/articleshow/75302792.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Receiving int’l passengers: Mock drill at Cial today||Kochi: The state health department will conduct a joint mock drill at the Kochi international airport on Wednesday for receiving international passengers if the travel restrictions are removed post lockdown. Besides conducting medical evacuation of suspected passengers from the aerobridge to hospitals, rehearsals on collection of personal and residential details of each arriving passenger using dedicated software and transferring the same to their respective police station, primary health centre and concerned Asha workers to ensure the tracking and mandatory quarantine of the passengers will also be done. The medical team, security staff, immigration officials, customs, police, ambulance team etc., will be part of the drill, which was earlier scheduled on Tuesday. It was postponed to Wednesday due to the unavailability of senior officials from the district administration and health department. The drill is to validate the preparations to be taken at the airport while receiving and categorising passengers. “If the international terminal’s operations are resumed after lockdown, there will be a huge inflow of Keralites from abroad. So, to track each of them on the arrival and ensure their isolation to contain the spread of Covid-19 is is inevitable. Also, instead of filling up the form by passengers on arrival, their details and declarations will be stored in computers. The mock drill will also validate the medical and ambulance teams’ preparations at the airport,” said a source. The airport is, currently, run by minimum staff since the lockdown and only cargo operations have been active along with a few evacuation flight services. But the deployment of security staff by CISF has not been reduced considering the safety of grounded aircraft, goods in duty-free shops and even the gold and other valuables seized by the customs. Round-the-clock security and camera surveillance are in place at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/receiving-intl-passengers-mock-drill-at-cial-today/articleshow/75293451.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kozhikode||NSS volunteers join fight against pandemic||Kannur: The volunteers of the National Service Scheme (NSS), especially of its higher secondary wing, has taken up a challenge to produce five lakh reusable masks. The NSS expressed hope that sufficient number of masks would help in ‘breaking the chain’—the foremost strategy to fight Covid-19. “Hence the mask challenge was thrown at the volunteers,” said Jacob John, state-level programme coordinator of NSS’s higher secondary wing. Volunteers, staying at home as part of the lockdown, were provided the knowhow to make masks through online modules. “Even if a volunteer makes five pieces, the NSS can make at least five lakh masks, and if needed be, it can be scaled up to 10 lakh,” John said. The higher secondary and vocational higher secondary section of the NSS has around 1.6 lakh volunteers. “Their services can be efficiently utilized in the present situation,” said Ajith Sen C R, coordinator, IHRD NSS cell. The masks could be distributed among students and common people based on the requirement, he added. Apart from making masks, the NSS volunteers have been active in various awareness programmes and contact-tracing activities in association with the district administrations, said G P Sajith Babu, regional director, NSS regional directorate, Thiruvananthapuram. “Our volunteers are helping in the community kitchen and the Janamaithri police to procure provisions and vegetables. They are producing sanitizers, many of our members are part of ‘Sannadham’, the voluntary force set up by the state government,” he said. Almost 50,000 NSS volunteers had joined ‘Sannadham.’ Apart from helping students overcome the mental tension in the wake of Covid, especially because their examinations are yet to be over, the initiative could also be utilized to provide masks to the students appearing for the remaining examinations, said Haridas V, district convenor, higher secondary, NSS, in Kasaragod. They are targeting to produce at least 50,000 masks with the help of 5,000 volunteers. The students are highly enthusiastic about the projects and it gives them a sense of involvement, NSS programme officers, who coordinate the activities, opined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nss-volunteers-join-fight-against-pandemic/articleshow/75304628.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Govt gives conditional clearance for mining, brick kilns||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government has given conditional clearance for the start of mine and mineral production, and brick kilns which are located outside the limits of municipal corporation and municipalities. A letter in this regard was circulated by additional chief secretary Om Prakash. The letter addressed to all the district magistrates mentions central government guidelines and has asked the people concerned to follow them while operating these units. The state has also given nod for the movement of stranded labourers within the state. Permission for mining will not be given for locations where it has been banned or mining activities stopped following the orders of high court, National Green Tribunal or Namami Gange. The letter further states that the district mining officer and other officers concerned should strictly ensure the compliance of the set guidelines. The order stipulates that the mining activities and brick kilns, which are not under municipal limits but came under containment zone – as identified by the district magistrate – would not be given permission to operate. In other areas the work can be started with limited manpower, the order said, adding that it has to be ensured that the age of labourers involved in the process was not above 65 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-gives-conditional-clearance-for-mining-brick-kilns/articleshow/75304600.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vadodara||Five booked for traveling to Undera from Tandalja||VADODARA: Five persons were booked at Jawaharnagar police station on Tuesday midnight for flouting lockdown norms and travelling to Undera village from Tandalja. Police said that the five persons identified as Yunus Ghanchi, Farhan Ghanchi, Hamida Ghanchi, Sakina Ghanchi and Sarifa Mansuri travelled from their home in government housing scheme at Tandalja to Yunus’s son Sohil’s home at Undera. “Of the five persons, Mansuri is a resident of Ankleshwar and has been living with others since the lockdown started,” said a police official. On Tuesday night, the deputy sarpanch of Undera, Dinesh Suthar informed Jawaharnagar police station about the five persons coming to the village and living at Sohil’s home. Cops immediately reeached Sohil’s house and the accused said that they had arrived on Tuesday noon at Undera as they wanted to be with Sohil. Cops said that since it is lockdown, nobody is allowed to leave their home unless it is an emergency. “The reason they mentioned is not an emergency situation so we have registered an offence against them,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-booked-for-traveling-to-undera-from-tandalja/articleshow/75302915.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pani puri vendor booked||AHMEDABAD: In the lockdown, people must be feeling deprived of mouth-watering pani puris. This was seen when a crowd gathered in an instant with a pani puri seller opening his stall in Bopal area. In their urge to grab pani puris, none paid heed to social distancing. Soon, police booked the vendor. The FIR filed by Bopal police mentions that Gohil was booked as he allowed a crowd to gather without maintaining social distance and for opening a shop of non-essential item. A team of Bopal police on patrol on Tuesday morning received information that a pani puri vendor had opened his stall near Bopal Gram Panchayat. Cops went there and saw five to six customers gathered around the vendor without any social distancing. Cops arrested the vendor, Satish Gohil, a resident of Parisharam Row House in Bopal. A policeman said Gohil told cops that he had run out of money and other things he had kept in his shop and had just come to get them. But some of his customers arrived and insisted he sell them pani puris, and he got into the situation. Bopal police charged Gohil under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience of order duly promulgated by a public servant) and 269 negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pani-puri-vendor-booked/articleshow/75306013.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Three zones account for 57% positive cases in Chennai||CHENNAI: The Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Tondiarpet zones, all neighbours, have accounted for 57% of the total Covid-19 positive cases in the city so far, 204 of the 358 cases. On Tuesday, official data showed, the three zones accounted for 36 of the 55 positive cases in the city, with Royapuram, a Covid-19 hotspot, reporting 24 new cases and taking its total to 116 by Wednesday. A senior Greater Chennai Corporation official said Tuesday’s spurt was only a day’s aberration and the city’s average was consistent with the overall state average and on a downward trend. “Of the 55 cases recorded on Tuesday, only two were new. The rest were from clusters identified by contact tracing.” Like the rest of TN, the initial cases in Chennai too were from the same cluster and those tested positive initially are from these three zones, said a health department official. “The zones, especially Royapuram, comprise localities with narrow streets and buildings with common staircases. In fact, when we began contact tracing, we did not restrict it to the immediate family members alone. Residents of whole buildings were taken for testing and it is still in process,” an official said. Fisheries minister D Jayakumar, Royapuram MLA, told TOI the corporation and government agencies were working to ensure there is no community spread in Royapuram and across North Chennai. “Though it is a challenging situation, we are dealing it efficiently. People need not fear,” Jayakumar said. A zonal official said around 5,000 litres of disinfectants were sprayed across Royapuram zone The corporation said effective containment had ensured there was no spread to South Chennai. “Of the 420sqkm area of the city, positive cases are restricted to about 2sq km.” Apart from these three in North Chennai, Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam account for 104 cases and the six zones share 85 % of the positive cases in the city. The official said the case of journalists testing positive had thrown a new challenge. The office of the television channel where 26 people tested positive is located in the Royapuram zone. “It is going to be tough to trace everyone who came in contact with the reporters as reporters are always on the move and have the highest possibility of infecting others,” another official said. As on date, the corporation has 118 set up containment zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-zones-account-for-57-ve-cases/articleshow/75306016.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand bans events to felicitate Covid warriors||DEHRADUN: Taking into account some events to felicitate coronavirus warriors and the violation of social distancing norms therein, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday directed authorities that events in which Covid warriors were being felicitated by garlanding, given shawls or flowers needs to be banned with immediate effect. Besides, institutions involved in distribution of ration and other relief materials have been stopped from clicking photograph of needy people. To take stock of the current situation in the state following the Covid-19 outbreak, CM Rawat held a meeting with senior state officials on Wednesday. In the meeting, he told officers that felicitation ceremony of Covid warriors was being conducted in the state in which they were being garlanded, given flowers and shawls, which is in violation of social distancing norms. Lauding the efforts of health staff, police personnel and sanitation workers, the CM said that if someone wants to felicitate them, they can shower petals on them from a distance. He directed the authorities to ensure that photographs of needy people, who were being provided food and relief material is not being clicked. Rawat added that the nationally Covid-19 positive cases are getting doubled in 7.5 days, but in Uttarakhand, the rate is 26.6 days. Going by the numbers, the hill state is the third in the country in efforts to check the spread of Covid-19, claimed an official release from the chief minister office. The CM also asked the officials to prepare a work plan to help the small-scale traders and local people to maintain their flow of money. He added that a work plan is being created to start Smart City project with less manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-bans-felicitation-events-for-covid-warriors-no-photo-ops-says-cm/articleshow/75302821.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Only 16 people to be at Kedarnath opening||Dehradun: With no change in the date of opening of Kedarnath portals, the preparation is underway for the religious event on April 29. While electricity and water arrangement has been completed, the administration is in the process of getting the snow cleared near the temple premises. Besides, the Badri-Kedar Temple Committee (BKTC) has requested the Rudraprayag district administration for permission to allow 16 people, including Rawal (chief priest), to be present for the opening ceremony. The portals are scheduled to be opened at 6.10am on April 29. Rudraprayag district magistrate Mangesh Ghildiyal said, "The BKTC has sought permission for 16 people. Apart from the priest, there are people who bring the palanquin from Omkareshwar temple, Ukhimath." He added that the matter was being studied and a decision would be taken soon. "We will provide all required permissions by April 24 after taking all the factors into consideration," the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/only-16-people-to-be-at-kedarnath-opening/articleshow/75304613.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: In gratitude, migrant workers give Sikar school a paint job||JAIPUR: For migrant workers at a shelter home in Palsana, Sikar, it’s time to express their gratitude to villagers for taking care of them at the moment of crisis. The workers, who are at the shelter home due to the continuing Covid-19 pandemic, were so humbled and grateful that they decided to paint the walls and verandhas of the government school, giving it a new look. “We will go home when the time comes. But here we are getting ‘dal bati churma’, ‘jalebi’, ‘kheer’, ‘namkeen’, ‘puri sabzi’, ‘halwa’...we also got ‘rasgollas’...we are manual labourers and cannot stay idle for long,” said Shankar Singh, who is from Barwala town in Hisar district, Haryana, and has been staying at the shelter home in Palsana for the past 22 days. “If we do not work, we will get sick. So, we voluntarily offered to paint the walls and verandhas of the school where we were made to stay. This also helps in passing the time,” Singh said. In Palsana town, a group of migrant labourers from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan gave a facelift to the school building in which they were quarantined. In all, 54 workers have been kept at the shelter home at Shaheed Sitaram and Seth K L Tambi Government Higher Secondary School in Palsana. “We will not charge anything for this work. The students of this school are like our daughters. When they grow up, they will remember us. They will say ‘these uncles had painted our school when we were students’,” said Singh, who worked in Jaipur on Agra-Ajmer Link Road. “Police brought us here when we were leaving for Haryana. The villagers, administration, sarpanch, and the principal have made all arrangements for us and we are grateful to them. They take very good care of us. Every village in the country should have such a sarpanch, who is so proactive. They have provided us with blankets, soaps, pillows, mattress, etc..we are very happy here. We don’t miss home at all.” Palsana sarpanch Roop Singh Shekhawat said, “Shankar Singh, Om Prakash and Ravi Kumar from Haryana offered to paint the school building and requested us to get paint brush and colours. The villagers, teachers, and ex-students of the school helped us in collecting Rs 1 lakh to buy the required material by running a campaign on social media. They donated Rs 2,000 each. The labourers in the village who have expertise in painting work also joined them. “All these people are perfectly healthy. Their medical check-up is also done on a daily basis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-gratitude-migrant-workersgive-sikar-school-a-paint-job/articleshow/75306901.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant orders strict vigil at border||BICHOLIM: Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the Goa-Maharashtra border at Dodamarg on Wednesday, and instructed the police staff at the checkpost to be vigilant and not allow people from Maharashtra to enter into Goa and vice-versa through forest roads. Sawant’s visit comes after public outcry over people from Maharashtra entering Goa despite strict police bandobast. “Some people are entering the state without following the rules.The police should therefore keep a strict vigil and ensure that no person from Maharashtra will infiltrate illegally,” he said. He was accompanied by speaker and Bicholim MLA Rajesh Patnekar, Bicholim deputy collector Sachin Desai, deputy superintendent of police Gurudas Gawade, Bicholim PI Sanjay Dalvi and Sal sarpanch Ghanshyam Raut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-orders-strict-vigil-at-border/articleshow/75306900.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||PM Narendra Modi dials Jana Sangh veteran, enquires about his health||DEHRADUN: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called Pauri Garhwal-resident Mohan Lal Bounthiyal, 75, and enquired about his health. Bounthiyal, a resident of Aeta village of the district, has been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and later the Jana Sangh for decades. “I could not believe that the call was from the PMO until I heard Modi Ji’s voice. He took my name and enquired about my health. He asked me about the situation in Uttarakhand during this coronavirus outbreak,” said Baunthiyal. Baunthiyal got the call from the PMO at around 8.30 am and the conversation went on for over a minute. “Modi Ji told me that he was speaking with all the veteran and elderly leaders of Jana Sangh era and was enquiring about their health. We talked about our meetings in Badrinath in 1998 and in Srinagar.” At that time, PM Modi was the organisation secretary of the BJP and Baunthiyal was in charge of the Srinagar seat. Baunthiyal added, “I told Modi Ji that Uttarakhand is a Devbhoomi and everything is fine in the state. I congratulated him for the hard work he is putting in fighting against the coronavirus outbreak. In response, he said it was all due to the blessings of party veteran leaders who give him strength.” After the call ended, Baunthiyal informed his friends of the saffron party and others in the village. Around noon, he found out that PM Modi had made a similar call to speak with 106-year-old BJP leader Narayan, who lives in Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh. “Actions like these make PM Modi a mass leader,” said a gushing Baunthiyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-modi-dials-jana-sangh-veteran-enquires-about-his-health/articleshow/75304630.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Schools can’t hike fees for this session: Uttarakhand government||DEHRADUN: The state education department issued a circular on Wednesday ordering all the private schools to make sure that they do not increase their fees during the 2020-21 academic session. Also, the circular states that those parents who want to submit their ward’s school fees during the lockdown can do so. This decision has been taken after taking into cognisance that several parents want to pay their ward’s fees despite the lockdown, said Arvind Pandey, state education minister. “There are many parents who are financially strong and have no issues in paying their ward’s fees. Previously, we had ordered that schools shouldn’t ask for fees until the lockdown gets over but now, the parents who can pay have been allowed to do so. Many private schools need money urgently so as to pay salaries to their employees,” the minister said. The circular adds that fees can be taken by schools for the current month only and they shouldn’t be taking any kind of upfront fees. Also, those people who are not able to submit their ward’s fees during the lockdown should be allowed to pay it once the lockdown gets over and their children should be continued to be provided with all the services, including online classes. Additionally, all schools have been directed to pay the due salaries of their staff with immediate effect and continue paying them as before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-cant-hike-fees-for-this-session-govt/articleshow/75302855.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Evacuation of foreigners from Chennai continues||CHENNAI: Evacuation of foreign nationals continued for the third day in a row this week as around 200 Koreans left by a Korean Air plane and around 160 Bangladeshi nationals left by a special flight operated by US Bangla airlines on Wednesday. These planes were chartered aircraft arranged by the respective countries to take home citizens stranded in the city after the shutdown was extended. An airport official said the US Bangla flight that was operated on Wednesday was part of the five flights the country will be sending to rescue its nationals. The first two flights left on Monday and Tuesday with 160 passengers each. A special flight operated by Korean Air also reached Chennai in the afternoon to pick up passengers here. Around 800 Koreans will be flown out from south India. An airport official said US Bangla flights may be operating for two more days to taken the rest of the citizens stranded here to Dhaka. Chennai airport has been seeing special rescue flights almost everyday from different parts of the world. This is the first time Korean Air is flying into Chennai as the airlines does not have scheduled flights to the city though there were plans to start services. British Airways too operated special flights via Bengaluru to repatriate UK citizens. Most of the foreigners include businessmen and traders and their families. AAI staff, customs, CISF and immigration authorities, ground staff facilitated quick check in and screening of passengers of the special flights. A skeletal strength of staff is told to come to handle the flights. Sources said there are more requests from countries to operate repatriation flights to evacuate their citizens as shutdown has been extended and there is no clarity on whether it will be extended further. So far, more than 2,500 foreigners have left by special flights since shutdown started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/evacuation-of-foreigners-from-city-continues/articleshow/75306023.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Dharavi cases could spike, BMC to ramp up quarantine capacity||MUMBAI: On the day a central inter-ministerial team visited Dharavi along with state health minister Rajesh Tope to examine the civic body’s Covid-19 preparedness, the vast slum pocket reported nine more cases. The visiting team advised civic officials on Wednesday to triple quarantine facilities in the area and conduct more tests as cases could increase “drastically” in the coming days. Dharavi is part of the G-North Ward, which includes Dadar, Matunga and Mahim. Till Wednesday, the ward recorded a total of 262 cases, of which 72%, or 189, including 12 deaths, are from Dharavi alone. The slum is spread over an area of 2.1 square km. The visiting team said since the first case in Dharavi was reported as recently as on April 1, there is a possibility that numbers could rise drastically by the month-end or the first week of May. The team cited the example of G-South (Worli) Ward where the first case was reported on March 21 and the number rose to to 487 by Tuesday. Following the suggestions, Tope said he has instructed the civic commissioner to increase the quarantine capacity from 1,200 beds to 2,000 in Dharavi and, if needed, tents could be erected in open spaces. He directed the BMC to conduct more tests too. Tope said the situation, whether in Mumbai or Pune, is serious as it is an epidemic. “We have to strictly follow the cluster containment zone policy. Considering an expected increase in cases in the next 10 days, we are checking our preparedness plan, including availability of PPE kits, ventilators and oxygen masks so that all hospitals are ready to face the situation,” said Tope. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the G-North Ward, said, “We have been asked to increase the quarantine capacity. We may use tents in the Rajiv Gandhi sports complex to add more beds. We are examining all available spaces in the area for quarantine purpose.” The team expressed its satisfaction with the civic effort to arrange for groceries and vegetables in containment zones. It also discussed the success of the fever clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dharavi-cases-could-spike-bmc-to-ramp-up-quarantine-capacity/articleshow/75306031.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 23, 2020||Hubballi||Cop canes, chases away on-duty official in Hubballi||Hubballi: A police sub-inspector allegedly caned and thrashed an official of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) who was on duty to distribute free milk among the poor here on Wednesday, sparking a protest by employees of the civic body. N K Angadi, assistant revenue officer, Zone 9, HDMC, was on his way to Old Hubballi, when the sub-inspector meted out the ill-treatment to him at Heggeri Cross. Angadi displayed his pass, but the sub-inspector reportedly did not bother to check his credentials and chased him away. The civic body employees staged a protest at the HDMC commissioner’s office condemning the incident. Aghast at the incident, they threatened to boycott all emergency duties if police do not cooperate with them. They submitted a memorandum to the HDMC commissioner, demanding action against the police official and seeking protection for themselves during duty. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said he forwarded the memorandum to the deputy commissioner. “The DC has told us that she has spoken to the police commissioner and has assured inquiry into this incident,” said Itnal. However, police commissioner R Dileep was unavailable for comment. HDMC special officer S C Bevur said: “We were informed that there was heavy crowd at Heggeri Cross and police could not recognise this official, leading to this incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cop-canes-chases-away-on-duty-official-in-hubballi/articleshow/75296290.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Application filed against Nehra||An advocate filed an application of complaint with Sola police, seeking to lodge an FIR against AMC commissioner Vijay Nehra and others, for allowing a Covid care centre to be run at a hotel on SG Road , alleging violation of the Disaster Management Act. Advocate K R Koshti says AMC chief allowed a Covid care centre to be run at Hotel Fern. Koshti alleged that Nehra and the owners violated the rules and sought to register an FIR under IPC Section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) along with charges under the Disaster Management Act. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said the FIR was not filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/application-filed-against-nehra/articleshow/75306035.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Precondition to bail: Convey presence on Google Maps||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has allowed the release of a retired school teacher convicted in February 2020 for raping a minor. The court, however, asked him to convey his presence on Google Maps to the local police station. Justice Anup B Bhambhani took into account the medical history of the 73-year-old and his past condition that put him in a vulnerable category. The court said his condition “makes it medically unsafe for him to remain in prison in the present circumstances of the prevalent public health emergency.” While suspending his sentence, the court, however, made it clear that the convict would make a video-call every Friday between 11am and 11.30am to the investigating officer, and in case the IO is no longer in service or is otherwise unavailable, then to the SHO of the police station where the case was registered. The court noted that the accused would “also ‘drop-a-pin’ on Google Maps, so that the IO/SHO could verify the appellant’s presence and location.” Pointing out that the order was passed in exceptional circumstances, the court noted that although the record showed that the convict had only been in prison since February 24 and that he had been convicted of heinous offences under POCSO Act, “in the unprecedented circumstances of a public health emergency that prevail today and the consequent need to decongest prisons for overall medical safety of all prisoners, this court is persuaded to grant to the appellant interim suspension of sentence.” Seeking relief, accused Babu Lal had cited his medical condition along with medical reports to claim he had underlying morbidities leaving him vulnerable to Covid-19. He also cited the contents of discharge summary prepared by a private hospital showing his course of treatment in 2016 relating to various illnesses, including Type-II diabetes, hypertension and bronchial asthma. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/precondition-to-bail-convey-presence-on-google-maps/articleshow/75306027.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Pollution adds to north Chennai’s vulnerability||CHENNAI: In North Chennai, which is reporting more Covid-19 cases with respiratory infections, the presence of pollutants could make residents, particularly in high-risk groups, more vulnerable to the disease. Satellite images captured by researchers of Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) show nitrogen dioxide (NO2) over parts of north Chennai during the first phase of lockdown. Researchers said though levels of NO2, which could be emissions from thermal power plants, may be lower during the lockdown, they still poses risk as the gas converts into PM 2.5 that people may end up inhaling. NO2 comes mainly from combustion of fossil fuels and from petroleum products. Analyst Sunil Dahiya, who studied the pollution levels before and during lockdown periods with the images, said the level of NO2 in the north Chennai region was within the limits of the national ambient air quality standards but still risky. Between March 11 and 24, the levels were between 3.32 ug/m3 and 12.52 ug/m3 at Manali village station and between 7.22 ug/m3 and 19.1 ug/m3 in Manali. From March 25 to April 7, the levels were between 1.3 ug/m3 and 8.68 ug/m3 in Manali village and between 1.74 ug/m3 and 24.68 ug/m3. National ambient air quality standards say levels of NO2 should be 80 ug/m3 when monitored every 24 hours. However, the Central Pollution Contgrol Board (CPCB) continues to show air quality index in the region as ‘moderate’ and not ‘good’. The presence of the pollutant in the region comes at a time when studies have found that high levels of air pollution could raise the risk of dying from Covid-19. Dr Kalpana Balakrishnan, director, ICMR Centre for Advanced Research on Air Quality, Sri Ramachandra Institute for Higher Education and Research, said air pollution may increase the vulnerability of the population to Covid-19 though several other factors like population density in the area and contact with an infected individual are involved. “You cannot directly associate high level of pollution to high level of covid cases because many other factors come into play. But one thing is for sure, both air pollution and all kinds of environmental hazards that predispose you to ill health aregoing to play on the vulnerability of the population.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pollution-adds-to-north-chennais-vulnerability/articleshow/75306028.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Preparations for Kumbh resume in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: Preparations for the Haridwar Kumbh mela, scheduled for January 2021, started on Wednesday after a temporary halt due to the coronavirus threat. Mela officer Deepak Rawat told TOI that the work is moving along at a slow pace amid strict adherence to lockdown protocol. Mela preparations resumed after the government announced a relaxation from the lockdown in some areas, including Kumbh construction works, on Sunday. The projects on which work has started again include three bridges and a road. Apart from that, construction of a Kanwar Patari along the Ganga Canal by the irrigation department, laying of sewer lines, erection of an infiltration well and construction of a building for the Water Works department by Peya Jal, as well as a Rural Engineering Service (RES) project are also underway. Kumbh mela technical cell superintending engineer Harish Pangti said that over a hundred labourers and technical workers are presently working on these projects. Keeping in mind their safety, all officials and labourers engaged in the work have been sanitised and provided with masks before starting. Red Cross Society volunteers, led by secretary Naresh Chaudhari, sensitised workers on how to protect themselves from the virus. Rawat, who was present at the spot when the work for Kumbh started, stressed on the need for all officials and workers to observe lockdown guidelines for their own safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/preparations-for-kumbh-resume-in-haridwar/articleshow/75304644.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Two tigers die in Bandhavgarh and Rewa safari||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh lost two tigers at Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve and a zoon in Rewa’s Mukundapur on Wednesday. Five tigers have now died in the state in the covid lockdown period, and a dozen in three months. A full grown tiger’s carcass was found at Bandhavgarh’s Panpatha range in Madera beat by an elephant patrol unit. There were multiple wounds and it was found half a kilometer from where a young girl was killed a week ago. “It was 10 years old. This appears to be a death in fight for territorial supremacy,” said a forest officer, adding that all body parts like canines and claws were intact. The autopsy was carried out as per NTCA protocol, he said. Officials are worried by the death of a tiger in Mukundpur white tiger safari in Rewa district. It was seven years old and not a white tiger. Officials say it was not responding to treatment for the last four days and died around 2am on Wednesday. MP, which won back its ‘Tiger State’ status last year, has lost around 12 tigers in the last three months. Some of them were attributed to infighting, and a few were due to mysterious ailments. Officials at Pench, for instance, have not been able to ascertain why a full grown tiger died on April 5. Its lungs were ravaged and there was a football-sized hairball in its stomach. Samples of its viscera and other organs have not been sent yet due to the lockdown, sources say. Man-animal conflict has shot up in the lockdown period. With roads deserted and people largely cooped up indoors, the wild is reaching out to reclaim its space. A leopard entered Sumawali village in Satna on Wednesday, triggering panic in the area. It climbed up a tree and was tranquilised and released back in the forest in a three-hour operation. It did not hurt anyone. Two elephants in Kanha give sleepless nights to staffWild animals are being reported close to villages in several areas of state in the lockdown period. On April 19, TOI had reported how 13 people have been killed by tigers, elephants, leopards and sloth bears during this period. Wildlife officials say they have reports of tiger movements in 23 districts in the state, which is a good sign of conservation efforts. Two elephants – named Ram-Balram by villagers – have entered Kanha Tiger Reserve, giving sleepless nights to staff. They had killed a villager in Seoni a few days ago. They walked into Kanha just when a team was being readied for their capture, say officials. They are believed to have separated from a herd that moved in from Odisha, officials say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-tigers-die-in-bandhavgarh-rewa-safari/articleshow/75306038.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mysuru||Will talk to AAI about exporting vegetables, fruits, says minister||Mandya: After listening to farmers’ grievances in Mandya who are growing increasingly worried about their prospects, district in-charge minister KC Narayanagowda assured them that steps would be taken to export agricultural produce to foreign countries. “We will consult the officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), and take steps to export crops,” Narayanagowda said. The minister, who inaugurated a drive organised by philanthropists to purchase vegetables and fruits from farmers for distribution to those in areas that have been sealed, said that the government was aware of the ryots’ plight. “We will meet officials from the AAI in two or three days once we receive chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s nod, and will expedite the process to export crops soon. This will benefit not just the struggling farmers but help give a fillip to the nation’s flagging economy,” Narayanagowda said. The minister heaped praise on the philanthropists for their noble initiative, which he said helped both farmers and feeding many struggling to find food during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-talk-to-aai-about-exporting-vegetables-fruits-says-minister/articleshow/75302899.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Southern railways assesses availability of sleeper class coaches||CHENNAI: With just 11 days left of the lockdown 2.0, Southern Railway has started to assess availability of adequate sleeper class coaches to run scheduled trains in case services are to be resumed next month. This is because of more than 500 sleeper class coaches have been modified and converted into isolation wards for handling Covid-19 patients. This is equivalent to sleeper class coaches needed for 41 trains. Railway board has told the zone to look at availability of ICF and LHB coaches to find out how many trains can be operated daily when services resume after shutdown. It is said that number of trains will be fewer and services will be staggered to prevent crowding at stations. The board has suggested a two-pronged strategy to find coaches - by extending the maintenance span of coaches and by identifying the ICF coaches lying idle or being used for special trains after they were replaced with LHB coaches. Southern Railway has already drawn up the change in the number of coaches available for use after several have been converted in to isolation wards. “The zone will now look for ICF coaches not being used regularly in scheduled trains because they have been replaced with new LHB coaches. These coaches are being used to form special trains including Suvidha specials and also are being kept as spares. An audit will be taken about the presence of such coaches and steps will have to be taken to check them and declare them as fit for operation,” said an official. In addition to this, the railway board has also extended the periodic overhaul and intermediate overhaul of coaches by three months. “The time frame for overhaul will be extended by three months after the coaches are lifted using crane and undercarriage is inspected at yards,” he added. Since most of the lines at railway yards are full as trains are parked after services were suspended, railway authorities will now look to freeing up space and scout for space to carry out inspection of undercarriage of coaches so that their life can be extended and can be made into trains for use post shutdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rlys-assesses-availability-of-sleeper-class-coaches/articleshow/75306036.cms||V Ayyappan
April 23, 2020||Pune||New restrictions trigger anxiety among citizens in Pune||PUNE: The decision of the city police to allow only milk and medical services in places severely affected by Covid-19 caught many people unaware on Wednesday morning, triggering anxiety among residents of Kondhwa, Undri, Peth areas and other locations. Several grocers in Undri claimed on Wednesday that they did not have any prior information about the new arrangements. “I opened my shop at 10am. A police team arrived within a few minutes and told me to down the shutters, citing the new order. I pleaded with them that the entire milk stock would go to waste. They reluctantly agreed to let me keep the shop open for around an hour. I alerted my customers to collect milk. I shut the shop by 11am. I am ready to abide by all the orders. But there should be a proper information system,” a shopkeeper said. Activist Tanaji Lonkar said, “The police should have created more awareness among people to enable them to stock food items.” Late on Tuesday, the police imposed additional restrictions in severely affected areas under the jurisdiction of 10 police stations, including Kondhwa, Faraskhana, Samarth and Khadak. Shops selling grocery, vegetables, fruits, mutton and eggs in these areas would remain closed till April 23 midnight. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “We shall review on Thursday the two-day additional restrictions in the severely affected areas and decide on the further course of action.” Yerawada businessman Haji Zakir Shaikh said, “Imposing more restrictions on the Covid-19 hotspots is fine, but the police have not communicated the decision to residents in an apt manner.” Bhavani Peth’s Arif Tamboli said, “There are complaints related to shortage of milk supply..” Hotelier Rafique Shaikh said, “The police removed vegetable vendors from Chaman Shah Chowk and Kasewadi slums in Bhavani Peth and even caned people. The corporation has opened a mobile clinic and its health workers are visiting people in the affected areas. They are checking residents with fever guns, identifying those with symptoms of coronavirus and treating them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-restrictions-trigger-anxiety-among-citizens/articleshow/75306912.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Nuclear facilities unaffected by Covid, running smoothly: Officials||Mumbai: The Covid-19 crisis, which has affected almost all arms of the country, has reportedly spared its nuclear establishment. Officials at the department of atomic energy told TOI on Wednesday that its 22 nuclear power plants were functioning normally across the country. “The engineers and scientists were working in shifts and social distancing norms are being followed,” an official said, adding that these units were located in zones that are not crowded. They said that the Dhruva research reactor at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (Barc) in Trombay was also operating normally. They said Dhruva cannot be shut down because it makes isotopes and also, this reactor is related to the defence sector. “Barc has been declared an essential service,” an official said. With regards to Isro, the coronavirus crisis has resulted in rescheduling of some missions and also Yuvika 2020, a programme launched this year by the space agency for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nuclear-facilities-unaffected-by-covid-running-smoothly-officials/articleshow/75306926.cms||Srinivas Laxman
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Delivery staffers in Bhopal to be screened||BHOPAL: District administration will screen delivery staffers of all the stores, e-supermarkets and food delivery start-ups as a precautionary measure. Food safety officer, Bhopal, D K Verma, said the screening of delivery personnel was started following directives of the district collector — which stated that all staff members of grocery stores, hotels, restaurants, supermarkets should be screened before they start work or delivery goods/food at home. Verma said, the process began on Tuesday with the help of experts from “Arogya Setu”, who are visiting stores/supermarkets/hotels registered for home delivery with the district administration and carrying out thermal screening of all staffers. “We have three medical teams of three persons each. They visit different stores and other establishments, who are carrying out home delivery of goods/food during the lockdown in the city and observing the norms of social distancing carry out thermal screening of the staff. They also ask them about their medical history or if they had a cold, cough and fever in the recent past. Their phone number is also being taken down”, Verma said. He said more than 1,000 persons working with food supply companies and supermarkets have already been screened till now .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/delivery-staffers-in-bhopal-to-be-screened/articleshow/75309057.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT-Hyderabad junks exams for this semester||HYDERABAD: The International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) has decided to do away with formal final examinations this semester and instead grade students on assignments, projects, quizzes and reports. HYDERABAD The institute also decided to award ‘W’ (Withdraw) grade in place of an ‘F’ (Fail) for courses. Similarly, the institute will only award A, B, C, and W grades for these courses, leaving out A-, B-, C-, and D grades for this semester. “Conducting final exams is tricky if done online, considering the highly variable situations students may find themselves in where they are,” IIITH director PJ Narayanan said, adding that the faculty debated on different options before zeroing in on doing away with exams. He said the institute wanted to conclude the spring semester quickly to clear air over the semester’s courses and added that evaluation based on more hands-on applications of concepts would stress students less, though the work on teachers may increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-junks-exams-for-this-semester/articleshow/75306664.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Lorry carrying 5,000 litres of sanitiser gutted||HYDERABAD: A lorry carrying 5,000 litres of sanitiser was gutted after a fire broke out near Miyapur bus depot on Wednesday. The lorry was sending approved sanitiser supply to Sangareddy district from Jeedimetla area when the incident occurred at around 2 pm. “The truck was carrying 250 cans of sanitisers when one of the cans started leaking. It is a highly flammable material. A spark triggered the fire,” said station fire officer, Krishna Reddy. Two fire tenders were put in place to douse the fire. The driver and his assistant escaped with no injuries, while all sanitiser containers were gutted. In another incident, fire broke out at a plastic scrap godown at around 5 pm on Wednesday at Kulsumpura area. According to officials, it may have been caused due to short circuit. Two fire tenders were sent to douse the fire. Officials estimated Rs 2 lakh worth property damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lorry-carrying-5k-litres-of-sanitiser-gutted/articleshow/75306676.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Additional measures puzzle people in Peth areas||PUNE: For past few days, buying vegetables has become an uphill task for Somwar Peth’s Sangeeta Sakhre. The business hours of grocery shops have gone erratic. Worse, they have not been operating every day. Vijay Halli of Rasta Peth has been facing a similar problem. “Vendors have vanished. We cannot go to other areas to purchase because the roads are sealed,” he said. Many residents of Peth areas — sealed for the past two weeks — fear things could become tougher as more stringent measures have been imposed from Wednesday. “All shops, excluding medical stores, will be shut for 2 days. Any extension will add to the difficulties,” said Paresh Bhalerao of Ganj Peth. Many residents on Wednesday struggled to get even milk as shops remained shut throughout the day. Jitendra Shah of Nana Peth said, “ Many vendors have stopped coming out after police action. Authorities should conduct at least bi-weekly sale of vegetables at open spaces like school grounds.” A civic official said the increase in Covid-19 cases had prompted stricter measures in the city, including the Peths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/additional-measures-puzzle-people-in-peth-areas/articleshow/75306920.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 31 in Suryapet infected by one woman who visited several houses for a game||HYDERABAD: A Suryapet woman who played the ancient ‘ashta chamma’ (a traditional board game very much like the modern day Ludo) in several houses to kill time during the lockdown ended up spreading the coronavirus to 31 others. This startling finding baffled the administrators, who have been worried over the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. A high-level team led by chief secretary Somesh Kumar, during its visit on Wednesday, came to know that the woman had a Tablighi Jamaat meeting contact and visited several houses to play indoor games. She tested positive for Covid-19 and later 31 others contracted the virus from her. The total number of positive cases touched 83 — next only to Hyderabad — with three more cases reported on Wednesday. At least five district-level authorities were suspended in Suryapet after it was found that the surveillance teams had failed to conduct door-to-door surveys even after the first case detected. District medical and health officer Niranjan has been replaced with B Sambasiva Rao, who will also hold full additional charge.  DSP of Suryapet M Nageswar Rao and circle inspector Shiv Shankar have also been transferred. Sources said lockdown norms were not followed and swift action was not taken in identifying the contacts of coronavirus positive cases. Sources in the medical and health department told TOI that the survey and surveillance have not been serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/31-in-suryapet-infected-by-one-woman-who-visited-several-houses-for-a-game/articleshow/75306640.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||T records 15 new cases; one death||Hyderabad: One person died and 15 others tested positive for Covid-19 in Telangana, on Wednesday, taking the total count of cases in the state to 943. The death toll in the state stands at 24. Health officials pegged the daily average of cases, over the last one month, at 30. A month ago, on March 21 — days before the national lockdown was announced — Telangana’s total count of coronavirus cases stood at 21. Despite strict measures implemented across the state, the count of cases continue to be high be high in some areas — specially within the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits and Suryapet district. From just one case a few days ago to 83 new cases now, the latter has emerged as a coronavirus hotspot. Meanwhile, representatives of a private biotech firm met state health minister Eatala Rajendar, seeking permission to conduct plasma therapy for coronavirus patients. According to the firm, the company has already been given the go-ahead — to start administer the therapy — by the National Drug Control Authority. Their application to Indian Council of Medical Research is awaiting approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-15-new-cases-one-death/articleshow/75306654.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 23, 2020||Pune||Kondhwa residents frantically seek essentials amid strict limitations||PUNE: Social distancing norms went for a toss even as authorities imposed a strict lockdown in Kondhwa after many residents stepped out in search of essential supplies. “They should have informed people before suddenly taking such a step. Many people in our housing society have no vegetables at home. Two members of the society have gone to different areas to check if supplies are available. If they find something, we will follow,” said a man, who was part of a group waiting outside a society on Salunkhe Vihar Road. In the same area, a store owner was operating with the shop shutter pulled down halfway. “People are asking for many things apart from milk. I only do business with people I already know and ask them to pay me via a digital wallet service. The administration said milk can be sold between 10am and noon. However, the police come here often, asking us to shut down,” the shop owner said. A local vegetable vendor said, “I have not opened my shop but I am making deliveries till the society gate for known customers.” Safar Inamdar, who lives in the vicinity, said, “I walked down BG Lonkar road but I couldn’t find any vegetable vendors. Now I’ll check Narayan Annaji Shinde road and Oxford Society road. I have heard that the situation will be the same on Thursday and they may even extend the severe lockdown. They should have better informed the people.” On Narayan Annaji Shinde Road, two women were seen selling milk packets with no social distancing norms being followed. “The grocery store is open, only the shutters are down. The milk stock is selling fast as some people are buying five to six packets. We are asking them to maintain social distancing but the people are desperate,” one woman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kondhwa-residents-frantically-seek-essentials-amid-strict-limitations/articleshow/75306916.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 23, 2020||Vadodara||One held with beer cans worth Rs 17 lakh on express highway||VADODARA: Sleuths of state monitoring cell from Gandhinagar arrested a truck driver and seized beer cans worth Rs17 lakh from his vehicle at a petrol pump near Poicha on Ahmedabad-Vadodara express highway. According to police, the truck registered in Himachal Pradesh was being followed once it crossed Anand and reached the petrol pump. Police said the truck seemed suspicious so they were following it. On Tuesday evening when the truck was parked at the petrol pump, truck driver Dinesh Kumar Gurjar was confronted and asked to open its carrier. “There were sacks of rotten potatoes which were emanating strong stench which raised doubts. We moved the sacks and found boxes which contained 16,800 beer cans,” said a police official. Cops from Bhadarwa police station were informed since the truck was seized in their jurisdiction and Gurjar sent for coronavirus test. Gurjar told police that the stock belonged to Nand Singh Rathod, who lives in Ajmer, and that he has been smuggling liquor in Gujarat for the latter for over a year. Last week too, Gurjar had delivered a truck full of liquor at Somnath. “The driver was paid about Rs35,000 for every delivery that he made. This time he was told to deliver beer cans in Surat and asked to wait at the petrol pump for instructions to move ahead,” the police official said. Investigation of the case has been handed over to local crime branch of Vadodara rural police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-held-with-beer-cans-worth-rs17-lakh-on-express-highway/articleshow/75302935.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||No-fee diktat will deprive us of salary: Karnataka teachers in online plea||BENGALURU: Pushed to the wall after the government ordered private schools not to collect fees, teachers across the state have signed an online petition seeking withdrawal of the diktat, which they fear may lead to them not getting paid. The petition addressed to primary and secondary minister S Suresh Kumar and hosted on change.org received around 13,700 signatures as on Wednesday evening (in three days). Educators from as far as Assam and Gujarat have expressed solidarity with their Karnataka counterparts. TimesViewIt’s unfortunate that those devoting their time and energy to keep children motivated and updated in these tumultuous times have been left high and dry. The lockdown has been hard on everyone, and while the government’s concern for parents seems justified, it should remember that teachers are parents too and equally vulnerable as far as finances are concerned. Even they have kids to bring up and families to run. The government may need to rethink its decision on fee collection and come up with an alternative keeping all stakeholders in the loop and bearing their concerns in mind.Called Covid 19: Teachers Unite Campaign, the petition points out that teachers remain at the receiving end of changes in educational policies. It all began when some private schools started sending messages to parents to remit fees for the next academic year by March-end. The government stepped in to help parents, who were facing a financial crisis due to the lockdown. On March 30, it issued an order directing schools not to collect fees until further notice. School managements were in a bind as several budget private schools depend on monthly fee to pay salaries and run their daily expenses. The notice handicapped institutions, preventing them from planning the new calendar, carrying out maintenance and even paying the staff in some cases. “Teachers I know have not yet received their full salaries for March. When schools were asked to close, even before the first lockdown was announced on March 24, many teachers worked day in and day out to prepare lessons for online classes, getting in touch with every child and their parents. We were proud of what we were doing. We felt so important. But now, we have been left behind,” rued one of the four teachers who started the petition. “The order has a direct impact on us. Every time a policy decision is made in education, teachers are not consulted,” she added. Educationists say the government is being unreasonable by asking schools not to collect monthly fees. “On one hand, the government asks organisations not to lay off people or cut salaries. On the other, it asks schools not to collect fees. How does it expect schools to pay their staff? In developed countries, the government offers emergency funds to schools,” said Maya Menon, founder director, Teacher Foundation. “We are not talking about schools that have completed admissions and are collecting fees for the next academic year. Our concern is for the 12,000 budget schools that depend on monthly fees for daily expenses. These schools receive 20% of fees during exam time. Around 10-15% parents are defaulters. The government is yet to pay RTE reimbursement worth Rs 1,200 crore. And now, we have no monthly fees. Our expenses include staff salary, PF, ESI, professional tax, electricity bill and vehicle insurance. Even though schools are closed and our electricity usage is close to nil, we have to pay the average amount,” said D Sashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Schools in Karnataka. Kumar said the government should at least let those parents pay for whom it’s affordable. “We have asked the chief minister to give us interest-free loans for Rs 1,000 crore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-fee-diktat-will-deprive-us-of-salary-teachers-in-online-plea/articleshow/75304625.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Owners of pigs that mauled 4-year-old boy booked||Hyderabad: Following the death of four-year-old boy who was mauled by pigs in Saidabad on Tuesday, police have registered a case and started investigation. Meanwhile, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) said that the animals are owned by private individuals and a complaint has been filed against them for breeding pigs in a residential area. “GHMC had served notices to the individuals before the incident too,” said GHMC chief veterinary officer, Abdul Wakeel. According to GHMC officials, there was garbage strewn in and around the spot where the incident took place. “There were more than 15 pigs loitering around when police visited the spot,” said a source in the civic body. Child rights organisation, Balala Hakula Sangham has filed a petition in this regard with the human rights commission (HRC) on Wednesday. The NGO alleged that GHMC did not take appropriate measures even when similar cases were reported in the past. “The GHMC should pay compensation to the family as they are very poor. Even earlier the complaints we raised regarding stray dogs attacking children were ignored,” alleged Balala Hakula Sangham president, Achyuta Rao. Meanwhile, the human rights commission sought a report from the zonal commissioner of Charminar zone, Ashok Samrat, by June 17. The incident had occurred in Singareni Colony which falls under Saidabad police station limits. The four-year-old’s parents are daily wage labourers. The boy was playing near his house when he was attacked by pigs that were loitering around a garbage dump in the area. A woman who saw the incident alerted locals but by the time they intervened, the four-year-old was already dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owners-of-pigs-that-mauled-4-year-old-boy-booked/articleshow/75306622.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Efforts on to repatriate Goans, students abroad: Narendra Sawaikar||MARGAO: With the central government allowing Indian seafarers to sign-off at Indian ports thereby facilitating return of Goan sailors home, the state government is now working at bringing back Goans stranded in foreign countries, including students pursuing their higher education in those lands. Commissioner of NRI affairs Narendra Sawaikar told TOI that the Indian embassies in those respective countries have already established contacted with the Goan students and other affected Goans overseas. “There are many Goan students in different parts of the world like UK, Netherlands, Germany, US, etc, who called and told us about their difficulties there. Parents of some of the students staying abroad have also contacted us. All this information has been passed on to the Indian embassies in those respective countries. The embassies have also interacted with the Goan students and all possible help is rendered to them,” Sawaikar said. There is another section of Goans who had gone abroad to visit their kin settled overseas, but couldn’t return home after flights were suspended following the lockdown. “They have also approached us. We are helping them. The state government is interacting with them through the NRI commission,” Sawaikar said. Reacting to criticism from some quarters over the delay by the authorities in getting the stranded seafarers home, Sawaikar said that as ports and sea waters come under the purview of the Union government, the state government’s role was limited to furnishing data about the seafarers. “The seafarers issue is always dealt with by the Director General of Shipping. All authorities concerned were working closely with DG Shipping to come out with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the seafarers’ return. The data was compiled by us and furnished to DG Shipping,” Sawaikar said. Terming the SOPs as “quite reasonable” and “pretty pragmatic”, Sawaikar said the protocol outlined in the SOPs have set to rest apprehensions among the public that all the Goan seafarers returning home would be brought to Goa and quarantined here. “As per the SOPs, all the seafarers will be tested for Covid-19 after their disembarkment at the port, and if found positive, they will be quarantined in the vicinity of the port, and only thereafter will be sent to their home states. The entire protocol will kick in from today,” he said. “As the seafarers will be arriving in batches, large number of quarantine facilities will not be required in the state, though as the CM has said, the government is well prepared for handling any situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/efforts-on-to-repatriate-goans-students-abroad-sawaikar/articleshow/75306922.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: An hour of exercise for walkers||PUNE: The Talegaon Dabhade police on Tuesday made 70 morning walkers do exercise for an hour as a punishment for flouting the lockdown norms. Senior inspector of the Talegaon Dabhade police Amarnath Waghmode told TOI that the people had started coming out for walks early in the morning to avoid police action. “On Tuesday, we gathered at the police station around 4.30am. We then formed teams and started taking action against people found on the roads,”he said. The teams found 70 people, including a few women, who were first made aware about the effects of the coronavirus. “As many of them told us that they had come out for exercise, we took their class on physical training for about an hour before allowing them to go home,” he said. In a similar action, the Pimpri Chinchwad police also took action against 415 people for flouting curfew norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/an-hour-of-exercise-for-walkers/articleshow/75306921.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: After failing to attend funeral, man awaits visit to his father’s grave||PUNE: It has been over 13 days since the father of a 35-year-old Baramati resident succumbed to Covid-19 at the Sassoon hospital. Placed under home quarantine, along with his mother, he could not attend his father's funeral rites in Bopodi, neither could he break the news to his family members, all of whom tested positive for the disease and are in hospital. "My mother would go into a shock if he hears about my father's death. Moreover, my wife, two daughters, brother and his daughter are undergoing treatment at the Aundh chest hospital," he told TOI. He is waiting for the lockdown to end so that he could travel to his father’s grave, around 115km away in Bopodi, and also see the video footage of the burial rituals. "Some volunteers, who carried out the funeral rites, have taken photos and shot a video of the rituals, but haven’t shared the same out of fear that the footage may go viral on social media," he said. His 55-year-old paralytic father developed pneumonia and was admitted in a private hospital in Baramati in the first week of April. Subsequently, on the advice of a doctor, they admitted him at Sassoon hospital. “Four of my family members, including my wife, younger brother, his one-year-old daughter and my nine-year-old daughter, tested positive, while I and my mother tested negative. On April 9, my father succumbed to the virus," said the son, who runs a vegetable stall at a local mandi in Baramati. "The first thing I want to do after the lockdown ends is to visit my father's grave in Bopodi,” he said. But he is not sure whether he would be able to make the journey immediately after the restrictions ends. "Even if the lockdown ends on May 3, I think there will be some regulations in place. I don't know how long I have to wait to visit my father's grave," he sighed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-failing-to-attend-funeral-man-awaits-visit-to-his-fathers-grave/articleshow/75306925.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Ramzan during summer: Only 2nd time in 33 years||HYDERABAD: Ramzan 2020 will be hot and homely with the summer heat likely to touch 42 degrees and fasting duration lasting over 14 hours in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh amidst advisory to Muslims to stay home and not visit mosques because of coronavirus pandemic. Ramzan will begin on April 25 subject to the sighting of the crescent and will continue till May 24. This is the second time Ramzan is falling in the summer month of May in the last 33 years. The Islamic calendar is purely lunar with no intercalation (or adjustment with the solar calendar every third year) and thus, it takes a 33-year lunar cycle for Muslim festivals to match with the months of solar calendar. Muslims this Ramzan will have to endure long fasting hours amidst intense heat. The meteorological data shows that the shortest fast duration Ramzan 2020 will be on April 25 with 14 hours and 11 minutes. Fasting will begin at 4.29 am (Sahar) and end at 6.40 pm (Iftar). The longest fast will fall on May 23 lasting up to 14 hours and 38 minutes with Sahar at 4.12 am and Iftar at 6.50 pm. This year, Ramzan fasting duration will be about two hours more than the average length of the day – 12 hours and 13 minutes. Luckily, this time, Rohini Karthi, the hottest fortnight of the year in these parts, begins on May 25, a day after the Id-ul-Fitr, which marks end of Ramzan. According to weather data obtained from AccuWeather, the maximum temperature this May is likely to touch 42 degree Celsius with temperatures for most part of the day hovering between 37 degrees and 42 degrees. This time, the temperature at 6 am, a couple of hours before the fasting begins, will be 32 degrees. Even at 3 am, the average temperature will be 31 degrees. This is the time when Muslims wake up for the Sahar. The average temperature during May at 12 noon will be 40 degrees. At the time of breaking of fast (Iftar), the average temperature at 6 pm will be 39 degrees. Adding to the summer heat will be a clear and sunny sky with only one per cent possibility of rain and 4-7% of cloudy weather. With the temperature likely to zoom past 40 degrees during Ramzan, the Word Heath Organisation has recommended that those who fast should drink lots of water during Sahar and Iftar to keep the body hydrated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramzan-during-summer-only-2nd-time-in-33-yrs/articleshow/75306086.cms||Syed Akbar
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Daily waste output dips 20% to 1,600 tonnes from 2,100 tonnes||PUNE: The civic administration has registered a nearly 500-tonne drop in day-to-day waste generation during the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The city’s daily generation is around 2,100 tonnes on a usual day and has now come down to nearly 1,600 tonnes, an over 20% drop. The administration said it has not stopped clearing the waste every day despite the lockdown measures in the city, including the areas sealed under the Covid-19 containment plan. To start with, the administration had sealed the peth areas in the old city and also parts of Kondhwa to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases. The administration subsequently sealed all areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation’s limits. “Door-to-door collection is also on in the sealed areas without any hindrance,” said Dnyneshwar Molak, head of the PMC’s solid waste management department. Molak said the staffers collecting waste from all the sealed areas have been told to remain alert and undergo medical checks in case of any Vovid-19 symptoms, such as cough and sneezing. He said, “The staffers on duty are on a challenging job and are putting all efforts in a tough situation. We are focusing on better coordination while working in the sealed areas.” The waste collected from the city was being sent to various processing plants located within the PMC limits and also in Phursungi for further treatment on a daily basis. “The plants are working at adequate capacities,” Molak said. Solid waste management department officials said the citizens could register their grievances through the PMC portal on non-handling of waste. An official attributed the drop in garbage generation to the closure of eateries, hotels and roadside vendors, which generate about 200 tonnes of wet and dry waste a day. The closure of commercial establishments, education institutes and market places has also led to the fall in garbage generation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-waste-output-dips-20-to-1-6k-tonnes-from-2-1k-tonnes/articleshow/75306931.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 23, 2020||Goa||Goa HC mulls work during summer break||PANAJI: The high court’s summer vacation will be cancelled should the lockdown be lifted between May 3 and June 7. The month-long summer vacation was to begin on May 7. During the period of summer vacation if the normal court working is restored, the working hours will be from 9am to 2.30pm with a recess of 30 minutes. The modified working hours for the court from June 8 onwards will be notified separately. In order to reduce the physical presence of lawyers and staff during the lockdown, the court is only hearing urgent cases through video conferencing using ‘Vidyo’ software.The court currently takes up urgent matters between 12 noon and 2pm on notified working days. Advocates have been asked to install Vidyo software on their computers, laptops or smartphones and connect it to the video conference room using the link and PIN shared with them. The court has provided a helpline to be used for complaints regarding quality or audibility of feed, to be made during or immediately after the proceeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-mulls-work-during-summer-break/articleshow/75306929.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lack of new tech gear hits work from home||PUNE: For Rohit Surve, getting work from home authorised was the beginning of a Herculean task. The software engineer working as a team lead with an IT firm arranged a few desktops for his team with a hope to return to work in a fortnight. As the lockdown prolonged, he realized that each of his team member requires a good internet connection to be available real time. “We haven’t been able to get the required quality routers for them. The few working have to bear the load,” he said. Ajay Kumar, a certified financial accountant with a foreign bank, needs a quality headphone to keep the calls professional. He has borrowed one from his cousin, but it is not up to the mark. “For lower feedback, I need a noise cutting headphone but can’t get it as non-essentials are not delivered,” he added.  Just as the suppliers and e-commerce players were gearing up to deliver such items, the government reversed its earlier order on the delivery of non-essentials. “People need routers, laptops or other work-from-home essentials. There is still some reluctance to increase the goods classified under the essentials category,” said a senior e-commerce firm executive. The e-commerce firms are allowed only to deliver essential goods. “When the government first announced that e-commerce across the board will open up on April 20, we got things moving. We were hoping that some of our existing stock will get sold and we can start the cycle,” said a trader, who imports electronics and resells them. “Work-from-home is good, provided all boxes are ticked. The laptop and other essentials are needed for smoothwork. As it is clients are jittery about allowing employees to work from home. And when such equipment do not reach the employees, it becomes more problematic,” said a senior executive with a blue-chip IT firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lack-of-new-tech-gear-hits-work-from-home/articleshow/75306936.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Stranded Indian crew members in Spain appeal for help, seek repatriation flight||Dehradun: Several stranded Indian cruise ship crew members, many of them hailing from Uttarakhand, who are stuck in a hotel at Barcelona for over a month, have sought help from the Indian government to arrange for a repatriation flight for them. Spain is one of the worst affected countries in Europe as far as the Covid-19 threat is concerned and has seen over 2 lakh cases with over 21,000 deaths. Speaking over the phone from Barcelona, one of the crew members, Ankit Thapa, who hails from Dehradun, told TOI, “All of us are extremely worried as it has been over a month since we have been stuck here. It is our fervent appeal to the Indian government to arrange for a repatriation flight for us like the way it is doing for foreign nationals stranded in India.” Thapa added that he was part of the staff of a cruise ship that had set off in early March from Brazil with over 2400 guests and 800 crew members including over 100 Indians. “Although we knew about the corona infection at the time of starting the cruise, we never realised it would become so serious. During our journey, we got an emergency message that the pandemic was fast spreading in Europe. It was decided that instead of going to Portugal — our final destination, the ship would sail to Spain to disembark the guests on board," said Thapa. According to Pankaj Gairola, another crew member hailing from Dehradun, who also spoke with TOI on phone, the ship docked in the Malaga port in Spain on March 20, and besides guests, some crew members were disembarked. “We travelled by road for over 11 hours to reach Barcelona and have since then been closeted in a hotel as all flights were cancelled. Almost 80 of our Indian crew members are still on the ship. All of us, and our families back home, are extremely worried and anxious about our return.” He added that the crew members have got in touch with the Indian embassy and have sought to arrange a repatriation flight to take all stranded Indians back home “but no one knows how long it would take.” Meanwhile, the crew members said, the situation in Spain is becoming worrisome by the day as hundreds of people are dying every day from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stranded-indian-crew-members-in-spain-appeal-for-help-seek-repatriation-flight/articleshow/75302985.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 23, 2020||Goa||Rapid testing kits not used in Goa, says Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday said no rapid test kits have been used in the state of Goa. “Not a single rapid testing kit has been used from the government of India. They’re sealed and in the possession of the government and haven’t been used at all because we already had our testing kits at the virology lab. There is already a government order for a lakh of kits,” Rane told mediapersons on Wednesday. The government is also procuring a new machine which will allow 1,500-2,000 Covid tests to be conducted in a day at the virology lab, he said, adding that ventilators are also being procured in various phases. The state government has ordered 1,500 thermal guns, of which 1,000 have already arrived and are being distributed by various secretaries, he said. As far as the Covid-19 community survey is concerned, the standard protocol is being decided by the health secretary, based on which people will be tested, Rane said. A smart kiosk is being installed at Mormugao Port Trust to intensify testing facilities for seafarers before they exit the port. Rane said 12 kiosks are being set up in hotspots in the state where swab samples will be tested. “Industries have started. Swabs have to be taken. We have to lean to live within Covid-19, but within certain parameters,” the health minister said. The kiosk is equipped with temperature guns, replaceable gloves, sanitising dispenser and sample drop- box (ice box) and will permit spot testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rapid-testing-kits-not-used-in-goa-says-rane/articleshow/75306933.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man held for rejecting delivery from Muslim agent||MUMBAI: A 51-year-old Mira Road resident was arrested on Wednesday from his Srushti Complex home after he allegedly refused to accept groceries from a Muslim delivery boy. He was produced before the Thane sessions court and remanded in judicial custody. The incident occurred on Tuesday, when the 32-year-old delivery boy, a resident of Naya Nagar, was delivering groceries ordered online. “I have been risking my life and delivering essential goods to homes,” the delivery boy said. “And to think that in these tough times too, people want to focus on religion is shocking and saddening.” He said he was wearing a mask and gloves at the time. The police registered a case under IPC section 295 (a) (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs). Around 9.40 am on Tuesday, the delivery boy was standing with the delivery at the gate of Srushti Complex and called the customer—the arrested man’s wife—as there were entry restrictions due to the lockdown imposed to fight Covid-19 in Mira-Bhayander. The customer came with her husband and accepted the parcel. They were wearing masks too. As the woman went through the list of items, her husband asked the delivery boy his name. On learning that the delivery boy was from a different community, the man told his wife to return the order. The delivery boy was shocked and recorded the rest of the conversation on his mobile phone. The man allegedly told the delivery boy that he did not want to order from a person of the minority community. The delivery boy, who has been working for the online grocery portal for over a year, narrated the incident to his family, who advised him to approach the police. He said that his family, including children, were worried for him because of the coronavirus, but he still was among the few who had agreed to do his job. He said that he has been delivering parcels to many homes during the lockdown and had never faced such discrimination, adding that he would continue doing his job. Read report in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-man-held-for-rejecting-delivery-from-muslim-agent/articleshow/75306948.cms||Sandhya Nair
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rs 50 lakh, job for kin if frontline staff die of Covid||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday announced a solatium of Rs 50 lakh and a job to the kin of frontline staff who die in Covid-19 battle. This comes amid huge outrage among doctors over denial of dignity in death to healthcare professionals. The chief minister also interacted with the doctors, nurses and Covid-19 patients who were to be discharged from Rajiv Gandhi General Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital through video conference. In an official statement, the chief minister recalled the medical insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh announced by the Union government for health workers fighting Covid-19 in government hospitals and healthcare centres. “The families of frontline workers of departments such as health, police and local administration, and the sanitation staff, who are engaged in preventive measures against coronavirus and die due to the infection, will get a solatium of Rs 50 lakh instead of Rs 10 lakh announced earlier by me,” Palaniswami said. A family member will also be provided with a government job based on their qualification. Stating that it was the duty of the state government to show gratitude to deceased staff, Palaniswami said the government would take action to bury the body in a safe and dignified manner. The state government will confer the highest award and certification to honour the service of private and public staff, including doctors, nurses and health workers, who lose their lives while engaged in coronavirus preventive work, he said. If an employee of a private hospital is infected with coronavirus, all employees in the section will be screened as per the guidelines. The section will be allowed to continue to function only after complete preventive measures are taken, he said. On Tuesday, Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam expressed anguish over the violent attack by a section of people on funeral procession of neurosurgeon Dr Simon Hercules, who died of Covid-19. “Healthcare professionals, sanitary workers and local body staff forget their families and work selflessly to prevent the spread of virus. I consider them equivalent to God,” Palaniswami said, assuring suitable action to prevent such incidents. He said the doctors and field level workers need not fear and that the government stood by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-50l-job-for-kin-if-frontline-staff-die-of-covid/articleshow/75306090.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Paid quarantine for entering Goa illegally: CM||PANAJI: People entering Goa without permission from the state government authorities will be placed in paid quarantined, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Sawant said that some people have been entering Goa from other states through shorter routes and internal roads. “Those found crossing the border without permission will be arrested and sent to quarantine centres,” he said. He said that those entering the state forcefully will be put in paid quarantine. Citing an example, Sawant said that one woman had arrived from Rajasthan and sought entry into Goa. She stayed at the Keri checkpost for nearly 24 hours, he said. “She was allowed to enter the state, but we have placed her in institutional quarantine,” Sawant said. He also said that even if someone who owns a house and seeks entry into Goa will not be allowed to do so. TOI on Wednesday reported that although the state government has sealed its borders, people appear to be finding internal roads and routes via jungles to enter Goa. Videos purportedly showing people taking short cuts to enter the state have gone viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/paid-quarantine-for-entering-illegally-cm/articleshow/75306940.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man murdered for stealing petrol, four booked||PUNE: Four unidentified men allegedly assaulted a 38-year-old man to death after they suspected him of stealing petrol from a motorcycle. The incident occurred in Dukkar Khind near Warje on Tuesday late evening. Senior inspector Ashok Kadam of the Warje Malwadi police told TOI that the deceased man Prashant Dhakane — a native of Beed district who was residing in Dukkar Khind — was working at a paan stall on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass in Dukkar Khind. On Tuesday, a man had parked his motorcycle near a washing centre, which was next to the paan stall,” Kadam said. Around 6.30pm the person returned to the spot in a car with three others and noticed Dhakane stealing petrol, he added. “The four men brutally beat up Dhakane, killing him on the spot and fled,” Kadam said. Dhakane’s friend lodged an FIR with the Warje Malwadi police on Wednesday. The four suspects have been booked under Section 302 (Punishment for murder) of the IPC. “We are checking CCTV camera footage to ascertain the identities of the four men,” Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-murdered-for-stealing-petrol-four-booked/articleshow/75306943.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Giving kin job the least we can do: Retired judge||We have exposed to ourselves how barbarian we are by not allowing the body of a doctor, a victim of Covid-19, to be buried or cremated. I am of the view that it is not sufficient to just give kin of such victims a compensation. In addition, one of their family members should be appoointed to a government service. Appointments on compassionate grounds are now misused, granted even for deaths due to natural causes unconnected with their duties or after retiring voluntarily, violating regular recruitment process. I had dealt with the issue in one of the cases placed before me and had given a detailed judgment condemning such practice and held that such appointments should be restricted only to cases of deaths resulting directly from the performance of duties as in the case of Army, electricity board, drainage workers, police. The death of a doctor or any paramedical/ nurse as a result of unusual risk of duty while treating Covid-19 patients is an extraordinary situation that warrants such appointments. Even in the case of death of a non-governmental person, as a special case, such appointments can be granted based on their qualification or if the family member is a student with an admission into a professional course subject to satisfying required qualification. This is the least the country can do for people who perform unenviable duty to the public. [This article was written by Justice K P Sivasubramaniam (retd)]||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/giving-kin-job-the-least-we-can-do-retd-judge/articleshow/75306106.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kochi||Share your thoughts, they will convert them into art||Kochi: Busking Kochi, an artistic group in the city, which has been doing various public art events, turned one on April 15. But, due to the pandemic-related lockdown, the members could not conduct a gathering on its first birthday. So they started celebrating it online through a special campaign — creating personal artwork for strangers. The campaign urges that anyone can get in contact with Busking Kochi through their Instagram page @buskingkochi and have a chat with any artist member about anything they want. Based on that chat experience, the artists will create works like painting, poem, poster, story, illustration, comic, music video etc., and send it to them. People can also dedicate the artwork to their loved ones and publish it online. So far, around 200 people have approached the 30-member team of Busking Kochi and nearly 100 artworks were completed in a week. “We are making art for strangers whom we met through Instagram. The objective is to help people articulate whatever they are feeling at the moment during lockdown. Art has a major role to play in any social situation and what everyone faces now is the lack of resources to articulate their feelings. Most artists in the team are working from home due to lockdown and they find time to create the art during their busy schedule,” said Busking Kochi’s founder Sreeram or @Unkoolie as Instagrammers call him for his pen name Unkoolie. Sreeram said they received requests for artwork from April 5 to 14. More than 100 works are now pending and these artists will send them to those who requested in the coming days of lockdown. He said most of the artworks we have published on the page following requests will also serve as a marker to the lockdown time in which this art was born. For example, a few days ago Sreeram spoke to a girl named Richa who is from Agra and currently residing in Ghaziabad. She told him how much she missed her family due to lockdown and even about her favourite comfort food which was ‘dal chawal’. Based on their small chat he sent her a small poem. “One stanza in the poem goes on like ‘a food (dal chaawal) in which she always found her maa simple with no overpowering spice cooked in kindness unadulterated by the world’s lies’. After reading the poem, she sent me a photo of ‘dal chawal’ she had just made. She told me that the poem made her want to cook it right away. I felt humbled beyond words as this is one of the best compliments I could ever ask for my art. Each of the artworks published has similar stories which is connected to the lockdown somehow,” said Sreeram, who is a typewriter poet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/share-your-thoughts-they-will-convert-them-into-art/articleshow/75293732.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||‘Need to evacuate seamen who sign off at foreign ports’||PANAJI: Unless international cruiseliners sail their ships into Indian waters, more than 95% of Goan seafarers presently aboard cruiseliners and merchant vessels across the world will not be able to return home since the Centre’s standard operating protocol (SOP) for seafarers applies only to those vessels which are in Indian waters, said Goencho Avaaz here on Wednesday. The NGO said that the Union government needs to contact all shipping companies and prepare the guidelines for repatriating Goan seafarers who disembark and sign-off at foreign ports. “There are still more than 95% of our Goan seafarers and rest of our Indian crew on ships who may not fall under the scope of the SOP released by government of India, unless and until the shipping companies agree to bring their ships into Indian waters and sign off the Indian crew at Indian ports. This in a sense is only going to delay the return of the seafarers as the SOP indirectly insists upon the shipping companies across the globe to bring their ships to Indian ports,” said founding member of Goencho Avaaz, Viriato Fernandes. While appreciating the efforts made by the state and Centre to bring home the Goan crew on at least three cruise vessels, Goencho Avaaz said that the government needs to urgently get in touch with the other shipping companies and formulate the SOP for seafarers who will sign off at foreign ports. “It is the responsibility of respective shipping company to repatriate their crew back to their country of origin as per their contractual obligation and MLC (Marine Labour Convention) 2006. The government’s role in this whole exercise is to open up the air space so that the chartered flights arranged by the shipping companies could land for swift and safe repatriation procedures. The process of sign off is stalled mainly because Indian airports are not operational,” said Fernandes. Goencho Avaaz claimed that it submitted a detailed SOP to the state government. “Right from the first step of identifying the crew presently on board or at hotel in foreign countries awaiting repatriation to India, to the quarantine procedures upon their arrival in Indian airports, this can be readily pursued by the authorities,” Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-to-evacuate-seamen-who-sign-off-at-foreign-ports/articleshow/75306946.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||No. of +ve cases from districts dip||Hyderabad: The number of Covid-19 positive cases coming from districts has reduced drastically, but what is worrying health authorities is the increase in the number of cases from Old City in Hyderabad. Tests conducted for the contacts of positive cases in Nalgonda at Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) proved negative. Telangana public health director G Srinivasa Rao told TOI, “We haven’t done random sampling anywhere in the state. What is done in Nalgonda is only the contacts of Covid-19 patients.” Rao added, “It will take one more week for a clear picture to emerge on how the infection is spreading. Some days a high number of positive cases are reported, and on some days, lower number of positive cases are reported. From districts, the number of cases has reduced. Only sporadic Covid-19 positive cases were reported. From Old City areas like Charminar, Asif Nagar and Bahadurpur, more number of positive cases are being detected.” A senior police official of Nalgonda said ‘random’ sampling had been done in the district to find out the infection spread. Around 40 samples were collected from different parts, and all were found to be negative. However, health authorities said that there were no random sampling tests done and they are samples from contacts of Covid-19 patients. CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra told TOI,”We are testing at least 300 samples a day. We are getting samples from districts too. Now with rapid antibody tests are put on hold, real-time PCR tests are back in focus. There is a considerable shortage of testing in the country. We need to increase testing capacity.” Private diagnostic labs have been asking the government to allow them to carry out testing. “We have got permission from ICMR but Telangana government has to allow us to do testing,” said a private lab manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-of-ve-cases-from-districts-dip/articleshow/75306137.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||E Ward gets 155 new cases in four days||The E Ward, which comprises Byculla, Nagpada and Mazgaon, reported 155 Covid-19 cases in the four days between April 17 and 21. Till Tuesday, The ward recorded the second-highest number of cases in the city at 349 after G-South’s 487. Local politicians have blamed the rise on inadequate contact tracing. Its worst affected areas include Kalapani, Madanpura and Agripada. Corporator and SP MLA Rais Shaikh said, “Two deputy municipal commissioners and an assistant municipal commissioner have been asked to monitor the ward, but the situation is not improving.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-ward-gets-155-new-cases-in-four-days/articleshow/75306123.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||12 Forced To Share Boat’s Small Cabin||Visakhapatnam: Around 3,900 fishermen from north Andhra Pradesh who migrated to the Veraval coast in Gujarat in search of livelihood have been stuck in no man’s land ever since the lockdown was announced in the country. As migrant workers, their names are not included in the list of beneficiaries eligible for compensation during the fishing ban in both Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. Further, even though there is no ban on fishing on the west coast during this time of the year, unlike on the east coast, and the Union government has exempted fishing activities from the lockdown, the fishermen are unable to venture out to sea. “In Gujarat, the mandatory fishing ban is from June 1 to July 31. But still they can’t go out for fishing because the government has restricted the number of fishermen on each boat to three. “It is not technically possible to go out in big boats with only three fishermen on board. Their names don’t feature in the list of beneficiaries in either Andhra Pradesh or Gujarat. Where will they go?” asked Arijili Dasu, a fishermen activist in Andhra Pradesh. Since March 24, when the lockdown was imposed, these 3,900 fishermen have been confined to the small and dingy cabin rooms in their boats. “Around 12 or 13 of us are staying inside one small room. We are being quarantined inside out boats. But there’s no way we can maintain the suggested social distancing norms,” Mugi Appanna, a fisherman, told TOI from Gujarat. Members of fishermen associations in the state recently met minister of fisheries Mopidevi Venkataramana and requested they be provided with ration and compensation and brought back to Andhra Pradesh. While some rations were provided, a decision on evacuating the stranded fishermen from Gujarat is yet to be taken. “Fisheries minister had escalated the issue to chief minister. Jaganmohan Reddy has called the Gujarat chief minister requesting him to provide basic facilities to these fishermen,” said Andhra Pradesh Matsyakara Samakhya State president Vasupalli Janakiram. Meanwhile, the ration provided by the AP government is running out and the fishermen are eager to return home. Cheekari China Danayya, a fisherman from Srikakulam who migrated to Gujarat for work, said, “We want to go back to Andhra. If the government wants to keep us in quarantine after we reach our native state, we are ready for that. The conditions here are miserable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-forced-to-share-boats-small-cabin/articleshow/75303013.cms||Arpit Basu
April 23, 2020||Pune||IDAS officials to feed migrants||PUNE:Indian Defence Accounts Service (IDAS) officials have adopted a settlement of 125 migrant labourers in Camp area and would be providing two meals a day to them for a month. Principal controller of defence accounts (Southern Command), Mayank Sharma, took the initiative and it was first executed on Wednesday with the distribution of 250 food packets to the migrant labourers and their family members. Officers have made voluntary contributions for the initiative. The Pune Cantonment Board authorities and its members too have extended help to IDAS authorities for the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/idas-officials-to-feed-migrants/articleshow/75306956.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 23, 2020||Goa||India Post honours Covid warriors||PANAJI: In a tribute to the frontline warriors fighting the coronavirus pandemic, India Post has launched a special cover to honour their contribution. “India Post thanks them for their relentless efforts in fighting the war against Covid-19 and salutes them for their selfless service to the nation,” the cover reads. The back of the cover also reads that the pandemic has stalled normal life across the world but has given birth to a new battalion of warriors who are “at the forefront risking their lives.” Limited copies of the cover have been printed by the Kerala Post Circle to commemorate the heroes. “The special cover was released by the Kerala postal circle and may come later to the other philatelic bureaus since they have not printed plenty to be supplied pan-India,” said postmaster general, N Vinodkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/india-post-honours-covid-warriors/articleshow/75306952.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Poachers who lit fire to dodge guards nabbed inside forest||MYSURU: Four poachers lit fire in an area on the fringes of Kothanur range in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary to make a smooth entry into the forest but swift action by the guards led to their arrest deep inside the woods. Foresters also doused the fire before it could spread further. Vincent, Sagaya Raj, Charlie and Jnana Prakash from Jageri village in Chamarajanagar district were planning to hunt deer and birds near Bheemeshwari fishing camp on Tuesday. The accused had already killed two birds before their arrest. The four crossed Cauvery River and lit fire before entering the forest. Based on a tip off, forest officers and guards Anil and Madhu tracked down and arrested them. The foresters also seized weapons from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/poachers-who-lit-fire-to-dodge-guards-nabbed-inside-forest/articleshow/75297975.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Expats plan campaign to aid Puneites||PUNE: Under the ‘Fight Hunger, Fight Corona’ campaign launched on March 26, Zurich-based Indians PhD student Rhythima Shinde (25) and lecturer Naveen Shamsudhin (33) have been ensuring that over 20,000 persons across the country do not go to bed hungry during the lockdown. The two have mobilized funds to distribute ration kits or cooked food among vulnerable persons through their organization Justice Warriors. They have also helped set up a community kitchen in Pune, which is being operated by the city police and a local NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expats-plan-campaign-to-aid-puneites/articleshow/75306949.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai breathes ‘good’ air for first time this year||MUMBAI: As people the world over celebrated Earth Day, Mumbai on Wednesday recorded its cleanest air this year. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the city’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was 46, considered to be in the good category. The last time the city recorded good AQI was in October last year. The concentration of PM 2.5 (particulate matter lesser than 2.5 microns) at 31 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m³) was lower than the WHO 24-hour average safe limits of PM 2.5 of 60 µg/m³. The AQI has been in the satisfactory category (51-100) since the lockdown began. Among the 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, Mazgaon (AQI of 18) was the least polluted on Wednesday and Navi Mumbai (75) most polluted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-breathes-good-air-for-first-time-this-year/articleshow/75306950.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
April 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Students worry about likely delay in FYJC admission||PUNE: The lockdown has restricted paper assessment of both secondary and higher secondary board examinations. Around 16 lakh students appeared for the std X board exams, while over 12 lakh students appeared for std XII exams this year. Students who appeared for the std X board exams are worried about likely delay in first-year junior college (FYJC) admission as a result of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown. The teachers involved in assessment of papers are facing several issues with regards to collection and submission of the assessed papers at the main centres. Chairman of Pune division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, BK Dahiphale said that, “We have prepared a list of teachers who need to travel for assessment-related work and we will submitting it to the district collector and police commissioner so they do not face issues.” He said that until the lockdown is lifted, work will happen at slow pace and may delay results. “The staff at the Mantralaya is minimal, so everything is getting delayed. But, since the process of filling forms is online, it will be announced soon,” deputy director of education Anuradha Oak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-worry-about-likely-delay-in-fyjc-admission/articleshow/75306961.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 23, 2020||Goa||Don’t levy quarantine fees: Churchill Alemao||COLVA: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao said that he will not allow seafarers to be charged for quarantine facilities once they are brought back to Goa. “How can the seamen be charged? If the government wants to seek fees from the shipping companies, then that is a different issue as the companies can pay,” he said. When asked whether the state government can demand the charges from the companies, Alemao said, “The government can make a request.” Alemao also praised the Prime Minister, home minister, chief minister and NRI office for their efforts to bring home the seafarers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-levy-quarantine-fees-alemao/articleshow/75306965.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt to seek parents’ opinion||Amaravati: Determined to convert all government schools into English medium, the government has decided to obtain feedback from children and their parents and guardians.The decision comes in the wake of the high court decision as per which the choice of the medium of instruction should be left to the students and their parents and guardians. Although the government argued that parents’ associations and school management committees have overwhelmingly supported its decision, the HC noted that associations and committees cannot have a say in such issues as it has to be the choice of the student, parents and guardians. “A child, or on his behalf his parent or guardian, has a right to the freedom of choice with regard to the medium of instruction in which he would like to be educated at primary stage and not the school monitoring committee or parents’ associations,” the HC said in its verdict. The HC had also referred to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to which India is a signatory, stating that in Article 26 (3) it was specifically mentioned that parents have a right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to the children. Keeping in view of the HC verdict, the government has decided to ascertain the choice from the parent/guardian of every student who studied from Class I to V during the academic year 2019-20, as to which medium of instruction they would like their children to pursue in the coming academic year 2020-21 in order to take necessary action in this regard. The school education commissioner has sent a model format to the DEOs for ascertaining the opinion of the parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-seek-parents-opinion/articleshow/75303030.cms||Samdani MN
April 23, 2020||Goa||King of fruits to enter Goa in ‘Kisan rath’||PANAJI: In a bid to help farmers transport their produce to traders, India Post is using its fleet to bridge this gap during the lockdown. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, farmers faced the prospect of their produce going to waste given the nationwide lockdown, which is extended till May 3. Coming to their rescue, the department of posts has started sourcing mangoes from Ratnagiri to satiate people's summer cravings. The 'Kisan Rath' departed on Tuesday from Ratnagiri to Vashi in Mumbai carrying 3.1 tonnes of Alphonso mangoes. The farmers of Ratnagiri will be supplying about three tonnes of harvest every alternate day and the postal department is going to deploy the vehicles to transport the mangoes to Mumbai. While there is no request from the Goan mango farmers or fruit traders yet, any agricultural produce which of substantial quantity can be transported to the markets, postmaster general, Goa, N Vinodkumar said. “There is a substantial requirement from Mumbai which is why we have started the supply from Ratnagiri to Mumbai sector but we also have one of our vehicles going to Ratnagiri to bring loads for Goa as well,” he said. The department of posts also has an app called Kisan Rath which can be used by farmers, traders and service providers to register themselves to enroll in the system. “Goan farmers that have produce to sell directly to the market, and cannot do so for having transportation issues during the lockdown, can do so,” assistant director Bala Raju said. While the move is aimed at facilitating farmers, the innovative measures can also be availed by traders so that they don’t undergo losses. “We can also make arrangements for wholesale dealers or traders in the state who want to acquire mangoes,” Raju added. The department of posts is carrying out medical parcel pick up, dispatch of money orders and essential services that can be availed at the doorstep in the wake during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/king-of-fruits-to-enter-goa-in-kisan-rath/articleshow/75306958.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||CMBT can help decongest Koyambedu market||CHENNAI: At a time when authorities at the Koyambedu wholesale market are struggling to enforce social distancing norms, a plausible solution is lying untapped across the road. Opening up of the massive Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus can split the large gathering to maintain social distance. The authorities had floated the idea among the traders as the footfall began to surge a fortnight ago. According to sources in the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), this was part of plan to decentralise the market temporarily due to complaints over absence of social distancing. “The 37-acre CMBT has bays for both mofussil and Metropolitan Transport Corporation bus fleets. If a chunk of wholesale shops are shifted from the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC), it would reduce the stress,” a CMDA official said. Most government bus fleets have left CMBT leaving the facility deserted. Last month, vegetable shops at Kothavalchavadi in George Town were shifted to the spacious Broadway bus terminus last month. Another option is to dedicate shops at Madhavaram Mofussil Bus Terminus to cater to residents of North Chennai. “The KWMC witnesses footfalls of more than 50,000 from the wee hours to early morning. If both the options are executed, it would ensure that Koyambedu is congestion free, where about 50% of existing footfalls can be diverted,” the official added. The market management committee, which maintains the market under the aegis of the CMDA, said the proposal has not cut any ice with traders. “The traders objected to the move when the idea was first discussed with them by police officers and CMDA officials about 15 days ago,” a market committee official said. The KWMC, comprising fruit, flower and vegetable traders, includes more than 3,000 shops that operate between 3am and 1pm every day. Apart from retailers, several individuals, who were rendered jobless due to lockdown, have started flocking to Koyambedu to purchase vegetables and sell them in their neighbourhoods for survival. S Chandran, secretary of the Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said wholesale traders cannot move out of the market because it was impractical. “First, wholesalers are running business from their shops and proper accounts cannot be maintained. Instead, the government can move 1,000 unlicensed traders operating in and around KWMC to CMBT as they can cater to 10,000 customers and decongest the wholesale market,” he said. Steps should be taken to remove the encroachments on the market premises so that people can move around by maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmbt-can-help-decongest-koyambedu-market/articleshow/75306133.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar’s Guru Gobindsingh Hospital makes own Covid ‘Kavach’||RAJKOT: Guru Gobindsingh Hospital in Jamnagar has become the first state-run hospital in Gujarat to design and manufacture personal protection equipment (PPE) for its staff. Considering the shortage of PPE kits despite the raging coronavirus outbreak, the doctors took up the task of designing this safety gear and customizing it as per the requirement. The PPE has been christened ‘Kavach.’ GG Hospital has been designated as Covid hospital has 700 beds and it requires 2,000 PPE kits for the 200-odd staff that includes doctors, paramedics, nurses and others. All patients with flu-like symptoms are being treated here as also Covid-19 suspected patients. A team of doctors comprising Dr. Maulik Shah, Dr. Sneha Vadhvana, Dr. Namrata Makwana and Dr. Mehul Khakharia designed this kit by testing various technical criteria to protect the body. Senior doctors of the hospital have approved the final design. Talking to TOI, Dr. Maulik Shah said, “This PPE kit different from the existing ones in the market. We examined all the models available and modified it with the need and experience of the doctors. The basic aim was to increase the safety of the person who wears it and easy of wearing for doctors and nursing staff while treating the patient. After the opinion of all the doctors, we finalized one design.”  A local garment maker has agreed to make these PPEs at his unit. “We are looking at 500 pieces per day to begin with as the production starts in a couple of days. However, we are getting inquiries from other civil hospitals and private doctors who need these kits.” Dr. Nandini Bahari, superintendent, GG Hospital said, “This is a commendable effort by our focused, innovative and enthusiastic team. We have sent it for third-party approval and certification to to South India Textile Research Association (SITARA), Coimbatore.” The hospital has sufficient PPEs, but this is an advance preparation in case there an outbreak like in Ahmedabad and other cities. “If sudden need arises, Jamnagar hospital will be self sufficient and will be able to help other hospitals too,” said Dr Bahari. The hospital has got several donors who will help cover the manufacturing cost. However, the production is on no profit no loss basis. The hospital also plans to provide this kit to ambulance staff and policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagars-gg-hospital-makes-own-covid-kavach/articleshow/75303060.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 23, 2020||Meerut||BJP worker, husband who celebrated wedding anniversary in quarantine test positive for Covid-19||MEERUT: A BJP worker celebrated her 36th wedding anniversary inside a quarantine centre with her husband and three other family members in Shikarpur town of Bulandshahr. Later, the couple tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to an isolation facility. The family of five, including the couple's son, daughter in-law and two-year-old grand daughter, were earlier quarantined as they had come in contact with a Bulandshahr-based ayurveda doctor who had died in a Delhi hospital. The doctor's test report later confirmed Covid infection. The woman member who had contested muncipal polls on a BJP ticket in 2017 even boasted her act on social media by posting photographs and stating, "Time and place doesn't matter, every moment is celebration when family is together... celebrating 36th marriage anniversary @ quarantine centre." The photographs also showed feeding each other with sweets as part of celebrations. The incident took place on Monday, but was posted on social media a day later. Police have filed an FIR against the entire family of four. On Wednesday, Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said, "All four adults were found to be not observing social distancing norms and have been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life)." Notably, the politician's family was in close contact with the 58-year-old ayurveda doctor from Bulandshahr who died in hospital on April 10. The doctor, whose report later found Covid-19 infection, had earlier complained of fever and cold, and was on self-medication till his condition worsened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-worker-husband-who-celebrated-weddinganniversary-in-quarantine-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/75304860.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Efficacy of South Korean test kits can’t be doubted: Health official||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy took stock of Covid-19 containment measures with cabinet ministers and senior officials at his camp office on Wednesday. During the presentation, senior officials from the health department said they have not imported any rapid test kits from China as they noticed inaccuracies during the trials much before the ICMR issued the alerts. “We placed order for South Korean kits only after finding them near accurate during the sample tests carried out on the already positive and negative tested patients. We got the stock with utmost difficulty as the firm was about to dispatch the kits to the US. We diverted the kits by arranging a chartered flight,” special chief secretary (health) Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said. He said there was nothing to doubt the efficacy of South Korean kits and they have carried out sample tests on nearly 6,000 people and found the results near accurate. He added that the tests would go up further as they have secured clearance from ICMR to conduct the tests on Truenat machines. The chief minister asked officials to conduct tests on people staying in quarantine homes on priority basis. He also asked officials to increase ICU beds in Ananthapuram, Prakasam and Nellore districts. “New hospitals should be identified in towns and cities which are reporting high number of cases. Oxygen facilities should also be checked in all the hospitals,” he told officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/efficacy-of-south-korean-test-kits-cant-be-doubted-health-official/articleshow/75303056.cms||Samdani MN
April 23, 2020||Meerut||No word from government hospital, Covid-19 suspects return home, branded as ‘escapees’||Meerut: A government hospital in Meerut witnessed a series of dramatic events beginning Tuesday night when its authorities claimed that nine persons who were to be quarantined have fled. The suspense ended on Wednesday afternoon when police traced most of them and slammed the hospital for mismanagement.Police found one of them in the hospital, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College (LLRM), and another had reached Subharti medical college to be quarantined. Six others had returned to their homes after waiting for hours for a word from the hospital, or an ambulance to take them to quarantine facility. All the nine persons, who tested negative, were to be shifted to Subharti Medical College.Meerut SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said, “We got to know about the incident at 12:30AM on Wednesday, despite the fact that the nine persons had gone missing at around 9pm, a day earlier. There was a delay in informing us about the matter. Even then, when we reached LLRM Medical College and launched a man-hunt, one was found at the hospital, one was at Subharti Medical College and six others had returned home only because no communication was made by the hospital about what to do next.” Police said that one person is yet to be traced.The patients said that as no ambulance arrived for hours they were not left with no option but to return home.Meanwhile, the hospital authorities had a different version to offer.“The nine persons were suspects and had tested negative. They were discharged and had to be sent to the quarantine facility at Subharti Medical College. May be the ambulance got delayed… while some boarded it, others returned home in the presence of guards and policemen who did not stop them for fear of getting infected by touching them. However, it is a matter of investigation. All of them have returned so there is not much to worry about,” said Dr RC Gupta, principal, LLRM Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-word-from-government-hospital-covid-19-suspects-return-home-branded-as-escapees/articleshow/75304867.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 23, 2020||Goa||Karnataka duo held for forging travel pass||BICHOLIM: Bicholim police on Wednesday arrested Hussain Bamani and Mohammad Chikoti, both from Karnataka, for forging a travel pass and entering the state. They were nabbed at Mayem while selling vegetables from their vehicle. They duo entered the state by getting past the checkpost at Keri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-duo-held-for-forging-travel-pass/articleshow/75306972.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||PIL for disclosure of Covid patients’ identity in Madras HC dismissed||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Wednesday dismissed a public interest writ petition for disclosure of the identity of Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu, so people who were in contact with them could quarantine themselves. The PIL also wanted the court to direct authorities to monitor Covid-19 patients for at least 3 months to ensure that they are isolated from all kinds of social activities. Refusing to entertain the PIL, a division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and M Nirmal Kumar dismissed the petition moved by K Narayanan of Chennai. “Considering the nature of the contagious disease and the impact it could have on public, unless the identity of affected persons is revealed it is impossible for others to know whether they have come across an infected person and decide on self-quarantining. This is not a disease like HIV to withhold the identity of patients. This is a contagious disease which can spread to hundreds of people and therefore, it is necessary that the identity of the parties are revealed so that others can take preventive measures,” the petitioner said. According to the petitioner, the Union and state government have announced the nationwide lockdown to contain the outbreak of Covid-19 which has killed hoardes across the globe. However, the identity of persons infected or affected by the virus is not being revealed by authorities to maintain privacy of the patients as it is believed that revealing their identity would harm the patients and their family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pil-for-disclosure-of-covid-patients-identity-dismissed/articleshow/75306153.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Mumbai: Cases treble in Wadala’s ward in four days, double in three others||MUMBAI: Antop Hill, with its slum pockets, is emerging as yet another Covid-19 hotspot in the city. The area comes under F-North ward (Matunga-Wadala-Sion belt), where the number of coronavirus cases has increased almost threefold in just four days. In some of the worst-affected wards, including A (Colaba, Cuffe Parade, Nariman Point, Churchgate, Fort), F-South (Parel, Sewri, Naigaum) and L (Kurla, Chunabhatti), Covid-19 cases have doubled in the corresponding period. Thirteen of the city’s 24 wards now have over 100 Covid-19 cases each. F-North as of April 21 had 228 cases, up from 79 on April 17. The increase in F-South was from 51 to 119, in A ward from 49 to 118, and in L ward from 115 to 240. Much of the increase in these wards has come in packed slum pockets. BMC came to know about clusters of new positive patients after organising fever clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cases-treble-in-wadalas-ward-in-4-days-double-in-3-others/articleshow/75306970.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Surat||‘My will to survive kept me going strong’||SURAT: With high mortality among the older population infected due to coronavirus, Fatima Sharbatwala, 70, a resident of Nanavat has become an inspiration and a ray of hope. After fighting a battle for over 20 days, Fatema has recovered completely from the infection. Despite of her co-morbid conditions including kidney disease, heart problem and diabetes, Fatima has overcome the infection. Fatima was admitted at the Seventh Day Adventist Mission hospital after she complained of breathing problems on April 6. On the next day, she tested positive. “I am happy to see my family again. When I was told I tested positive, I was heartbroken thinking I won’t see my sons and grandchildren again,” said Fatima, who returned home on Tuesday evening. “I was weak and couldn't eat on my own. The nurses at the Mission hospital would feed me with their own hands.” According to Fatima, if the will power is strong then even the older positive patients can recover. “Even when I was weak, I had a strong will to survive,” said Fatima. Her son, Abdul Razak Sharbatwala, said, “When we were informed that she was infected, we were afraid we would lose her. But, thankfully she is back home today.” Sharbatwala added that the entire family was quarantined. But all tested negative. “I still wonder how mother tested positive when she did not even step out of the house,” he said. Deputy municipal commissioner (health) Dr Ashish Naik said, “Out of the total 12 deaths due to Covid-19, majority were over 50 years old. However, Fatima is a living example that even older patients can survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/my-will-to-survive-kept-me-going-strong/articleshow/75303087.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Price hike fear as collection of toll restarts||PUNE: Prices of all commodities could increase as toll collection on highways resumed on Sunday, transporters feared. “We had requested the road transport ministry to suspend toll collection for at least a month, as the transporters’ financial condition is not good,” Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna president Baba Shinde said. The Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna on Monday wrote a letter to Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari expressing its concerns, Shinde said. All India Motor Transport Congress president Kultran Singh Atwal said, “Toll constitutes anything between 16-20% of a truck’s operating cost. Smaller transporters might have to shut their businesses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/price-hike-fear-as-collection-of-toll-restarts/articleshow/75306971.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Death of patient at Delhi's Sultanpuri centre sparks protests, chaos||NEW DELHI: Throwing social distancing to the wind, a large number of the inmates at Delhi government’s Covid care centre in northwest Delhi’s Sultanpuri came out to protest on Wednesday after one of the patients, a diabetic, died in the morning. Defying the lockdown imperatives, the residents removed their face masks and gathered around the body. They alleged that despite requests the deceased, who was ill for the last couple of days, was not given medicines nor served meals on time. They also alleged that it was the second death in the past few days of a diabetic in the facility for those with mild Covid symptoms. Delhi government, however, refuted the allegations saying it was the first death at the centre and the second patient was doing well after being shifted to another hospital. An official also said the facilities there were satisfactory. A magisterial inquiry is likely to be instituted to probe the death. The deceased, identified as Mustafa (57), a resident of Tamil Nadu who had participated in a religious congregation in Nizamuddin in March, had been shifted from Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital recently. According to the inmates, Mustafa had tested negative for the coronavirus a day ago, though a district administration official said the report of another test was awaited. Residents alleged that the condition of Mustafa deteriorated on Wednesday due to the long gap between the two meals and their request for an ambulance to shift him to hospital received no response. “If you give us dinner at 10pm and the next meal the following day at 11am, how can people with diabetes and other health issues survive?” one of the residents alleged. Ibrahim recalled Mustafa’s condition deteriorating at 5.30am on Wednesday. “He was bleeding from the mouth and could not breathe properly,” Ibrahim said. “When no help came, we carried him from the third floor to the ground floor and placed him on a cot. But he passed away.” He alleged that for a week no doctor had visited them. District magistrate (North) Sandeep Mishra, however, refuted all allegations and said that doctors were regularly attending to Mustafa. “They checked him at 8am and he was fine. At 10am too, when checked, he was okay,” Mishra said, adding that five doctors were present there on Wednesday morning. “Doctors, nursing orderlies and paramedics are available round the clock.” Ibrahim claimed there were 60-70 foreign nationals who didn’t eat what was given to them, and many of them ate some rice just to survive. A man in a brown kurta can be seen in the video asking, “Should people die of diabetes and hunger? We want our message to reach Delhi government.” The district magistrate said there were 731 patients at the centre, including 70 corona-positive ones. “It’s a huge facility and only those wearing PPE kits are allowed entry into rooms to serve food, so it takes time,” Mishra said. A Delhi government official added, “We checked with numerous patients here and they said things are satisfactory now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/death-of-patient-at-sultanpuri-centre-sparks-protests-chaos/articleshow/75306210.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus: 95 of 150 deaths in Mumbai were in 51-70 age group, most positive cases among 21-30||MUMBAI: A majority of coronavirus deaths in the city have been in the age-group of 51-70 years, even though more hospitalizations have been in the younger population. An analysis of 150 deaths reported in the city till Tuesday showed that 63% of the victims were between 51 and 70 years old. A further breakdown of the numbers showed maximum deaths among those aged between 61 and 70. Till Tuesday, this age bracket accounted for a third (50) of the 150 deaths. A study of 3,077 positive cases and 150 deaths till Tuesday showed that the highest share of hospitalisations (22%) was in the age-bracket of 21-30 years, which saw only three deaths though, roughly translating to a death rate of 2%. Contrarily, the worst affected age-group of 61-70 years accounted for only 10% of hospitalisations but 33% of the deaths, underlining that those from higher age-groups and pre-existing health conditions face higher chances of getting critical or dying from Covid-19. Hospitalisations have been around 6% in those over 70 years old, presumably due to less mobility. In absolute numbers, nine nonagenarians have tested positive so far, with no mortalities. The only 101-year-old who had tested positive succumbed to the infection. The numbers also show that around 80 children, who are less than 10 years old, have caught the infection in the city, while in the age-bracket between 11 and 20, there have been 202 cases. There have been no deaths in the paediatric age-groups and among young adults. “We have seen diabetes, high blood pressure, hypothyroidism, heart disease, history of cancer and lung disease in a significant percentage of deaths. Having one or more of those conditions increases a person’s risk of severe symptoms,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. “What we have seen is people reaching hospitals at the very last minute,” he said. An official said some patients have spent less than two hours at the hospital before they succumbed. Mumbai has not just been the state’s epicentre for cases but also for deaths. Out of the 269 deaths recorded in Maharashtra since the onset of coronavirus on March 9, Mumbai accounted for 161 (60%) of them as on Wednesday. Mumbai’s share in the national death toll too stood at around 23%. The large number of deaths has pushed the state to start audits, a decision that has been dubbed controversial, and what experts believe is an attempt to cap the mortalities attributed to Covid-19. A civic doctor involved in the treatment of Covid-19 cases said many patients had uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension and by the time they reached hospitals, they had very low oxygen saturation levels, which contributed to their rapid deterioration. Kakani said it was to detect this vulnerable population early that the BMC has decided to identify the individuals who are more than 60 years old and have either obesity, diabetes and are hypertensive. A civic circular said these individuals will be checked for their oxygen levels by a pulse oximeter given for a team comprising an assistant medical officer and a community health volunteer. “Those individuals who are low in oxygen level should be identified and picked up for further action,” the circular said. Kakani added such people will be shifted to non-Covid hospitals and their condition addressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/95-of-150-deaths-in-city-were-in-51-70-age-group-most-ve-cases-676-among-21-30/articleshow/75306984.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh deputy CM rules out community spread||GUNTUR: Deputy chief minister and health minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas (Nani) has ruled out community spread of Covid-19 in the state. He, however, said they are yet to trace the source of virus in about 52 positive cases. He added that fever hospitals would be set up in red zones in Guntur district. “Another round of health survey would be carried out in the district. Special teams headed by doctors are being deputed to red zones to screen more people. We are taking every possible measure to contain the spread of the virus,” said Nani, after taking stock of the situation on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deputy-cm-rules-out-community-spread/articleshow/75303080.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||Now, Cognizant in midst of phone phishing attack||BENGALURU: Barely two days after acknowledging that it was the victim of a ransomware attack, Cognizant is now facing a phone phishing attack. While the former disrupted both its own and client operations, the company has so far managed to fend off the latter. After a few employees got calls, the corporate security team was alerted which promptly cautioned the staff. Phishing is an attempt to steal information through email or phone by pretending to be a person or organisation the receiver trusts. The indication in this case is that the callers are pretending to be IT staff and saying they are cleaning/updating systems and mitigating the impact of the ransomware attack. Cognizant CFO Karen McLoughlin,in an email to employees, said, “We have an active phone-based phishing attack in progress targeting portions of our company. To protect our company and clients, it is essential that you do not follow directions from or provide information to a suspicious caller.” She said for the attack in progress, “associates are being asked to update their updates via a LogMeIn session. Do not take any actions on this as it is an attempt to take control of your system.” The firm said it is strengthening security for key applications. “You will be required to enter a multi-factor authentication code when accessing Winzone (Salesforce) or PeopleSoft,” it said. When TOI contacted Cognizant, its spokesperson said, “We have and will continue to routinely notify our employees to remain vigilant about so-called ‘phishing’ attempts. Cybercriminals are known to attempt to use company developments and global events as opportunities to attempt to gain access to credentials and we are no different than other organisations being targeted in this way. Our security teams constantly monitor for suspicious activities and take appropriate actions, including company-wide communications on security best-practices.” The earlier Maze ransomware attack involved internal systems. In a US SEC filing, Cognizant said although it’s in the early stages of assessing this incident, the attack has caused and may continue to cause an interruption in parts of its business and may result in a loss of revenue and incremental costs that may adversely impact its financial results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/now-cognizant-in-midst-of-phone-phishing-attack/articleshow/75306981.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Thermal scanner from Japan used in medical camp||Hyderabad: People of Narayanpet are being screened with thermal imaging cameras to check if they have fever. A facial thermal scanner procured from Japan is also being used at a medical camp in Narayanpet mandal. The camp was conducted in Abhangapur, which is home to a two-month-old infant, who had died of Covid-19. It was the only such positive case in Narayanpet till now. “This technology is very advanced and accurate when compared to the digital infrared cameras being presently used for checking fever symptoms,” said district collector Hari Chandana Dasari. The camp was conducted in collaboration with Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC). “This procedure will detect potential subjects with symptoms of Covid-19 by analysing the differences in facial temperatures through thermal patterns,” said a official from Narayanpet district collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thermal-scanner-from-japan-used-in-medical-camp/articleshow/75306162.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation extends deadline for enjoying property tax sop||PUNE: Residents will be able to avail of property tax discount till June 30. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has extended the May 31 deadline for availing the discount by a month as a relief measure for the people who failed to take benefit of the scheme due to the lockdown triggered by the coronavirus spread. PMC offers 5-10% discount on property tax, if it is paid before the deadline. “Many citizens use cash and cheques for the payments. Those, who are paying the tax offline, are not able to come out of their houses due to the prevailing lockdown. So, we have decided to provide relief to these people by giving them more time. Extension will be given for around a month,” standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said. He said the committee was in the favour of this approval. The decision will be conveyed to the department concerned. Civic officials said the PMC charges property tax based on the analytical value of the property. Civic administration charges property tax for providing multiple facilities to property owners, such as water, drainage and road. On an average, the PMC collects Rs 150 crore from the online mode in April. However, this year the figure stands at around Rs 80 crore. Property tax is one of the biggest income source for PMC, which earns around Rs 11,000 crore to Rs 12,000 crore per year through this it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-extends-deadline-for-enjoying-property-tax-sop/articleshow/75306978.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||HC notice to Tamil Nadu on vehicle screening||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered notice to the TN government on a PIL seeking the screening of all vehicles that enter the state carrying essential commodities. Hearing the plea moved by United Labor Federation via video conferencing, a division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and M Nirmal Kumar passed the order directing the state to file its response by May 7. Additional advocate-general Narmada Sampath submitted that Standing Operating Procedures (SOP) and guidelines for transportation of essential commodities issued by the Centre are already in force and screening of vehicles and drivers and others is done regularly not only in case of interstate borders but also in every district boarders. The petitioner said no safety guidelines were in place to screen goods carriers entering the state. In the absence of such protocol, there are high chances for sudden increase of cases across the state through unscreened goods carriers, the association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-notice-to-tn-on-vehicle-screening/articleshow/75306171.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Daily cases drop in Mumbai, Maharashtra; fatality rates dip too||MUMBAI: The state on Wednesday recorded 431 new Covid-19 cases, 22% lower than the previous day’s record of 552 cases. Mumbai, too, registered a dip with 232 cases, 45% lower than its second-highest single-day count of 419 on Tuesday. The total state count as on Wednesday was 5,649, and Mumbai’s tally came to 3,683. There were 18 Covid-19 deaths in the state on Wednesday. Out of these, 10 deaths were recorded in Mumbai, two each in Pune and Aurangabad, and one death each in Kalyan-Dombivli, Solapur, Jalgaon and Malegaon. For the second day in a row, Mumbai recorded deaths in double digits. The death toll of the state on Wednesday rose to 269, of which 161 (60%) are from Mumbai. The case fatality rate (CFR) both for the state as well as the city continued to decline, though. The CFR for the state stood at 4.76% while that for the city was at 4.37%, down from 7% seen till ten days ago. Also, 789 patients have so far been discharged from hospitals across state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/daily-cases-drop-in-city-232-state-431-fatality-rates-dip-too/articleshow/75306987.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Family time and prayers to mark Ramzan in lockdown||NAGPUR: This Ramzan, the hustle and bustle in the markets and streets will be missing due to the lockdown. Many faithful, though, see it as an opportunity to spend Ramzan with the family and in prayer at home. The holy month of Ramzan began from Wednesday evening for the Bohra community with their first roza on Thursday. The other sects will begin the Ramzan celebrations depending on the sighting of the moon. The first roza will be observed on Friday if the moon is sighted on Thursday evening, otherwise onset of Ramzan will be Saturday evening. This Ramzan will be different as, for the first time, there won’t be any mass gatherings, celebrations or iftar parties. The masjids in the city are also closed because of the lockdown. So, corona will taken the sheen off the holy festivity celebrations, as people will not be able to go out and buy new clothes, offer namaz or pray in masjids, or meet friends and relatives. However, some are taking it as an opportunity to spend quality time feasting and fasting together. “For the Bohras, the celebrations come early. All the members in my family have decided to keep roza. We saw the moon and began our Ramzan from Wednesday evening. We will have iftar parties at home within our family only,” said Malik Fidvi, a businessman. Three weeks earlier, directives have been issued to all community members to maintain social distancing, avoid mass gatherings and iftar parties. Also, groceries and essential food items have been distributed so people can avoid going out. “Being a Bohra we began our Ramzan celebrations from Wednesday after sunset. We are very excited for our first roza tomorrow. We will offer namaz five times a day and wish for this negativity to fade away,” said Tayyeb Arif. Swaima Ahmed, an educator, is very excited for the holy month to begin as she is looking forward to keeping roza with her family members. “This Ramzan will be remembered for years to come, even though we won’t be able to go out for mass celebrations. All the community members will celebrate it at home, giving an example of peace and unity amid such situation,” she said. Ahfaz Taji, a restaurant owner, has done all the preparations to begin the celebrations of Ramzan. He believes that being grounded at home during Ramzan will offer more time with his family. “Every year we look forward to the celebration of Ramzan. Our prophet has advised us to make the most of our time during roza and dedicate it in offering prayers. We have stocked our pantry to avoid going out unnecessarily,” he said. Hasnain Shakir, a businessman, added, “We will surely go out and buy new clothes after this lockdown is lifted. But for now, we stand with the government. We will celebrate iftar with dates, fruits and dry fruits, and spend the day time praying with family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/family-time-and-prayers-to-mark-ramzan-in-lockdown/articleshow/75306187.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 23, 2020||Puducherry||Bar council funds cross Rs 1 crore, lawyers to get aid soon||CHENNAI: The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, which has mobilised more than Rs 67 lakh as lockdown relief fund for lawyers, got another Rs 45 lakh from Bar Council of India (BCI) on Wednesday. A cheque for the sum was handed over by BCI vice-chairman and senior advocate S Prabakaran to state bar council chairman P S Amalraj. With this the state council now has more than Rs 1.12 crore, to be distributed to deserving indigent lawyers affected by lockdown and loss of business. It was Justice S M Subramaniam who mooted the idea of bar council extending financial assistance to lawyers. “We have received more than 11,000 applications from lawyers seeking financial assistance. We will shortly scrutinise the claims and start handing over cheques,” said Prabakaran. The quantum of relief will be decided once the relief fund is consolidated and final count of beneficiaries is drawn, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/bar-council-funds-cross-rs-1cr-lawyers-to-get-aid-soon/articleshow/75313854.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Surat||Mayor joins fight against Covid on day 57 test +ve||SURAT: Surat mayor, Dr Jagdish Patel joined fight against Covid-19 by offering his service at civic body-run SMIMER hospital, even as 57 more tested positive for the deadly virus on Wednesday. With this the total number cases in the city rose to 390. Health officials said that majority of the new cases were detected during the community sampling drive in Katargam and Limbayat zones respectively. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) Banchhanidhi Pani appreciated Dr Patel’s gesture in offering service to fight the pandemic. Pani also appealed to people to maintain social distancing even after the curfew in the red zones ends on April 24. “As curfew is going to end on April 24 in Limbayat and Central zone and Ramadam is starting from the same day, I appeal to people to take precautions and maintain social distancing and not gather at one place,” said Pani. “Unfortunately, we still have to penalize people for not wearing face masks and not maintain social distancing. We have to make it a way of life in view of Covid-19,''Pani said. “We are procuring yellow dustbins wherein people can dispose of face masks. We are launching a campaign for hand wash in the city and its a community effort to win a war against the virus,” he informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mayor-joins-fight-against-covid-on-day-57-test-ve/articleshow/75303122.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: 26 test positive in Saharanpur, three in Meerut, one in Bijnor||MEERUT: At least 26 people tested positive in Saharanpur, three tested positive in Meerut and one tested positive in Bijnor on Wednesday, according to the the reports that were released here on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally reached 126 (including, 12 admitted in Lucknow) in Saharanpur, 86 in Meerut (including, one admitted in Kanpur) and 29 in Bijnor (including, three admitted in Kanpur). Five new cases were reported in Amroha, taking the total tally to 23 in the district. Dr BS Sodhi, chief medical officer, Saharanpur, said, “Out of the 240 samples, which were sent for testing, 26 have been tested positive. All the positive cases are already in quarantine. While nine out of the 26 samples are related to Tablighi Jamaat, others are in Deoband. They have been quarantined in a private hospital.” With fresh cases, 126 cases have been reported in Saharanpur so far, including 12 admitted in Lucknow. Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “Three cases have been reported in Meerut, including two sons of a positive case from Sabun Godam, and a 21-year-old daughter of a case from Raj Nagar colony who died four days ago. One of the two sons of the positive case who tested positive on Wednesday is the assistant of Meerut BJP mahanagar president. The chain of contacts of the BJP leader is being traced and the leader has been quarantined at Subharti Medical College along with two others.” Dr Vijay Kumar Yadav, chief medical officer, Bijnor, said, “One new case has tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. He is already in quarantine and is now being shifted to the hospital for treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/26-test-positive-in-saharanpur-three-in-meerut-one-in-bijnor/articleshow/75304891.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Forest dept lays down rules to minimise man-animal contact||Markapuram: In a move to protect tigers from contracting Covid-19, the forest department has imposed restrictions on movements of tribals in Nagarjuna Sagar Tiger Reserve (NSTR) spread over Nallamala forest. The department has further strengthened surveillance to reduce human movements. The department has launched awareness programmes in the tribal chenchu hamlets in Prakasam, Kurnool and Guntur districts to spread awareness about Covid-19. All zoological parks were closed following an alert by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) three weeks ago. The forest department has issued detailed guidelines pertaining to movement of forest officials. Watchers, rangers and water boys have been directed to wear masks while filling pits and ponds in the forest area. “While it is easy to take care of animals in the zoo, we needed to be extra cautious in handling them in forests. Since NSTR is the biggest tiger zone, we have kept the staff and locals on high-alert,” said a senior forest official. Nallamala is one of the biggest tiger habitats in the country. The forest department has asked local tribals who live in the forests not to go close to the water ponds created for tigers and other animals. Markapuram divisional forest officer (DFO) Khader Basha told TOI that they are providing food to primates near China Mantanala, Chintala and Pedda Manthanala after noticing they were struggling for food following the ban on vehicle movement in the region. “No keeper or handler would be allowed in the vicinity of animals without safety gear. We are ensuring that there is least contact with animals while providing them food,” the DFO said. Additional checkposts have been set up to prevent the entry of locals into the forests. The staff at the control room have been closely monitoring tiger movements by checking visuals from surveillance cameras set up in the forests. About 24 base camps have been set up where 120 tiger trackers would stay 24x7 to monitor the movements of the local, said another senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/forest-dept-lays-down-rules-to-minimise-man-animal-contact/articleshow/75303107.cms||Samdani MN
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Central Railway prepares 1.28 lakh masks, 7,000 liters sanitizer||NAGPUR: Central Railway in the state has prepared over 1.28 lakh masks and over 7,000 litres of hand sanitizer in-house. Since the lockdown, railway employees are producing essential items like masks and sanitizer which can be used by health care workers and railway staff deployed for essential duties. Central Railway chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar informed that Pune division tops the chart with making 33,435 masks, followed by Nagpur division which has made 23,986 masks. In making sanitizer, Mumbai division tops with 1,685 litres of hand sanitizer. Overall, Central Railway has prepared 1,28,543 masks and 7,118 litres of hand sanitizer. If division-wise break up is considered workshops at Matunga and Parel prepared 13,200 masks and 1,600 litres of sanitizer. Mumbai division prepared 23,672 masks and 1,685 litres of sanitizer. Similarly, Nagpur division prepared 23,986 masks and 1,383 litres of sanitizer. Besides, Solapur division prepared 10,250 masks and 500 litres of sanitizer. Pune division prepared 33,435 masks and 1,110 litres of sanitizer while Bhusawal division made 24,000 masks and 840 litres of sanitizer. Meanwhile, Central Railway will run a parcel train on April 24 from Kalyan to Changsari via Tatanagar. The train will reach Nagpur at 11am on April 25. The railway has appealed to the people and traders to take advantage of the train if they want to send essential commodities. The same train will leave Changsari for Kalyan on April 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-railway-prepares-1-28-lakh-masks-7000-lts-sanitizer/articleshow/75307038.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Bar council funds cross Rs 1 crore, lawyers to get aid soon||CHENNAI: The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, which has mobilised more than Rs 67 lakh as lockdown relief fund for lawyers, got another Rs 45 lakh from Bar Council of India (BCI) on Wednesday. A cheque for the sum was handed over by BCI vice-chairman and senior advocate S Prabakaran to state bar council chairman P S Amalraj. With this the state council now has more than Rs 1.12 crore, to be distributed to deserving indigent lawyers affected by lockdown and loss of business. It was Justice S M Subramaniam who mooted the idea of bar council extending financial assistance to lawyers. “We have received more than 11,000 applications from lawyers seeking financial assistance. We will shortly scrutinise the claims and start handing over cheques,” said Prabakaran. The quantum of relief will be decided once the relief fund is consolidated and final count of beneficiaries is drawn, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bar-council-funds-cross-rs-1cr-lawyers-to-get-aid-soon/articleshow/75306189.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh govt insurance for 2.5 lakh Covid-19 workers||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government has decided to include around 2.5 lakh sachivalayam volunteers, working for the purpose of Covid-19 management, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP). The special chief secretary to the department of health, medical and family welfare department had issued the circular on Tuesday. The circular stated that 2.6 lakh village/ward volunteers are carrying out door-to-door surveys and have already completed three rounds of fever surveillance. It is likely that they may come in the contact with Covid-19 positive patients. Hence, it is deemed fit that all such village/ward volunteers are included under the PMGKP. “Under this scheme, affected volunteers won’t get any amount for treatment or quarantined period. Only in case of death where the volunteer has been tested positive his/her family members will get Rs 50 lakh. This is at least better than getting nothing,” Samyam Hemanth Kumar, state president of AP Nirudyoga (Unemployed) Joint Action Committee told TOI. On April 5, TOI had reported how one lakh secretaries of sachivalayams and around 2.5 lakh volunteers working under them are risking their lives by carrying out field work without any PPE or health insurances. While a secretary gets Rs 15,000 as salary per month, a volunteer just gets an ad hoc payment of Rs 5,000 to Rs 8,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-insurance-for-2-5l-covid-workers/articleshow/75303113.cms||Arpit Basu
April 23, 2020||Meerut||Meerut admin compiling ‘quite a long list’ after senior BJP functionary’s driver tests positive for Covid-19||MEERUT: A senior BJP functionary and his family members were on Wednesday quarantined after his assistant was tested positive for novel coronavirus in Meerut. The health department was now busy compiling the list of all the contacts of the BJP worker-- which officials said was quite long and full of high-profile people-- as he was actively involved in distribution of food packets to the needy, had met police officers and politicians, including a Union minister and some MPs. The father of the assistant had tested positive on Tuesday, and, later, both his sons were also found infected. The politician and his family members have been put under quarantine at Subharti Medical College. Asked what steps will be taken as the politician had attended several programmes, Meerut’s chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “We have to track the contact chain, which is indeed long. And whoever he came in contact with will be quarantined and proper steps will be taken to break the chain. Currently, he and his family have been quarantined at Subharti Medical College. A list of other contacts is also being prepared.” While Meerut’s district surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Chaudhary said that the assistant even drove the BJP functionary’s car. “The samples of all the first contacts of the positive case have been taken. He even drove the BJP worker’s car, so it will be wrong to say that he did not accompany him to all those events. However, the other high-profile cases would still be the second line of contacts. All precautions are being taken and the list of people who will be quarantined is being prepared,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-admin-compiling-quite-a-long-list-after-senior-bjp-functionarys-driver-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75304894.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Differently abled to get passes for travel during lockdown||Visakhapatnam: The state government has planned to issue passes to differently-abled persons in the state so that they can travel during the lockdown. This comes in the wake of a number of NGOs and activists working for the welfare of the differently abled demanding that steps be taken to ensure their safety. According to deputy director of department of disabled welfare M A Kumar Raja, certain measures have been initiated by the government. “ We have issued instructions to officials concerned to issue passes for differently-abled persons so that they can access medical care and markets during the lockdown,” Kumar Raj said, adding that the government is also providing audio and video clips to people with visual and auditory impairments so that they can follow the quarantine instructions. However, when asked if the directive concerning the issuance of passes was given in writing, the deputy director said that it has been given during a video conference in the first week of April. “ It is an ongoing process,” he added. Activists, however, claimed that passes are yet to be issued. Dilip Patro of The Ability People and an advisor to the GVMC said, “We are yet to receive such passes. More important, basic provisions such as special platforms for the differently able in rythu bazaars and open markets are yet to be provided.” When asked about the ramps, the deputy director confirmed that it was yet to be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/differently-abled-to-get-passes-for-travel-during-lockdown/articleshow/75303197.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Saravanampatti cop suspended for taking a bribe of Rs 1,000||COIMBATORE: A crime branch head constable attached to the Saravanampatti police station was suspended on Wednesday after he allegedly received a bribe of Rs 1,000. According to police sources, head constable Saravanan, 45, who was conducting patrol at Viswasapuram on Saturday had noticed a two-wheeler parked in front of a house. “The key was in the ignition slot. He took the vehicle to a faraway place and approached the owner the next morning, claiming that he had recovered the vehicle from a person who had stolen it. He demanded Rs 1,000 for recovering the vehicle,” a police officer said. Based on a complaints, an inquiry was initiated against Saravanan. The department will launch departmental inquiry, deputy commissioner (crime) ES Uma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cop-suspended-for-taking-a-bribe-of-rs-1000/articleshow/75306199.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka conducts highest number of tests in a day, yet 31% samples pending||BENGALURU: Karnataka said it conducted 3,279 Covid-19 tests on Wednesday, but 1,500 samples collected remained untested at the end of the day. The authorities were not forthcoming on when they were collected. It may be recalled that a report published on April 17 had said more than 50% of the samples collected were not being tested the same day. Following this, the health and family welfare department April 19 onwards began to withhold from its daily bulletin data on the number of samples collected. However, the backlog of untested samples is rising as the number of quarantined persons is only increasing in North Karnataka with a spike in Covid-19 cases in the region. The number of tests conducted on Wednesday was the highest in a day so far. Jawed Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, confirmed the backlog. “Nearly 1,500 samples remain untested,” he said. Several changes have been effected in the testing protocol, including compulsory testing of secondary contacts on the 12th day of the quarantine period, irrespective of the symptoms seen. Now testing will be done for journalists and police staff too. However, the number of the samples tested is much lower compared to that of samples collected. According to Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer, lab testing, Covid-19 taskforce, close to 3,000 samples were pending on April 21. “When the samples are collected in the evening from suspected patients and primary and secondary contacts, they are tested the next day. However, the number of tests conducted has increased to nearly 2,700 a day,” he said. Currently, 20 labs, including four private ones, are conducting Covid-19 tests in Karnataka. The capability of each lab varies, ranging from 471 tests done on April 20 at National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru branch, to 43 at Cancyte, a private lab in Bengaluru, authorised by the ICMR. Meanwhile, following the delay over direct procurement of 2 lakh rapid testing kits for Covid-19 from China, ICMR had allocated 11,400 such kits to Karnataka. While their usage could have expedited the testing process, validation of the kits is taking longer in the state. In Rajasthan, the kits were found to be insufficient. “Currently, we are validating the kits at the virology lab in Nimhans. In addition, ICMR has asked us to put their usage on hold. We have sufficient stock of PCR-based testing kits,” said Akhtar. Dr Manjunath said finding the specific serum required to validate rapid testing kits itself was a task. “We have got serum now and efficacy tests are going on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-conducts-highest-no-of-tests-in-a-day-yet-31-samples-pending/articleshow/75304962.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Denied water, MGR Colony residents take to streets||COIMBATORE: Residents of MGR Colony near KNG Pudur Pirivu took to the streets on Wednesday to protest the prolonged delay in drinking water supply. Pointing out that they had received water only once since the lockdown, they said that was some 21 days ago. They, however, didn’t compromise on wearing face mask and maintaining physical distancing as they squatted on road, where slots were marked for them, with water pots in their hands. P Jayakumar, 45, a resident, said, “Until a couple of months ago, we used to receive drinking water at least once in seven days and non-potable water once in three to four days. But, the interval between two supplies widened to 15 days first and then to 21 days now.” There are 384 families in the locality (ward 6) and of them more than 350 families are depended on public taps. “We had attempted to pool in money to buy water. But no one was ready to supply water during the lockdown. Some families, meanwhile, shared water with others. But, about a week ago most of us had run out of water,” he said. Since then, a group of boys have been visiting neighbouring areas like Edayarpalayam and Marudhamalai Road to collect water from public taps, he said. “While the residents there initially opposed the move, they allowed us to draw water when we told them our situation. We have been collecting around 10 to 20 buckets of water daily from those locations and sharing that among us.” Jayakumar said they had made several representations to the city corporation to supply them water at regular intervals as they didn’t want to step out of their houses daily to collect water during the Covid-19 pandemic. “There wasn’t any response from the civic body.” As the residents took to the streets, the city corporation and police officials rushed to the spot and held talks with them. The residents were subsequently supplied drinking water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/denied-water-mgr-colony-residents-take-to-streets/articleshow/75306233.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||HC’s direction sought for land distribution||Vijayawada: Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti filed a PIL in the high court challenging the government’s orders directing Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) to take necessary steps to allot house sites to the landless poor in the capital city area subject to the directions of the high court. Earlier, the high court had passed an interim order suspending GOs 44 and 107 issued to allot house sites to the poor people from Vijayawada, Mangalagiri, Tadepalli, Duggirala and Pedakakani mandals in the capital city area. The government, however, issued GOs 99 and 131 to allot land to the poor people subject to the directions of the high court. The GOs also directed CRDA to make necessary changes to the capital city master plan and notified zonal regulations by including a new zone called R-5 for affordable housing. The petitioners argued that the government is trying to circumvent the directions of the high court and is going ahead with its plan, which is illegal, arbitrary and against the principles of natural justice in indirect manner. They argued that the government on one hand introduced two bills to repeal the CRDA Act and at the same time trying to allot the land which was given away by the farmers for the construction of greenfield capital city. Although the high court has extended the time to submit grievances to CRDA over the proposed changes to the master plan by a month in view of the lockdown, the government is going ahead by conducting public hearing through videoconference, said the peititioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hcs-direction-sought-for-land-distribution/articleshow/75303193.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In LNJP ward, it’s a nightmare for medical staff||NEW DELHI: Staffers at the Covid-19 quarantine ward in Lok Nayak Hospital continue to have problems dealing with the corona-positive patients there, mainly people infected when attending the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Nizamuddin in March. The latest incident involved a female orderly, who claimed to have been heckled and had her PPE suit torn by the patients when she was distributing food. On April 20, Suman (name changed), an orderly nurse, was in ward 27 to serve food to the patients. Narrating her version to TOI, Suman said, “I reached the second floor with another ward boy and the food cart and found the patients standing at the gate. Initially I thought they were waiting for food, but they assaulted the ward boy who ran away, leaving me behind. I thought they wouldn’t do anything to me, but they heckled me, saying, ‘This food is cold, you eat it. Your children and family will die’. No security guards or policemen were present.” Suman claimed to have run past the patients when some caught her and tore her suit. She fled screaming for help and informed a senior doctor. “I have now given a written complaint and everyone in the hospital knows about the incident, but my complaint has not been forwarded to the cops as far as I am aware.” TOI made several calls and send text messages to J C Passey, director of Lok Nayak Hospital, for his comment on these allegations, but received no response. Hospital employees alleged that the patients often “targeted staffers near the bathrooms or during housekeeping chores” to escape the scrutiny of security guards. Some of them claimed to TOI that they had registered complaints, but no action had been taken. Other women involved with housekeeping duties, like Suman all class IV employees, refused to be named, fearing loss of their jobs. One woman, who has been working in the hospital for four years, alleged, “While I was doing my housekeeping duties, the patients made weird gestures. I ignored them and continued doing my work. But when I entered the bathroom to clean it, a man suddenly came from behind and grabbed my gown. I ran and informed my superior, who castigated me and said I would be marked absent if I didn’t complete the cleaning.” The traumatised woman said they only earned Rs 10,000-12,000 but still could not afford to lose these jobs and so they suffered in silence. “I wish the authorities would at least ensure a guard outside when we clean the washrooms,” she mumbled. Some others also spoke of having to do more than their jobs demanded. “Packing the bodies of patients is not our job, but the nurses sometimes ask us to do it,” said one. “None of us has been tested for the virus so far in a hospital where the dietician and a cook have tested positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-lnjp-ward-its-a-nightmare-for-med-staff/articleshow/75306246.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Man with mental illness tests -ve, shifted to GHMC||Visakhapatnam: A 30-year-old man was shifted to Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) from Pradhma Hospital isolation ward on Tuesday after he tested negative for Covid-19. The police had found him near the city railway rtation and his family has been informed. Speaking to TOI, city police commissioner RK Meena said, “The person from Metpally in Telangana’s Jagtial district was traced in Vizag after an FIR was lodged by the police there in mid-March. Since he is not mentally stable, he was sent to GHMC for observation. Other details are yet to be ascertained.” “The person has been showing symptoms of schizophrenia, like suicidal tendencies and paranoid delusions. However, he was able to identify his parents and that is how we were able to contact his family,” said Dr S Radharani, GHMC medical superintendent. “The man said he had travelled to Vijayawada before reaching Vizag. However, we have to wait for his condition to improve in order to ascertain the facts. Meanwhile, we are waiting for the reception order from the magistrate. Due to transport restrictions, the family may require permissions to visit or escort him back,” Dr Radharani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-with-mental-illness-tests-ve-shifted-to-ghmc/articleshow/75303219.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Put duty first, rozas can be done later: Clerics to professionals||NAGPUR: Dr NS Khan (name changed) is heading a pathology lab in a well-known private hospital. As a precautionary measure, she has to keep the PPE kit on the whole day. Excessive sweating because wearing of safety gear in rising summer temperature makes her thirstier than normal. Dr Khan was in dilemma as in a couple of days, holy month of Ramzan will start that requires her to observe roza (fasting). Muslims across the world abstain from eating and drinking water from dawn to dusk during rozas. As of now, she was drinking lots of water and glucose to keep herself hydrated. A devout rozadar, Dr Khan sought help of a religious head as she is in good health and as per shariah duty-bound to fast during the Ramzan. Coming to her rescue, a cleric advised that the ongoing war against Covid-19 was much more important than fasting and she could skip fasting during Ramzan, which this year coincides with peak of summer. Many more professional like Dr Khan are now a relieved lot after local clerics advised them to first fulfill the national duty ahead of religious practices. The local imams said higher religious bodies covering all masjids too must issue such advisories as no official communication has been made by them for professionals so far. “In case anyone is facing problems now, the roza can be completed later. It is mandatory to complete missed roza,” said Maulana Tauqeer Ahmed, office-bearer at Madrassa Madinatul Uloom in Sadar. He clarified that the Darul Deoband has issued a detailed advisory but it was about restrictions on crowding during tarweeh (night prayers), iftaars and other practices that result in crowding. Majid Parekh, who calls himself a student of Quran, says the Almighty had given us the flexibility especially if one is a patient. “I feel dehydration can be considered a type of disorder and thus a believer can avail Allah’s facility of skipping rozas now and completing them in good time. Healthcare and life saving services are also a part of religion. Availing the facility should make us ponder over religion and God’s grace as to how Allah bestows his mercy even in fulfilling our duties,” he said. Another scholar said, “Duty to human race is above religion. If professionals like doctors, lawyers, or cops have done the neyat (intent), they must not feel bad about missing religious duties. A hadith (saying by the prophet) says, ‘Ask your inner voice’. The professionals instead of seeking clerics advise should follow their inner voice,” the scholar said, adding that today professionals like doctors need to dedicate themselves to society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/put-duty-first-rozas-can-be-done-later-clerics-to-professionals/articleshow/75306240.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Five panels set up by Delhi government to take coronavirus head on||NEW DELHI: To effectively manage the multiple challenges posed by the novel coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, Delhi government has formed five empowered groups for planning and ensuring implementation of 11 Covid-related activities. The groups, headed by senior bureaucrats with members from civil societies and expert bodies, will have to identify problems and provide effective solutions, make policies, formulate plans and strategise operations. The five empowered groups are headed by additional chief secretary Satya Gopal, principal secretary (social welfare) PK Gupta, South Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner Gyanesh Bharti, food commissioner Ankita Mishra Bundela, and commissioner (trade and taxes) Vivek Pandey. The empowered groups have been formed to manage the supply of essential medical equipment, like personal protective equipment, masks, gloves, ventilators, among others. They will have to facilitate the supply of food and medicines, coordinate with the private sector and international organisations, undertake economic and welfare measures, create awareness among the public, manage technology and data, resolve grievances and take suggestions related to the lockdown. The order issued by special CEO of Delhi Disaster Management Authority on April 20 stated, “During deliberations, if any empowered group is of the view that a particular aspect is not within its domain and falls within the scope of another group, they may inform the chief secretary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-panels-set-up-by-delhi-govt-to-take-corona-head-on/articleshow/75306282.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 23, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor: Closed mandis hit fruit farmers||BIJNOR: Fruit farmers and those growing vegetables with a short shelf life have been hit hard since local mandis in Bijnor shut down in the wake of the Covid 19 crisis. These farmers — who grow crops like cucumber, muskmelon, bottle gourd on banks of Ganga — told TOI that no demand from wholesalers at mandis and few household buyers mean they are being forced to sell the produce at throwaway prices. The crops are sown in December and January and the produce is ready in March. Ram Singh Saini, who grows vegetables at Ravali Khaddar on the bank of Ganga, told TOI, “I ferry my vegetables village to village but people are not stepping out of their houses. With people losing jobs and livelihood, demand has gone down. Compared to last year, the sale of pumpkin, watermelon, cucumber has been negligible this year.” Saini added, “I’m now selling bottle gourd for Rs 4 to Rs 6 per kg as opposed to Rs 10 per kg previously and cucumber is selling at half its price at Rs 4 per kg. It has become hard for me to manage expenses." District horticulture officer, Narpal Malik, said the demand for vegetables has come down drastically since mandis are shut. “Another reason is people’s purchasing power has gone down due to job losses.” In Bijnor district alone, over 14,000 migrants have returned to their native villages since the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/closed-mandis-hit-fruit-farmers/articleshow/75304958.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 23, 2020||Surat||Tainted cop caught with liquor smuggled from Daman||SURAT: Barely an hour before he was to resume duty, a traffic police constable of Surat was caught ferrying liquor that he had smuggled in from union territory of Daman, on Wednesday.Pradhyumansinh Rathod, the 40-year-old cop, was caught along with his friend Hemant Pardeshi, near Dhamdachi in Valsad district at around 2pm. Rathod was to resume duty at 3pm. Following specific information that a red car with liquor would be coming to Surat, a team of special operation group (SOG) of Surat range IG, kept a watch Sarovar Hotel. They stopped a red Vitara Breeza for checking and found 120 liquor bottles in eight boxes inside. “Rathod was wearing his police uniform when caught, but we were not aware that a policeman was involved in liquor trafficking. We only had information about a red car from Surat that was carrying liquor,” said GR Jadeja, police sub-inspector, SOG. The liquor stock is worth Rs 82,800. Rathod and his associate could enter Gujarat from Daman without anyone checking the vehicle as he was wearing police uniform. He had also kept a plate with ‘police’ written on it on car’s dashboard. Investigation revealed that Rathod entered Gujarat from Morai village, which is a less-used route by civilians, but popular among bootleggers. “Rathod told us that he had gone with his friend to get liquor. Six boxes were kept in boot space of the car while two were kept in leg space of rear seat,” added Jadeja. Sources in the police department told TOI that Rathod has a tainted service record. He was caught in a graft case in Bhavnagar in the past after which he remained suspended for over two years. He was reinstated in service around a year ago and posted in the city. Due to his misconduct, he was transferred to traffic police as a punishment by police commissioner earlier. "The accused cop will be suspended immediately once we receive the report from Valsad police. His service record is tainted and appropriate action will be taken," said R B Brahmbhatt, police commissioner. Sources said that Rathod was first appointed in Ahmedabad city. Normally, a junior cop is not transferred out of the district during his first appointment unless there are special circumstances. "Due to his misconduct, he was transferred to Bhavnagar from Ahmedabad. In Bhavnagar, he was caught by anti-corruption bureau on graft charges. He remained suspended for two-and-a-half years and few months ago reinstated in job," said a senior police officer. He was found involved in prohibition cases as well in the past, sources in the department informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tainted-cop-caught-with-liquor-smuggled-from-daman/articleshow/75304999.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||PIL against shifting of capital from Amaravati||VIJAYAWADA: Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti (APS) on Wednesday filed a PIL in the high court seeking urgent hearing as the government is preparing to shift the executive capital to Visakhapatnam from Amaravati. The move comes at a time when a batch of petitions are pending with the high court regarding the same issue. The petitioners have made the Union government and Niti Aayog as respondents in the case as funds have been given for the development of the capital city and under the Smart Cities project. They sought directions from the high court to restrain the state government from moving the executive capital from Amaravati. The petitioners find the cause of action from the minutes of the executive council meeting of Andhra Pradesh Secretariat Employees’ Association in which it was discussed that the state government is all set to shift the executive capital to Visakhapatnam by the end of May. According to the meeting it is clear that the government is preparing to shift the executive capital by offering huge benefits to the employees, the petitioners argued. Apart from the huge financial losses to the state, shifting of the executive capital would infringe upon the legitimate rights of the farmers who gave away their land for the development of capital city, said the petitioners. They argued that the farmers had given their lands on the basis of specific promises backed by statutory support in the form of Act and rules. The farmers expected that the government would return their developed plots in the midst of ‘liveable, sustainable, blue and greenfield capital city’. The government has spent Rs 11,000 crore on various projects in the capital city area based on the detailed master plans prepared. Developmental work worth Rs 52,837 crore have been taken up and are at some stage of completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pil-against-shifting-of-capital-from-amaravati/articleshow/75303221.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Salem||Salem man refuses to undergo Covid-19 test, held||Salem: A 54-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday evening after he refused to undergo Covid-19 test. He has been lodged in the district prison in Attur. The Mettur town police identified the arrested as S Kannan, 54, of Mettur. He is an engineer with a private firm. A police officer said Kannan’s son was tested positive for the novel coronavirus a few days ago and admitted to the government hospital in the city. Health department officials subsequently asked Kannan and his family to remain in home quarantine and took their blood samples and throat swab for test. “When the officials approached them again for another test, Kannan denied them permission to enter the house. He also went to sub-collector’s office in the town and argued with the officials there,” a police official said. Sub-collector’s office document writer Hari Shankar lodged a complaint with the Mettur town police, who registered a case and arrested Kannan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-refuses-to-undergo-covid-19-test-held/articleshow/75306270.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Paragliders used to spray disinfectants||While shoulder-mounted sprayers and vehicle-mounted jet sprayers are being used across the state to spray disinfectants, paragliders were used for the purpose in Valparai on Wednesday. Valparai went into a total lockdown mode a few days back after a young woman from the hill station tested positive. Entire town was sealed, and all the shops were closed. Health teams were keeping a close vigil in the locality and samples were collected from scores of people for testing after the woman tested positive. Even as fumigation was undertaken in all parts of the town, the hilly terrain got the official adopt a novel approach. The authorities roped in an adventure sports company and got their paragliders to spray disinfectants in human habitations. The paragliders were launched from grounds of the Government College of Arts and Science in the presence of government officials and local volunteers. The spraying continued throughout the day covering most part of the town. Meanwhile, officials said that so far they have not come across anyone showing symptoms of Covid-19 in the hill station. The woman who had tested positive from Valparai is undergoing treatment in the isolation ward of ESI hospital in Coimbatore .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/paragliders-used-to-spray-disinfectants/articleshow/75306253.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Get more Vitamin D during lockdown, suggest experts||Visakhapatnam: With people staying indoors due to the lockdown and not exposed to adequate sunlight, doctors and nutritionists have pointed to the risk of Vitamin D deficiency, which in turn leads to calcium deficiency. Vitamin D3 is a hormone produced in the skin on exposure to sunlight while Vitamin D balances the body’s immunity and plays a role in lowering depression. Health experts suggest taking Vitamin D and Vitamin D3 supplements to avoid deficiency. Nutrition consultant and guest faculty at the Andhra University yoga department R Rekha said, “Vitamin D helps in keeping the immune system healthy and balanced. If there is too much stimulation, autoimmune diseases can set in. In case of inadequate immune system activity, infections can occur. Around a decade ago, the National Institute of Health, USA, had warned that low Vitamin D levels are associated with frequent colds and influenza. Research shows that Vitamin D might play an important role in regulating mood and lowering depression.” “To make up for the non-exposure to sunlight, one can consume Vitamin D3 in its active form like sesame or gingelly seed as powder or as a sweet or by consuming sesame oil or sesame milk,” Rekha advised. Medical experts say that Vitamin D deficiency has a proven link in escalating incidences of cardiac ailments and heart attacks. It also lowers the efficacy of cholesterol medicines. Absorption of calcium from the intestine to the bones is also hampered. “The deficiency is associated with joint ache, body pain, muscle pains, cramps, fractures, early onset of osteomalacia or softening of bones, chronic fatigue and laziness,” said Dr Ladi Loknadh, professor of orthopaedics at KGH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/get-more-vitamin-d-during-lockdown-suggest-experts/articleshow/75303246.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu steps up efforts to protect coconut from whitefly attack||COIMBATORE: When the entire government machinery is busy fighting the novel coronavirus, the state agriculture department is waging a silent war on pests affecting crops. Recently, it has upped the ante in the fight against the invasive pest, rugose spiralling whitefly, which affects coconut trees. According to a government order dated March 19, coconut is being cultivated in an area of 4.36 lakh hectares across the state. It said of the 25,000 hectares that is affected by rugose whitefly as on February this year, 17,650 hectares was in the district. While the state has sanctioned a total fund of Rs 5.25 crore to tackle the pest, the district has received a lion’s share of Rs 4.144 crore, said agriculture officials. The pest management would be carried out across 19,734 hectares under coconut cultivation in the district, they said. Rugose whitefly had struck a blow to coconut farmers in and around Pollachi last year. The invasive insect comes from Florida and was first spotted in Pollachi in 2016. In its larval stage, it feeds on the sap of coconut fronds. Adult insects create white-coloured formations underneath the leaves, which then turn black due to fungal formation. This causes a 20% drop in production. The pest also spreads between trees easily. A district agriculture department official said the proposed pest management scheme consisted of three components — forcible water spray to wash off nymphs and eggs of the pest from leaves, yellow sticky traps to trap adult insects and chrysoperla, a beneficial insect that feeds on whitefly. “We will give farmers Rs 2,100 per hectare under the scheme - Rs 1,000 for hiring tractor-mounted water spray, Rs 800 for 20 yellow sticky traps and Rs 300 for 1,000 eggs of chrysoperla. While the cost of traps and eggs are covered, farmers would have to bear around Rs 1,000 more for hiring the water spray,” the official said. Farmers have to get chryspoerla eggs from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, which has been multiplying the beneficial insect for supplying to farmers. District agriculture department officials inaugurated the scheme in Kinathukadavu block in the district on Wednesday. The official said they had obtained permission from the district administration and block-level agricultural officials to carry out the scheme by maintaining physical distancing. State finance minister O Panneerselvam had in his budget speech for 2020-2021 said a fund of Rs 20 crore would be allotted for pest management in agriculture, which included tackling rugose spiralling whitefly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agri-dept-steps-up-efforts-to-protect-coconut-trees-from-whitefly-attack/articleshow/75306293.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
April 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Live chicken added to list of essentials in Visakhapatnam now!||VISAKHAPATNAM: After trying to win the electorate over with cash, liquor and even biryani and tandoori chicken, candidates of political parties in the city have now turned to live chicken as part of efforts to distribute food to the poor. Even as elections to local bodies in the state were postponed due to the spread of Covid-19, candidates across parties are taking advantage of the lockdown and distributing essential commodities to people. In a novel approach, Jiyyani Sridhar, a YSR Congress (YSRC) candidate from one of the 98 wards in the city, distributed live chickens to residents of Rajaka Colony in Marripalem Vuda layout (GVMC ward 52). One bird was handed over to each family in the colony. “We distributed live birds as a goodwill gesture as we need to improve our immunity or resistance by consuming protein-rich foods such as chicken. This is not related to any political campaign, we distributed it as our social responsibility in this lockdown period,” said YSRC Visakha West constituency coordinator Malla Vijaya Prasad. Colony residents said they were happy with the distribution of chicken, five kg rice and other essential items. “No one should consider it as part of a political campaign. This is the hour of need to feed people. We happily received the material, including the live bird,” said a resident, Lakshmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/live-chicken-added-to-list-of-essentials-in-city-now/articleshow/75303278.cms||Siva G
April 23, 2020||Surat||Three SMC staff test Covid positive||SURAT: Health officials of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) are on tenterhooks after three of its frontline staff workers including two sanitary sub inspectors and a technical assistant got infected with Covid-19 on Wednesday. Khushal Parmar, 54, a technical assistant with the Limbayat zone of SMC, Anand Khambhati, 47, a sanitary sub-insector and Kanti Surti, 55, a sanitary sub-inspector were detected to be infected with coronavirus. Sources said that the three SMC employees were involved in shifting of positive patients at the hospitals and may have come under direct contact of positive patients. About 50 close contacts, including office staff have been shifted in the government quarantine facility. A senior health officer said, “Two staff members were given the duty of shifting close contacts of positive patients to the government quarantine facility at Samras hostel in Vesu. The staff members may have contracted the infection after coming in contact with positive patients at the Samras hostel. We have shifted about 50 close contacts at the quarantine facility.” Dy MC (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “About 20 other staff who may have come in contact with them are placed under quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-smc-staff-test-covid-positive/articleshow/75303297.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Goan sailors may disembark today as DG shipping issues protocol||PANAJI: The process of disembarking stranded Goan seafarers is likely to begin on Thursday after the DG (Shipping) issued protocol with regards to sign-on and sign-off late on Wednesday evening. There are around 180 Goan seafarers in three vessels off the waters of Mumbai — 93 on board Karnika, which is anchored at Mumbai port, 65 on the Marella Discovery off the Mumbai coast, and 23 on the Angriya. On board the Marella Discovery, seafarers already packed their bags after being informed that they would be disembarked. “We were told on Wednesday that we would be given hotel accommodation in Mumbai for 48 hours before we are sent to Goa,” a seafarer told TOI, adding that they were informed by the captain that they would be signed off on Thursday. "We have been warned against leaving the hotel we will be quarantined in," he said. "They told us that if we get out, we would have to pay a fine and bear the expenses ourselves." The 65 Goans are among 500-odd Indians on board the ship. “We are thankful that we will be signed off, but we are afraid of being quarantined in Mumbai as there are many positive cases there," a Goan seafarer said. "We prefer being taken directly to Goa.” Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said on Tuesday that the sailors would disembark on Wednesday, a day after the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued a standard operating procedure. However, on Wednesday, Sawant said the disembarking process would have to wait till the DG (Shipping) circular on protocol, which came later in the day. The CM said that the government is committed in bringing back all Goan seafarers to the state, and added that the Marella Discovery would not leave Indian waters without signing off Indian crew members. He said the sailors who are “along Indian ports” would be disembarked first, and then those on the deep seas, in a phased manner. Every crew member will be tested for Covid-19 at the port at which they disembark. If any one of them tests positive, they would be shifted to the Covid-19 hospital, and if negative, will be shifted to institutional quarantine. He also said that the state government is prepared with all facilities to keep seafarers in quarantine. He added that some hoteliers are scared to give their hotels for quarantining, but others are willing to give them out free of cost. “We have government quarantine facilities have even finalised hotels to requisition if we require to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sailors-may-disembark-today-as-dg-shipping-issues-protocol/articleshow/75307059.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Patients at Victoria Hospital’s Trauma Care Centre beat boredom with Snakes & Ladders, Uno||BENGALURU: With 88% of the Covid-19 patients at Victoria Hospital’s Trauma Care Centre being asymptomatic, killing time is a big challenge. To keep them engaged, the authorities have arranged for indoor games like chess, snakes and ladders and Uno. Of the 40 patients at the Covid-19 ward, 35 are asymptomatic, who according to frontline staff, are healthier than their caretakers. The main challenge for them is to spend 14 days in isolation. Some of them are related to one another and banter to their heart’s content, sources said. Only one patient, who also has tuberculosis, is in ICU. The authorities are more concerned about his TB as they have to ensure the other patients are not infected with it. The 40 patients include a doctor, a radio jockey and five children, the youngest being six years old. “Stress levels have dipped for both patients and doctors. The presence of children has changed the mood in the ward. They love playing Uno,” said Dr Balaji Pai, special officer of the Covid-19 ward at the centre. Some patients wanted to play carrom and doctors thought of allowing it. But fear of the powder used in the game proving allergic to some resulted in the idea being junked. The ward doesn’t have a TV, but most patients have mobile phones. “We provide them snacks twice a day, apart from breakfast, lunch and dinner — at 11am and at 4pm, along with herbal tea. We get the children cake, biscuits, chocolates and juices as per their requests,” said Dr Asima Bano, nodal officer of the ward. The doctor gets toys from her house to keep her child-patients occupied. The hospital has created a WhatsApp group where patients communicate their needs. Videos of yoga and breathing exercises are also posted there. “Some of the infected need counselling when they are admitted. They get better gradually,” said Dr Asima, who counsels the patients. Currently, most confirmed Covid-19 cases are being admitted to the Trauma Care Centre. Hospitals like KC General, Jayanagar General and Bowring and Lady Curzon are handling only suspected cases. “Patients in our Covid-19 isolated ward are all suspected cases. They suffer from either Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza Like Illness (ILI). They are treated here after they test negative for Covid-19 and are discharged once stable,” said Dr BR Venkateshaiah, medical superintendent, KC General Hospital. The ward earlier housed techies with travel history abroad, who would be hooked to movies and videos on their phones and laptops. “The current patients are largely from Bengaluru with no travel history,” said doctors at KC General.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/patients-beat-boredom-with-snakes-ladders-uno/articleshow/75305050.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Mafsu lab starts testing samples; one more machine reaches IGGMCH||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 testing facility at Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) of Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Science University (Mafsu) has started functioning. It is testing samples from Wardha district. The city’s first test facility at IGGMCH also received one more Covid testing machine from the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RSFL) at Dhantoli. Mafsu vice-chancellor Dr Ashish Patukar said their lab was formally inaugurated on April 16. “Our Covid-19 testing lab is already testing samples from Wardha district as designated by state health department,” he told TOI. Wardha is one of the four districts in Vidarbha where not a single confirmed positive case of Covid-19 has been found till date. Total 165 samples from Wardha have been tested, all turning out negative so far. Out of these, 55 were tested at the Mafsu lab. “We are getting 8 to 15 samples from Wardha every day from last four days,” said Dr Sandeep Chaudhari, head of the Mafsu lab. “Unlike other three laboratories in city attached to medical colleges, our lab is attached to the veterinary college. We had to undergo additional tests. To avoid false negative and false positive results, we used to send our samples for validation to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune,” he added. However, from Monday onwards, the reports are being validated and signed by an MD microbiology doctor in Nagpur itself. “For this, divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar has appointed an MD Microbiology qualified doctor to our lab. Now, we are providing results the day we get the samples,” said Dr Chaudhari. “As there are few samples from Wardha, and none of them have tested positive, Mafsu lab is not getting highlighted in media,” he pointed out. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, city’s first Covid-19 testing facility at IGGMCH received an additional unit of RT-PCR testing from the RFSL. Dean Dr Ajay Keoliya said the new unit will start functioning in a day or two. “The new unit is being calibrated. We will complete the technical work soon, so we can test more samples,” he said. IGGMCH lab is testing samples from Nagpur city (NMC limits) and Nagpur rural (district limits). As more cases are being detected in Nagpur city since last three days, more samples too are coming in for tests. Sources at RSFL said the unit they sent to IGGMCH is better than the machines available in medical colleges. Testing capacity of Mayo lab will double with this additional unit, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mafsu-lab-starts-testing-samples-1-more-machine-reaches-iggmch/articleshow/75306299.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Man fails to get ill mom in pvt hosp, waits 3 days for her body||Navi Mumbai: A Dombivli man had a harrowing time trying to get his mother who developed heart issues admitted to a hospital and then for the next three days to get her body after she passed away in a civic hospital. This past Saturday, Sameer Mohite (38) rushed to his mother, 65-year-old Sangita Mohite, after she fainted in Sanpada at his sister’s place where she had moved before the lockdown. The senior citizen was first rushed to a private hospital in Sanpada which refused her admission on the ground that she could be Covid-19-positive. She was then rushed in an autorickshaw to the Vashi municipal hospital, where she died the same night. “Had the private hospital admitted her on Saturday evening, she might have survived. I will be writing to Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation about this,” he said. “I was in Dombivili when I was informed that my mother had collapsed due to her heart condition at Sanpada. After the local Millennium Hospital refused to admit her, I called several other private hospitals for an ambulance, but there was no response. She passed away at 10.20pm on Saturday at the Vashi civic hospital. When I rushed there to collect her body late at night, I was told it would be handed over only after her Covid-19 test result was ready,” said Mohite. For the next three days, Mohite travelled from Dombivli to Vashi by bike for the status of her report. “It was only on Tuesday night that I was allowed to take her body after her test result was negative,” said Mohite. He was often stopped on the road by the police and asked why was he not carrying a death certificate. “I had to patiently explain to the police each time that the certificate would be issued only once the Covid-19 test result was released. It was a horrible experience,” he said. Last week, 56-year-old Vashi lawyer Jaideep Jaywant too had died of a heart attack after a private hospital refused to admit him. NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal told TOI: “I have already had a meeting with managements of several private hospitals and clearly told them they cannot refuse any patient who urgently requires medical attention, otherwise action can be taken on erring hospital staff. In regard to the unfortunate death of the Vashi-based lawyer, I have already ordered an inquiry.” Former local MP Sanjeev Naik said, “There have been at least eight deaths of non-corona patients in Navi Mumbai, as per my knowledge. This is not a good sign.” He said his personal assistant had to intervene in the Sangita Mohite death to get her papers and carry out her last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-fails-to-get-ill-mom-in-pvt-hosp-waits-3-days-for-her-body/articleshow/75306350.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Agra||21 more test Covid +ve in Agra, district tally now 327||Agra: At least 21 new cases of Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) were reported in Agra on Wednesday, taking the district's tally to 327. The local administration has also marked 24 fresh "Covid hotspots" in the city. Out of these, seven cases are related to a private hospital on National Highway-2, three linked to people who attended the Jamaat event in Delhi, three related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality, two cases are a contact of a medicine wholesaler, a person who had returned from Maharashtra, and two contacts of a health staffer of SN Medical College. The remaining three cases are contacts of people tested positive earlier. Chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." Localities from where the new cases emerged on Wednesday include Mandi Said Khan, Motiya Ki Baghichi, Belanganj, Kedar Nagar, Mandi Sammitti, Ghatiya Azam Khan, Khatik Para, sector 12D Avas Vikas, Naubasta in Lohamandi, Indra Kunj in Baluganj, Sadar Bhatti, Anand Puram in Shahaganj, village Kakua and Kamla Nagar. According to health department, out of the 327 cases reported in Agra, at least 110 are linked to people who had attended the Delhi's Jamaat event and their contacts. Ninety of them are linked to a private hospital on the NH-2. Thirty are related to another private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan. Besides, 15 are related to health staffers of SN Medical College and their family members. Twenty are linked to people with overseas travel history. Earlier this week, two vegetable sellers, a medicine seller and a milk seller were found positive. These people are "unaware of their source of infection". Notably, four Covid-19 patients were declared "cured" and discharged from hospital. They include three doctors - head of Sainya block community health centre, a junior doctor of SN Medical College and a private doctor. “So far, 30 people have recovered from the infection and discharged. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. The area in the vicinity of the places where the infected people were staying is being sanitised. The district administration has marked 86 places in the city as Covid epicentres. We are conducting massive sampling in these areas to identify all those infected and send them to institutional quarantine," the CMO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/21-more-test-covid-ve-in-agra-district-tally-now-327/articleshow/75303316.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Teenager from Jangleshwar tests positive||Rajkot: A 16-year-old boy from Jangleswhar in Rajkot tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Total 41 people have been infected with the virus in Rajkot district so far, out of that 31 are residents of Jangleshwar. Meanwhile, a 31-year-old man from Macchiwad of Ghogha taluka in Bhavnagar also tested positive on Wednesday. He had escaped with is four-year-old daughter and wife from Bhavnagar, after the little girl’s samples were taken for testing. He was booked by the police after the girl tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teenager-from-jangleshwar-tests-positive/articleshow/75303323.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Mental wellbeing of migrant workers in shelters a concern||Visakhapatnam: For the mental wellbeing of migrant workers living in GVMC shelters, the district mental health programme (DMHP) team is conducting sessions to help them. Currently there are 1,050 migrant workers and homeless people living in 21 GVMC shelters. Programme nodal officer Dr Vasundhara, DTCO, said, “The programme began on April 6 and the team has visited all the shelters and counselled more than 850 people. Counselling sessions, stress management strategies, screening for mental disorders like anxiety, depression, panic/phobic disorders, and individual/group psychotherapy are being organised.” If a person’s behaviour shows marked difference, a psychologist conducts clinical interview. Severe cases are referred to Government Hospital Mental Care. For mild to medium cases, the team conducts individual/group psychotherapy, counselling. “Paranoid schizophrenia, depression, anxiety disorder, conversion disorder, alcohol and drug addiction disorders have been observed among the inmates,” clinical psychologist Dr Bhavani said, adding that around 10 people in shelter homes are suffering from severe mental health issues. Speaking to TOI, Dr S Radharani, medical superintendent of Government Hospital Mental Care, said, “We have been counselling migrant workers for past few weeks. Those requiring medication are being given the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mental-wellbeing-of-migrant-workers-in-shelters-a-concern/articleshow/75303309.cms||Reshma Jain
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Adugodi police turn saviours for hungry migrant labourers||BENGALURU: They were counselled by their goddess Yellamma to stay back in Bengaluru but were struggling to find even a morsel with no work during the lockdown. Moved by the plight of around 20 migrant families at Gulbarga colony in southeast Bengaluru, Adugodi police have started providing ration to them. The families battling hunger were spotted by beat policemen in early April. They immediately decided to chip in and mobilised local resources to supply food to about 60 labourers daily. “But that was only the beginning of the problem as these migrants from north Karnataka could not digest the cooked food we provided,” recalls Dileep Kumar KH, Adugodi inspector. Cops then decided to provide rations. Every personnel in the station donated money, while some of them also provided rice and other groceries. “We began giving rations on April 17. Besides food, we also included toothpaste, mosquito coils and other essentials. Our police station will look after them till they go back to their work,” Dileep said. Gulbarga Colony houses over 150 families of north Karnataka migrants, especially unskilled dailywage workers. After the clampdown, many of the residents fled Bengaluru and went back home. Sanna Honnura, who is from Sirigeri in Ballari district, said: “Some 20 families stayed back as we neither had money nor rations to feed our families; we hoped to find some work. A woman among us is possessed often by our goddess Yellamma. During one session, we asked Yellamma if we should go home but were counselled to stay back. We always follow her words.” Asked whether he tried to get in touch with the helpline set up for migrant labourers by the labour department, he asked what a helpline is. “We are uneducated and not aware of those things. We rarely mingle with locals too. We talk only with those who provide us with jobs but we have not seen any of them after the lockdown was imposed,” he said. There are 12 children and 16 women among the residents. “Now, these policemen turned out to be our Gods. Some of our children were unwell when they came to help us. They got our kids biscuits and other food items. One infant was sick and cops took him hospital, got him treated for free and then dropped us back,” Sanna Honnura said. Cops visit the colony every day to check how the migrants are pulling on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/adugodi-police-turn-saviours-for-hungry-migrant-labourers/articleshow/75304619.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi corporations list 815 safai staff to clean Azadpur mandi||NEW DELHI: The three municipal corporations in the city have provided a list of 815 sanitation workers to Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) to ensure cleanliness on the Azadpur mandi premises. Earlier on Tuesday, a portion of the mandi was sealed after a trader died of Covid-19. “We have selected about 600 from them who started working from Tuesday. Now, sweeping is done continuously and the collected waste is immediately sent to dhalaos in tippers. We have even increased the frequency of vehicles collecting green waste from dhalaos to the composting plant at Bawana,” said Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman of APMC-Azadpur. Khan added that these workers would be in addition to the staff already engaged in the sanitation work on the mandi premises. APMC will pay their salaries and arrange for transport and passes for them. At a meeting held at the lieutenant governor’s office recently, the demand for staff for regular cleaning of the premises was made in the wake of the mandi functioning 24X7. “Long working hours and movement of vehicles lead to insanitary condition and hence we had asked for extra workforce—at least 200 from each of the corporations. Most of our sanitation staff from NCR have stopped coming due to the lockdown,” said Khan. He added that the sanitation staff were working in two shifts—6 am to 2 pm and 2 pm to 10 pm. “All mandated guidelines are being followed in the mandi.” “We have sent a list of 250 substitute workers to APMC member secretary Tanvir Ahmad. Some of them are relatives of our regular staff,” said a senior East Delhi Municipal Corporation official. While the north corporation has provided details of 315 workers, the south corporation’s list sent to APMC included 250 workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-list-815-safai-staff-to-clean-mandi/articleshow/75306315.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 23, 2020||Agra||3 fresh cases surface in Aligarh, district tally is six||Agra: Three more persons tested positive for novel coronavirus in Aligarh on Wednesday taking the district’s tally to six, while in neighbouring Mathura one person was found infected with the virus. Now, Mathura has seven Covid-19 patients. Aligarh’s chief development officer Anunay Jha told TOI, “Three close relatives of man, who died due to coronavirus in Aligarh’s JNMC hospital on Wednesday, were tested positive. These include his daughter, 22, son, 18 and brother-in-law, 50”. He said that all of them have been admitted to Harduaganj’s Community Health Centre (CHC) for treatment. “10 sample reports are still awaited,” he added. While Mathura’s chief medical officer (CMO) Sher Singh confirmed that one more person from Shera village tested positive for Covid-19. “Out of 26 samples taken, one person, who hails from Baldeo’s Sehra village, tested positive for the infection. Reports of 11 samples are still awaited,” he said. Singh said the patient is 50-year-old vegetable vendor and used to visit Agra market. Meanwhile, Aligarh administration has sealed a diagnostic centre for conducting an ultrasound of a suspected Covid-19 patient, who later died due to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-fresh-cases-surface-in-aligarh-district-tally-is-six/articleshow/75303307.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Bail plea of man held for helping Indonesian nationals dismissed||MADURAI: The Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of a person who was arrested for helping eight Indonesian nationals who were involved in religious propaganda by violating their visa conditions at Ramanathapuram district. Justice P Velmurugan passed the order on the petition filed by Moomin Ali, a resident of R S Mangalam in Ramanathapuram district while hearing the case through videoconferencing on Wednesday. The petitioner along with two other locals had helped the Indonesian nationals who had come to India on a tourist visa, to carryout religious propaganda. The Indonesian nationals had earlier attended the religious conference at Delhi. On March 24, they were made to stay in a mosque in Bharathi Nagar with the petitioner’s help. When the VAO of Pattinamkathan village Selvam came to know that the eight were involved in religious propaganda by violating the curfew conditions, he lodged a complaint at the Kenikkarai police station on April 5. Police registered a case against 11 people and booked them under under sections 13, 14 of Foreigners Act, under sections 269, 278, 188, 270, 271 of IPC, section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act and sections 58(4) 134,135, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and 51(b) National Disaster Management Act. The petitioner stated that he is not involved in the offence as alleged by the prosecution as he resides in R S Managalam which is far from the place of occurrence of the incident. He stated that the VAO had lodged a complaint based on the statement given by Mohammed Kasim, who was arrayed as the 11th accused in the case. Ali also claimed that Kasim had passed away a few months back. He said that he was falsely implicated in the case and is in judicial custody since April 9. Since the Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court dismissed his bail application on April 17, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-plea-of-man-held-for-helping-indonesian-nationals-dismissed/articleshow/75306319.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Pune||6,000 enter trial to test recombinant BCG vaccine against Covid-19 in Pune||PUNE: Some 6,000 “high-risk” individuals, including frontline healthcare workers and close contacts of infected patients, will undergo tests to determine if a recombinant Bacille Calmette-Guerian (BCG) vaccine can boost human immunity against Covid-19. This is set to be the largest human trials yet in the country against the new coronavirus. The trials, approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), is set to start within a week at 40 hospitals. Pune’s Bharati hospital, KEM hospital and Symbiosis hospital are among the selected facilities, said Adar Poonawalla, owner and CEO of the Serum Institute of India (SII), which is starting the tests. The BCG vaccine, first administered to humans in 1921, is a known treatment for tuberculosis (TB), a highly infectious disease caused by a bacterium that affects the lungs. First developed by French researchers Albert Calmette and Camille Guerin, the BCG vaccine has become one of the most widely used vaccines in the world and is mandatory across Africa, Asia and South America. According to estimates, some 100 million newborns are given a shot every year. It is also part of the Indian government’s childhood immunization programme. Studies have also shown that the BCG vaccine has the ability to improve the body’s immune response and protection against other infections. Besides TB, the vaccine has also worked against leprosy. "The aim now is to see if our recombinant BCG vaccine (VPM1002) can reduce infection, incidence and disease severity among high-risk individuals," Poonawalla said. "A similar trial has also been approved by the Paul Ehrlich Institute (PEI), the German regulatory authority. In addition to Germany, we will also be starting clinical trials in Australia, New Zealand, United States and Canada, very shortly." The trial design is adaptive, which means the vaccine can be fast-tracked for commercial use even when a sizeable number of the enrolled persons show promising results. "This unique adaptive design will enable us to speedily bring the vaccine for use. This means, if we see efficacy early enough during the course of the trial, we will be able to approach the DCGI for marketing authorization and vaccination of our frontline health workers," the SII's additional medical director, Hitt Sharma, said. Sharma added that the DCGI has a specific committee that will oversee the study to ensure it is safe and appropriate for the group of subjects being studied. SII’s director of research and development Umesh Shaligram said: "We are trying to find out if the vaccine prevents Covid-19 infection among high-risk individuals and reduces its severity. This crucial information collected during the study may enable us to offer this vaccination to other people in future." It has become extremely important for India to shield its healthcare workers against Covid-19. For example, over 100 medical staff have contracted the disease in Mumbai. "There is an urgent need to ensure the safety of our healthcare workers, who are at the forefront fighting the epidemic," said Pune-based surgeon Ashwin Porwal. "A recombinant BCG vaccine can be a good choice once its safety and efficacy have proven through clinical trials. We are pinning our hopes on its effectiveness against Covid-19."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6000-enter-trial-to-test-recombinant-bcg-vaccine-against-covid-19/articleshow/75307117.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Excise department puts skids under black marketeers in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The excise department has strengthened its drive to curb black marketing of liquor, several instances of which have come to light since the closure of bars and retail wine shops in Karnataka owing to the lockdown. Ever since the ban on liquor sale was extended till May 3, excise officials have been booking retailers and suspending licences if they find any discrepancy in inventory. The enforcement drive focusing on shop owners was intensified after water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi last week pointed out that many liquor retailers were diverting stocks to the black market to make a fast buck, while demanding the government to allow MSIL outlets. According to officials, they have suspended about 55 retail licences and booked 219 persons. About 40,000 litres of Indian-made liquor (IML) and 25,000 litres of beer have been seized. The seizure is estimated to be worth Rs 5 crore. While the ongoing lockdown has placed stringent restrictions on the movement of residents, scores of people from various parts of the state have managed to source liquor from bootleggers, who have upped rates to an unprecedented 300-500 per cent of the retail price. Officials say they have stumbled upon cases of shop owners selling liquor suspiciously. Some brands of IML and beer are found to have been sold at about 10 times the retail price. “We have been asked to take account of the inventory recorded on the day when the lockdown was announced and tally it with the present stock to identify the black sheep. If we find any discrepancy, we will seek explanation and book them,” said excise minister H Nagesh. Retailers, however, complain they have been dealt a double blow after lockdown as on one hand, burglars are targeting their shops and on the other, the excise department is initiating legal action. “There may have been a few instances of shop owners involved in black marketing, but they can’t harass all traders under the guise of enforcement drive. Instead, we urge the government to give police security to sealed shops,” said G Honnagiri Gowda, president, Karnataka State Wine Merchants Association. Some retailers also claimed they are staring at huge losses as they fear their stock may get outdated with the lockdown having been extended. Unlike hard liquor, beer has a shelf life and should ideally be consumed within six months of being bottled. Moreover, retailers are not allowed to sell expired beer and have to destroy the stock. “The government should at least help us by taking back the stock,” said Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/excise-dept-intensifies-crackdown-against-black-marketeers/articleshow/75305086.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Collecting mahua using nets saves forests, human lives in Nagpur||NAGPUR: To save forest from fires and humans from wild animals, the Nagpur forest division has initiated an innovative idea of using greens nets to collect mahua flowers. Entire Vidarbha region is in the grip of forest fires. These are mostly ignited by people for collection of mahua flowers and tendu leaves, which are important sources of livelihood for local villagers. “To save forest from fires, on a pilot basis we shortlisted three active women self-help groups (SHGs) from Karwahi, Salai, and Sawangi in Paoni forest range. They were given green nets that were distributed to mahua collectors on rent,” said Prabhunath Shukla, deputy conservator, Nagpur. “These SHGs are charging Rs 50 per month for providing each green net to the villagers. These nets are tied below the mahua tree and flowers drop on them that collectors can gather. It saves them time and produce is cleaner,” says Shukla. Otherwise ground fires are ignited to clear grass and bushes under Mahua trees so that people can collect flowers easily. These fires spread and devastate nearby forests destroying biodiversity and threatening wildlife. Also, since collectors do not have to crouch or sit for picking up flowers, they avoid attack by predators like tigers. Several mahua collectors have been killed this summer by tigers who mistake them for animals. “The best part is forest department buys mahua flowers from villagers who used green nets. List of such persons is being maintained by the SHGs,” said Shukla. Nagpur division has around 1.5 lakh hectare forest area with 533 villages around it. Forest fires during summer is a major issue. During current season, seven fire incidents were reported from the division. On April 9, three mahua collectors were arrested in Kalmeshwar range for setting forest afire. “Forest fires caused due to mahua collection destroys entire forest ecosystem. Besides, people lose life in attacks by predators. Most importantly, decreased food availability leads to spilling of wildlife in villages causing conflicts,” said district honorary wildlife warden Kundan Hate. Incidentally, the villages where this pilot project is being implemented have not seen any fire incident this fire season. “We plan to replicate the project elsewhere next season,” Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collecting-mahua-using-nets-saves-forests-human-lives/articleshow/75306318.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||South Nagpur Covid-free; NMC drives curbed spread in other parts||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) claims to have prevented spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in four of the six assembly constituencies in the city due to aggressive containment drive. As per the civic body’s calculations, it has notionally contained spread of Covid-19 to nearly 33,600 citizens in four constituencies — East, Central, North and South-West Nagpur — and further multiplication. Interestingly, in the last 42 days, not a single coronavirus positive case has been reported from South Nagpur, the only constituency which has remained untouched by Covid-19 since March 11 when the first case was detected in the city. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “One Covid-19 positive person can spread the infection to over 400 persons, if not isolated in time. This has been established by an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study. As per World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, the number is over 800.” “We had launched an aggressive containment drive in the areas from where the first positive case was reported on March 11. A few citizens, who tested negative and had to remain quarantined, may have been inconvenienced, but our containment drives worked and prevented further spread of the disease. All positive cases could be detected only because of effective tracing, examining and quarantining people who were in close contact with the positive persons and their family members,” he said. As on Wednesday, the district has recorded 98 positive cases of which 57 are linked to a single Satranjipura case (East Nagpur), 17 from Mominpura (Central Nagpur) and 11 connected to Khamla (South-West Nagpur) of which five are from Jaripatka (North Nagpur). After test reports of 68-year-old deceased turned out to be positive on April 6, the NMC had traced, examined and quarantined over 200 persons by carrying out a massive containment drive. Similarly, the number of people examined and quarantined are over 120 in Mominpura and 120 in Khamla and Jaripatka. Also, the NMC had quarantined 281 persons as per the orders of ministry of home affairs. All this led to detection of 84 positive cases during the containment drives. The lone deceased and six earlier cases had led the NMC to launch containment drives. Going by the ICMR study projection of one infected person spreading the disease to 400 persons, the NMC has prevented the spread of Covid-19 to nearly 33,600 citizens as on date as 84 positive cases have been detected in the city during the containment drives so far. Elaborating further, Mundhe said, “Over 200 persons were traced, examined and quarantined because of one infected person in Satranjipura. The number of positive cases could have been lesser had we been informed about the person’s symptoms earlier and the family had disclosed proper information in the beginning.” “The NMC has launched door-to-door survey to find out suspected Covid-19 patients and also high-risk persons. The drive has already covered over 25 lakh people. Survey was also conducted in Satranjipura in March-end. Had the family disclosed information then, we could have curbed the coronavirus spread there in the initial stage itself. The need of the hour is not to create a monster and instead become warrior to contain Covid-19,” he said. Fortunately, the number did not spike after the first four positive cases were detected from Bajaj Nagar, Abhyankar Nagar and Swawlambi Nagar (South-West Nagpur). Also, no further case was reported from a housing society situated in front of Gandhisagar (Central Nagpur) after one person had tested positive there. Similarly, no new case has been reported from Gittikhadan (West Nagpur) after one positive case was reported there. East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde said, “A large number of cases have come to fore from Satranjipura. Need is to test all citizens from the affected area so that we can know the actual number of infected persons and accordingly take steps to contain coronavirus. If required, Army should be deployed for implementing containment drive strictly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/south-ngp-covid-free-nmc-drives-curbed-spread-in-other-parts/articleshow/75306324.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh traders booked for fleecing customers||VIJAYAWADA: The ongoing lockdown has seen several complaints of traders cheating consumers, especially in Prakasam, Vizianagaram, East and West Godavari districts. The Legal Metrology Department has registered 1,700 cases in the state from March 23 to April 21. The department is continuing raids to ensure that traders stick to maximum retail price (MRP). The officials said that traders were charging high price for wheat flour, red gram, black gram, green gram and edible oil citing low supply. Controller and IG of Legal Metrology Dr M Kantha Rao said despite paucity of manpower, the department conducted raids at grocery shops, hypermarkets, milk shops, kirana stories, godowns, medical stores and a few others and registered 1,678 cases in the state between March 23 and April 21. “Of the total, 1,678 cases, 946 were related to charging in excess of MRP on masks, sanitisers, milk products, pulses, edible oils, rice, wheat flour and a few other essential commodities during the lockdown. We have registered 732 cases against the shops and stores for not displaying the price list of essential commodities outside stores and a few others violations. We will continue raids in the coming days,” Kanta Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-1k-cases-filed-against-traders-fleecing-customers/articleshow/75303359.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 23, 2020||Chennai||7.5 lakh in Tiruvannamalai get essentials delivered||CHENNAI: The government on Wednesday announced that tokens will be distributed to ration cardholders at doorstep on April 24 and 25 for them to get free commodities at PDS shops from April 27. Officials say the challenges of home-delivering essentials are many, but the administration in Tiruvannamalai district – 200km from Chennai – had already supplied essentials to 7.56 lakh cardholders at their homes in 15 days earlier this month. “Had quite a challenging task in mobilising vehicles and workforce, but we have done it in a record time,” collector K S Kandasamy told TOI. The administration decided to use 300 tractors lying idle, arranged diesel and food for farmers and the vehicles were ready. The real challenge was to get the geo-referenced system in point-of-sale (POS) devices removed to swipe smart cards at doorsteps, but Kandasamy got sanction as a special case. A tractor with POS device, accompanied by salesman, helper, cooperative society secretary and an elected representative hit the streets of Tiruvannamalai every 7km. Apart from the regular PDS goods like rice and dal, 14 non-controlled commodities, at market rate, were also supplied, Kandasamy said. The official said door delivery of free ration will continue in May. Why can this note be replicated across the state? “Logistics,” said a senior civil supplies department official. There are 35,244 shops within easy reach of more than two crore cardholders, the department says bringing commodities from godown to shops and to homes will be an arduous task. With a bunch of etailers getting into grocery delivery to make the most of the situation, industry sources say delivery of PDS goods is possible if supplied in kits and in bulk. “A high degree of customisation is not possible since packing supplies on such a scale is difficult. At SunnyBee, we deliver vegetable and fruit kits and have been able to deliver on time. Packaging and transport is easier. Plus, deliveries can be done at say communities or apartment complexes with fewer personnel. This is the best option to get the supplies,” said Sanjay Dasari, founder, SunnyBee. Shan Kadavil, CEO of FreshtoHome which transports milk, fresh produce and meat, says players in the hyperlocal delivery space can pitch in to supply in bulk for a short period. “But individual orders are difficult to manage because the backend needs to be updated accordingly and that is a tall order.” Saurabh Kumar, co-founder of e-grocery platform Grofers, says increasing distribution centres can help ease delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/7-5l-in-tiruvannamalai-get-essentials-delivered/articleshow/75306330.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 23, 2020||Goa||GMC expert: Test Covid-19 suspects twice to rule out false nagatives||PANAJI: A symptomatic Covid-19 patient can test ‘false negative’ and baffle doctors, if the viral load in the individual is low, making its presence difficult for the test to detect. In such cases, it is advisable to repeat the test preferably after two 48 hours, said a virologist at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Two of the seven Covid-19 patients detected in Goa had tested negative in their first tests. “Tests were repeated in both patients as they had the symptoms of Covid-19. Both tested positive in the repeat tests,” said GMC dean S M Bandekar. The virologist said as an individual’s symptoms intensify, it is likely the test will report positive, and so re-tests are a must to remove all doubts. He said there are very slim chances of patients re-contracting Covid-19 two or three months after they have recovered, but they cannot be sure. “There is little chance of that happening because of his built-up immunity. Still, we will not able to say this with finality until there is adequate study. This is an entirely new strain which has been known to us only for the last three months. More research is needed,” he said. Goa has detected seven Covid-19 cases and all of them have recovered. Over 500 real time RT-PCR tests have been conducted in the virology laboratory set up in GMC less than month ago, even as few have raised doubts about the efficacy of the new testing facility. Bandekar said the testing facility at GMC is on par with the National Virology Centre, (NIV) Pune, and it is validated by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “I’m clarifying since people have been raising doubts about our facility,” he said. Over 3,000 testing kits at GMCThe Standard operating procedures (SOP) followed in GMC are also in conformity with ICMR, he said. The WHO guidelines and those issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare are also followed in toto,the dean said. GMC has more than 3,000 testing kits, 3 lakh masks, and adequate stock of personnel protection equipment (PPE kits), and more have been ordered, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-expert-test-covid-suspects-twice-to-rule-out-false-ves/articleshow/75307125.cms||Bindiya Chari
April 23, 2020||Hubballi||Cops find liquor boxes in govt ambulance, arrest 4||Chitradurga: With liquor vends shut due to the nationwide lockdown, police in Chitradurga district on Wednesday cracked down on those transporting alcohol illegally and seized two vehicles, including a government ambulance, and arrested four persons near Shivaganga village in the district, around 225km from Bengaluru. Police also seized 14 whisky cartons worth Rs 60,000. Sources said the accused were planning to supply the liquor to various shops which are illegally operating in the district despite restrictions. On Wednesday, a patrol team on Covid-19 duty noticed a Maruti Omni and an ambulance parked on a deserted street. “The ambulance was attached to HD Pura primary health centre. When the patrol team approached the vehicles, they saw four men shifting liquor boxes from the ambulance to the van. They were immediately arrested,” said Manjunath Kuri, sub-inspector, Chitrahalli Gate police station. “Ambulance driver Subhan Khan and lab technician of Holalkere community health centre Santosh M had transported the liquor boxes illegally in the government vehicle from Challakere to Shivaganga. Later, Girish and Jevan arrived in the Omni. The duo were supposed to take the boxes to Holalkere,” Manjunath added. “This is the first time a government ambulance was seized for transporting liquor illegally in the district. We will check all the ambulances in the coming days till the lockdown ends,” the police officer added. “Khan and Santosh were temporary workers and their services have been terminated,” said Dr Palaskha, district health officer. Last week a private ambulance was intercepted by cops at Hirisave checkpost in Hassan. Five youths from Bengaluru had hired the emergency vehicle to reach their villages in Belur. Police on Covid-19 duty near the checkpost detained the youths and home-quarantined them for two weeks. The driver was also taken into custody and the vehicle was seized. After March 24, illegal sale and transportation of alcohol has increased in Dharwad, Belagavi, Haveri, Raichur, Koppal, Gadag, Chitradurga, and others districts in north Karnataka. Police have also cracked down on sale of illicit liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cops-find-liquor-boxes-in-govt-ambulance-arrest-4/articleshow/75303350.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Asha workers on Covid-19 duty ask for protective gear, better wages||Aurangabad & Kolhapur: Assigned as frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19 in the state, Asha workers are conducting door-to-door surveys despite poor wages and lack of proper protective gear. For every 50 houses they survey on each day, they are paid a paltry-fee of Rs 33 . Solapur-based state general secretary of Asha workers’ union, Salim Patel said, “The central government has announced the payment of Rs 1,000 per month to each of the Asha workers, against which they have to mandatorily carry out a survey of 50 houses each day.”There are serious concerns about the health risks these workers are facing each day without proper protective gear. “At least the doctors, who are treating the positive cases, are aware of what they are dealing with. But our Asha workers, knowingly or unknowingly, are getting in touch with suspected Covid-19 patients,” Patel told TOI. In Kolhapur, the workers had to take to the streets demanding proper treatment from the citizens, proper protective gear, and hike in the travel allowance from Rs 50 to Rs 200. “At many places, residents do not allow us to enter the societies and localities stating they have not moved out of their homes and, therefore, none of their family members requires checking. At the same time, we are not allowed inside our houses without taking bath after our day's work ends,” said a Kolhapur-based Asha worker. Another worker said that even after several complaints, the administration provided them with just sun coats, masks and gloves. However after the day’s work, the masks and gloves get damaged. “We are provided with just one set of so-called protective gear. We have to wash them, again and again, to use then the next day. We are not provided with the sanitisers. All doctors, nurses get themselves sanitised before they go back home. We have no such facility," said another Asha worker.Aurangabad-based Asha Aarogya karmachari union official Mangal Thombre said, “Asha workers get a fixed remuneration of Rs 1,500 each month for different projects, in addition to this, there are some other perks, paid for the surveys and registrations. Now they have been assured ofan additional Rs 1,000 per month for carrying out Covid-19 survey.”Some workers alleged that the authorities are exploiting their situation. Despite assurance from the government, the long-pending demands of being recognized as regular employees and fixed remuneration, they are made to work for daily wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/asha-workers-on-covid-19-duty-ask-for-protective-gear-better-wages/articleshow/75303351.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 23, 2020||Surat||Surat: HIV positive man bites CISF jawan on road||SURAT: An HIV positive man allegedly bit the finger of a CISF jawan after he was stopped during checking near Ram Nagar crossroads on Tuesday evening. The 42-year-old man was spotted loitering on road near the crossroad. When a policeman asked him to stop, he started running. Meanwhile, CISF jawan tried to stop him. However, he bit the jawan’s finger. The accused was caught from the spot and an offence was registered against him on Wednesday. He was booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other sections of IPC. The jawan, who is posted at Kandla port, was sent for medical examination at New Civil Hospital (NCH) and has been advised preventive medicine course. "It is a shocking incident that a jawan trying to protect people is attacked by a person who is infected with HIV," said R B Brahmbhatt, police commissioner. Police got test of the man done in hospital for verification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hiv-ve-man-bites-cisf-jawan-on-road/articleshow/75303348.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka eases lockdown 2.0 restrictions starting today||BENGALURU: After days of dilly-dallying, the Karnataka government said it would ease lockdown 2.0 from Thursday, allowing a range of services — from private clinics and veterinary centres to home repairs involving carpenters, plumbers, electricians and mechanics. The government order issued on Wednesday said the relaxations will not apply to Covid-19 hotspots and containment zones in the state. Educational institutions remain shut and non-essential travel barred everywhere. Sub-registrar offices will be opened in 11districts. While mass gatherings are banned, funerals will be allowed with a limit of 20 people attending. State chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said IT & ITeS firms will be allowed to function with minimum essential staff. “The government has left it to the companies to decide their minimum staff requirement and discuss it with the IT-BT department before resuming work. We will allow only critical staff, who are identified and issued passes, to function. The others will continue to work from home,” he said. Plumbers, electricians and other self-employed workers will also need police passes to resume work. The modalities for resumption in various sectors will be worked out in the coming days. Govt hopes for revival of economyThe relaxation is primarily to revive the economy step by step. While there will be challenges, the government is geared up to meet them,” deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan, who holds the IT-BT portfolio, said. The order specifies that companies should encourage employees with children up to five years old and elderly (65 years and above) at home to work from their residence. “We would encourage IT-BT companies to use the services of contract carriages to ferry their employees or continue with workfrom-home option,” said another senior official. “The self-employed who live on a daily income, such as carpenters, electricians, motor mechanics and plumbers, will be allowed to work, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing,” he said. All private and veterinary clinics can also reopen. Hotels, homestays, lodges and motels can function to accommodate those stranded in the lockdown. Among other activities allowed to resume are: hotels for parcel services, agriculture producers marketing committee yards, production of cement, steel, tiles and bricks. While interdistrict and inter-state travel continue to be suspended, dhabas have been allowed to function on highways at a distance of 20km from each other, primarily to ensure food for truckers. Other sectors in the ambit of relaxation are: courier services, food processing industries and cold storage and warehousing services, container depots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-eases-lockdown-2-0-restrictions-starting-today/articleshow/75309081.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Betel leaf farmers call for compensation as stocks rot||Vijayawada: The ban on spitting in public places to curtail the spread of Covid-19 has had an unintended consequence. With no buyers since the lockdown began, the livelihoods of betel leaf farmers across the state have taken a beating. Farmers in Payakaraopeta and S Rayavaram mandals in Visakhapatnam district grow betel leaves over 1,500 acres, sell the leaves in local markets and also supply it to Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and some other states. In Guntur, Krishna and East Godavari districts as well, betel leaf is grown on an area between 4,000 to 5,000 acres and exported to other states. “With ‘paan’ not being sold following the ban on use and spitting of tobacco products to contain spread of Covid-19, we are unable to sell betel leaves as no buyer is coming forward and the leaves are rotting,” said T Ganga Rao, a betel leaf farmer in Payakaraopeta. “We had invested around Rs 2 lakh per acre to grow betel leaves, expecting demand in summer (for the marriage season). But Covid-19 has hit us hard and we incurred losses as there was no demand from north India,” Rao added. The crop, which requires care right from the planting to the harvesting stage, is harvested between April and June in Visakhapatnam and East Godavari. “Betel vines worth lakhs have been damaged in Vizag and East Godavari regions due to the lockdown,” said B Sateesh Kumar, a farmer from East Godavari. “The government has allowed transport of betel leaves but there are no buyers and we don’t know how to cope with the situation,” he said. Farmers added that they are appealing to the government for compensation in view of severe distress caused by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/betel-leaf-farmers-call-for-compensation-as-stocks-rot/articleshow/75303367.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Cops planning doorstep book delivery in Nagpur so you stay at home||NAGPUR: The city police seem to be putting the best of their creative minds at work in enforcing the lockdown after the strict measures to keep people within their houses had to be withdrawn. The latest is a plan by DCP, traffic and headquarters, Vikram Sali to deliver books to readers at the doorsteps, if the latest ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines help open up libraries and book stores. Sali is contemplating doorstep delivery of books to ensure book-lovers prefer to spend time at home rather than stepping out. The DCP said the concept is at planning stage. “We will try to speak to libraries and pick up books from them as per the choice of the readers, and deliver it to them,” he said. “Let the citizen tell us which books they would love to read, and we can try to get the same delivered,” he said. The city has around 78 state-run and 15 civic body administered libraries, which are closed due to the lockdown. The latest MHA guidelines regarding bookstores seems to have kindled hope among some of the senior cops that this could be used as an opportunity to make citizens nurture their reading habits instead of walking out or gathering outside for chit-chat. Sali had also celebrated the birthday of a youngster a couple of days ago after he made a call to the control room seeking permission to meet friends on his special day and celebrate it. “We had got a birthday cake delivered through our senior inspector of traffic Parag Pote at his place, and made him happy,” he said. Earlier, even crime branch had celebrated the birthday of a teacher at Hindustan Colony and also taken the opportunity to create awareness among neighbours regarding social distancing and following lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-planning-doorstep-book-delivery-so-you-stay-at-home/articleshow/75306334.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 23, 2020||India||Use rapid test kits only for surveillance: ICMR to states||NEW DELHI: A day after ICMR said it has asked states to stop using rapid testing kits for Covid-19 for two days so that it can check complaints, they have been told to continue using the antibody diagnostic kits for surveillance and monitoring trends as per protocol prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In a letter to state chief secretaries on Wednesday, ICMR additional director general G S Toteja said, “States are advised to follow the prescribed protocol for these tests and use it for the purposes for which these are meant. lt is reiterated that to contain Corona Virus infection, RT-PCR tests must be continued vigorously as the principal diagnostic tests.” The ICMR reference to the polymerase tests underlines that they are the “gold standard” for detecting Covid infections and shows that states were not following the protocol that rapid tests are not for diagnostic purposes. ICMR reference shows that states were not following the set protocol that rapid tests are not for diagnostic purposes. TOI had reported about the issue in its edition dated April 22. Following complaints that the antibody test kits are showing varying levels of accuracy, ICMR on Tuesday said it has advised the tests be suspended pending field validation and investigation by its teams. However, forwarding a protocol on use of rapid antibody tests to states on Wednesday, ICMR asked them to use it as a tool for surveillance and not to diagnose Covid-19 cases. “I would again reiterate that antibody rapid tests are largely to be used as a tool for surveillance with respect to formation of antibody in persons exposed to the virus. Globally also, the utility of this test is evolving and it is currently being used for detecting the formation of antibodies in individuals. These test results are also dependent on field conditions,” the letter from Toteja said. The medical research body has told states that the test kits cannot replace the RT-PCR test. To further assist states, ICMR will collect data from various states to assess the scope and extent of utility of these rapid antibody tests in field conditions. Senior officials said the decision to continue using the kits was taken at a high-level meeting on Wednesday. “We evaluated the feedback from the states. These kits are not meant for diagnosis of Covid-19 but only for surveillance. States are required to follow the ICMR protocol properly. Meanwhile, we will investigate it based on data collected from states,” an official said. India had taken delivery of 500,000 rapid antibody test kits from China last week. Besides, some states have also separately procured such kits. Till Wednesday, the health ministry reported a total of 19,984 confirmed cases of Covid-19 along with 640 deaths, which included 50 new deaths in the last 24 hours. Also, 3,870 people have been cured with a recovery rate of 19.36%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/use-rapid-test-kits-only-for-surveillance-icmr-to-states/articleshow/75309158.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No visitors, zoo inmates get break from work from home||KOLKATA: The lockdown has evoked mixed feelings among the 1,100-odd inmates of Alipore zoo. Accustomed to visitors throughout the year, some of them have gone into depression while others are enjoying the calm in the lush green expanses. Babu, the chimpanzee has been depressed since the early days of the lockdown, missing the attention he is used to. “People, especially children, came just to see him. They adored his histrionics. There’s none of that now and Babu looks sad,” zoo director Asis Kumar Samanta told TOI. “He mostly sleeps and looks blankly when approached by zookeepers,” Samanta said. Other residents are mostly happy, though. There’s no noise. There’s no human interaction, save for that with the zoo staff. Samanta said, “We let them out of the cages in the morning. The body language of the deer suggests they are loving the quiet. They seem more animated. The tigers, too, look relaxed. They don’t usually care much for visitors. Now, the big cats are more calm and playful. Their aggression has gone down.” One indication that they are less stressed is that bowel movement of animals such as elephants and apes are more regular. They are not as constipated as they used to be. The animals are drinking more water. V K Yadav, additional PCCF and member secretary, West Bengal Zoo Authority, said, “It’s clear the animals are stress-free and fitter these days, because they are venturing out of their cages more. They walk around, take relaxed strolls, nap and retire peacefully to their shelters after dark.” Yadav added, “We have stocked up enough supplies of food items for them. The revenue from visitors is missing, but there’s a fund of Rs 8.5 crore for the 12 zoos in Bengal.” Devoid of visitors, the zoo is currently staring at a loss of Rs 50 lakh. A report based on the assessment of the stress levels, diet, sleep, mating and defecation patterns of the animals will be submitted to the Central Zoo Authority after the lockdown is over. Meanwhile, the 70 zookeepers, 25 security personnel and 15 cleaning staffers are taking all precautions. They maintain social distancing while working and undergo daily thermal scanning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-visitors-zoo-inmates-get-break-from-wfh/articleshow/75305130.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Good Samaritan saves labourers from destitution||Rajkot: They were abandoned by their employers in Rajkot. However, Ajayrajsinh Zala and his friends have saved these 600-odd factory labourers suffering ever since lockdown was enforced from destitution. Zala and his friends have been providing meals to the factory labourers and their families twice in a day. Zala began his social service on March 28 at Ramapir Chowkadi where he served meals to 200 labourers. Then he provided meals to 250 labourers at a construction site opposite SRP camp on 150-feet Ring Road in Rajkot. Meanwhile, Zala learnt that 600-odd labourers were stranded in Vavdi industrial area after their factory owners locked their units and fled to their native places. “These labourers are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Rajasthan. They were desperate to go back to their states as they were left without food. When I came to know about this, I went to Vavdi and urged the labourers to stay put and assured them that I would provide them two time meals,” said Zala.Pradeepsinh Jadeja, who runs Ashapura Group, a non-government organization, in Vavdi, had accompanied Zala. He expressed his desire to join Zala in his mission. Rajgopalsinh Jadeja, Luckyrajsinh Jadeja, Pathrajsinh Jadeja, Shivrajsinh Jadeja, Kiransinh Jadeja and Kanaksinh Jadeja, all members of Ashapura Group, also joined Pradeepsinh and Zala in this. “We set up a kitchen on the campus of anganwadi in Vavdi. Women and men from different families of Vavdi provide their free service at this kitchen. While women make rotlis (unleavened breads), men prepare shaak (vegetable curry) and khichadi (hotchpotch),” said Pradeepsinh. Zala is a member of Sayla royal family. He works as an administrator with Rajkumar College in Rajkot, where he also serves as a tennis coach. Every Saturday, he helps needy senior citizens who sell incense sticks, papad and pens by buying a product costing Rs10 for Rs100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/good-samaritan-saves-labourers-from-destitution/articleshow/75303386.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Long hikes & queues in sweltering heat, cashew farmers in Quepem bear it all to sell produce||QUEPEM/MARGAO: Sebastiana Rebello, a 65-year-old woman from Ambaulim, Quepem, on Wednesday walked a distance of almost 10km carrying an around 25kg bag of cashew seeds to the Goa Bagayatdar market yard in Curchorem, one of the major procurement agencies of cashew seeds from farmers in South Goa. Once there, her hardships were far from over. Here she had to stand in the sweltering hot sun outside the yard for hours before it was her turn to hand over her produce. Rebello’s isn’t an isolated case. Many poor and elderly people dependant on cashew cultivation for a living, like this tribal woman, lead a lonely life in absence of support from family members. To eke out a livelihood, they are enduring the pain and sufferings in these trying times to sell their produce before the monsoon sets in. When passers-by questioned Rebello, she lamented over the lack of public transport to carry her produce to the outlet for sale. She even blamed the elected representatives for not helping elderly citizens like her. Cultivation of the cash crop is the sole source of livelihood for many families in Sanguem, Quepem, Canacona, Dharbandora, and Sattari talukas. The annual income of thousands of families, mostly belonging to the tribal community, consists of earnings derived during the cashew season that lasts from February to May. “For many cashew farmer families in South Goa, expenses towards children’s education, weddings, home repairs, etc, is met through the earnings derived from sale of cashew seeds during the season. The lockdown has immensely affected this section of the society,” a source closely associated with the cashew farming activities said. If the cashew seeds plucked and stored by them lie unsold until May, the village economy in many parts of the state will be drastically hit, sources associated with cashew-growing farmers said. With cashew processing plants in the state shut and exports suspended owing to the lockdown, wholesalers have stopped purchasing cashew seeds. Though Goa Bagayatdar and Adarsh Krishi cooperative society have begun purchasing cashew seeds from farmers at their outlets across the state since the last few days, the absence of any transportation facility to move the seeds from the plantation site to the collection centres has added to the woes of the cashew farmers. Chairman of Goa Bagayatdar, Narendra Sawaikar told TOI that while procurement of cashew seeds has started at all its 12 collection centres across the state, collection of the produce from source or farms wasn’t possible owing to manpower constraints and current lockdown situation. “We are working out ways to help them wherever possible,” Sawaikar said. Though agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar had spoken about government’s plans to set up a system to lift stocks of cashew seeds lying with farmers, nothing has materialised on that front yet. Once the monsoon sets in, cashew seeds begin to absorb moisture from the environment and soften. This leads to the deterioration of the taste, texture, flavour and odour of the nuts. The produce thus goes to waste, leading to losses for farmers. Speaking to TOI, agro-researcher Sachin Tendulkar stressed on the need for a cooperative-based system for collection of the seeds from various villages, on the lines of the milk collection system followed by the Goa State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union (Goa Dairy). “If the current situation continues, it will lead to distress sales by farmers leading to the collapse of the local economy of those villages. Many cashew-growing farmers live a hand-to-mouth existence. If a collection system is devised to collect the seeds at the village level, their financial needs will be met and the village economy will survive,” Tendulkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/long-hikes-queues-in-sweltering-heat-cashew-farmers-bear-it-all-to-sell-produce/articleshow/75307133.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Over 5,500 samples tested in Vidarbha since April 2: Government||NAGPUR: A day after being pulled up by the high court here, the government on Wednesday filed an affidavit stating that various Covid-19 testing laboratories in Vidarbha had received 5,654 samples since from April 2 and tested 5,588 till Monday leaving only 66 pending. The affidavit by Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) dean Dr Ajay Keoliya through additional government pleader Deepak Thakre, informed that setting up Viral Research and Diagnostics Laboratory (VRDL) at GMCHs of Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gondia would take at least three to four weeks. He stated that the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had pointed out various shortfalls at the three GMCHs, which would take time to correct. TOI in its exclusive report on Monday had published it will take a minimum of two weeks for setting up VRDLs at these places due to apathy of government, which failed to create necessary infrastructure and also delayed ordering equipment for them. IGGMCH dean added that ICMR had conveyed shortcomings at these three GMCHs through its letter on Monday. However, the ICMR website clearly mentioned that information regarding these shortcomings was conveyed to all three GMCH deans on April 15 itself. While tendering an unconditional apology for not informing the court about starting of VRDL at MAFSU and AIIMS in his April 18 affidavit, Keoliya attributed the “inadvertent error” to heavy workload of IGGMC administration and also round-the-clock working of its Covid-19 laboratory. He pleaded there was no mala fide intention in entire episode. The dean’s apology came in response to Justice Nitin Sambre’s flaying the entire administration for suppression of information about VRDL while hearing CH Sharma’s petition through amicus curiae Anup Gilda and another PIL by Subhash Zanwar through counsel Ram Heda. On Monday, the judge directed the respondents to submit data of date-wise total testing kits supplied and number of samples tested and pending till date at all testing facilities in Nagpur and Akola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-5500-samples-tested-in-vid-since-apr-2-govt/articleshow/75306342.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Blast at chemical factory in Paithan, police launch probe||Aurangabad: An industrial blast rocked a chemical factory within the limits of the Paithan MIDC on Wednesday morning. The factory management informed the police that no one was injured. As per preliminary reports, the blast took place in the chemical storage tank. The explosion was powerful enough to shatter windowpanes in the villages surrounding the industrial area. Sources said the blast took place around 7 am when the workers for the morning shift were about to enter the premises. It caused a section of an RCC structure to collapse. Yellow and blue fumes erupting from the plant were visible kilometres away, and people in surrounding villages complained of difficulty in breathing. Paithan police station’s assistant inspector Archana Patil told TOI: “We have taken cognizance of the incident. Our team could not pay a spot visit due to the strong pungent odour emanating from the plant.” While confirming that a probe has been launched, the officer said the spot panchanama would be carried out on Thursday, and opinion of the industries department, fire brigade as well as pollution control board would be taken. Police said the cause of the blast is not clear. No one from the company was available for a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/blast-at-chemical-factory-in-paithan-police-launch-probe/articleshow/75303420.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Jangleshwar’s corona warriors battle virus and suspicion||Rajkot: Jangleshwar has become the most dreadful word in Rajkot minds after the area turned into a hotspot for coronavirus with 31 people testing positive of Covid-19 from the area. Therefore, health workers in this area wage a dual battle everyday — one against the virus in the afflicted area and another with their suspicious neighbours. More than the danger of Covid-19 infection, these 19 women health workers of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) now fear the stinging looks and ostracization by their neighbours when they return home from work. “My neighbours keep distance from me, which is good. But they look at me with suspicion, which makes me feel bad,” lamented Chandrika Jadav, an RMC health worker with physical disability, who has to walk for 13 km from her home to Jangleshwar daily as she doesn’t get any vehicle due to the lockdown. Echoes Jyoti Jadav, another co-worker: “The neighbours look at me as if I am ‘corona’ in person! But I react to them with a smiling face. I leave my 82-year-old mother in the care of one my benevolent neighbours and work in Jangleshwar daily. In order to dispel the suspicions of my neighbours, I have undergone Covid-19 test, the report of which has come negative. However, neighbours are still scared of me.” “If we resign to their superstitions, who will work for these people. We have to keep the lamp of faith alight in our hearts,” says Asha Dalwani, another health worker at Jangleshwar.Lauding these women, RMC deputy health officer Manish Chunara says, “These women have proven themselves as corona warriors in a true sense. They have to slog for 12 hours daily, while being away from their families.” “I salute medical officer Shahin Khokhar, lab technician Megha Dhamelia and nurses — Rizwana Mathakia, Rashida Patani, Shital Bhogara, Nayna Makwana and Roshani Pitroda — for their commendable services in Jangleshwar,” Chunara added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jangleshwars-corona-warriors-battle-virus-and-suspicion/articleshow/75303418.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||Demand as low as mutton supply, halim business to take a hit in Kolkata||KOLKATA: With the onset of Ramzan, halim business in the city is set to take a hit. After Hyderabad Halim Makers’ Association (HHMA) and the Twin Cities Hotel Owners’ Association decided not to serve halim during the month of Ramzan, it was food for thought in case of Kolkata’s restaurants as well. Restaurants in Kolkata that have decided to serve halim during lockdown will cut down on production drastically from what it was the year before. Kolkata doesn’t have a halim makers’ association. So, restaurant owners are taking individual calls. According to Ishtiaq Ahmed, one of the partners of Shiraz Golden Restaurant, the halim business is estimated to be Rs 300-400 crore in this city. “My restaurant’s business is down by 70%. Even the takeaway service was hit after a report of a Covid-19 positive delivery-person in Delhi surfaced. People are hardly ordering food now,” Ahmed said. However, his restaurant will be serving halim although procuring mutton has become very difficult. Last year, mutton for halim was sold for Rs 700 per kg. This year the asking rate has shot up to Rs 800 per kg. Meat seller Zia-ur-Rahman is staring at a huge loss. “For the halim meat, we used to procure livestock from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Now, all that has stopped. Getting livestock from Bengal is a challenge. That’s why the price has shot up. I must have supplied 400kg of mutton daily to various restaurants in Kolkata last year. This year, I am estimating a sale of 50kg to 100kg per day,” Rahman said. Parvez Akhtar, owner of Haji Saheb, says there are no takers for halim during lockdown. “Even if I finally decide to serve halim, the amount will be very less,” he said. Saifuddin Ahmed, the owner of Zeeshan, is on the same page. Last year, his restaurant had sold 250 plates of halim daily. But this year he is thinking of not serving halim at all — a first since it started in 1996. “I put health before haleem. Nobody is buying anything. Even the online business is down. While I usually have six chefs working in my kitchen, now I have only two. How much can I force them to cook in bulk? Even if I finally serve haleem, the quantity will be very limited,” Ahmed said.  Ahmed is still negotiating the meat price with Rahman so that he can sell mutton haleem at an affordable price. “We will definitely sell chicken haleem. While we used to serve 900 plates of haleem daily, we shall start with 100 plates on the first day and then increase according to the demand,” Ahmed added.  Meanwhile, Manzilat Fatema, the great-great-granddaughter of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, who gifted his version of the Awadhi biryani to Kolkata, can’t operate even the takeaway service of the Kasba outlet during the pandemic since she lives 11 kms away on Free School Street. “I used to serve 40-50 pots of haleem daily. This year, I have decided not to open my outlet till Eid,” Fatima said. More than the financial dip, she is worried about the loss of social connectivity during this time of the year. “The attraction of haleem generates a fresh cilent base that helps in the progressive building of future business. This absence from the scene will create a huge gap which will take time to cover up,” Fatima said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/demand-as-low-as-mutton-supply-halim-biz-to-take-a-hit/articleshow/75305158.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Traders oppose plan to shift wholesale grocery stores||CHENNAI: The city corporation has requested owners of wholesale grocery stores at Kothwal Chavadi to shift to a different location, but traders say this is logistically impossible and will hit supplies to Chennai and other districts up to Trichy. Three weeks ago, Greater Chennai Corporation shifted all retail shops in Kothwal Chavadi to a makeshift ‘market’ at the Broadway bus terminus to avoid crowds. But wholesalers were not disturbed as less than 40% of shops functioned and supply of salt, oil, dal and other items to different parts of the state continued. Areas in and around the market in Royapuram were declared Covid-19 hotspots as the zone accounted for nearly one-third of the total positive cases in the city so far. This included a man from Davidson Street in Kothwal Chavadi. The corporation organised a meeting with wholesale traders from the market at Amma Malligai on Tuesday. A zonal-level worker and senior official at the corporation headquarters confirmed it. R Pandiarajan, a trader who attended the meet, said, “Officials had proposed to shift the wholesale provision shops to a different location near Ennore. But we opposed it”. At present, many wholesale traders reside in Royapuram and have rented/own godowns near their shops. If relocated, they could find it tough to shift stock from godown to shops in a distant location. Godowns can’t be created overnight. Even if infrastructure was created, finding employees at the new location will be another challenge, said A M Vikramaraja, president, Federation of Tamil Nadu Traders’ Association. “You need at least six workers to load and unload a truck. How many trucks and workers can we deploy to move an entire wholesale market? If the corporation goes ahead with the plan, supplies will be hit across TN,” he added. Baskar, who buys groceries for his Chrompet department store from Kothwal Chavadi, said rates of essentials had already increased and further decrease in supply will make things worse. Despite attempts by TOI, corporation commissioner G Prakash was unavailable to comment on whether the civic body had formulated alternate plans to restrict people movement in these areas. A zonal-level employee said that even if relocated, efforts will be made to ensure supplies weren’t hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/traders-oppose-plan-to-shift-wholesale-grocery-stores/articleshow/75306366.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||CRPF 213 Mahila Battalion distributes essentials to people||NAGPUR: The Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) 213 Mahila Battalion at Nagpur, along with their male counterparts, distributed essential items under the civil action programme to the needy and affected persons on Wednesday. Assistant commandant Pragya Bajpai said a survey was done in Isasani area to identify needy families by verifying their Aadhaar cards. The CRPF’s women staff ensured that only genuine and affected people get essential items including grocery, vegetables, sanitizers, mask, soaps, hand wash, rubber gloves etc. Sanjay Kumar Bombola, deputy commandant, said around 150 families in six wards of Isasani got benefitted. He added that the staff made them understand the importance of wearing masks, washing hands, social distancing, and keeping surroundings clean during the door-to-door campaign. The staff also had sprays with them and sanitized homes of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crpf-213-mahila-battalion-distributes-essentials-to-people/articleshow/75307163.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses bail plea of three in sexual assault case||MADURAI: The Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of three people who were arrested for sexually assaulting a minor girl. The incident took place in Sivaganga district in 2019. The 14-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by prime accused Visva who took her photograph and circulated it to his friends. Kaviarasan, Akash and Arunkumar, the other three accused sexually assaulted the girl by blackmailing her. Police had registered a case under sections of the Pocso Act and Information Technology Act and arrested the four. In their petition - Kaviarasan, Akash and Arunkumar - stated that the special court at Sivaganga granted them bail in November 2019, however, it was cancelled by the high court Madurai bench in January after police filed a petition seeking cancellation of bail. They stated that their subsequent bail applications were also dismissed by the special court and high court in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-three-in-sexual-assault-case/articleshow/75306364.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Mystery shrouds death of youth in area under curfew||RAJKOT: Mystery shrouds the death of a 20-year-old man who died an hour after a bitter altercation with neighbours in Jangleshwar, an area that has been under curfew since many days. Yusuf Rathod, who stayed in Mafatiyapara locality in the area, had a fight with three persons after they allegedly threw garbage on the road. According to Rathod’s sister, the three assaulted him too. After the fight, Rathod went to his room where fell unconscious. His family members rushed to the civil hospital where doctors declared him dead on admission, said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. Jangleshwar being a Covid-19 hotspot of Rajkot, police now suspect that he might have been infected with the virus too. His samples for the test, the report of which is awaited. “As there were no serious injuries in the fisticuffs received by Rathod, we suspect that he had died of the virus. Before he fell unconscious, he had consumed chewing tobacco,” said Gadhvi. Rathod is survived by his four siblings. He used to work as a labourer in a factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mystery-shrouds-death-of-youth-in-area-under-curfew/articleshow/75303446.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Wadhawans seek stay on arrest as quarantine ends||Mumbai/Pune: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday that the government has written to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to take custody of the Wadhawan brothers as their 14-day quarantine period ended on Wednesday afternoon. Earlier on Saturday, though, the special lockdown court had stayed non-bailable warrants issued against Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan, promoters of DHFL, till May 5 in the Yes Bank case registered by the CBI. This has granted them relief from arrest in the case till May 5. Besides, on Wednesday, the Wadhawans moved anticipatory bail pleas before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court. The court directed the ED to not take coercive steps against them and to file their reply on Thursday. This, too, is in connection with the ED’s case against them in the Yes Bank matter. Meanwhile, Satara police communicated to both CBI and ED that they will hand over their custody on Thursday. Satara superintendent of police Tejaswini Satpute told TOI: “We have communicated this to CBI and ED as both brothers are wanted in multiple cases.” Twenty-three members of the Wadhawan family had violated the lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar., which falls under Satara police jurisdiction. “We sent letters to CBI and ED on Tuesday, which I will share on social media. Until any of the agencies take their charge, Wadhawans will remain in the state government custody.” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wadhawans-seek-stay-on-arrest-as-quarantine-ends/articleshow/75306406.cms||Satyajit Joshi
April 23, 2020||Kolkata||Second batch of Americans flies home from Kolkata||KOLKATA: A special flight picked-up 100 Americans, including an infant, from Kolkata on Wednesday evening and repatriated them to San Francisco in the US after a change of aircraft in Delhi. This is the second batch of Americans stranded in Kolkata and the rest of eastern India to be flown back to the country, following the lockdown nearly a month ago. On April 5, 89 Americans had been airlifted from the city half an hour before the lights-off event to display citizens’ solidarity and resolve in the fight against the Covid-19. “We are honored and privileged to be able to reunite Americans with their families back in the US,” US consul general Patti Hoffman tweeted after the 56 women, 44 men and an infant took off in the Air India Airbus-A320neo aircraft. In the earlier instance, too, it was Air India that had transported Americans to Delhi, from where they boarded a United Airlines special flight to San Francisco as they did on Wednesday night as well. Both flights were organized by the US embassy that has repatriated around 3,200 US citizens from the country so far. Codenamed AI-1701, the flight landed in Kolkata around 4pm and took off at 6.23pm. Prior to boarding, passengers underwent thermal screening after entering the terminal through gate 3C. The passengers were then frisked by CISF personnel wearing personal protection equipment. In the security hold area, rows of seats were re-arranged to ensure they were adequately apart to maintain social distancing norms that is in force. In the aircraft, too, the middle seat in each row on either side of the aisle was left vacant to adhere to social distancing norms. The only passenger who was allowed a leeway was an infant who travelled in the mother’s lap, blissfully unaware of the havoc that the novel coronavirus has wreaked in everyday life across the globe. Sources said the passengers had to sign an evacuation loan repayment agreement as there was no payment upfront since the flight cost had not yet been computed. Each passenger was allowed with only one piece of checked-in luggage and one carry-on bag. Meanwhile, scammers are trying to prey on the desperation of foreigners who are keen to return. The US state department has issued a warning to be vigilant in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2nd-batch-of-americans-flies-home-from-kolkata/articleshow/75305190.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Govt nod to academic book sellers to open shops during lockdown||Dehradun: After the Union home ministry enlisted educational book stores in the list of essential services, the Uttarakhand education department issued an order on Wednesday stipulating that book shops which deal in academic syllabus books and stationery items, will remain open during the lockdown. This decision has been taken as many school students were finding it difficult to get their academic books, state education minister Arvind Pandey told TOI. Pandey said that earlier in the week, he had requested Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to consider allowing academic book stores to open. “It was important that books are made available to the students so that they can continue with their studies. I would like to thank the Union home ministry for enlisting educational book stores in essential services. Now, NCERT books will be easily available to school children since they are mandatory in every school (private or government) of our state,” said the minister. The order states that the name, contact number, and addresses of book sellers should be circulated so that people in the respective areas are made aware that they are open during the lockdown. Also, home delivery services should be made available. Meanwhile, the state education department has collaborated with public service broadcaster Doordarshan to organise televised classes for school students. “Videos are being prepared by experts and these will be televised on DD Uttarakhand from April 24 onwards. The videos will be broadcast every day from 10 am to 11:30 am during the lockdown period,” said Pandey. The televised sessions are being prepared for students of Class IX, X, and XII and will focus on subjects like English, Maths, Physics, Chemistry, and Biology. Three classes of different subjects will be broadcast daily, as per education department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-nod-to-academic-book-sellers-to-open-shops-during-lockdown/articleshow/75301793.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||10 booked for violating lockdown norm||Pilibhit: As many as 10 people allegedly gossiping and loitering in a group were booked on Wednesday for violating the lockdown norms. In his complaint, Sonu, a constable at Pilibhit kotwali, stated that during his routine police patrolling, he and his colleague Jagdish Sharan, both of Pawan mobile unit, found a gathering of 10-20 people gossiping and loitering near Naya Imambada in Sher Mohammad locality around 7.30am on Wednesday. Seeing the Pawan mobile bike, some of them fled the spot while 10 others identified, said Sonu. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said 10 named people were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norm/articleshow/75301797.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Given rooms soiled by bird poop, doctors in Chennai protest||CHENNAI: Resident doctors in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital threatened to abstain from Covid-19-related duties on Wednesday demanding better quarantine facilities. Minutes after a group of doctors released photographs of rooms allotted to them along with a copy of the protest letter they had submitted to the authorities, hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi took representatives of the doctors’ group to a hotel in Egmore and booked rooms. On Tuesday, students were allotted rooms in the PWD quarters at Saidapet where a mattress laid on the floor soiled by bird droppings. The resident doctors wrote to the dean stating that they were serving patients for the past one month but poor quarantine arrangements led to spread of viral infection among doctors. At least seven PG doctors tested positive for the infection. “It was because one of us intubated a patient in the cardiology block without PPE. No one knew the patient had been infected,” said a senior resident. The doctor returned to the PG hostel and 10 other healthcare workers were infected, he said. The residents said on April 16, they had requested proper quarantine facilities as per ICMR recommendations. “We threatened to boycott duty when we did not hear anything. The facility they had given us in Saidapet was not habitable,” said a senior resident. Students said they spoke to the hospital management but to no avail. “We have agreed to eat food cooked at the hospital mess for patients. But don’t we deserve a good clean bed and bath when we finish our duty,” asked one of the residents. The doctors also photos of the PPEs that don’t cover them completely. “All we ask for is quality products that will help our frontline workers. Many in the outpatient wards, who may be screening Covid-19 patients are given just surgical masks,” said Dr A Ramalingam, convenor Federation of Government Doctors Association. By noon, hospital dean Dr Jayanthi took the doctors’ representatives to a hotel in Egmore. “We told them we were okay with the rooms. When we came back to the college we were asked to give in writing that we did not go on any protest. We did so,” said a post graduate doctor. The letter, which was sent from the dean’s office said, “There were trivial issues in quarantine arrangement, which were duly addressed by the dean and the medical superintendent. All residents are fully satisfied with the arrangements provided by the hospital authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/given-rooms-soiled-by-bird-poop-docs-protest/articleshow/75306398.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Vishwajit Rane: Jitendra Deshprabhu’s two Covid tests negative, died of pneumonia||PANAJI: Putting to rest rumours over the death of Congress leader Jitendra Deshprabhu, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday morning said that Deshprabhu, who passed away on Tuesday, died of pneumonia and that two Covid-19 tests carried out on him had given negative results. “As health minister I take full authority of my statement that Deshprabhu died from pneumonia. I would like to reiterate that his (first) Covid-19 test was done through the virology laboratory at GMC, rapid testing was not used in his case,” Rane said. The second test was done through SRL Diagnostics, which is a government of India-recognised laboratory. Both tests were negative for Covid-19, Rane said. Deshprabhu, who was rushed to GMC in a breathless state on Tuesday from a private hospital, died around 4.30pm the same day. The doctors gave his cause of death as pneumonia. Nonetheless, doubts were raised. “The tests are still in the possession of GMC. I request people to refrain from spreading false news and indulging in rumour mongering through social media,” Rane said. The health minister said it was unfortunate that “we lost him due to pneumonia. May his soul rest in eternal peace. Let’s all pray in such a time to give his family (strength) to overcome the loss”. The last rites of the two-time MLA were performed in his hometown Pernem, on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-deshprabhus-2-covid-tests-ve-died-of-pneumonia/articleshow/75306388.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Police deflate ambulance tyres, assault drivers||AURANGABAD: Police allegedly deflated the tyres of private ambulances on the GMCH premises here and also assaulted the drivers on Wednesday, leaving many, especially the medical fraternity, shocked. It is alleged that personnel from the Begumpura police were involved in the incident at the GMCH around noon, which is the largest state-run hospital in the region. The drivers alleged that the policemen deflated the tyres of at least half a dozen ambulances, before caning some of them, who sought to know the reason for their action. The action against the drivers and targeting of ambulances, which have been marked as essential services during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, has attracted serious criticism from different quarters. Moreover, the action is directly in contrast to the state government and police’s stand over using force against those who are part of essential services and commoners stepping out of home to buy essential goods. Some of the drivers suspect that Wednesday’s police action is a result of one of the ambulance drivers getting into a heated argument with an employee of GMCH. “The class-IV employee of GMCH abused one of our drivers over parking of an ambulance on Tuesday. The driver took a strong objection to the abuse, which resulted into a heated argument,” said a driver. Driver Pradip Shinde said, “Ambulances are essential services and policemen deflating tyres is against the norm.” The drivers unanimously expressed concern over the incident and said that police’s act would have cost some emergency patient his/her life. “Had there been some emergency and movement of a patient, or an accident, we would have been helpless due to the deflated tyres,” said another driver. Driver Azhar Khan said that they had to remove the deflated tyres and go to a nearby shop to fill air and put them back. “This consumed at least two hours. Police should realise that every minute is precious at GMCH, which is the largest government-run hospital in the region.” When contacted, assistant commissioner of police (city) HS Bhapkar said, “Deflating tyres of ambulances, prima facie appears to be very serious. We are looking into it. It'll be brought to the notice of seniors, following which they will decide on the course of action.” Begumpura police station inspector Sachin Sanap could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-deflate-ambulance-tyres-assault-drivers/articleshow/75303478.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 23, 2020||Patna||17 fresh cases take Covid figure in state to 143||Patna: Seventeen more persons, including eight in Patna district, were found infected on Wednesday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 143 in the state. Four of them were from Bhagalpur, three from Nalanda and one each from East Champaran and Banka. Also, for the first time, three migrant workers have tested positive for coronavirus in the state. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said two of the migrant workers are from Bhagalpur with travel history from Maharashtra while one from Salimpur in Bakhtiyarpur has come from Delhi. Another Bhagalpur man who tested positive is a health worker who worked at JLNMCH at Bhagalpur. There were 99 active cases in the state on Wednesday. While 42 people have recovered and got discharged from hospitals, one each from Munger and Vaishali died. In Patna, Khajpura area emerged as the Covid hotspot as six fresh cases were reported from there while one tested positive in nearby Jagdeopath area and another in Salimpur near Bakhtiyarpur in the district. East Champaran and Banka districts reported their first cases on Wednesday. Sanjay said in Patna district, seven of the eight persons got infected from the same Khajpura resident who had tested positive on Tuesday. While six of them are from the same lane in Khajpura, one is from Jagdeopath and they are all related to one another. Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said all the cases from Khajpura were related to the 31-year-old man who was found infected on Tuesday. “While four of them are his relatives and include his father, mother, brother and uncle, two are his colleagues as well as neighbours. The one from Jagdeopath is also related to him,” said Ravi, adding, “The man found infected on Tuesday is also a contact of Khajpura woman who had tested positive on April 18 at AIIMS-Patna. Her husband and this man worked for the same ATM cash transfer company.” As the number of Covid cases increased in Khajpura locality, the DM issued fresh instructions asking people to remain indoors. “We have already sealed the area, but will enforce restrictions more strictly,” Ravi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/17-fresh-cases-take-covid-figure-in-state-to-143/articleshow/75303822.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 23, 2020||Agra||Vegetable vendors in Aligarh pelt stones at cops enforcing lockdown; 1 hurt||Agra: A clash broke out between police personnel and a group of vegetable vendors in the UP’s Aligarh on Wednesday over enforcement of lockdown in the district. A group of vegetable sellers in the city’s Bhujpura area clashed with the police and pelted stones after they were asked to remove their carts at the expiry of the relaxation hours at 10 am. One cop was injured. The district administration has given a four-hour relaxation in the lockdown and allowed limited sale of essential commodities between 6am and 10 am. However, enforcing the lockdown after expiry of the relaxation hours has not been easy. In one such incident, local residents claimed an 18-year-old vegetable vendor was beaten up by the cops for violating the lockdown a few days ago in Aligarh’s Jalalpur area. He succumbed to his wounds on Wednesday. Following the clash on Wednesday, district magistrate CB Singh said that no vegetable vendor would be allowed in the area from Thursday and residents could buy vegetables from the Numaish ground area, which is around 5 km from the city. He said an FIR has been registered against 34 named local residents, mainly vegetable vendors, for allegedly violating lockdown rules and attacking policemen on duty. All of them have been booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 147 (rioting) of IPC along with section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and sections 51 and 53 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 at Kotwali Nagar police station. Superintendent of police (crime) Arvind Kumar said, “A few vegetable vendors started fighting among each other at the time of closure of shops. When the policemen intervened to pacify them, they were attacked by the former.” He added that the vendors started pelting stones on the cops, injuring one of them. Meanwhile, the family of Love Kumar, the 18-year-old vegetable vendor who succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday, placed his body in front of the Jalalpur police chowki and refused to cremate him till action was taken against the policemen. Later, administrative and police officials assured the family that action will be taken against the culprits following a probe. “The body has been sent for postmortem and further action will be taken on the basis of the report. The victim’s family members have not produced any evidence so far in support of their allegations,” SP (city) Abhishek said. No FIR was registered till the filing of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/vegetable-vendors-in-aligarh-pelt-stones-at-cops-enforcing-lockdown-1-hurt/articleshow/75303508.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||Teachers in fix after schools misread vague DoE circular||PANAJI: After the directorate of education issued a circular on Tuesday asking school staff to report to work on April 22, teachers and other school staff experienced difficulties in getting to work on Wednesday. A large group of teachers, who do not have their own vehicles, were turned away by the staff of the state-run Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd at Margao. “The circular came in the late afternoon from directorate of education and school heads started calling teachers to work on Wednesday. The department employees just copy and paste from the circular for government employees. As a result, the circular referred to ‘employees’, without making a distinction between teaching and non-teaching staff. Some school heads misinterpreted the circular, which states 33% of all school staff should be present on a given day, and called 33% of teachers and 33% of non-teaching staff to work,” said a teacher from South Goa.  Worse still, most teachers complained that there was no work to be done as they have already prepared the results at home as they were directed earlier. “The education department circular also states that the instructions are applicable till May 3. The academic year ends on April 30. Do the teachers have to report to work post April 30, which is when vacation starts? The department has not clarified. The circular itself goes against MHA guidelines which say that educational institutes have to remain shut till May 3,” said a teacher from Tiswadi. Teachers said with the new social distancing norms, they cannot carpool to work as before. One teacher from Mormugao said from the circular, he understood they have to report to work on alternate days but was marked absent as the school head expected teachers to report to work everyday. “Some contract teachers were also called and had to travel from Quepem to Ponda. Because there is no transportation in the afternoon, they had to wait till late evening to take the bus which transports government staff,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-in-fix-after-schools-misread-vague-doe-circular/articleshow/75306405.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Goa||‘Students answering public exams can enter Goa’||PANAJI: Students, who are set to answer their Class X or XII state board exams but are stuck outside Goa, have been asked to submit their information to the government by April 24. These students will be provided travel relaxations to enter the state, Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said on Wednesday. The board has provided an online link where schools can submit the information. “It has been brought to our notice by the heads of institutions that some students travelled to their native places leaving Goa in view of Covid-19. Subsequently, the borders of neighbouring states were sealed during the lockdown,” Goa Board secretary Bhagirath Shetye said in a circular. Now there is anxiety in the minds of the students that they will be deprived of appearing for public exam to be held at short notice by Goa board due to the prevailing circumstances, he said. “The information of such students is required for further submission to the government for grant of travel relaxation to facilitate these candidates to appear for the exam,” Shetye said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-answering-public-examscan-enter-goa/articleshow/75306395.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Professors’ Colony in Bhopal: No more a containment zone, but shields still up||BHOPAL: The first “containment area” of Bhopal— Professors’ Colony— has been declared a “free zone” with restrictions imposed on entry and exit in the area withdrawn. Additional district magistrate, Bhopal, made the announcement late on Tuesday. While the district administration declared that the colony is no more a “containment area” and barricades are being removed, the barricades are still very much there. In fact, another barricade in the outer ring has also come up”, said some residents of the colony. “Professors’ Colony will no longer be a “containment area”. The declaration to that effect stands withdrawn. Since no positive case has been reported from the area in 28 days, the “containment zone” in Professors’ Colony under Shyamla Hills police station is scaled down as per the Covid-19 containment plan of the Union ministry of public health and family planning”, said a communique issued by the district administration. Professors’ Colony was declared a “containment area” on March 22 after a girl, who studies in the UK and her father tested positive for Coronavirus. The communique further said that barricades put up to restrict traffic in the area are being removed. But, till Wednesday evening, barricades were well in place and entry and exit points in at least a major portion of the colony still blocked. “They had removed the barricades from the exteriors towards the Circuit House or Ravindra Bhawan or 45-bungalows some days ago and brought them into the colony and restricted the service lanes in the colony. Entry and exit from one portion of the colony, where the house of that father-daughter duo who tested positive, was blocked. After residents put the barricades in the corner, BMC staff came and tied the barricades in a manner that they cannot be removed. When we asked SHO, Shyamla Hills, he said, there is no new patient, but we have barricaded 50 to 100 houses in the vicinity of the epicenter (house of the coronavirus patient) as a precautionary measure. The district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, said “Professors’ Colony is not a “containment area” anymore. Barricades would be removed anytime, but restrictions have been withdrawn.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-more-a-containment-zone-but-shields-still-up/articleshow/75306412.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||12 migrants escape quarantine from CHC, another escape attempt foiled at district hospital||Pilibhit: As many as 12 migrants from Uttarakhand and other districts of UP, who had reached the community health center (CHC) at Barkhera for medical screening on Wednesday morning, fled from the hospital campus in the absence of any police surveillance. The migrants, from Palia Mafi village under Barkhera police station, had returned home from their places of work elsewhere. But when villagers of Palia Mafi did not allow them to enter without undergoing medical screening, they went to the CHC. A number of other people quarantined in the old district hospital campus in Pilibhit city also attempted to escape by climbing down from an attic window using a rope made of bedsheets, but their attempt was foiled by health staff. According to Dr S K Singh, the medical officer in-charge at Barkhera CHC, the migrants had been asked to wait till an ambulance arrived from the district headquarters to take them to their quarantine facility. “But when the ambulance got delayed, the migrants decided to sneak out. We have conveyed this information to Barkhera police station, requesting them to trace the migrants, said Dr Singh. He added that this could happen because of lack of police surveillance at the CHC. Regarding the escape attempt by quarantined people in Pilibhit, additional chief medical officer Dr C M Chaturvedi said as many as 50 people, who are quarantined at the old district hospital campus, had attempted to flee on Tuesday night, but were thwarted by vigilant health staff. “We have now locked the quarantine centre from outside, and the police have deployed two constables each for 12-hourly shifts there, to prevent any untoward situations. Prior to this, police used to take a brief round of the campus,” Chaturvedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-migrants-escape-quarantine-from-chc-another-escape-attempt-foiled-at-district-hospital/articleshow/75301818.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Hubballi||Death certificates: Family in isolation in Karnataka, who will apply?||BELAGAVI: Barely coping with the death of a beloved, families of Covid-19 victims in the state are now struggling to procure a death certificate: many are in quarantine and isolation themselves and cannot apply while others say paperwork is delayed in offices due to the lockdown. In normal circumstances, deaths must be registered within 21 days. The Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, stipulates a fine and intervention of the district magistrate in case of delays. The certificate is mandatory to proceed with insurance and financial transactions besides matters of property inheritance. Urban development minister Byrathi Basavaraj said no such issue had come up before him. “If any one approaches the government with such a problem, we will resolve it,” he said. The family of India’s first Covid-19 casualty — a 76-yearold preacher from Kalaburagi who died on March 10 — says they could apply only a week ago. “Properties are registered in his name. Normally, the first thing we do after the funeral is apply for the death certificate. Since the immediate family and most close relatives were in isolation, no one could apply,” said his son. High alert was declared in the district soon after the death and the ward where the victim stayed was declared a containment zone. The victim’s son is now frantically calling up health and corporation officials to secure the certificate, late as it is already. “I am worried that we will have to wait for the lockdown to lift. We need the certificate urgently to carry out financial transactions,” he said. The Gulbarga Institute Medical Sciences (GIMS), where the man died, has not issued a certificate which serves as a temporary document, he added. When contacted, GIMS director Kavita Patil refused comment, saying she could not reveal such information. After being contacted by TOI, Kalaburagi city corporation commissioner Rahul Pandve said he had accessed the GIMS death certificate of the victim and would take the matter ahead. “Though his son said he had applied a week ago, the application has not reached us. I have spoken to him and asked him to apply directly at the office. We will ensure the certificate is issued at the earliest,” Pandve said. “In general, there will be no delay in issuing death certificates,” he added, pointing out that daily requests had slumped by about 50% during the lockdown. The situation is similar for the family of an 80-year-old woman who died in Gadag on April 9. “All close family members are in isolation. How can we apply for the death certificate?” said a family member. He pointed out that when his father died, the local authorities had contacted him to register the death but not this time. “I think we have to wait for the lockdown to ease for the system to resume,” he said, resignedly. In Belagavi, a victim’s family from Hirebagewadi village — which is a cluster infection — hopes some exception will be made for them. The 80-year-old woman died on April 15. Village accountant Anil Kumar said he was preparing documents to generate the death certificate. “None of the family members turned up to apply as they are all under isolation. Hence, we have initiated the process, treating the case as an exception,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/death-certificates-family-in-isolation-in-karnataka-who-will-apply/articleshow/75309164.cms||Shreyas HS
April 23, 2020||Goa||Curchorem family in Goa prints face shields at home, donates||PANAJI: Touched that medical staff, police personnel and other frontline workers, including persons with disabilities, have to be out providing essential services during the Covid-19 lockdown, a resident of Carrimodi, Curchorem, decided to chip in to help. A creative consultant by profession, Vikat P Verlekar already had a 3D printer at home and began researching online for a suitable design for a face shield that frontline workers could wear over their masks as added protection. Verlekar shortlisted a design, improvised on it and began printing the face shields, assisted by his 7-year-old son, Om, and ayurvedic doctor wife, Samixa. “There are so many precautions medical staff require to take to be safe. We wanted to support the fight against Covid-19. There are many face shield designs available online, we printed a few of these and had to improvise the design based on material shortage and to reduce the time of 3D printing,” Verlekar said. He said he finally shortlisted a design that was lightweight as well as strong, but required the shortest time possible to print. “I gave the first face shield samples to Dr Mahesh Verlekar, who provided inputs on improving the design. I used these to improvise and modify the design to suit the needs of doctors. We have just one 3D printer at home, but it has been running round the clock to print the maximum possible quantity of shields,” Verlekar said. “We have already donated over100 face shields to Hospicio, public and community health centres at Navelim, Curchorem, Curtorim, Sanguem, Quepem, Balli, Canacona and Vasco,” Verlekar said. The face shields are printed on a no-profit-no-loss basis, with help from donors. They are made of PLA — polylactic acid or polylactide — which is a biodegradable, thermoplastic polymer comprising lactic acid and lactide. PLA is a bio-based plastic material derived from renewable resources like corn starch or sugarcane. Verlekar, along with health officer at Quepem PHC, Dr Lorna Fernandes, also designed and donated two Covid cubicles. This kiosk, which costs Rs 3,500 in the market, allows the doctor to be within the protection of a room, and examine the patient through the openings provided in the PVC sheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curchorem-family-prints-face-shields-at-home-donates/articleshow/75306419.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Medical university identifies vaccine candidate||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University announced a potential vaccine candidate against SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus causing Covid-19. For almost three weeks, the department of immunology along with senior professors have identified a synthetic polypetide that prevents the virus from entering the human cell or reproduce within cells, university vice-chancellor Dr Sudha Seshayyan said. Synthetic polypetides are important polymers in protein science that consist of a repeating sequence of certain amino acids or substance that make a protein. “These compounds were able to bind the epitope of the viral gene. This means the compound is able to stop the specific piece of the antigen to which an antibody binds, offering protection against the virus,” she said. Nevertheless, all these were conclusions drawn by the institution as a part of the simulated docking experiments. Immunology department scholar Dr Tammanna Bajantri along with senior professors Dr C Pushkala and Dr Srinivasan have been working on the reverse vaccinology -- the process of antigen discovery starting from genome information – and are now looking for collaborations to start laboratory experiments. It will take at least a few more weeks for the scientists to do larger experiments in the laboratory before it is taken for animal studies and clinical trials. “The vaccine is at least a year away. What we are seeing now is the first step in that long journey,” she said. In March, the state health department had urged the university to conduct a series of pharmacological and epidemiological research with help the government frame treatment protocol and policies. The university will identify partners it can collaborate for research on the vaccine candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/medical-university-identifies-vaccine-candidate/articleshow/75306425.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Congress MLA booked for slapping traffic cop in Gujarat||PALANPUR: Congress MLA from Sidhpur in Patan, Chandansinh Thakor was booked for violation of lockdown order, assaulting and abusing a traffic brigade jawan in Bechraji town of Mehsana district on Wednesday. The incident took place when the traffic brigade jawan Jitendra Rawal stopped Thakor’s SUV near Shakti circle in Bechraji. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media. According to Rawal’s complaint, when he asked Thakor, who was in the SUV, the reason for moving in the temple town where there is lockdown in force, MLA got angry. The MLA and his son abused the jawan and later allegedly slapped him, the police said. A crowd had gathered when the jawan and MLA were engaged in heated arguments. Later, after interventions of some cops and locals, the matter was sorted out Based on Rawal’s complaint, the police booked Thakor under sections 332,188, 504, 506(b) of IPC and under Disaster Management Act, 2005. Police inspector GS Patel of Bechraji police station is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-mla-booked-for-slapping-traffic-cop/articleshow/75303548.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Mumbai||Truckers’ shortage could hit essentials in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Transporters fear that the truck driver population could dwindle the day after the lockdown is lifted as many are eager to return to their native villages. “Already, some of the drivers have gone back to their villages and others are stranded on highways, waiting to ply trucks till the stated destination once the lockdown is lifted and then quickly return home. This may impact the essential and non-essential goods supply chain,” said Abhishek Gupta of Bombay Goods Transport Association. Transporters’ bodies are appealing to drivers to continue their work and ensure that transportation of essential goods remains uninterrupted in larger public interest. The truck drivers were on the highways when the lockdown was announced on March 25. “Suddenly, the next morning, they didn’t find any place to have a cup of tea. They got beaten by the police if they tried to move the trucks. There was no place for lunch of dinner that day. Many of these drivers left their trucks and returned to their villages. Some stayed on,” Gupta told TOI.  Bal Malkit Singh of the All India Motor Transport Congress, a national body of transporters, admitted to a “shortage” of drivers and that whosoever was available has to be paid more to ply trucks. “We requested the government for Rs 50 lakh insurance for every truck driver who was risking his life and was a frontline worker to deliver the essentials. But this has not been announced,” said Singh. All India Transporters Welfare Association is encouraging drivers to return as they can get back to making a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/truckers-shortage-could-hit-essentials/articleshow/75306421.cms||Somit Sen
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Covid jolt to Amravati as two deceased women test positive||AMRAVATI: In a major worry to the containment efforts in Amravati city, two women who died on April 20, tested positive on Wednesday night. This has taken the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Amravati to eight and deaths to three. According to an official release, a 70-year-old woman from Kamela ground locality close to Chandni Chowk and a 60-year-old woman from Hyderpura tested positive on Wednesday. Both these areas are sealed and under containment since the first deceased in Amravati was from the same area. While one of the two women died at home, the other died at a private hospital on April 20. Their swabs were taken then and the reports arrived late Wednesday night. Following this, family members of both are being quarantined and others measures being put in place. The results take total number of positive cases of Covid-19 in Vidarbha to 160 and of deaths to six. Three deaths are in Amravati while one each in Akola, Nagpur and Buldhana. All six deceased tested positive after death. None of them was being treated as a Covid-19 patient. Total 33 patients from Vidarbha have recovered and been discharged till date. Another 75-year-old Covid-19 suspect has died at Covid hospital here on Wednesday. He was admitted to Covid-19 ward as he had symptoms but died during the treatment, official sources said. His swab has been taken and sent for testing. The positive reports of two women hasput the administration on its toes with regard to this case. As a precautionary measure, members of his family have been quarantined and their swabs have also been sent for testing. District administration said 112 samples have been sent to Akola and reports are awaited. Other than these two cases in Amravati, and five new positive cases in Nagpur, all other districts of Vidarbha remained free from any new case on Wednesday. In fact, patients are on road to recovery in Washim, Yavatmal while Gondia district joined the club of Covid-free districts in state. Yavatmal suspects want to go home before Ramzan: In Yavatmal, there is a strong demand from the Muslims in institutional Quarantine that they be released before Ramzan as they have already tested negative in the first, second and third tests. Though Yavatmal has recorded 16 positive patients so far, 10 patients have recovered and left the hospital. “Today, we have received 19 test reports of whom 17 are negative and two inconclusive,” said Yavatmal collector M D Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-jolt-to-amravati-as-2-deceased-women-test-ve/articleshow/75306418.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Protect common man from Covid-19 infection, Madhya Pradesh CM to ministers||BHOPAL: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday discussed the situation of Corona virus in the state and the work being done to control it with the members of the cabinet in secretariat. Chouhan said that the common man has to be protected from this infection, so monitoring of various tasks is necessary at the government level. Disease control is being reviewed every day. Disease control works are constantly being reviewed in all the districts of the state. Chief Minister Chouhan also discussed the responsibilities entrusted upon the ministers.Ministers Narottam Mishra,Tulsi Silavat, Govind Singh Rajput, Kamal Patel and Meena Singh were present on the occasion. Chief minister Chouhan said that the cabinet will be expanded after the lockdown. The chief minister distributed responsibilities to the ministers in the meeting, giving top priority to control over corona. Senior officers have also been attached with each minister to help them. The work and officials with the new ministers are as follows— Narottam Mishra (Home, public health and family welfare): Mgmt, monitoring and coordination at the state level to prevent Covid-19 infection, Arrangements of medical equipment, medicine, hosp mgmt, survey, sampling, testing and treatment, communication between govt and private hosps, social workers, health organizations, discussions with the Crisis Management Groups of the districts, compliance of important decision. Mohammad Suleman, ACS Health, Sanjay Shukla, PS, medical edu and Mahesh Agarwal, PS, Ayush will help Mishra. Tulsi Silawat (Water resources): Online classes for school, college students, monitoring of food, shelter, medicine of resident students, migrant workers of MP stuck in other states, review of cash transfer under Mukhyamantri Pravasi Mazdoor Sahayata Yojana, communication with social organizations, dignitaries, trade representative in districts, compliance of decisions in education sector. ICPKesari, ACS, commercial tax, Neeraj Mandloi, PS, higher education and Rashmi Arun Shami, PS, school education department and Deepali Rastogi PS, tribal welfare department will assist him. Kamal Patel (Agriculture): Rabi procurement in state, payment to farmers, transport arrangement, servicing of harvester, thresher, tractor and proper arrangement of straw, ensuring availability of agri inputs, equipment, fertilizer, seeds, credit, discussing with the Crisis Management Groups of the districts, compliance of important decisions in agri sector taken in the last one month. K K Singh, Commissioner agricultural production, Ajit Kesari, PS, agriculture, Umakant Umrao, PS, cooperative department and Sheoshekhar Shukla, PS food will help him. Govind Singh Rajput (Cooperatives, food and civil supplies): Payment of MSP to farmers on time, ration distribution and supply under public distribution system, streamline food distribution in the state, discuss with the Crisis Management Groups of the districts and review strategy, to maintain dialogue with social organizations, dignitaries. Sheoshekhar Shukla, PS, food and Umakant Umrao, PS, cooperative department to help Rajput. Meena Singh Mandwe (Tribal welfare): Distribution of pension under all social security schemes, distribution of pension under all social security schemes, effective implementation of Sambal Yojana, to ensure welfare of sr citizens, differently-abled, weaker sections, discussing with the Crisis Management Groups of the districts, to maintain dialogue with social organizations, dignitaries, representative, tendu patta plucking and purchase of small forest produce. JN Kansotia, PS, social justice, Ashok Varnawal, PS, forest department and Ashok Shah, PS, labour to help her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/protect-common-man-from-infection-cm-to-mins/articleshow/75306428.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||Mobile unit to collect random samples for Covid testing from vendors, hawkers and chemists||Bareilly: The Bareilly health department has deployed a mobile medical unit in crowded localities of the city to collect “pool” samples for random Covid-19 testing of vegetable and fruit vendors, hawkers, chemists, etc. In Bareilly, six members of a family tested positive for Covid-19. They have recovered after treatment and have been discharged from hospital, leaving the district with no active covid case as of now. There are, however, 13 Covid-19 positive cases from neighbouring Budaun who are currently undergoing treatment in Bareilly’s Covid Level 1 hospital. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The mobile medical unit will be stationed in crowded areas of the city. We’ll collect nasal swab samples from fruit and vegetable vendors, hawkers, chemists and grocery store owners on a voluntary basis. These people are exempted from lockdown norms as they provide essential services, and thus interact with most number of people. The aim is to check if they have come in contact with any covid positive patient.” District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The mobile medical unit visited Mandi Samiti and railway hospital on Wednesday, and collected seven samples whose reports are awaited. Already, around 30-40 of the vendors and chemists who have been given lockdown passes, have approached the district medical team for their samples to be collected and tested. Meanwhile, reports of 31 suspects tested on Tuesday arrived on Wednesday. They had all come in contact with positive cases. But all of them turned negative.” According to officials, the mobile medical unit will collect pool samples. One pool contains 10 samples. Explaining the procedure, an official said, “If a pool tests negative for Covid-19, it means all 10 people whose samples were in the pool are negative. However, if a pool is found positive, all 10 persons have to undergo individual tests for Covid-19.” The health department on Wednesday also collected 22 pool samples from journalists working in the area, and 45 individual samples from suspects. All of these will be sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for testing on Thursday. Officials said 47 teams conducted door-to-door survey in the buffer zone around the house where the family of six that tested positive live, and screened 3,440 houses on Wednesday. Though they did not find any suspect, they identified 25 people who have returned to Bareilly from elsewhere, and advised them to self-quarantine at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mobile-unit-to-collect-random-samples-for-covid-testing-from-vendors-hawkers-and-chemists/articleshow/75301849.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||HC seeks report on Covid-19 tests from Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: Refusing to compare the coronavirus situation in Telangana with Maharashtra or make any predictions about the spread of Covid-19 cases in the coming days, the high court on Wednesday sought a report from the government on the status of Covid-19 tests being carried out. “Who knows what happens after two weeks? Nobody can predict such things,” said a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy while hearing apprehensions expressed by petitioner P Thirumala Rao, who urged the court to direct the state government to allow private hospitals to conduct Covid-19 tests. The petitioner, who is an advocate, said that Maharashtra has three times more Covid-19 cases than Telangana and expressed apprehensions whether the state-run hospitals alone can handle the situation if the number of cases in Telangana also rise in a rapid manner. Refusing to get into these prediction games, the bench said, “We may even reach the stage of Kerala where the coronavirus curve has flattened. The figures cannot be predicted.” The manpower available with the state government may not be sufficient, the petitioner said. To this, advocate general BS Prasad said the state-run hospitals along with their doctors and staff have been doing a commendable job in handling the virus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-report-on-covid-tests-from-govt/articleshow/75306436.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||City cops who tried to save corona patient quarantined||Vijayawada: Two cops who put their lives at risk by transporting a 55-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 to Vijayawada GGH were put under quarantine on Wednesday. According to police, the incident happened early in the morning on April 20 when the 55-year-old woman who wasn’t well was first taken to Global Hospital by her family. Later, hospital authorities advised them to take her to old GGH as they did not have outpatient services. Since there were no vehicles, a sub-inspector and a cyber expert working at the DISHA police station took her along with her husband to the GGH in on their vehicle. Eventually, the woman was again sent to Vijayawada GGH, where they were told that they treat only Covid-19 patients. On advise of the hospital authorities, the woman was then taken to ESI hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Upon conducting tests, on April 21, it was learnt that she was Covid-19 positive. During the course of contact tracing, it was learnt that both the SI and the cyber expert happen to have transported them. Eventually, they were kept under quarantine as a precautionary measure. Both of them are being tested for Covid-19. The police commissioner applauded both of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-cops-who-tried-to-save-corona-patient-quarantined/articleshow/75303576.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Girl ends life as parents restrict use of phone||VIJAYAWADA: Upset after her parents restricted use of cell phone, a 14-year-old girl—Karanki Sneha Smita—committed suicide by hanging herself at her residence in Jagarlamudi village of Tenali mandal in Guntur district on Wednesday. According to Tenali police, the incident happened in the morning, when Smita’s parents went out to buy essential supplies. Smita took the extreme step of hanging herself from the fan in her room. Her parents who returned home and saw the scene, informed the police. Cops said that Smita had an argument with her parents the previous day where they chided her for constantly using the phone at her home during the lockdown period. Meanwhile, Smita’s mother Karanki Jansi Rani lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/girl-ends-life-as-parents-restrict-use-of-phone/articleshow/75303541.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot man held for uploading video defaming government||RAJKOT: A man was arrested on Tuesday night for allegedly uploading a video defaming the central government for its alleged failure in tackling Covid-19 outbreak. Police said the accused, identified as Sanjay Gadhia (45), a resident of Satyam Shivam Sundaram Society on Jamnagar Road in Rajkot, had allegedly uploaded the defamatory video on Facebook on the night of April 14. “In his video, Gadhia accused the government of giving out false information related to coronavirus,” said K A Vala, inspector with Gandhigram police station. Earlier, Gadhia had also been booked for allegedly defaming Prime Minister Narenda Modi through his Facebook post on March 5. One Divyesh Ramani, who had taken the screen shots of Gadhia’s defamatory posts on Facebook wall, had also lodged a police complainant against Gadhia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-uploading-video-defaming-govt/articleshow/75303587.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||24 quarantined after illegal travel to Nellai||MADURAI: A case has been registered by the Tirunelveli police against 24 people for travelling illegally from Chennai to Tirunelveli in a mini goods vehicle on Tuesday night. All the 24 have been placed under quarantine at a government hostel. A police team from the Vallioor police station was involved in patrolling found the 24, including the driver had travelled from Chennai and proceeding to Avudayalpuram village in Tirunelveli district without obtaining any valid permission. Since they had violated the curfew conditions, a case was registered against them. All the 24, who are now under quarantine, are being monitored with help of the officials from the health department. Samples were also collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/24-quarantined-after-illegal-travel-to-nellai/articleshow/75306424.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||Three arrested for burglary at Covid +ve family's house||Bareilly: Three persons were arrested by police on Wednesday who had allegedly burgled a Covid-19 family's empty house in city's Subhash Nagar locality on April 12. The members of the family under quarantine were shifted to a hospital after testing positive leaving their house empty. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Shailesh Kumar Pandey, said that they have recovered a stolen laptop, jewellery and cash from the accused. The three men hve been identified as Luvkush Verma, Aman Saxena and Akash Sahu. One of the younger members of the family was quarantined on March 27 after he had Covid-19-like symptoms. On March 29, his report confirmed Covid infection. Later, five other members also tested positive. The entire family was kept under observation at district hospital and were discharged only after their test reports were negative. On April 13, when they were about to get discharged, they came to know from their neighbours that some one had burgled their house. The family informed the police. And the cops found that thieves had decamped with valuables. The SSP added that two teams under additional SP (crime) RK Bhartiya and additional SP (city ) Ravindra Kumar were formed to crack the case. The police teams raided a spot near Mother Public School located at Budaun Road and arrested the three individuals. “Luvkush is the gang's mastermind. We have also retrieved a two-wheeler that was lifted from elsewhere. We learnt that Luvkush’s mother is involved in the crime as well. She is absconding. Raids are on to nab her,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-arrested-for-burglary-at-covid-ve-familys-house/articleshow/75301892.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit DM prohibits prayers at mosques during Ramzan||Pilibhit: District magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav on Wednesday banned the entry of devotees in mosques for offering namaz during the month of Ramzan. In a meeting with clerics, the DM said a relaxation would be given only to four to five people who used to look after religious activities in the mosques. “The administration is firm on its decision not to allow devotees assembled at the mosques during the lockdown for their safety,” said the DM. Superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit said, “The district has as many as 380 mosques and the police administration will deploy at least two constables at each mosque during Ramzan to monitor the compliance of the DM’s order.” Besides, the DM ordered converting of Pushp Institute of Sciences and Higher Studies on Pilibhit-Bankati road into a temporary jail to lodge the lockdown violators and arrested members of Tablighi Jamaat. Superintendent of the district jail Anoop Singh said, “The entire campus has been acquired by the district administration for setting up of a temporary jail. Sub-divisional magistrate Rajendra Prasad will be the jailor of the temporary jail while deputy jailor of the district jail Udai Raj Patel will be the assistant nodal officer.” “The temporary jail will be controlled by the district jail administration. We have posted three security guards at Pushp Institute, while additional security force will be deployed on Thursday. Besides, the zila panchayat has provided five sanitary workers," added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-dm-prohibits-prayers-at-mosques-during-ramzan/articleshow/75301871.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||3 of family shifted after doc tests +ve||Guntur: A woman doctor working a private hospital in Narasaraopet has tested positive for Covid-19. She was immediately moved to a Covid-19 hospital near Mangalgiri. All three family members of the doctor tested negative. The medical practitioner, who is a resident of Chilakaluripet, has been working at a private hospital in Narasaraopet for the past few years. She is believed to have contracted the virus while handling the cases in out-patient wing in the hospital. The family members of the woman doctor have been directed to stay in quarantine facility at a private hospital despite testing negative for the virus. Several of those visited the private hospital in Narasaraopet have already been tested positive for Covid-19. The first victim of Covid-19 in the district was a cable network staffer was reported to have first visited the private hospital for checkup before being advised to visit the Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur. The man tested positive for Covid-19 little after his death at GGH, Guntur. Meanwhile, officials declared the doctor’s residential area in Chilakapuripet town as a containment zone. The local legislator, Vidadala Rajani Kumari, has been monitoring the lockdown restrictions by frequently inspecting the inter-mandal and inter-district checkposts as the constituency had several entry points to Guntur, Narasaraopet and Prakasam district, which reported several positive cases. District administration declared Guntur and Narasaraopet towns as hotspots for Covid-19 as the number of positive cases keep mounting. Both the towns reported five positive cases each on Wednesday. The tally of positive cases from the district went up to 177 following the detection of 19 positive cases. Narasaraopet town has already reported 34 positive cases, all of them were primary and secondary contacts of the first 19 victim. The doctor too likely got it from him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-of-family-shifted-after-doc-tests-ve/articleshow/75303604.cms||Samdani MN
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||With 300 cops on duty, 2.2k challans issued in two days for defying lockdown||Bareilly: The traffic police department of Bareilly has intensified its efforts to prevent locals from violating Covid-19 lockdown norms in the city. Over 2,000 challans were issued to motorists in the past two days for roaming aimlessly on the roads. Around 300 traffic police personnel - homeguards, constables, traffic sub-inspectors (TSI) and inspectors - have been deputed at key junctions and in city interiors to ensure compliance of rules. Officials at traffic police department said that around 5,000 vehicles are being intercepted in parts of the city daily. And legal action initiated on the erring ones. On Wednesday, Bareilly's superintendent of police (SP-traffic) Subhash Gangwar told TOI, “As many as 2,147 challans have been issued against violating motorists. On Tuesday, 1,148 challans were issued, while on Wednesday, there were 999 challans. Hundreds of vehicles are being intercepted every day - inside the city as well as on its outskirts. Strict action is being taken against the violaters." The SP-traffic added, "Motorists who fail to give a genuine reason or are caught wandering around will face legal actions - both from civil and traffic police. We have stepped up our enforcement measures across the city to ensure proper implementation of the lockdown.” The SP-traffic further said, “Around 300 traffic policemen, including TSI, inspectors, constables, among others, are deployed in parts of the city. Cops are repeatedly appealing to locals to stay at home. In the past two days, five vehicles were spotted defying lockdown. They were seized and Rs 13,000 recovered as fines.” Special focus is on areas where shopkeepers and traders were given permission by district administration to operate their businesses in the morning hours. The SP-traffic also said, “Areas such as Shyamganj and Delapir where grocery stores and vegetable markets are located, are being watched carefully - with market-owners allowed to open shops briefly in the morning. Traffic personnel are on their toes to ensure social distancing is being followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-300-cops-on-duty-2-2k-challans-issued-in-two-days-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/75301915.cms||Maria Khan
April 23, 2020||Agra||Five arrested with over 50 kg stolen silver||Agra: Five men with over 50kg of stolen silver were arrested by Sadar police of Agra on Wednesday morning. According to police, on April 10, a local bullion trader Shivshankar Kushwaha lodged a complaint about burglary in his jewellery shop. Station house officer of Sadar Kamlesh Kumar Singh said, “During investigation, we found that men employed as silversmith at Shivshankar’s store were involved in the crime. We have arrested five men, however, four are still at large.” According to police, the apprehended men were identified as Jeetu, Sachin, Ankit, Vishnu and Pape. The ones absconding were identified as Sunil, Pradeep, Gabbar Singh and Rajkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/five-arrested-with-over-50-kg-stolen-silver/articleshow/75303599.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Make Covid-19 test must for all patients who await surgery: Doctors||TRICHY: After a minor boy, who was recently operated for appendicitis, contracted Covid-19 at government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur, federation of government doctors association (FOGDA) have insisted on making Covid-19 testing mandatory for all patients requiring surgeries in the state. A 14-year-old-boy of Virkudi village in Nagappattinam district tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20. He was admitted at government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur for treatment and had undergone a surgery for appendicitis at the same hospital a week ago. The doctors wanted to take no chances and they, after much struggle with the administration, had put him through Covid-19 testing before surgery, which came back negative.  The doctors said that some positive patients may show negative in the first testing. “Since there are theories that the speed of infection could be higher in the operation theatre than in open places, we decided to conduct the test on the boy also. Since he tested negative, we performed the surgery without wearing the personal protective equipment (PPE),” said Dr V Bharathidhasan, Tiruvarur district president of service doctors and post-graduates association (SDPGA), on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the second test post the surgery on the boy came back positive for Covid-19. Following this, as many as 20 alert doctors and nurses, who attended to the boy during his treatment at the ward, underwent Covid-19 testing but they all tested negative. “If the boy had tested positive in the first place, we would have done the surgery with mandatory protection like PPE and sterilized the theatre for 24 hours before allowing other patients for surgery,” said Bharathidasan. Demanding for making the testing protocol for patients in need of surgery compulsory, state treasurer of SDPGA and coordinator of federation of government doctors association (FOGDA), Dr T Aruleeswaran asked the state government to take this issue seriously. “Frontline doctors and health workers are working under several constraints particularly risking their health. Their health should be protected. The state government should make the tests mandatory,” said Aruleeswaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/make-covid-test-must-for-all-patients-who-await-surgery-docs/articleshow/75306442.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Business houses in Bhopal stare at huge loss ahead of festive season||BHOPAL: Business worth hundreds of crores has been affected in the state capital during the one-month lockdown to check the further spread of Covid-19. The worst affected businesses include garments, electronic goods, mobile phones, automobile, hospitality and petrol pumps. Some of these trades are 100% affected. Garments, furnishing and electronics retailers foresee a “huge loss” in the ongoing wedding season and the upcoming festival of Eid. State general secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Udhyog Vypara Mandal, Navneet Agrawal said, “Try to understand the loss in just one day. Almost 30 % of the total business of the year, in all sectors including jewellery and automobile, is done on Akshaya Tritiya, which falls on April 26.” “We would still be under lockdown on that auspicious day and it would be a huge business loss”, Agrawal said. The president of the Confederation of MP for Industry Service and Trade (Compist), Govind Goyal said, “Consumption has gone down almost to unprecedented levels and in some cases it is almost zero as people are locked down and shops are closed.” But, he said, the government promoted big retail stores ignoring the interests of kirana shop owners. In Bhopal alone, despite business opportunities during the lockdown albeit small, about 25,000 kirana stores are affected because of government policies. The immediate problem is faced by the community involved in the festival season – business of readymade garments, furnishing, footwear, food, sweets and electronics among others. The month-long Ramzan followed by Eid bring lots of business opportunities and all of them seem to be lost in the coronavirus lockdown. The director of a mall, Sanjay Boolchandani said, “Mall owners and other traders wait for the whole year for festivities such as Eid and Akshaya Tritiya, which bring immense business opportunities.” Besides, Boolchandani said, “The whole wedding season is likely to pass without any business as people are postponing marriages. The hospitality industry that includes hotels and restaurants is also incurring huge losses. Though the consumption of petrol and diesel has gone down drastically because of the ongoing lockdown and the prices of international crude have nosedived, the government is not bringing down its prices in India because of the Value Added Tax (VAT) involved in it. “The lockdown also shrinks government revenues as collection of GST is affected badly and decreasing petrol/ diesel prices would lead to further VAT loss,” government sources said. “The fuel prices continue to be the same since the last one month”, said Ajay Singh, the state president of Fuel Pumps’ Association, though the consumption of the two fuels has gone down almost by 80%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/biz-houses-stare-at-huge-loss-ahead-of-festive-season/articleshow/75305291.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Business||Oyo cuts pay, sends some staff on leave||Bengaluru: Hospitality major Oyo is sending a large portion of 10,000 Indian employees on leave with limited pay and is also cutting salaries of those drawing over Rs 5 lakh by 25%. The move was announced internally on Wednesday at the Softbank-backed company which has been on cost-cutting spree as travel business takes a hit amid Covid-19 lockdowns. Oyo is expected to start sending employees on furlough starting May 4, the day after the extended nationwide lockdown is expected to end. The furlough is expected to last till August end. The 25% deductions are expected to be from April till July “Those going on this leave will get benefits such as continuation of medical and parental insurance, school fee reimbursement and ex-gratia support,” Oyo’s India head Rohit Kapoor told employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oyo-cuts-pay-sends-some-staff-on-leave/articleshow/75307246.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Agra||Frontline health staffs of two hospitals protest lack of safety equipment||AGRA: Paramedics anxious about their safety from the contagious novel coronavirus, staged a protest at Lady Lyall Hospital (district women’s hospital) and SN Medical College (SNMC) on Wednesday. The health staff of both centers alleged they were being forced to work under unsafe conditions. Notably, 13 government health staffers in Agra district have tested positive for Covid-19. Out of these, 11 of those affected are attached with SNMC, including three junior resident doctors. Head of the community health center in Saiyan block had earlier tested positive. On Tuesday, amedical technician of the Dial 108 emergency ambulance service also tested positive. Health staff of Lady Lyall Hospital complained they have not been provided N-95 masks, personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and sanitisers. Besides, they said water supply is inadequate and soap or handwash are unavailable at the facility. Superintendent in-charge of Lady Lyall Hospital, Dr Asha Sharma, said, “The responsibility of supplying PPE kits is with the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supplies Corporation Limited. We have already placed a demand for PPE kits. Sanitisers and masks are being provided to staffers.” In response to whether the issues raised by paramedics are valid, she however refused to comment. Elsewhere, health staffers at SNMC protested under the banner of UP Lab Technician’s Association (UPLTA), handing over a memorandum to the SNMC principal G K Aneja. UPLTA district president Yogesh Sharma said, “PPE kits, sanitisers and masks of sub-standard quality are being provided to health staffers. The PPE kits we were given tear easily during use. Sanitiser bottles are not sealed and have excessive spirit in them. Besides, even after repeated requests, respirators are not being provided to staffers who collect samples for tests from suspected Covid-19 patients. We have brought the matter to the notice of the principal and have sought time-bound action. We’ll not be able to work under present conditions.” A junior doctor said, “The PPE kits being provided to health staffers are of substandard quality. Due to lack of adequate protection, doctors and supporting staff run risk of getting exposed to the contagion, which would worsen the situation.” A nurse on duty at the isolation ward told TOI, “We’re staying in the nursing school and getting very poor-quality food. We have raised our complaints with the college administration several times. But they have failed to take suitable action.” SNMC principal G K Aneja said, “On the basis of issues raised by staffers, suitable action is being taken. The wellbeing of health workers is our top priority. I have appointed two gazetted officers to take care of all needs of frontline workers. Besides, any paramedic can directly approach me at my office in case of any problem. Time-bound action will follow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/frontline-health-staffs-of-two-hospitals-protest-lack-of-safety-equipment/articleshow/75303623.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 23, 2020||Nashik||HAL, small units starts operations, some in a fix over transport||Kolhapur/Nashik: Nearly 850 industrial units in Nashik were granted permissions to start operations, but only a 100 began work from Wednesday. In Kolhapur, as many as 854 firms had sought permission to start operations, but they face the challenge of connecting with related industries in Pune. MIDC officials said only 850 industries from Nashik filed applications correctly and they have been permissions to start operations. “Of 850 industries, around 100 have started operations in rural parts especially Sinnar and Dindori. Another 300 units from Satpur and Ambad industrial estates have also been given permission,” said Nitin Gavli, regional officer, Nashik, MIDC. Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd has started operations at its manufacturing unit at Ozar, 20 km from Nashik city. HAL sources said it has started operations with 30% manpower that resides in township, adjacent to its factory in Ozar. HAL manufactures SU-30 aircrafts. Moreover, the Nashik unit is also engaged in overhauling both MiG 21 and SU-30. HAL said it has total manpower of over 6,000 workers. Of which, 30% of the workers reside at the township at Ozar. Hence, these workers have been called for work, while we have not call remaining workers as they reside far away from the plant. The Nashik Industries and Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) said small and medium enterprises have started operations, but large industrial units are yet to start operations. “There are around 15 SMEs in Sinnar industrial estates those have started operations,” said Sandip Bhadane, additional secretary of NIMA for Sinnar industrial areas. Industrial Polymer, which manufactures rubber rollers at its Sinnar unit, started operations on Wednesday. “We have total 31 workers, but we started production with 25 workers. The company has its own quarters in the premises where the workers are staying. They have been provided all the facilities and we are taking precautions,” said S K Nair, chairman of Industrial Polymer. Sachin Kankrej, director of Nupur Industries, an engineering company in Nashik, said they too had provided staying facilities to their workers at the company premises. “We have provided sanitizers, face masks and hand gloves to workers. We have also disinfected the company premises before starting production from Wednesday,” he said. Large industries, especially in the city areas, are facing difficulty in arranging transport for their workers. “We have given a letter to the district collector to allow workers to reach industries by bikes or cars as it is not feasible for the industries to bring their workers at workplaces through buses,” said Tushar Chavan, secretary general, NIMA. Industries in Kolhapur are in a fix over procuring raw material and selling finished goods during lockdown. “The industrialists are worried about how to tackle the situation and continue operations. Kolhapur MIDC produces spare parts required for vehicles and the agricultural implements. Most of the automobile industry is based in Pune, where the industries are still not operation,” said an industrialist based in Kolhapur. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce, said there were questions about how industries would implement the strict rules and guidelines on the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hal-small-units-starts-operations-some-in-a-fix-over-transport/articleshow/75305298.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 23, 2020||Nashik||MUHS cancels summer vacation for teachers||Nashik: City-based medical varsity Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has cancelled the summer vacation for its teachers for the year 2020. The varsity issued a circular on Tuesday declaring that the vacation that was to begin from April 26 to May 31 stands cancelled as the teachers have to serve in the field to fight against the Covid-19 outbreak. Deelip Mhaisekar, MUHS vice-chancellor, told TOI, "Our teachers cannot afford to go on vacation in this time of distress when they are continuously required on the field. No teacher will get the summer vacation till May 31. We will take a decision upon the dates of winter vacation later as we also have to complete the instructional days of the academic year." There are more than 30,000 teachers working in a total of 383 colleges affiliated with the varsity across the state. The varsity comes under the state medical education and drugs department that had earlier said that due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the medical institutions should not go on summer vacation. "The teachers, who are medical practitioners of allopath in government or private firms, are already working as healthcare staff in different hospitals. There is no chance of them going on vacation. If need arises, the practitioners of other branches will also be roped in for the treatment of Covid-19 patients," a MUHS official said. Apart from allopath, the varsity also teaches subjects like Unani, Homeopathy, Ayurveda, Dentistry, among others. The varsity recently deferred its semester examinations for a month which will now be conducted in the month of June. The students are either engaged in treating Covid-19 patients or preparing for the examinations. "Many of our teachers are taking online classes to complete the syllabus so that the students can prepare for the examination. Others are busy treating the patients," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-cancels-summer-vacation-for-teachers/articleshow/75305287.cms||pragya jain
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Absent-from-duty govt docs issued public notice||Dehradun: The state’s director general (health) on Wednesday announced that as many as 147 doctors, who have been absent from their duties for years without any information, have been issued a public notice that they should revert explaining the reason of their absence to the department within 15 days. The department is mulling to suspend the services of those who will not revert with their replies in 15 days. DG (health) Dr Amita Upreti said that the doctors, who are absent from their duties, are mainly posted in hills. She added that they include ENT specialists, neurosurgeons, cardiologists and physicians among others who have been absent for long without any prior information to the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/absent-from-duty-govt-docs-issued-public-notice/articleshow/75303644.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru police pay tribute to healthcare personnel of district with a drive-by salute||Mangaluru: Uma Rani Madhusudhana, one of the front-line warriors in the battle against Covid-19 in Mysuru, was offered a tribute in the United States of America (USA), where her dedicated service was acknowledged with a drive-by salute. On Wednesday, Mangaluru city police, inspired by the gesture in distant USA, decided to offer a similar tribute to the healthcare personnel, which let not only those being saluted, but the whole of Kudla overwhelmed. In fact, the healthcare personnel grew so ecstatic that they have announced their intention to convey their appreciation for those in khaki soon. The drive-by salute offered by the cops was streamed live on the Mangaluru city police commissioner’s official twitter handle @compolmlr. Mangaluru city commissioner PS Harsha sent out a tweet after 8am, informing those on the web about the event planned ahead in the day. The tweet received 55 retweets. The drive-by salute started, as was announced, at 11am, and the attendance of the top brass of the Dakshina Kannada police attested to the earnestness of the effort. Police patrol vehicles, with their lights flashing and sirens blaring, circled in salute to those staking their lives to save those of their fellow countrymen. Dakshina Kannada district health officer Ramachndra Bairy was given a bouquet at the end of the heart-warming fare by deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh as an additional token of appreciation. Police and officials of the district administration dedicated the tribute to the sanitisation workers, laboratory technicians, ambulance drivers, nurses, doctors and administrative staff of Wenlock Hospital, the designated healthcare facility in the district for Covid-19 infection. “You are toiling day and night to control the pandemic, and we (police) are with you in this effort,” said Harsha. Sindhu said that the event helped reinforce the amount of attention and care that the rank and file of the health department in the district was displaying in their treatment of infected patients and those in quarantine. Dr Annayya Kulal, president of the Mangaluru unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that doctors and healthcare staff would hold a similar event to showcase their appreciation for police. Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat chief executive officer R Selvamani pointed to the testimony of Saleem Hegde, a patient who was cured of Covid-19 and discharged subsequently, as proof of the efforts of the medical fraternity in the district. Incidentally, Tamil Nadu police in Tirunelveli too had saluted the efforts of the sanitisation workers with a guard of honour. The video, wherein the Tirunelveli deputy commissioner of police led the guard of honour, had gone viral and helped spread cheer among the people amidst the gloom of the pandemic and lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-police-pay-tribute-to-healthcare-personnel-of-district-with-a-drive-by-salute/articleshow/75301931.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 23, 2020||Bareilly||Mobile unit to collect random samples for Covid testing from vendors, hawkers and chemists||Bareilly: The Bareilly health department has deployed a mobile medical unit in crowded localities of the city to collect “pool” samples for random Covid-19 testing of vegetable and fruit vendors, hawkers, chemists, etc. In Bareilly, six members of a family tested positive for Covid-19. They have recovered after treatment and have been discharged from hospital, leaving the district with no active covid case as of now. There are, however, 13 Covid-19 positive cases from neighbouring Budaun who are currently undergoing treatment in Bareilly’s Covid Level 1 hospital. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The mobile medical unit will be stationed in crowded areas of the city. We’ll collect nasal and throat swab samples from fruit and vegetable vendors, hawkers, chemists and grocery store owners on a voluntary basis. These people are exempted from lockdown norms as they provide essential services, and thus interact with most number of people. The aim is to check if they have come in contact with any covid positive patient.” District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The mobile medical unit visited Mandi Samiti and railway hospital on Wednesday, and collected seven samples whose reports are awaited. Already, around 30-40 of the vendors and chemists who have been given lockdown passes, have approached the district medical team for their samples to be collected and tested. Meanwhile, reports of 31 suspects tested on Tuesday arrived on Wednesday, and all of them turned negative.” According to officials, the mobile medical unit will collect pool samples. One pool contains 10 samples. Explaining the procedure, an official said, “If a pool tests negative for Covid-19, it means all 10 people whose samples were in the pool are negative. However, if a pool is found positive, all 10 persons have to undergo individual tests for Covid-19.” The health department on Wednesday also collected 22 pool samples from journalists working in the area, and 45 individual samples from suspects. All of these will be sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for testing on Thursday. Officials said 47 teams conducted door-to-door survey in the buffer zone around the house where the family of six that tested positive live, and screened 3,440 houses on Wednesday. Though they did not find any suspect, they identified 25 people who have returned to Bareilly from elsewhere, and advised them to self-quarantine at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mobile-unit-to-collect-random-samples-for-covid-testing-from-vendors-hawkers-and-chemists/articleshow/75301972.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Yoga classes launched for frontline warriors in Thanjavur||TRICHY: Thanjavur district administration on Tuesday launched yoga classes for police, revenue and frontline workers including doctors, nurses to relieve their stress. Inaugurating yoga and meditation classes in Thanjavur, Covid-19 monitoring officer and commissioner of museum, Chennai MS Shanmugam said that yoga and meditation would be a great shield for the frontline workers. "A health drink will also be distributed to the participants. Extracts of lemon, ginger, tulsi, pepper and berry will be served mixed with honey. All these ingredients are rich in vitamin C. Since the drink has no side effects, people who have been cured of the infection could also be given”, monitoring officer Shanmugam further stated. Due to the work burden, some of the medical staff, as well as police personnel, may not take enough food with required protein and vitamins. So, this kind of initiative would help them to regain both mental as well as physical strength and it would definitely help them to work in a more effective way in the process of combating covid-19, district collector M Govinda Rao opined. “Following the outbreak of covid-19 virus, entire frontline workers are in a state of stress. At this juncture, yoga would definitely destress them. Moreover, this will also enhance the immune system”, said assistant medical officer (yoga), Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital Trichy, Dr Preethi Pushkarini. Yoga and meditation are the best therapy for respiratory problems. The authorities from Thanjavur have taken a very good initiative to help overcome stress and unexplained fear haunting subconscious mind. This may be followed in all districts too, said P Vijayakumar, yoga master, Amirtha Yoya Mandiram, Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/yoga-classes-launched-for-frontline-warriors/articleshow/75306455.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Hackathon to develop app on Covid issues||TRICHY: University College of Engineering, Anna University, BIT campus, Trichy is organizing a national level Covid-19 bioinformatics online hackathon from April 27 to May 6 to develop a comprehensive app covering numerous issues related to Covid-19. The idea is to integrate 25 problems faced by people during the lockdown such as labour shelter mapping, public healthcare locations for Covid-19, patient input data on fever and doctor’s online appointment. The solutions for these problem statements will have to be integrated into a common disaster risk management (DRM) app that can help in stamping out the pandemic. “Through this initiative, our vision is to create a common platform for national health management system,” said Puratchikody, head, department of pharmaceutical technology. Most mobile applications that are beneficial for the society are available in fragments. For instance, there are separate apps for health, one for rehabilitation and another for relief. We are trying to integrate them in such a way that they are of use even in future through upgradation, she said.  We are collaborating with staffs from IIT Bombay, Derbi Foundation, a startup accelerator from Bengaluru, Climate Smart Technologies (CST), expert in rapidly developing disaster risk management apps apart from Madras School of Social Work, Chennai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hackathon-to-develop-app-on-covid-issues/articleshow/75306447.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Surat||Amid lockdown, forest fires rage across Gujarat||SURAT: While the global lockdown has been good news for the wildlife including flora and fauna, making conservationists happy, it has not be so for Gujarat as intermittent forests fires continued to be a major cause of concern here. According to the Forest Survey of India (FSI), between March 25 and April 22 this year, (the lockdown period), altogether 1,360 forest fire alerts have been issued across the state. In fact, FSI’s Forest Fire Alerts System 3.0 states that for the same period last year, the number of forest fire alerts were only 1,087 in Gujarat. Forest officers say that almost 99 percent of the forest fires are man-made and are done intentionally by the forest dwellers or nearby residents to avenge their grudge against the forest department over strict implementations of various forest laws. According to the forest officials, forest fire is one of the major causes of degradation of forests in many parts of the country. The FSI has been alerting the State Forest Department and other registered uses of forest fire locations detected by the MODIS sensor onboard Aqua and Terra Satellites of NASA since 2004. From 2017, the FSI has also started disseminating alerts obtained from SNPP-VIIRS sensor, which has a better resolution (375 m X 375 m) compared to MODIS (1 km X 1 km). Alerts are disseminated up to beat level in the forest areas. Talking to TOI, head of the Forest Forces (HoFF), D K Sharma, however, said that these small fire incidents reported from many parts of the state are harmless and everything in under control. “There is absolutely nothing to worry as far as forest fires are concerned as adequate measures are in place,” Sharma added. A senior forest officer said that the forest fire alerts which the department receives from the system, aren’t necessarily fire happening inside the forests. The forest fire system keeps detecting such fires and sends alerts to the forest division concerned and after a team rushes to the spot, they find that it many a time, it is the farmers living in the fringe areas burning stubble. “A few days ago, forest fire alert system reported a fire in Gir East division but when our staff went there, they found that fire was occurred in revenue area. In another incident, fire occurred in a farm inside the forest area and it was brought under control,” he said. "In many cases, tribal farmers traditionally burn their stubble after harvesting crops and these farmlands are located inside the forests. Moreover, farming activity around the forests in remote villages are going on in most parts of the state. Forest fires are mostly the result of conflicts between locals living inside and around the forest areas and the forest department. The lockdown will not stop these locals from harming the forests,” another senior forest officer, who did not wish to be named, rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/amid-lockdown-forest-fires-rage-across-gujarat/articleshow/75303638.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 23, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur cops bring birthday cheers||Bhagalpur: It’s not often that one gets to see the smiling visage of a cop in uniform, rarer still is the sight of a bunch of policemen arriving at your doorstep bearing cakes and gifts. This is exactly what happened to three lucky girls in Bhagalpur — eight-year-old Avya, six-year-old Diya and two-year-old Ishika. The cops not only brought cakes and gifts, but also sang birthday songs for the little girls all the while taking care to ensure social distancing. The three girls, especially the two older ones who live in different parts of the city, were feeling dejected that they couldn’t celebrate their respective birthdays with their friends due to the lockdown. Avya’s big day was on April 20 while Diya and Ishika shared their birthday on April 18. It was the result of the three fathers — Ishika’s father Sourav Jain, Diya’s father Manoj Dubey and Avya’s father Chunnu Singh — who narrated the tale of their sad daughters to Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti, telling him how the kids are unable to understand why they could not have fun on their birthdays. It was then that SSP Bharti not only ensured a symbolic birthday celebration for all three, but also sent gifts, including birthday cakes, wafers and other goodies to bring smile to the dejected faces of the young girls and their families this week. Even the cakes were specially made at home by a local baker at the request of Kotwali inspector and city DSP Rajvansh Singh since bakery shops are not open due to lockdown. “We really thank Bhagalpur police and especially SSP Ashish Bharti for making the arrangements and sending the cakes and gifts for the dejected children despite them being fully engaged in enforcing lockdown, serving people with food packets and maintaining law-and-order,” said Sourav Jain. Manoj Dubey and Chunnu Singh too echoed the same sentiments when this correspondent spoke to them. Overwhelmed by the senior police officer’s gesture, the three fathers said they will never forget this kind and friendly gesture of Bhagalpur police. SSP Bharti said, “We tried to bring smiles on the faces of these little kids and their families. We will continue to do so while taking care to follow social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-cops-bring-birthday-cheers/articleshow/75303696.cms||Kumar Rajesh
April 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Earth Day: Activists urge govt to focus on green issues||Hyderabad: To raise awareness on Earth Day 2020, activists participated in a tweetathon on Wednesday. Using the hashtags #IndiaNeedsClimateAction #EarthDay2020, the activists urged the government to focus on green issues. Tweeting to IT minister KT Rama Rao and the chief minister’s office, environmental action group Fridays For Future Hyderabad (@FFF_Hyderabad) tweeted a collage of city residents holding placards with one word each that read: “Let us learn our lessons and henceforth focus on sustainable development & co-existence”. The group buttressed the need to protect KBR Park in the city. A post read: “Just 352 Acres of KBR Park in Hyderabad has Over 600 plant species, 20 mammals, 20 reptiles and amphibians,133 bird species, 20 species of butterflies and several other invertebrates. Don’t kill KBR in name of SRDP.” Some hoped that climate change would get as much importance as the corona crisis. Said environmentalist Kajal Maheshwari: “Fresh air, clean water and nourishing soil is most important. Climate change is a bigger curse than any pandemic as it is the root cause of all imbalances.” Advocating the need to rely more on renewable energy was Madhav (@maddy_9238): “India’s electricity demand will triple by 2030 with coal still accounting for 57% of the generation. Invest more in renewable energy.” The tweetathon was a part of a nation-wide effort by activists to raise environmental concerns with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/earth-day-activists-urge-govt-to-focus-on-green-issues/articleshow/75306462.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||No groupism; Covid-19 fight our top priority, says Madhya Pradesh BJP||BHOPAL: The state BJP scoffed at speculations in political circles and allegations by state Congress about resentment among senior BJP MLAs over being ignored in the cabinet expansion and Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists being given light portfolios. State BJP spokesperson said the party is united and there is no internal squabble. Chouhan on Tuesday appointed five ministers including Narottam Mishra, Tulsiram Silawat, Kamal Patel, Govind Singh Rajput and Meena Singh while some heavyweights like Gopal Bahrgava, Bhupendra Singh, Rampal Singh and Rajendra Shukla failed to make the cut. After the cabinet formation, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan assigned two divisions each to the ministers and on Wednesday, distributed portfolios to the new ministers. Contrary to the expectations Chouhan let Mishra hold the important portfolios of health and home while entrusting water resources to Silawat, who was health minister in Kamal Nath government. One of the biggest surprise was omission of former minister and leader of opposition during Congress regime, Gopal Bhargava. Bhargava, an eight-term legislator and strong Brahmin leader in the Bundelkhand region, was an automatic choice, but failed to get through in the high command’s bid to strike regional balance. Sources said that Bhargava has been offered the post of assembly Speaker which he is said to have refused. Name of former home and transport minister Bhupendra Singh, who is considered close to Shivraj Singh Chouhan was also missing from the cabinet. Singh told TOI over phone from Sagar, "Only CM can comment on cabinet formation. I am helping people in the corona crisis in my constituency. Congress has its own political agenda, but, whatever decision party has taken, it must have been after thorough consideration." Scindia supporters Tulsi Silawat and Govind Rajput were given water resources and food and civil supplies. Two former minister who were in the gang of 22 MLAs who split from Congress marking downfall of Nath government Pradyumn Singh Tomar and Prabhuram Chaudhary played down the issue. They said, “Right now the time is to fight corona and we are lending all support to government and people. It’s all Congress’ misinformation.” The Congress has on Wednesday alleged that senior ministers were neglected in the cabinet formation while, during distributing portfolios, Scindia supporters were sidelined. "For the first time, a person who was expected to become deputy chief minister has been given the portfolio of water resources minister. BJP has clearly ignored the two Scindia supporters," said Congress state media coordinator, Narendra Saluja. BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal refuting the Congress allegation said, “"There is no groupism in BJP like the Congress. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan is maintaining team spirit and Congress is it trying to spread rumours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-scoffs-at-speculations-about-mlas-resentment-over-cabinet/articleshow/75305307.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Agra||UP govt provides new machine to AMU for testing COVID-19 samples||Agra: The state Government has provided a new machine to AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) for testing samples of Covid-19. According to AMU administration, more than 200 patients can be tested for COVID-19 daily with the installation of another RT-PCR testing machine in the hospital. The machine worth Rs 15 lakh will enable JNMCH to speed up the testing, officials said. AMU VC prof Tariq Mansoor thanked the state government and said that it would go a long way to curb the spread of COVID-19. Principal of JNMCH Prof Shahid Siddiqui said, “More than 3,000 free tests of COVID-19 samples have been conducted so far at the institute and the new machine will surely help in speeding up the testing process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-govt-provides-new-machine-to-amu-for-testing-covid-19-samples/articleshow/75303685.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Vijayawada||In isolation, crime rates dip but domestic violence rises||Vijayawada: It has been just over a month since the Prime Minister declared a lockdown across the nation. Krishna district has witnessed a drastic decrease in crime rate in the last 29 days. According to District Crime Records Bureau (DCRB) data, major crimes in April is 71% lesser than in March. Not surprisingly, the district witnessed an 88% decrease in road accidents and a 72% decrease in fatalities associated with it. With barely any traffic on the highways, the police point out that the number of mishaps this month could be among the lowest in history. However, women harassment cases and domestic violence cases continue to stand as the second most frequently-occurring crimes in the district. The graver crimes against woman such as rape and crimes that fall under POCSO, saw more than a 50% decrease in the current month. Naturally, cases of the lockdown being violated are the biggest crime with 1,809 cases registered during April alone. Experts suggest that the decrease in crime rate could also be attributed to the fact that people are reluctant to commit offences due to the certainty in which they could get caught during the lockdown. Nevertheless, some desperate thefts were committed by alcoholics who tried to steal from local liquor stores in the district. Overall, the first 20 days of April saw only 15 theft cases while the whole month of March saw 30. Speaking to TOI, Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu explained that the decreasing trend began during March itself prior to the lockdown. “The more common crimes like theft, robberies and other property offences saw a huge decrease due to the lack of business activity in the district. This trend may not continue after the lockdown, but it surely gives a clear indication as to what can deter it,” Babu told TOI. Officials said that since restrictions are in place across district borders, it is practically impossible for anyone to give a slip and escape somewhere outside the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-isolation-crime-rates-dip-but-domestic-violence-rises/articleshow/75303660.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 23, 2020||Rajkot||Four caught for hunting in Bhuj village||RAJKOT: On charges of allegedly shooting down a wild hare and opening fire at forest officials in Abaya village of Bhuj taluka in Kutch district on April 17 night, cops arrested three hunters and detained a minor accomplice on Wednesday. The three accused were identified as Hayat Mandhara (20), Ramaju Traya (22), Kareem Mandharia. “We received a tip-off that on the night of the crime, Mandhara had left his home in Boladi village of Bhuj taluka carrying a musket, following which we arrested him. During his interrogation, Mandhara revealed the names of the co-accused,” said Y P Jadeja, sub-inspector with Padhar police station. The accused were spotted by the officials of Bhuj range forest on the night of the crime. The forest officials saw a shaft of torch light at a distant and heard a gun shot. When they got near the hunters, the accused pelted stones at the team and fired two rounds in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-caught-for-hunting-in-bhuj-village/articleshow/75303676.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Government slammed for receiving funds from Sterlite management||TUTICORIN: Anti-Sterlite protesters on Wednesday condemned the state government for accepting the Rs 5 crore contributed by the Sterlite copper smelter plant towards the chief minister’s public relief fund. Meanwhile, some of the protesters Krishnamoorthi, Rajesh, Mahesh and Merina Prabhu surrendered their volunteer identity cards issued by the district administration for the Covid-19 crisis at the Thoothukudi taluk office on Wednesday. Later, talking to reporters, Krishnamoorthi said that a week ago the district administration asked them to surrender their identify cards. “We received a call from an official asking us to return the identity cards. We were not given a proper explanation but were told that the purpose of the card has been served. We came to know that only those who were involved in the anti-Sterlite protests were asked to surrender it,” he claimed. Krishnamoorthi said the government should not receive funds for relief from anyone who comes forward to donate as it sends a wrong message to the public, with reference to the contribution from Sterlite. “The plant was sealed by the state government for violating norms and polluting the air and water. How can the government accept the contribution?” asked Krishnamoorthi. The protesters also pointed out that Sterlite employees have been given a free hand to distribute relief materials to villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-slammed-for-receiving-funds-from-sterlite-mgmt/articleshow/75306453.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Doctors demand quality evaluation of PPE kits||The Federation of Government Doctors Association (FOGDA) has raised concern over the quality of the personal protection equipment (PPE) kits being provided to the government doctors and the other frontline health workers who are treating Covid-19 patients and demanded for evaluation of the standard of the kits. Recalling their representation to the state health secretary on April 18, 2020, state coordinator of FOGDA Dr T Aruleeswaran said, “The quality of the PPE kits should be ensured across the state. It should be made of non-woven fabric of polypropylene with 70 GSM not less than 70. We are forced to make the demand after some of the doctors treating Covid-19 patients contracting the infection in Chennai. Experts should validate the quality.” While making a slew of demands such as six hours duty for doctors at Covid-19 wards, supply of PPE kits to doctors involved in surgeries, interventional and diagnostic procedures, the association also pitched for exclusive accommodation for the frontline health workers across the state. As far as Trichy district is concerned, the district administration reserved 40 rooms in six hotels in the city to accommodate doctors and nurses in isolation for one week during their duty at the isolation wards for Covid-19 patients. The post-graduate doctors and the nurses have been made to stay at the hotels while the hospital workers have been given accommodation in the recently-constructed women’s hostel at KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College (KAPVGMC) in Trichy. “They have been staying in the hotel rooms starting from Monday. The food is also being prepared for them separately,” said Trichy collector S Sivarasu. Doctors, nurses and hospital workers on duty at the Covid-19 isolation ward at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for a stretch of one week will be staying in the hotel rooms during the period. They will be tested for Covid-19. If they test negative, they will be given duty at non-Covid wards and allowed to go home. In case of testing positive, they will be isolated at the hospital for treatment. On the availability of the PPE kits in Trichy, the collector said that the district had 4,092 kits for the frontline workers. Dr Aruleeswaran also spoke on the likelihood of PPE kits meant for treating HIV positive patients being given to the health workers, while taking swab from patients at government Taluk hospitals in the state. “PPE kits for HIV positive treatment may not be as protective as the kit for Covid-19. So, such kits should not be given,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/doctors-demand-quality-evaluation-of-ppe-kits/articleshow/75306459.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Two Covid-19 suspects die at Doon Hospital||DEHRADUN: Two suspected Covid-19 patients passed away while undergoing treatment at the Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), health officials said on Wednesday, adding that their samples had been sent for testing but the reports were still awaited. The officials said that it has been decided to hand over the bodies to the kin only after their test reports arrive (which were still awaited till the time of filing this article late on Wednesday). According to doctors at GDMCH, both the patients were admitted to the hospital in the last 48 hours. While one of the patients was a 75-year-old (admitted late on April 20 night), the other was a 23-year-old who was referred to GDMCH from Coronation Hospital on April 21 afternoon. Both the patients were suffering from severe pneumonia and breathing disorder and were admitted to the ICU after the doctors found that they were critical. While the elderly man died at 10:03 pm on Tuesday, the other patient passed away at 10:08 pm on the same day. Talking to TOI, Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer for Covid-19 cases at GDMCH informed that the elderly man had returned from Dubai and had come to Dehradun on April 6. The other patient was a cook at a government guest house where some foreign nationals had recently stayed. “The Dubai-returnee had told us that he had undergone 14-day quarantine in Delhi and was tested negative for Covid-19. However, looking at the severity of the case and his travelling history, we sent his sample for Covid-19 test. Also, in the case of the 23-year-old, symptoms like severe pneumonia and chest congestion and the fact that he came in contact with foreign tourists made us see him as a coronavirus suspect and his samples were also sent for test,” said Dr Khatri, while adding that test reports of both the patients were awaited till late Wednesday evening. “We had told the bereaved families to follow the procedure of cremation set for Covid-19 cases if they want to take the body immediately. However, their family members agreed to wait till the test reports come,” he added. Meanwhile, four new Covid-19 cases recovered in Uttarakhand on Wednesday. With this, health officials said that the state has now managed to cure 50% of the total coronavirus-positive cases in the state. Additionally, no new positive case was reported on April 22. The cases who recovered on Wednesday were all from Udham Singh Nagar and Haldwani districts. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant told TOI that a total of 214 test reports were received on Wednesday and all were found negative. The health department had sent 213 new samples for Covid-19 test on April 22. “We have conducted 4,275 tests in Uttarakhand so far. Among them, 3,664 reports were found negative and 46 tested positive. As many as 23 cases have recovered at various Covid-19 hospitals in the state and hence, we have managed to cure 50% of coronavirus cases till now,” the official said. Among the recovered cases, 11 are from Dehradun, six are from Nainital, and four from Udham Singh Nagar district. At present, 13 patients are undergoing treatment in Dehradun, seven in Haridwar and three in Nainital. The state till now has home quarantined over 65,000 people while 2,705 other cases have been quarantined in various facilities. Further, as many as 321 people are kept in hospital isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-suspected-covid-19-patients-die-at-doon-hosp-test-reports-still-awaited/articleshow/75303682.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Forest dept rescues leopard in Niphad||Nashik: A five-year-old leopard was rescued by the forest department from Darna Sangvi village in Niphad taluka in the wee hours of Wednesday. A cage was installed by the forest department near the village after some villagers spotted the big cat few days ago. "It is a fully grown leopard and we managed to trap him after five days. We have also conducted the health check-up of the animal and it has some injuries on its belly. Our veterinary doctors are treating the animal and once it gets recovered we will release the leopard after following the official procedure," a forest department official said. "Last week, we had received complaints and reports about the presence of a leopard on the village. We sent a team to the village and after confirming the presence of a big cat a cage was installed," he added. On Sunday, a 12-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Hinganvedhe village. The boy along with his friends had gone to a sugar cane filed in the morning when the leopard attacked the boy and dragged him around 50 feet inside the cane filed, leading to his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/forest-dept-rescues-leopard-in-niphad/articleshow/75305309.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||18 more test +ve for Covid-19, total cases 303||Bhopal: Eighteen new people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital on Wednesday taking the total number of positive cases in the city to 303. Meanwhile, in a silver lining about 44 patients — the highest number in a single day — were discharged from hospitals after complete recovery. According to health department sources, six cases were reported from Aheer Mohalla, in Jehangirabad from where two Covid-19 deaths have been reported. One person was suspected for Covid-19 near the BMC canteen Talaiya from the area where a civic body employee tested positive recently. None of the people on the street who have been served free food by the BMC have been screened for Covid-19 even after the BMC canteen employee tested positive three days ago. Health experts suggest that these people with low immunity need to be tested and quarantined. In a good news, 44 people were discharged from Chirayu medical college after being they recovered. So far, 79 out of 303 patients who tested positive for Covid-19 have recovered. Seven deaths have been linked to Covid-19 in Bhopal. One person who was said to be on the discharge list was not released, after some issue with his blood reports. In another move the health department took samples of 180 foreign nationals. They are under quarantine and the samples have been taken before their discharge. Most of them have been quarantined in Hajj house and a mosque in Bhopal, according to GMC official. The foreign nationals are from Myanmar, Indonesia, Uzbekistan and other countries. Once their samples test negative, they would be sent to Delhi and are expected to be handed over to their respective embassies, said sources. Most of these people were not part of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi earlier in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/18-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-total-cases-303/articleshow/75305336.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Waive power charges: Horticultural farmers in Trichy||TRICHY: Horticulture farmers have reiterated their long-pending demand for free power supply like the one given to the agriculture sector in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Hundreds of farmers from Trichy have been cultivating horticulture crops such as banana, fruits, vegetables and flowers on 55,000 acres. Both the state and Union governments are providing facilities to farmers through schemes like free power connection to irrigate farms, but not in the case of horticulture. State organizer of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress Puliyur A Nagarajan points out that horticulture farmers are not harvesting crops throughout the year. During off-season, horticulture farmers have to leave their land barren. However, they are not treated as equal.  "During this lockdown, non-operation of trucks has led to horticulture produce going waste. Many farmers dumped flowers on their own field itself," he said. Besides providing power free of cost, the government should waive power charges for the time being to help farmers tide over the crisis, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/waive-power-charges-horticultural-farmers/articleshow/75306470.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Eight more secondary contacts test positive in central region of Tamil Nadu||TRICHY: Covid-19 infection was detected in eight more people in Thanjavur, Ariyalur and Trichy districts in the Central region of the state on Wednesday. Five more cases were reported in Thanjavur on Wednesday. The patients include three women aged 29, 34 and 45 and men aged 36 and 25. The health department officials said that three are natives of Orathanadu and two are from Kumbakonam and Athirampattinam. All of them had contact history of Tablighi Jamaat delegates. With the new cases, Thanjavur district took its count to 49. Ariyalur district has now six cases after two men testing positive in the district on Wednesday. It may be recalled that two women staff of a pharmacy owned by a TJ delegate in Sendurai in Ariyalur district tested positive on Monday. The new cases are a 12-year-old boy and a 36-year-old man of Royapuram area. While the boy was staying in a house opposite to the house of one of the two women staff of the pharmacy, the man was a resident of a nearby street of the woman employee. Ariyalur collector D Rathna said that both of them were secondary contacts with the same link. Among the 237 samples sent in the latest batch, two tested positive, while the others tested negative. The collector said that the samples were collected from people with influenza-like symptoms, co-morbid conditions and frontline health workers. A total of 89 people including 34 contacts of the two positive patients were lifted on Wednesday for testing in Ariyalur. In Trichy district, one more patient, a contact of TJ delegate, tested positive on Wednesday. Adding the one new case, Trichy’s tally climbed to 51 positive cases. As on Wednesday, a total of 24 patients are undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. Among them, 16 patients are from Trichy, three patients from Perambalur, one patient from Pudukottai and three patients from Ariyalur. As on Wednesday, the central region has a total of 230 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/eight-more-secondary-contacts-test-positive-in-central-region/articleshow/75306465.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 23, 2020||Surat||Young man tries to dupe those quarantined with food, arrested||SURAT: Crime branch arrested a 26-year-old man for allegedly promising to provide homemade chosen food to quarantined persons at Samras Boys’ Hostel. The hostel in VNSGU campus is being used as quarantined facility by health department. The accused had contacted few family members of some of the quarantined persons. Police arrested Jigar alias Lalo alias DJ Rawal, a resident of Katargam, for allegedly attempting to cheat people in distress. He was booked by police under charges of cheating, negligent act that can spread infectious disease and violation of order issued under public notification. He was also booked under Epidemic Disease Act as well. A video of Rawal went viral on the social media in which he was claiming that he has contacts in Samras Hostel and can provide homemade food to those under quarantine there. Rawal contacted some of the family members of quarantined persons too and demanded Rs 10,000 to supply food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/young-man-tries-to-dupe-those-quarantined-with-food-arrested/articleshow/75303703.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Gold rates surge but Akshay Tritiya may not see much buying||Nagpur: The lockdown may take the sheen out of Akshay Tritiya festival on April 26, when it is considered auspicious to buy gold. Though markets remain closed, there is a heavy demand for the yellow metal leading to an over 10% surge in the prices within a month. This is because the lockdown has also led to a shortage of bullion which is imported. This has driven up prices in Indian market far more than international levels. Gold rates in India are at a premium of over Rs 4000 a tola (per 10 grams), as against its international price converted into rupees, pointed out traders. While the physical markets are closed, gold futures trading continues in commodity exchanges. Here is how the calculation works. The international rates are at $1708 per ounce or 31.1 grams. With the US dollar at Rs 76.42, the per gram rate in rupees comes to Rs 4196 or Rs 41960 a tola (10 grams). As against this, the exchanges are quoting a rate of Rs 45662 a tola. It means a premium of Rs 3702. Normally, the premium is within Rs 500 to Rs 1000 a tola, said traders. Rajesh Rokde of M/s Rokde Jewellers said, “The premium has risen due to strong demand for bullion. The supplies are choked as imports have come to a standstill.” A section of jewellers are bullish on gold and are hoping the rates may further increase in coming days. Nitin Khandelwal a director in the Gems and Jewellery Federation of India (GJF) also confirmed shortage of yellow metal. He said jewellers were also relying on online sales promising to deliver when the lockdown ends. The rate at the time of booking or delivery, whichever is cheaper will be applicable, he said. Traders who have taken position in the exchange are carrying forward their trades instead of taking deliveries as the contract ends. This is because prices ahead are cheaper and postponing delivery gets them a higher quantity of gold, said Khandelwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gold-rates-surge-but-akshay-tritiya-may-not-see-much-buying/articleshow/75329290.cms||Shishir Arya
April 23, 2020||Dehradun||Desperate to get back, 9 Nepalese labourers escape from camp in Pithoragarh, swim across raging river to reach Nepal||Pithoragarh: Nine Nepalese migrant labourers who were staying in a relief camp in Dharchula tehsil of Pithoragarh district near the India-Nepal border jumped into the Mahakali river (which acts as a natural border between the two countries), managed to swim across the river which has a raging current, and reach Nepal on Wednesday morning. Although Pithoragarh district officials denied that any labourer had escaped, sources in Darchula district in Nepal (where the labourers had crossed over to) confirmed to TOI that the nine men had reached Nepal and had been housed at a quarantine centre there. Over 1,400 Nepalese labourers are staying at six camps on the Indian side — JSN Stadium, Dharchula, Government Inter College (GIC), Baram, GIC, Baluakot, GIC, Jauljabi, Degree College, Pithoragarh, and GIC, Jhulaghat — for the past three weeks and the Pithoragarh district administration is providing them food and other essential commodities. According to sources, the nine labourers escaped from JSN Stadium, which is the biggest camp and houses around 346 Nepalese migrants. The stadium is near the river. Sources said that since the stadium doesn’t have enough toilets for all those who are housed there, many people used to go near the river to relieve themselves and all those who escaped also used this pretext to go near the river but instead jumped into the swirling waters. “It is a very dangerous thing to do since the river’s current is strong although the distance to cross the river onto the other side is hardly a few hundred metres,” said a Nepalese labourer who did not wish to be named. He added that even though the Pithoragarh district administration is providing them everything they need but the uncertainty around the lockdown is increasing their anxiety and most of them were desperate to get back home. Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande however denied any knowledge of the incident. "We don’t have any information regarding labourers crossing the river and entering Nepal,” he told TOI. Meanwhile, Nepalese authorities confirmed that the labourers had crossed over into their country and had been kept in a quarantine centre at a local school. Sources also told TOI that the camp at JSN Stadium in Dharchula has been locked up by officials to prevent any further incident of this kind. As reported by TOI earlier, Nepalese migrants housed in camps near the India-Nepal border in Pithoragarh had been increasingly getting desperate to return home. Ahead of their New Year on April 14, they had appealed to the government to ease the lockdown restrictions and let them cross the border. However, this couldn’t be facilitated. The mother of a migrant labourer had also passed away last week but despite his requests, he couldn’t get permission to attend her last rites. He was however allowed to cross over after a few days on humanitarian grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/desperate-to-get-back-9-nepalese-labourers-escape-from-camp-in-pithoragarh-swim-across-raging-river-to-reach-nepal/articleshow/75303717.cms||Prem Punetha
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Konkan farmers begin doorstep delivery of mangoes||NASHIK: There is good news for all the city-based mango lovers who have been deprived of of relishing the juicy fruit due to the ongoing lockdown. The farmers from Konkan, who sell naturally-ripened alphonso mangoes, have tied up with a Nashik-based travel firm — Konkan Krishi Paryatan Sanstha (KKPS)— to get their produce delivered to the doorstep of the consumers. The farmers have already received orders for around 7,000 boxes, each weighing 6kg, of mangoes in the past two days. The KPPS used to organise the month-long mango festival in the city, but due to the lockdown the event could not be held. However, keeping the interest of the farmers in mind, the firm has decided to home deliver the mangoes. "We have shortlisted only five big mango farmers this year. We are getting orders for mangoes through our contacts and via social media platforms," Datta Bhalerao, chairman of KKPS, said. "So far, we have received orders for around 7,500 boxes. Each box included 24 mangoes, weighing around 6 kg. These mangoes are delivered at the doorstep of the buyers," he added. According to Bhalerao, the objective is to provide naturally ripened mangoes directly from farmers to the consumers with no involvement of the middlemen. "I have been participating in the mango festival for the past five years. I had sold around 4,000 kg of mangoes last year. We were looking forward to the mango festival but due to the Covid-19 outbreak it could not be held," Sharad Gombre, a mango farmer from Ratnagiri, said. "This year, we are providing home delivery of mangoes for the residents of Nashik city with the help of KKPS. I have so far brought 1,400 kg mangoes and will bring the same quantity next week," he added. Gombre said that the weather conditions for the past seven months were not conducive for mangoes. "Due to this, the harvest of mangoes got deferred by a month. It has also led to around 30% drop in production," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/konkan-farmers-begin-doorstep-delivery-of-mangoes/articleshow/75305318.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 23, 2020||Goa||Opposition, netizens fume as MLAs defy hygiene, travel rules||PANAJI: Images of the state cabinet members, including chief minister Pramod Sawant, without face masks and travelling with more than two people in cars sparked a furore on social media and among the opposition on Wednesday. Congress demanded that Sawant and other ministers be booked by the police for violating the Centre’s guidelines. Meanwhile, citizens on social media questioned why rules were being enforced for the common man while politicians continued to flout them. Where is your Mask @DrPramodPSawant, @BabuAjgaonkar, @visrane, @MichaelLobo76, @MauvinGodinho? Are you Covid19 proo… https://t.co/UpCahJbiqx— Amarnath Panjikar (@amarnathpanjika) 1587550814000Sawant, health minister Vishawajit Rane, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, ports minister Michael Lobo, panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho and others were all seen leaving the cabinet meeting without face masks on. Many of the ministers were also seen sitting in the front passenger seat with another person sitting behind. “The government should book all of them for violating the guidelines and take strict action against the CM and all the ministers,” state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar, said. As part of the travel safety guidelines, only one person can commute on a two-wheeler and only two can travel in a car. Both commuters in cars must wear face masks. “Goa police discriminating the law between the ministers and the public,” said Sabastiao Dias on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-netizens-fume-as-mlas-defy-hygiene-travel-rules/articleshow/75307260.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Saffron ration card holders to get grains at subsidised rates||Nashik: State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Wednesday announced that grains at subsidised rates will be home delivered to those having saffron coloured ration cards (above poverty level) for the next two months. "Saffron ration cards will now get 3 kg wheat and 2 kg rice per person per month at subsidised rates," Bhujbal said. Bhujbal, on Wednesday, conducted a meeting of district supply officer across the state through video conferencing and ordered the officials to ensure that the delivery of grains was carried out in a transparent manner even though the ration cards are not Aadhaar seeded. According to the minister, the number of such people across the state is expected to be around 3.08 crore. With 71.54 lakh ration cards the supply offices across the state will have to procure 92,532 tonne of wheat and 60,688 tonne of rice. The rice will be made available at Rs 12 per kg while the wheat will be sold at Rs 8 per kg during the months of May and June. The minister has asked the supply officers to ensure all precautions are taken while delivering the grains to the needy people without any complications or allegations. Details of all the people to whom the food grains are being given should be noted properly in a register with their signature and thumb impression after the delivery. Meanwhile, Bhujbal also sought the help of union minister for food and public distribution Ram Vilas Paswan for providing grains to the people who are stuck in various places across the state. "I have sent a letter to Paswan seeking his permission for distribution of grains to stranded people and migrant labourers during the lockdown period," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/saffron-ration-card-holders-to-get-grains-at-subsidised-rates/articleshow/75305332.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 23, 2020||Bhopal||Online contests keep Bhopalis busy with creative pursuits amid corona lockdown||BHOPAL: Online creative competitions and literary events are being organised in the state capital to give company to Bhopalis during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown. Kalakrit has started an awareness campaign and an online painting competition on their Instagram handle @kala_krit on which artists are advised to showcase their talent and also reach out to people in India and the world with a 45 second video on different precautions to be taken and how people can spread awareness through artworks. Sapna Kathfar and Chirag Nanda have taken the creative initiative in connecting artists where they are are advised to assess the situation on the theme ‘Stay home stay safe’ awareness online art competition. There is no age bar in the competition and many Bhopalis are enthusiastically sending their entries for the competition. Literary online events are also trending. Club Literati is all set to host the 6th edition of four-day Bhopal Shakespeare Festival named ‘Yours Virtually, William Shakespeare’. There will be quizzes on the Bard of Avon, podcasts on Shakespearean sonnets and self-composed sonnets. There will also be a virtual performances on the theme ‘The Globe Theatre’ in categories of soliloquies and monologues. The festival will be wrapped up with an event titled ‘Bard Goes Bollywood’, where famous plays of Shakespeare will be recasted in Bollywood flavour. Also, there will be a drawing competition titled ‘A Wish for William’. Vishwa Maitri Manch has also been organising Hindi short story recitals and prose evenings online where Indian as well as international artistes recited their work. The theme of these poetry pieces revolve aound the ongoing coronavirus lockdown and ‘quarantine life’. Artistes such as Santosh Shrivastav, Gopesh Vajpayee, Muzaffar Siddiqui, Pawan Jain, Anamika Singh and many others performed brilliant pieces defining their new ‘changed normal’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/online-contests-keep-bhopalis-busy-with-creative-pursuits-amid-corona-lockdown/articleshow/75305865.cms||Aishwarya Shrivastav
April 23, 2020||Mysuru||Tertiary contact infected||Mysuru: A 56-year-old man, designated patient P-426, who came in contact with secondary contact P-383 of employee P-52 of the Nanjangud pharmaceutical firm, which led to a cluster of cases here, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. This is the first such case, perhaps in Karnataka, where a person has got the virus through a secondary contact of a Covid-19 positive patient. P-426 has been isolated at the Covid Hospital in Mysuru. On April 18, P-383 tested positive for the disease. The 36-year-old is a secondary contact of P-52, who is believed to be patient zero from the Nanjangud cluster case. Both P-426 and P-383 are from Nanjangud. While P-52 tested positive for Covid-19 on March 26, his secondary contact tested positive three weeks after that. As Covid-19 cases have been detected in rural parts of Nanjangud, the Mysuru district administration has decided to seal them off. Kothwadipura, Basavanapura and Tandavapura, which are located 5 km from Nanjangud, were sealed off by the authorities. Earlier, Balyaru, Devarasanahalli, Kuguluru, Hebya, Mosayambanahalli and Hoskote in Nanjangud taluk were sealed. Sources said the results of a batch of 149 samples from Nanjangud have come back negative, giving relief to officials engaged in tackling the Covid-19 outbreak. Test results of 192 samples are awaited. This comes amidst concerns of community transmission of the disease, with the authorities unable to detect the source of two severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases. Now, Mysuru’s tally of active Covid-19 cases stands at 55, with two people being discharged from hospital on Wednesday. Till now, 88 patients have tested positive for Covid-19,out of which 33 were cured and discharged from hospital. 12 containment zones in Mysuru Mysuru district authorities fighting the Covid-19 outbreak have created containment zones based on positive cases of the disease reported in Mysuru city. The containment zones are under watch, as residents in these localities have tested positive for Covid-19. A majority of them are employees of a pharmaceutical firm and their contacts. These residential localities have been declared as containment zones, where no movement is allowed, and surveillance has been intensified to contain the spread of the virus in these areas. Of the total 12 containment zones, eight are in the west of the city, three in the east, and one in the heart of Mysuru. “Intensive surveillance is being done in a radius of 200 metres of every containment zone,” said Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. Containment zones 1. Meena Bazar 2. SVP Nagar 3.Teachers’ layout 4. Janatha Nagar 5. Housing Board Colony in Kuvempu Nagar 6. Vijayanagara 2nd stage 7. Vijayanagar 1st stage 8. Gokulam 9. Jayalakshmipuram 10. Srirampura 2nd stage 11. JP Nagar 12. Nazarbad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tertiary-contact-infected/articleshow/75302019.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 23, 2020||Goa||Follow transit permit norms: SEC||PANAJI: Panchayats and urban local bodies can only issue transit permits for self-employed individuals in connection with their professions, the State Executive Committee (SEC) told block development officers(BDOs). The SEC has instructed BDOs to pass on the directions to panchayat secretaries. It issued the directions after discrepancies and variations were found in permissions issued by municipal bodies and panchayats. The Ponda Municipal Council had initially asked electricians, IT repairs, plumbers, motor-mechanics and carpenters to apply for temporary trade licences against a fee. “The work permission, construction permission and transit permits will be subject to fulfilment of all national directives for Covid-19 management contained in MHA guidelines,” the SEC said. Transit permits and work operation permissions can only be issued in connection with the profession of self employment for providing services listed by the MHA. With regards to private construction licenses, permission has to be sought from the concerned panchayat. “The permission for the construction/reconstruction works and the travel permit for labour/concerned person will be given by the concerned panchayat secretary,” the SEC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/follow-transit-permit-norms-sec/articleshow/75307273.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Trichy airport jumps from category III to II||TRICHY: The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has upgraded Trichy international airport to category II airport from category III. With this announcement, the status of the airport has improved, sources from the Trichy airport said. According to a circular issued by AAI dated April 16, the authority has decided to upgrade the status of Trichy airport to category II from its present state of category III. Meanwhile, Tuticorin, Prayagraj, Jabalpur, Hubli and Gorakhpur airports have been elevated to category III from category IV, the circular stated. Following the upgradation, financial and administrative powers of the airport director would be enhanced, airport authorities said. The number of passenger traffic was also stated to be one of the parameters taken for consideration for the upgradation. That is, the number of passenger traffic registered at the airport for the last three consecutive years would be considered to decide upgradation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-airport-jumps-from-category-iii-to-ii/articleshow/75306478.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Trichy||Cops deny man, 40, attained ‘samadhi’ in Pudukottai||PUDUKOTTAI: A 40-year-old-man in Pudukottai district, who was rumoured to have attained “Jeeva Samadhi” near his house, died of natural causes, police have said. N Subramani, a construction worker of Orasikadu near Viralimalai, was found dead in a seven feet-deep pit near his family house on Tuesday evening. Subramani, who was unmarried was residing with his mother and brothers and their families. He used to stay in a shed near their house. Sources said that he had dug the pit to construct a kitchen. He was often seen sitting inside the pit and meditate. As he was found dead inside the pit, people assumed that he attained “Jeeva Samadhi”. Once news started spreading that Subramani had attained “Jeeva Samathi”, locals started thronging the house. The family members recovered his body and cremated it in the night. On getting the information, the Viralimalai police rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries with the family members. “He (Subramani) died naturally and his family cremated the body. He did not attain Jeeva Samathi as per our inquiry,” Viralimalai inspector, Manoharan told TOI on Wednesday. Since the body was cremated, the cause of death remained unknown. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-deny-man-40-attained-samadhi/articleshow/75306472.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Surat||VHP member, 2 others entice people in name of cops; held||SURAT: Police arrested a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) member and two others on Wednesday for alleged attempt to entice people in the name of police. The accused were arrested by crime branch following their invitation to people to join their WhatsApp groups to support police in the current situation. Police arrested Pravin Bhalala, a property broker and VHP member, Shailesh Pansuriya, a diamond artisan and Tushar Koshiya, a property broker on charges of attempt to cheat. The accused allegedly created police station-wise WhatsApp groups and shared it on the social media. Bhalala invited people to join the groups if they wanted to support police in times of crisis like the present situation. “The accused offered to provide willing members a white shirt and blue pants. He did not demand money or earn any benefit from anyone. We arrested him as he did not take necessary permission to carry out such an activity from any police officer,” said a police officer in crime branch. “I did not do anything wrong. My intention was to support police in crisis like situation and created WhatsApp group. I have not cheated anyone. But due to some unknown pressure, police have registered an offence and arrested me,” said Bhalala. After completing formalities Bhalala was released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vhp-member-2-others-entice-people-in-name-of-cops-held/articleshow/75303744.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Udaipur||Plant experts claim Damas trees ‘root of all troubles’||UDAIPUR: Gulf nations are getting rid of the beautiful Damas trees, but in Udaipur these are seen in plenty, prospering along the roadsides. Experts have warned authorities of the ugly side of these trees as their roots can penetrate deep into the ground causing considerable damage to walls, drains and pipelines and can lead to a huge spike in water consumption. Meanwhile, on the occasion of World Earth Day, which is observed on April 22, the governor has called upon people to take a pledge to make balanced use of resources. Mishra said this year it was a very special day because coronavirus has forced all of us to think about the earth’s resources and their potential in a new way. In a letter to Udaipur Municipal Corporation and the district collector, activist Mahesh Sharma urged upon the authorities to uproot these trees planted on dividers on almost all wide roads in the city. The plantation of imported alien species instead of indigenous ones can be harmful and their community planting can cause seasonal and pollen allergies, the letter said. “They grow fast, are inexpensive and remain green all the year round. Conocarpus lancifolius or erectus, commonly known as Damas (Conocarpus) trees, line gardens throughout our community. However, a few realise the long term risks associated with these trees,” says Sharma. A horticulture expert says, “Government should pick indigenous varieties that thrive well in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/plant-experts-claim-damas-trees-root-of-all-troubles/articleshow/75306476.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Police complaint against couple for ‘hiding’ children at Bhaldarpura||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Wednesday directed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials to lodge a complaint with police against a couple from Satranjipura, for hiding their children at Bhaldarpura. The police are likely to register an offence against the couple on Thursday. TOI had on Wednesday reported that a five-year-old boy tested positive for Covid-19. The boy was staying with his maternal grandparents, who were residents of Bhaldarpura, when quarantined. Mundhe told TOI, “This is a serious matter and reason for spread of disease to Bhaldarpura. The couple had been asked to enter institutional quarantine as residents of Satranjipura containment zone. The couple had tested positive. Our team investigated and found that the couple hid their two children at Bhaldarpura. Our team managed to trace, examine and quarantine the two children along with six more from the house. One of the two children tested positive. Therefore, we have lodged a complaint with the police.” The couple resides close to the house of the 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura. They were quarantined on April 15 and tested positive on April 19. The reports of their second child, woman’s father, mother, two brothers and two sisters-in-law are awaited. Due to this, Bhaldarpura, another most congested area of Central Nagpur after Mominpura, had to be cordoned off by notifying it as containment zone on Wednesday. NMC will start door-to-door survey to find if the disease has spread in the area from Thursday. Following Mundhe’s orders, NMC officials went to Lakadganj police station and submitted the complaint. But Lakadganj police reportedly did not accept the complaint as the residence of the couple comes under Shanti Nagar police station jurisdiction. NMC officials will now lodge a complaint with Shanti Nagar police on Thursday. Earlier, NMC has lodged complaints against two positive persons and police registered an offence against them. EARLIER TWO CASES * NMC lodged complaint against nephew of Satranjipura deceased for giving wrong and misleading information about his contact with the deceased. Nephew first told NMC he did not meet deceased since long. Later, nephew, his wife and a friend tested positive. He runs a tours and travels agency, and is now considered one of the sources of infection to the deceased, as the latter had no travel history. Shanti Nagar police have registered an offence against him * Second complaint was lodged against cap seller, resident of Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura. After getting discharged, cap seller allegedly violated norms by not observing home quarantine, and also gave wrong information in an interview posted on social media. He was seen posing for pictures with two persons without mask on a public road, and giving an interview sitting with a group of people in a room. Tehsil police station have registered offences against him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-complaint-against-couple-for-hiding-children-at-bhaldarpura/articleshow/75329259.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 23, 2020||Nashik||Covid clinics help separate patients||Nashik: About 60 Covid clinics across the city are helping in segregating patients with respiratory ailments from those suffering from other ailments like blood pressure and heart problems. “Earlier, patients suffering from blood pressure or cardiac problems were expose to those with respiratory problems that may be corona symptoms, thus increasing their chances of contracting the infection. Hence, the move to identify and segregate patients,” Sameer Chandratre, the president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nashik chapter, said on Wednesday. Private medical practitioners in cooperation with Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district administration and help from the IMA have set up the Covid clinics in various parts of the city. The purpose of the clinics was to ensure people requiring medical treatment for ailments other than respiratory issues and also preventing government hospitals and facilities from being overburdened by people suffering from illnesses. “With the lockdown in place, the numbers of patients has come down. However we are getting patients in the clinics. After thorough check-ups, we have been successful in sending home those without Covid symptoms,” said Hemant Sononis, a doctor. Pediatricians, physicians and ear, nose and throat (ENT) specialists have been roped in to provide services in hospitals in the region on rotational basis. Hence, doctors in local areas can refer patients with respiratory issues directly to the Covid clinic. “With this arrangement, clinics and hospitals are safe and so are patients coming there. This is also further helping doctors to easily sanitise the area at regular intervals,” the doctor said. The average numbers of patients these clinics receives daily is about eight and very few of them are required to be sent to any government facility, the practitioner said. “Efficient use of the facility will only be possible with the rise in the respiratory ailments, but none of us would want this to happen in Nashik city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-clinics-help-separate-patients/articleshow/75305351.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 23, 2020||Madurai||Couple hands over fourth kid to CWC||MADURAI: A new-born baby girl was handed over to child welfare committee (CWC) on Tuesday as parents, who already have three children could not afford to take care of her. The couple hailing from a village near Elumalai are farmhands. The baby was born at Elumalai government hospital. As soon as the baby was born, they informed the hospital doctors of their inability to raise the child. And the doctors informed the child welfare committee in Madurai city. The committee handed over the baby to Claretian Mercy Home, an adoption home at Karumathur. According to the members, the baby will be under their care and will be available for their parents if they want to take ownership. After a period of two months, the child will be enlisted for adoption. It was second such incident in Madurai district in the last one month. Officials from the district child protection appreciated the parents. There have been a few suspected incidents of female infanticide in Usilampatti belt in the recent months. It is good to hand over the baby to child welfare committee to through cradle baby scheme, instead of involving in any illegal activities like selling or killing babies, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/couple-hands-over-fourth-kid-to-cwc/articleshow/75306480.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Patna||BASA wants action against DMs who issued vehicle passes||Patna: A day after Nawada SDO Anu Kumar was suspended for issuing an interstate pass to BJP MLA Anil Singh to bring back his ward from Kota, Bihar Administrative Service Association (BASA) on Wednesday demanded similar action against all the district magistrates (DMs), including of Nawada, who had either issued such passes or delegated the power to their subordinates to do so. BASA president Shashank Shekhar Sinha said the members have decided not to go on strike amid pandemic, but will be wearing black badges till May 3 in protest against the Nawada SDO’s suspension. “We will decide the future course of action after May 3. As of now, we will be working more diligently,” he said. Anu was suspended on Tuesday. The notification stated that he was found guilty of negligence in issuing the pass permitting interstate travel amid lockdown, which should have not been given, except in extraordinary circumstances. However, BASA members, in a letter to state chief secretary on Wednesday, stated that such action was against the principle of equality and demanded an independent probe into the matter and similar action against Nawada DM. They said such action taken in haste will demoralize the officers who were working with dedication despite risking their lives. Sinha said the state government had delegated the power to all the DMs to issue vehicle passes. The DMs delegated the power further to their subordinates against the administrative rules. “Even if the DMs had re-delegated such power, they are equally responsible,” he said. In the letter, BASA stated that similar interstate passes for Kota were issued in almost all the districts and mentioned a few with letter numbers issued from Aurangabad, Ara, Purnea and Muzaffarpur. In fact, a similar vehicle pass issued by Muzaffarpur DM also went viral on social media. This pass was issued to former ward councillor Vijay Kumar Jha on April 11 to bring back his daughter from Kota. A photocopy of that vehicle pass was also uploaded by leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to his Twitter handle. “One of the politicians of ruling party used his power to get the pass made to bring back his daughter from Kota. He is a former ward councillor and his wife is a present councillor,” wrote Tejashwi, adding, “Only children belonging to general classes will be stuck in Kota. CM Nitish Kumar has given relaxation to others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/basa-wants-action-against-dms-who-issued-vehicle-passes/articleshow/75303753.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 23, 2020||Jaipur||200 workers reach Bundi, all sent to home quarantine||Kota: Over 200 migrant labourers, including women and children, reached Bundi from Jodhpur and Jaisalmer in three buses, each carrying 70-80 passengers on Wednesday. The arrival of these workers created ‘panic’ in Bundi as they could not produce any document related to screening.However, the health officials screened each labourer in Bundi and they were put in home quarantine. It may be noted that Bundi has not reported a Covid-19 positive case so far.Notably, no social distancing was maintained by these migrant labourers travelling by three buses and around 70–80 workers were packed in each of these buses.Circle inspector at Bundi city police station Lokendra Paliwal said three buses reached here on Wednesday, two from Jodhpur and one from Jaisalmer. Twenty three labourers belonging to Bundi and 30 to Jhalawar district have come from Jodhpur, he said.Another 88 labourers, including 67 adults, all belonging to Bundi district got off here from second bus. A third bus with nearly 54 labourers, including 25 hailing from Bundi, and 29 from Kota district reached here in the noon.The two buses with labourers from Jhalawar and Kota district departed for respective destinations after dropping the native labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/200-workers-reach-bundi-all-sent-to-home-quarantine/articleshow/75306471.cms||---
April 23, 2020||India||Up to 7 years’ jail for attack on health workers: Ordinance||NEW DELHI: Amid several reports of attacks on healthcare personnel engaged in treating and tracking Covid-19 cases across the country, the cabinet on Wednesday approved an ordinance making acts of violence against doctors and frontline personnel a cognisable and non-bailable offence punishable with prison terms of up to seven years. I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said those violating the law will attract a jail term of up to seven years and a fine of up to Rs 5 lakh. He said said the cabinet had approved promulgation of an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to ensure that those who assault or abuse healthcare personnel are punished. “The central government has brought an ordinance to end violence against health workers. It carries imprisonment from six months to seven years if anyone is found guilty,” Javadekar said, adding that attacks on doctors and health professionals would not be tolerated. In case of damage of property or assets, violators would also have to pay as compensation double the market price. “Health workers who are trying to save the country from this epidemic are unfortunately facing attacks. No incident of violence or harassment against them will be tolerated. An ordinance has been brought in, it'll be implemented after the President's sanction,” he said. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has called off its proposed ‘white alert’ and ‘black day’ protests scheduled on April 22 and 23 following a meeting with home minister Amit Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan through video conference on Wednesday. The doctors’ body has been demanding that the Centre bring a law to protect healthcare workers from rising attacks at a time when they are battling Covid-19. In a communication to states, home secretary Ajay Bhalla said even a single incident of violence against healthcare professionals could create a sense of insecurity in the healthcare community even as they were rendering untiring service to resist the spread of Covid-19 and directed that adequate security be provided to frontline professionals and action be taken against miscreants. Bhalla said it was the responsibility of all state governments and UT administrations, district authorities and law enforcement agencies to take necessary measures to ensure adequate protection to healthcare professionals and frontline workers and to prevent violence against them. “The measures to be taken in this regard should be finalised in consultation with local chapters of Indian Medical Association and the members of the IMA should be kept apprised of the actions taken to create a sense of security and confidence among the health fraternity,” he said. Bhalla also pointed to some heinous instances of unruly behaviour in some parts of the country where the family and relatives of medical professionals, suspected to have died due to Covid-19 infection, were prevented from performing last rites of the deceased. In such cases, the home ministry said adequate security should be provided and stringent action taken against offenders who obstruct the performance of last rites of medical professionals or frontline healthcare workers. Besides, the cabinet also allowed Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries to avail of healthcare facilities in non-empanelled hospitals during the pandemic, Javadekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-to-7-years-jail-for-attack-on-health-workers-ordinance/articleshow/75309166.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Multi-layer cordon around Ranchi’s Hindpiri||Ranchi: Though the entire city is under lockdown, police and administration have made special arrangements to restrict movement of people in Hindpiri area — one of the two Covid-19 hotspots of the state. The administration has put up a multi-layered security in and around Hindpiri colony. An official said that the road blockades have been put up at 24 places in the locality. In addition, vacant areas, particularly along Harmu River, which could provide possible passage to people, have been blocked using iron poles and barricades. Policemen have also been posted in localities surrounding Hindpiri. Another ring of security is in place on all the roads connecting Hindpiri to other places. All patrolling vehicles have been instructed to be vigilant around Hindpiri area, particularly between 3am and 6am. DSP (city) Amit Kumar Singh said, “We are providing all necessary requirements to people living in the containment zone. The critically ill are being screened at a centre in Guru Nanak School and then allowed to visit the doctor.” Police personnel deployed in Hindpiri are not being allowed to go home and are being kept at an isolation centre at Vistahapit colony in Dhurwa. Police are ensuring that personnel aged above 50 years are not deployed as they could contract the infection easily. Meanwhile, SP (rural) Rishab Jha said ever since a positive case was detected in Karanji village in Bero block, areas in 3km radius of the village have been barricaded. He said, “Around 20 magistrates along with adequate number of police force have been posted in the area”. Police are also carrying out regular drives to prevent lockdown violations including loitering, gambling and other illegal activities. They are questioning and seeking identity cards of people before allowing them to move forward. The traffic department has strictly stated that only two persons would be allowed to move in a four-wheeler and one in a two-wheeler. In a meeting held with industrialists on Wednesday, ADM law and order Akhilesh Sinha said that the factories located in rural areas, which reopened under relaxation of norms, should follow central government guidelines. President of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries Ranjit Gadodia said, “Restarting certain activities is a welcome step as the economy has already taken a big hit. It is essential to start the supplies of essential goods. The administration could review its impact after a while and take a decision on the future of the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/multi-layer-cordon-around-ranchis-hindpiri/articleshow/75304168.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||PVUNL to resume construction of 4,000-MW thermal power plant today||Ramgarh: The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) on Wednesday said it will resume construction of its upcoming 4,000-MW thermal power plant in Patratu from Thursday. The construction of the plant, which is being built by NTPC and the Jharkhand government under the name Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (PVUNL), was stalled since March 22 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among the construction staff. Y Devashish, PVUNL’s HR manager, said, “The construction of phase-1 of the 4,000-MW plant will resume from Thursday. All guidelines laid down by the Union government will be strictly followed.” He added, “We have started mobilization of local workers residing in permitted distances and issuing gate passes to them.” Around 80% of PVUNL’s current construction workforce hail from hamlets within 2km radius of the plant site. The first phase, which will have three units of 800 MW each, is to be commissioned within two years. On Monday, Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said PVUNL could start its construction work with adherence to sanitation protocols and social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvunl-to-resume-construction-of-4000-mw-thermal-power-plant-today/articleshow/75303131.cms||NK Agarwal
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Shikaripara locals defy lockdown to demand ration||Dumka: Several residents of Sarasdangal village under Shikaripara block defied lockdown orders and hit the Dumka-Rampurhat Road on Tuesday alleging that they were yet to receive their quota of dry ration promised by the Jharkhand government. Dozens of men and women stood on the road for hours claiming that the local PDS dealer was charging them money to provide 10kg food grain, which was supposed to be given for free to families without ration card during the lockdown. “My income has dried up ever since the imposition of lockdown,” said Munni Kisku, a local. “But, till now, no government official or elected representative has turned up with the ration,” Kisku alleged. The Shikaripara assembly seat is currently held by JMM’s Nalin Soren. Some of the locals even tried to ransack a mini truck carrying sacks of rice when the vehicle was plying close to the demonstration site on Tuesday. Besides distributing food grains through PDS shops, the government has asked panchayat mukhiyas to arrange ration for the needy from their Rs 10,000 contingency fund. But locals claimed that the mukhiya has not done that either. When contacted, Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B said: “I have sought a report about Tuesday’s incident from the BDO and the circle officer. Interestingly, a few well-off residents led the crowd. We are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shikaripara-locals-defy-lockdown-to-demand-ration/articleshow/75304257.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||PIB team to flag fake news, viral forwards||Ranchi: Press Information Bureau (PIB) under the Union ministry of information and broadcasting established a special unit to bust fake news circulated on social media. The unit, with its twitter handle @PIBFactCheck, verifies different news and information trending on social media and presents a realistic analysis after checking the facts. Additional director general, PIB Ranchi, Arimardan Singh in a press communiqué informed that recently there has been a spurt in social media forwards, many of which have no authentic basis, but are being claimed to be information from the government. “One such recent news in circulation was about ministry of tourism under government of India declaring closure of all hotels and restaurants till October 15, 2020 in the wake of containing coronavirus pandemic. When PIB cross checked the source and veracity, it was found that no such decision has been taken by the government,” the release pointed. PIB issued a WhatsApp number 8799711259 and an e-mail address pibfactcheck@gmail.com to receive queries from common people so that doubtful messages or news items can be verified by the special team. The details of the verified viral contents would then be available at PIB’s official website and at the link factcheck.pib.gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pib-team-to-flag-fake-news-viral-forwards/articleshow/75304097.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Third time lucky: Disabled Silli woman clears competitive exam||Ranchi: As Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) announced the result of the sixth combined civil services examination on Tuesday, Jyoti Kumari Vishwakarma (32), with 45% physical disability, was happy as despite odds, she could fulfil her parents’ dreams by clearing the exams. Jyoti hails from Silli and belongs to a poor family. After clearing the exam on her third attempt, she said, “All the male members of my family, three brothers and my father, were heavy drinkers. My mother and my cousin supported me in my journey to a large extent.” Jyoti lives in a rented room in Ranchi with her cousin and gives private tuitions. Apart from this, she also got an allowance of Rs 3,000 from a foundation run by Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto. Jyoti said, “Sudesh sir had assured me of every possible help for my preparations. He called me and wished me all the best. My cousin also supported me a lot by preparing food for me daily.” Jyoti had to suffer when her father died during her mains in 2019, but she decided to continue her journey to fulfil her parents’ dreams. With History as her subject in graduation, she did her B.Ed and was waiting for the final results of the High School teacher recruitment. “I used to wake up in the morning and practice Yoga and meditate to maintain positive energy. I used to maintain at least 8 hours study in a day.” In a message to aspirants, she said, “Success never comes until there is determination and hard work. It also requires consistency. Anyone who is aspiring for the administrative services must work hard as it always pays off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/third-time-lucky-disabled-silli-woman-clears-competitive-exam/articleshow/75303552.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||IMA calls off stir after Shah assurance||Ranchi: The Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Jharkhand unit called off its proposed ‘White Alert’ and ‘Black Day’ protests scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday after a central body of doctors met Union home minister Amit Shah through video conferencing. IMA’s state secretary Dr Pradeep Singh said the outfit wanted the government to take some steps to protect those engagaed in mitigating the crisis. “We have called off the stir because we all need to work together during crisis,” he said. IG-cum-state police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh said police are trying to provide security to healthcare providers but the amended Pandemic Diseases Act will strengthen the enforcement agencies. He said, “Strong laws often act as a deterrent because people understand that they cannot get away by coming out on streets and manhandling the people risking their lives to drive out the epidemic.” Like in other parts of the country, health workers, para medics and even police personnel have come been assaulted by mobs in Jharkhand while they were on their duty to sanitize areas affected by the novel coronavirus. Health workers and cleaning staff came under attack at Hindpiri twice when they visited the area for identifying family members of Covid-19 patients. In another incident, police had a tough time bury the body of a Covid-19 casualty due to resistance from the people. On Monday people in Gandhinagar area, a colony maintained by CCL came out on streets to protest quarantine centre being developed at CCL hospital. In a separate incident an ASI was beaten up by eight men in Sonahatu on Tuesday while the policeman was trying to enforce lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ima-calls-off-stir-after-shah-assurance/articleshow/75303486.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh court starts hearing via video conferencing||Ramgarh: The Ramgarh civil court started hearing important cases via video conferencing on Wednesday in view of the Covid-19 threat. It had earlier received a directive in this regard from the Jharkhand high court. Rakesh Raushan, the registrar of Ramgarh civil court, said: “The advocates have been asked to list the important cases they want the court to take up. The cases selected by principal district and sessions judge will also be heard through video conferencing.” R B Rai, the public prosecutor of Ramgarh court, said: “Without visiting courtrooms, public prosecutors and defence counsels can now put their arguments online from the comfort and safety of their respective homes.” For instance, Anand Agarwal, a senior advocate and the president of Ramgarh Bar Association, appeared in the court of principal district and session judge Sanjay Pratap via video conferencing on Wednesday. Anand is the defence counsel of Gola-based drug store owner Bhola Shankar Agarwal, who was booked for alleged overpricing of drugs and for not providing cash receipts to his customers on the sale of face masks and sanitizers. “After hearing arguments from the public prosecutor and the defence counsel, the court listed the case for hearing on May 26 and directed that the accused should not be arrested till then,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-court-starts-hearing-via-video-conferencing/articleshow/75302919.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||DG stresses on social distancing during Ramzan||Ranchi: Jharkhand director general (DG) M V Rao asked his officials to coordinate with the members of the Muslim community to ensure that the norms of social distancing are followed during the holy month of Ramzan. In a meeting held through video conferencing on Tuesday, Rao said police officers should get in touch with prominent leaders of the community to ensure that the appeal issued by religious bodies, particularly Imarat-e-Shariya, are observed. The religious body has stated that devotees should avoid visiting mosques for the special Ramzan prayer and instead, perform the ritual at home while following the rules of social distancing. Rao said awareness campaigns should be also held to persuade people not to hold iftaar parties during this Ramzan. He said they should also ensure social distancing while purchasing food materials from the markets. The DG has asked police to take legal action against violators of social norms and praised the efforts of police personnel for the success of the community kitchens at police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dg-stresses-on-social-distancing-during-ramzan/articleshow/75303899.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||No proper guidelines, 4 cured continue to stay at Rims||Ranchi: Four persons of a family from Hindpiri’s Nala Road area, who were declared cured by the state health department on Tuesday, continued to remain in Rims even on Wednesday due to an absence of proper guidelines from the state government. However, on Tuesday, two cured persons were released from a Hazaribag hospital and sent to home quarantine for 14 days. Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “We are awaiting guidelines from the state government over shifting the four recovered patients to their home.” It is important to note that the state capital has till date recorded two deaths and both of them are from this family. “We have intimated the district administration after completing all the formalities and it is upon them to take the call,” said a senior doctor at the hospital’s trauma centre. On being inquired about precautions advised to patients discharged from the Covid-19centre, head of the department of medicine at Rims, Dr J K Mitra, said, “We advise strict home quarantine to such patients and also provide them with immunity improving supplements including zinc, calcium and other mineral-based medicines.” Meanwhile, a team of five doctors and five nurses, who had gone into quarantine for 14 days after attending to the first batch of Covid-19 patients at Rims, resumed duty on Wednesday. The healthcare workers were received by Rims’ governing council member and Kanke MLA Samri Lal as they walked out of the hotel where they were housed during the 14-day period. Upon arrival at the hospital’s campus, Rims director Dr D K Singh and other senior faculties and staff welcomed the junior doctors and nurses by showering flowers upon them. Speaking to TOI, Singh said, “I am thankful to all the frontline workers, including the team of junior doctors and nursing staff, who have been tirelessly working and attending to Covid-19 patients. It is because of the their efforts that five positive patients recovered in Ranchi.” He added, “I have asked all our frontline workers to take care of themselves first because if they fall prey to the viral infection we will not be able to fight the virus.” On being inquired, the team of health workers who returned from quarantine, said that they experienced sleeplessness initially due to the change in routine, but the quarantine also provided them with ample time for things they miss out on. “We prepared for our examinations, binged watched webseries, got connected with friends and family over phone, which is a luxury during hospital duty,” said one of the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-proper-guidelines-4-cured-continue-to-stay-at-rims/articleshow/75303216.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand BJP leaders sit on fast at homes, GA calls it ‘theatrics’||Ranchi: The state unit of BJP on Wednesday organised an eight-hour fast to highlight the “inefficiencies of the Jharkhand government in handling the Covid-19 crisis in the state”. However, the ruling dispensation of JMM, Congress and RJD took potshots at the saffron party and labelled the fast as mere “theatrics”. BJP state president Deepak Prakash, leader of BJP’s legislative party Babulal Marandi, former chief minister Raghubar Das, legislators, parliamentarians, core committee members, zila parishad members and mandal level functionaries sat sat on the fast at their homes, which began at 10am. In a statement, Prakash said,“This government is indecisive and lacks farsightedness. It is not as serious as it should have been. The government has concentrated all its efforts into one locality and left the state’s residents at large. Migrant workers, students and patients stuck outside Jharkhand are facing lots of difficulties, but the government does not have their numbers and lacks a strategy.” Explaining why BJP sat on a fast, Marandi said, “There are over 9 lakh migrant workers stuck outside Jharkhand, but the state machinery has not been able to reach out to them. Ration meant for the poor is being sold in the black markets. We sat on the fast to draw the government’s attention to these problems and urge it to act quickly.” Meanwhile, former CM Raghubar Das said the government lost its acceptability among the state’s people. However, JMM criticised the move. “BJP is brazenly violating lockdown orders. While two MPs returned to Jharkhand from New Delhi amid the lockdown, another MP revealed the identity of a positive patient on Facebook. What kind of a fast is this when they had their meals beforehand?” asked JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. State Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey termed the event as theatrics. “This is nothing but theatrics. While their own MPs are violating lockdown norms, they are sitting on a fast. Now is not the time for politics, but BJP is unrelenting even during the times of crisis,” Dubey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-bjp-leaders-sit-on-fast-at-homes-ga-calls-it-theatrics/articleshow/75303436.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Banna visits PMCH; vows to probe death of pregnant woman||Sindri: Health minister Banna Gupta made a surprise visit to the Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Wednesday. The minister arrived in the afternoon in a private vehicle sans security and headed straight to the hospital’s emergency wing. Gupta interacted with the patients there and then went to the gynaecology and paediatrics wards. The minister was visibly unhappy with the state of cleanliness and directed the authorities to serve a show cause notice to the agency appointed to clean the hospital premises and stop their payment. Gupta was also taken on a round of the isolation ward for corona suspects. Taking cognizance of media reports about the death of a pregnant woman for alleged lack of proper treatment at PMCH, the minister directed Dhanbad deputy commissioner Amit Kumar, who came to PMCH after receiving the news of Gupta’s visit, to constitute an inquiry committee comprising Dhanbad civil surgeon and ADM (law and order) and submit a report within a week. The family members of the deceased had alleged that the pregnant woman was denied admission to the gynaecology ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/banna-visits-pmch-vows-to-probe-death-of-pregnant-woman/articleshow/75304020.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Ranchi||Tablighi Jamaat members give samples for Covid testing||Gumla: Around 60 Tablighi Jamaat members, who attended the Biharsharif Markaz in Nalanda last month, gave their blood and swab samples for Covid-19 test on Wednesday. Earlier, Gumla deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan had made a public appeal to Biharsharif Markaz participants to opt for voluntary testing. Mohammad Minajuddin, a member of Anjuman Islamia and a functionary of Gumla Jama Masjid, furnished the contact details of Markaz’s participants to the district administration. Minajuddin said, “About five dozen people from Gumla had gone to Biharsharif on March 14 to participate in a Tablighi Jamaat Markaz the next day. They returned on March 16.” The samples were collected at Anjuman Islamia hospital in Islampur. Gumla civil surgeon Dr Vijaya Vengra said, “Samples of 59 people were collected and are being sent for test to Rims in Ranchi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tablighi-jamaat-members-give-samples-for-covid-testing/articleshow/75304334.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Three-year jail, Rs 50,000 penalty for attacking frontline workers in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Any attack on healthcare workers in Karnataka will now be punishable with up to 3 years in jail and fine of Rs 50,000. A state ordinance to protect frontline workers against increasing resistance and violence over testing, surveillance and quarantining received Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala’s assent on Wednesday. The Centre, too, put in place a stringent law to punish attackers. The new law in Karnataka also empowers authorities to recover twice the amount of damage caused to public and private properties by vandals. Authorities may also confiscate or attach properties of the attackers, if they fail to pay for the damages. State law minister JC Madhuswamy told TOI that those who damage public or private property or incite others to do so will be jailed for six months to three years besides being fined. Kerala and Uttar Pradesh have passed similar laws to punish attackers who target Covid-19 teams on the ground. Law makes attacks on docs bailable offenceHowever, the new law makes acts of violence against doctors and other medical staff a bailable offence unlike the ordinance which was approved by the Union Cabinet. The ordinance comes after attacks on Asha workers and Covid-19 teams on the ground across the state — more recently of health staff being threatened in the sealed Bengaluru ward of Padarayanapura on Sunday. More than 100 people have been arrested for the violence, which broke out when health workers and policemen were taking residents identified as primary contacts to a quarantine centre. On Wednesday, cops picked up seven men for questioning and sent them back after their statements were recorded. A senior police officer said they are studying messages and videos exchanged between the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/three-year-jail-rs-50000-penalty-for-attacking-frontline-workers-in-karnataka/articleshow/75309173.cms||Anil Gejji
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||For crowd control, Nagpur police to try drones with loudspeakers||NAGPUR: The city police on Thursday would test drones having public announcement (PA) systems as is being done in Mumbai as per the direction of the state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The minister, in a meeting with officers a day ago, had insisted the city police must follow their Mumbai counterparts and use such drones for better crowd management and enforcing stricter lockdown norms. Deshmukh said they be used at crowded places like markets and shops where enforcing social distancing was crucial. The city police had initially planned to use the drones of Smart City project but later decided to deploy the ones received from state police headquarters along with five mobile surveillance vehicles (MSV). Zonal DCP Neelotpal, the nodal officer for the Smart and Safe City project, along with DCP Vikram Sali, are learnt to have engaged a city-based firm which will try installing a live announcement system and wireless connectivity with MSVs that double up as a mini-control room. If the tests succeed, the drones would be able to monitor the area in a radius of one-kilometre as of now. They would send back images to the MSVs and the public announcements could be made to people on the ground. DCP Neelotpal said they were trying to enable drones to broadcast live announcements instead of recorded versions. “Our plan is to deploy these drones in such a way that we can guide the crowd live through the MSVs. If we find anyone violating norms then they can be pulled up immediately,” he said. “The experiment will be on the lines of Mumbai police that have put such drones in some places including Dharavi to good use to control crowd,” said Neelotpal. He said aim is to learn through trial and error. City police have been facing tricky situations in the smaller lanes and crowded places. At present, they have been using volunteers as special police officers, labelling them ‘Covid Yoddha’ to make public announcements through autorickshaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-crowd-control-police-to-try-drones-with-loudspeakers/articleshow/75305428.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Patient’s bid to flee hospital foiled in Amravati||AMRAVATI: A patient’s bid to flee district general hospital here after stealing an ambulance was foiled by an alert corporator from Badnera on Wednesday. Police said Dharmendra Abhay Kathade was admitted to the hospital with a fractured limb. Even as doctors had applied plaster on the limb, the man was reluctant to stay in the hospital. In the morning, in a fit of rage, Kathade allegedly stole keys of an ambulance parked in front of the ward and drove it ‘single-handedly’ to Badnera. In Sindhi Camp area, corporator Prakash Bansod noticed Kathade driving an ambulance with a plastered limb. Suspecting something foul, he signalled the driver to stop and made inquiries with Kathade, who told him that he was heading towards Chandrapur. Bansod immediately called up Badnera police who detained the patient and handed him over to the City Kotwali police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-bid-to-flee-hosp-foiled-in-amravati/articleshow/75305473.cms||---
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nomads unwelcome in villages||NAGPUR: The wandering shepherds from Gujarat and Rajasthan, who roam around in the villages of Central India are unwelcome these days. The Covid-19 scare has led to many local villagers driving them away. Even though many such incidents were reported in Chhattisgarh, some cases were also reported in Vidarbha, said the tribesmen. Semi-nomads of Rabari and Raika tribes from Gujarat and Rajasthan respectively are frequently seen in Vidarbha. While Raikas reach Amravati every summers from districts in Madhya Pradesh, the Rabaris are mainly found in eastern Vidarbha, extending up to Chhattisgarh. Originally from Rajasthan, the Raikas have settled in Madhya Pradesh. The Rabaris have been living in Central India for at least four decades and migrate in a limited circuit. The groups are invited by farmers to pitch tents in the fields as the droppings of their flocks of sheep provides natural manure. However, as outsiders, now they are not being allowed to enter the villages. “There have been cases of friction in Chhattisgarh but in Vidarbha there is no trouble,” said Parbat Rabari, whose group is now at Kuhi in Nagpur district. A video shows a group of local villagers armed with spades and pick axes driving away the shepherds, even as one of them requests the villagers to let the flock drink water at least. The issue was also raised by Otaram Dewasi, a former minister in the Rajasthan government, and now member of National Commission for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi-nomadic Tribes (NCDNST). He said, “Lockdown has left the nomads in dire straits, even without food. I have requested the commission chairman to take up the issue with chief secretaries of states where Raikas and Rabaris are found. It has been demanded that they should be included in the states’ food security programmes too,” he said. Malaram Raika, who is now at Daryapur in Amravati, said even if there is no violence, it is difficult to get essentials. The rates in village markets have multiplied and locals are only allowing one person at a time, said Raika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nomads-unwelcome-in-villages/articleshow/75305555.cms||Shishir Arya
April 23, 2020||Nagpur||Yet another bar burgled in Nagpur, sixth in lockdown||NAGPUR: Yet another liquor shop was targeted by burglars who decamped with several bottles of country-made and Indian-made foreign liquor worth Rs 54,080. With this, the number of liquor selling establishments targeted by miscreants during the lockdown in the city has reached six. The burglary took place sometime between April 19 and April 21 in Utthan Nagar under Mankapur police jurisdiction. In the latest incident, bar run by Hemant Pali, 54, was targeted by burglars who decamped with liquor bottles worth Rs54,080. The incident came to light on Tuesday following which Pali approached Mankapur police station where a case has been registered. Cops said the burglars broke open the lock of the front door before sneaking in and stealing the liquor. Police are now scrutinizing CCTV footage from nearby spots to identify the culprits. Cops said prima facie it appears that two miscreants were involved in the burglary. Since March 18, all bars and liquor shops in the city have been closed following the lockdown over the outbreak of Covid-19. All these establishments were sealed off by state excise officials. Earlier, a country-made liquor shop in Kamptee and bars in areas like Jaripatka, Gaddigodam, Koradi and Nandanvan were targeted by miscreants who had fled with cash and liquor worth lakhs. Though the police had advised liquor shop owners to increase security at their shops, the thefts seem to have continued. At a time when these establishment owners have been left with no income, the increasing number of thefts in liquor shops are being seen as a double whammy for them. Even though police have increased patrolling, burglars seem to have outsmarted the cops on this front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yet-another-bar-burgled-6th-in-lockdown/articleshow/75305573.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 23, 2020||India||PPE pecking order leaves nurses, ward boys at risk||In the midst of the Covid epidemic, complaints pour in about facilities and safety gear for healthcare workers being dependent on hierarchy rather than on the extent to which health personnel face risk of exposure. For instance, doctors are accommodated in hotels so that they don’t have to worry about infecting their families when they return home. However, nurses and technicians are made to stay in hostels or guesthouses and are transported to and from their place of residence in packed buses, defeating the whole concept of social distancing. Nurses working in the Delhi government’s main Covid hospital, LNJP Hospital, were first made to stay in dormitories in the hospital while doctors were put up in a plush hotel nearby. It took a strong protest by the nurses’ association for them to be given better facilities. Nurses have also complained about doctors given priority in getting PPEs in a situation of shortage. In many hospitals, ward boys and sanitation staff, many on short-term contract, stopped coming to work as few establishments had made arrangements for their accommodation. These are staff who change bedsheets, clean floors and toilets and even change diapers. Yet they don’t get PPE kits, and instead are forced to work wearing HIV kits, said a hospital employee. In Mumbai, a female cleaner at Kasturba Hospital, among the first healthcare workers to contract the infection at the hospital, had nowhere to go after she was discharged on Sunday. The staffer was discouraged to return home by her worried neighbours, said a hospital source. Kasturba administration then decided to house her in a ward meant for sweepers and other ancillary workers catering to Covid-19 cases, as she is supposed to be under quarantine for 14 days after discharge. And due to objections from other staff staying in the ward, a makeshift partition has been built to separate her from them. Even kitchen staff who cook and serve the quarantined hospital staff get no masks, gloves or hand sanitisers. In Bhopal Municipal Corporation, a kitchen supervisor who got infected has led to scores having to be quarantined. “Within a Covid ward or isolation facility, if some people wear protective gear while others don’t, it defeats the purpose. It is this kind of behavior which has led to health facilities becoming hot spots,” said an officer bearer of the United Nurses Association. “We are getting reports from different parts of the country that nurses either don’t get PPE or get poor quality ones. This is because nurses have no presence in decision-making bodies,” said Inayat Singh Kakar, of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan. She pointed out that a much larger number of nurses have been infected than doctors, showing just who is more at risk. The worst off seem to be ASHAs and anganwadi workers who carry out surveys on migrants who have returned and check on those quarantined at home. In Bhilwara, a 60-year-old anganwadi worker monitoring a quarantined Covid patient died. “They are lowest in the hierarchy, mostly widows or old women. They are attacked by people when they go out to do surveys and even the police beat them up,” said AR Sindhu, general secretary of the All Indian Federation of Anganwadi Workers. “Class IV staffers are facing as much discrimination or hardship of commuting as doctors and nurses, yet the corporation has not provided them with a decent place to sleep and bathe,” said Pradeep Narkar, secretary of Mumbai’s Municipal Mazdoor Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ppe-pecking-order-leaves-nurses-ward-boys-at-risk/articleshow/75309226.cms||Rema Nagarajan
April 23, 2020||India||Govt should revise list of ‘reserved’ categories to keep well-off out: SC||NEW DELHI: Holding that lists of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and socially and educationally backward classes for providing reservation are not "sacrosanct and unalterable", the Supreme Court on Wednesday said the beneficiaries should be revised by the government by removing those who have become affluent over the years and adding those who remain needy and require assistance. A five-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose said benefits of reservation were being availed by some communities over the last 70 years and they have become well off economically and socially. It said benefits have not trickled down to all sections and there is dissatisfaction within the ‘reserved’ class which can be addressed by revising the list. The court pronounced its verdict striking down an Andhra Pradesh government order that only Scheduled Tribes will be appointed teachers in scheduled areas. The court said the state order violates the 50% cap set by it on reservations in government jobs and educational institutions. The verdict can lead to a fresh controversy over reservation though the demand to use the creamy layer concept to remove some from the list of beneficiaries among the SCs and STs has been aired before. The creamy layer definition exists for OBCs though it is subject to revision and is often a contested matter. In 2018, the SC ruling rolling back mandatory arrest in the law on atrocities against Dalits and tribals had led to nationwide protests. "Now there is a cry within the reserved classes. By now, there are affluents and socially and economically advanced classes within Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. There is voice by deprived persons for social upliftment of some of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, but they still do not permit benefits to trickle down to the needy. Thus, there is a struggle within, as to worthiness for entitlement within reserved classes of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes," the bench said. Agreeing with the contentions that the government is required to revise the lists, the bench said, "It can be done presently without disturbing the percentage of reservation so that benefits trickle down to the needy and are not usurped by those classes who have come up after obtaining the benefits for the last 70 years or after their inclusion in the list." Referring to the SC's Indra Sawhney judgement, the bench said the government is duty-bound to undertake such an exercise as "the Constitution empowers Parliament under Article 341(1) to include or exclude from the list of Scheduled Castes any caste, race or tribe. Identical provisions in relation to the inclusion of Scheduled Tribes are provided in Article 342(1), and Parliament's power to amend is provided in Article 342(2). Similar provisions are contained with respect to socially and educationally backward classes in Article 342A," it said. "It was least expected from the functionary like the government to act in aforesaid manner as they were bound by the dictum laid down by this court in Indra Sawhney (case) and other decisions holding that the limit of reservation not to exceed 50%. There was no rhyme or reason with the state government to resort to 100% reservation," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-should-revise-list-of-reserved-categories-to-keep-well-off-out-sc/articleshow/75309273.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
April 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Free ration rush makes mess of lockdown in Mauli Jagran||CHANDIGARH: Arrival of a team of municipal corporation (MC) employees to distribute free ration sent hundreds of people rushing out of their homes to collect the stock in Mauli Jagran on Wednesday, tossing social distancing norms out of the window during curfew imposed to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. Police were forced to use force to disperse people standing shoulder-to-shoulder at a time when staying-at-home is the sole weapon against Covid-19. Nilambari Jagadale, SSP, UT, said as she saw pictures of the people coming on to the road in a large number, she directed local police to look into the matter. Cops reached the spot and used mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd. The SSP said the staff of food and supply department of the civic body had come to distribute ration. “They had no list of beneficiaries. So, everybody gathered there to collect the ration. Food and supply officials have been asked to come with a proper list and then hold the drive, the SSP said. Residents too accused the authorities of mismanagement. “Officials are not distributing ration properly. They move to a different area without checking everybody has received the ration. What happens is then people who are left out reach the other areas to collect their share,” said Ramesh Maurya , a resident of Mauli Jagran village The ration bag had 5-kg wheat (per person per month) and 1-kg pulses (per family per month. Gayabaksh Yadav, another resident, alleged that the MC officials were working under the pressure of local politicians. “These politicians are pressuring the MC staff to distribute ration in the area where they have votes and supporters,” he alleged. Some local political leaders too had spread the word that everybody would get dry ration, leading to the chaos Residents demanded the team should complete the distribution work in one area and then move to the other part. UT adviser Manoj Parida said it was the first day of distribution of dry ration in Mauli Jagran under Pradhan Mantri Gram Kalyan Yojana. In the evening, he held a meeting with finance secretary A K Sinha, MC commissioner KK Yadav, food and supply secretary Vinod P Kavle and the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-free-ration-rush-makes-mess-of-lockdown-in-mauli-jagran/articleshow/75309276.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 23, 2020||India||Covid-19: Noise pollution falls as lockdown rings in sound of silence||NEW DELHI: For nearly a month, there’s been no honking, no whirr of vehicular engines, no echo of loudspeakers and no clanking of machinery in factories. For nearly a month since the lockdown was clamped, Delhiites have been waking up to the chirping of birds. Like the now clear water of the Yamuna and the clean air of the city, Delhi’s noise pollution has drastically fallen, thanks to closed factories, mostly empty roads and an absence of commercial events. Prashant Gargava, member secretary of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the apex body for measuring noise pollution across the country, says it is carrying an analysis on pollution levels during the lockdown, results for which are likely to be shared soon. While the diurnal decibel level limit in residential areas in normal times is set at 55 dB(A) and 45 at night, chances are the current figures range between just 30 and 40. “The chirping of birds measures around 40-50 decibels,” Pravesh Biyani of IIIT-D, which is conducting a study, says, “When the surround sound is lower than that of the chirping, people get to hear the birds.” City chirpier as sound of birds replaces honkingA senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official says the drop in noise pollution has been significant. DPCC, too, will study the current data. CPCB and DPCC have five noise monitoring stations each. These cover industrial, residential and commercial locations like Anand Vihar, Civil Lines, Punjabi Bagh, Mandir Marg, RK Puram, ITO, East Arjun Nagar, Dilshad Garden, Bawana and Dwarka. In a recent submission to the National Green Tribunal, DPCC analysed noise pollution levels between April and October 2019 from its five stations, with Anand Vihar recording the highest average day-time and night-time noise levels. The highest was recorded at 65.7 dB(A) in October. The lowest average day-time reading was recorded at Punjabi Bagh in June 2019 at 55 dB(A), while the lowest night-time average was recorded at Mandir Marg in June 2019 at 49.1 dB(A). For industrial areas, the standard is 75 dB(A) during the day and 70dB (A) at night time. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Research and Policy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) says the impact is being seen most across industrial areas and traffic hotspots. “Busy roads which would constantly get noise pollution from horns and vehicles driving by are completely quiet now. Industries too which have shut down during the lockdown, meaning noise pollution there is extremely low as well,” said Chowdhury. A study by Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Delhi carried out recently had found that honking of vehicles is a bigger noise polluter than firecrackers with decibel levels going up to 100 db(A) and higher. The study was conducted by Biyani, assistant professor with Electronic and Communication (ECE), department of IIIT-D. Noise pollution was measured on eight prominent roads and 12 intersections of the city, including Anand Vihar, IP Extension, Govindpuri metro station, Maharani Bagh, Dwarka Sector 10 and Connaught Place. Biyani said the Govindpuri Metro station area, which had sound decibels of around 100 daily, “has now reduced to around 50-60 decibels due to the less number of vehicles on the road.” Dr Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park (YBP) says noise levels above 20 dB(A) are known to disturb birds. However, with reduced human activity and noise, their chirping is being heard clearly now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-noise-pollution-falls-as-lockdown-rings-in-sound-of-silence/articleshow/75309318.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Monthly stipend of GMCH interns doubled to Rs 18,000||CHANDIGARH: As incentive for doctors who are working as interns at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, the UT administration has finally decided to double their monthly stipend from Rs 9,000 to Rs 18,000. The decision came after some students from the medical college had taken to social media. The same was noticed by the Union minister of food processing industries, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who took to social media and requested the Punjab chief minister to raise the stipend of medical interns. She mentioned in her Tweet, “I request Punjab CM to intervene immediately and raise stipend of medical interns of Punjab government medical colleges who are getting Rs 300 per day on a par with daily wagers as per the central pattern, besides giving them insurance cover and absorbing them in the health department to combat Covid-19.” UT advisor Manoj Parida said, “It was decided in our war room meeting today that we will raise the stipend from April 1 onwards. These are students who are helping us fight against coronavirus.” There are around 600 such interns in all the medical colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh. “We are posted in all wards and are the first point of care for patients. This is certainly a part of our training. But the stipend is not even on a par with those in AIIMS,” said Dr Sandeep, who raised the issue in GMCH-32. He said, “In AIIMS, our colleagues are paid Rs 23,500 as stipend. Our fee has increased in the last 5 years, but in the past 11 years, our stipend is the same.” Internship is compulsory after 4.5 years of MBBS. “We work for 12 hours a day and we are paid Rs 300 per day which is less than an unskilled worker. Our last stipend was revised in 2009 from Rs 4,500 to Rs 9000,” said another intern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-monthly-stipend-of-gmch-interns-doubled-to-rs-18000/articleshow/75309357.cms||Shimona Kanwar
