April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Yogaraj Bhat’s music video celebrates the state’s Covid warriors||Filmmaker Yogaraj Bhat is back doing what he enjoys most — being on set. This time, though, it is on special request of Bengaluru city police commissioner Bhaskar Rao, who a song celebrating Covid warriors and showing the spirit of the state. “The commissioner had requested me to do a special video capturing the mood of the state. I have written the song, which has been set to tune by Arjun Janya and sung by Vijay Prakash. It will not feature film actors or celebrities; instead we are looking at celebrating those who are fighting for the welfare of everyone, be it the government, police force, BBMP task force and the many media personnel who are reporting live from the hotspots. I have already shot some portions of the video with the Chief Minister, some cabinet ministers and members of the police force,” says Yogaraj, adding that the song also highlights some prominent philanthropists, like Sudha Murty, for instance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yogaraj-bhats-music-video-celebrates-the-states-covid-warriors/articleshow/75330840.cms||Sunayana Suresh
April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Amulya and husband Jagdish set up mask-making initiative to empower women||Since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, masks and sanitisers have become a mainstay in pretty much every household, across socio-economic strata. But as everyone scrambled to get themselves protective wear, the focus shifted to the importance of using cloth masks instead, as healthcare worker and those working on the frontlines were running short of masks for themselves. It is here that Kannada actress Amulya and her husband Jagdish R Chandra saw an opportunity - to make cloth masks for corona warriors and provide employment to a bunch of poor women in the process. In the past few days, Amulya and Jagdish have been coordinating with 50 women tailors, all of who have sewing machines at home, to make biodegradable protective wear. "Rather than only providing these people basic essential commodities, we thought it would be better to empower them to take care of their families during this time, while also doing our bit for society. The 50 women who are a part of the initiative will make 10,000 masks in the first phase. We provide them all the raw material required and they get paid per mask. All maks are biodegradable, and can be washed and reused. We are looking at distributing them to the city's Corona warriors, who are finding it difficult to get masks. This way, the efforts of these women will be recognised in the best way," says Amulya, adding that they are also looking at providing the masks to Asha workers and the needy in the next few days. "We are getting a lot of request from tailors for more work, so, we will soon be expanding and providing more opportunities," she signs off||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/amulya-and-husband-jagdish-set-up-mask-making-initiative-to-empower-women/articleshow/75331313.cms||Sunayana Suresh
April 24, 2020||Goa||Chess tournaments go online||This lockdown, chess players seem to have found a new way to drive their quarantine blues away. Bhakti Kulkarni, International Women Grandmaster recently won a few chess tournaments online. “I won 1  in the women category, which had a three minute time control for each player. I had to compete with good players,” she tells us. Since the lockdown, there have been various online tournaments organised to keep the chess players engrossed in the game. Roopa Belukar, the president of Queens Chess which organises online competitions held twice a week, speaks to us about the initiative. “We decided to have these games as chess players cannot go out to compete with others and there is a chance that newbies may decide to quit.” While Nitish, a chess player tells us that, “when you don’t play for a long time, you tend to forget the tactics and since we cannot move out, playing online is extremely important. In fact you get to learn and refresh your own skill set.” Bhakti has won several tournaments but she tells us that since it’s being played online, and players are given usernames, it’s tough to judge who is playing against you. “For me it’s a fun challenge and it gives me a chance to try out my theories.” Roopa adds, “There is a small entry fee which is in the range of 50 and 100 for participants. The proceeds gathered at the end of this period will be given to the PM-CARES Fund for Covid 19 relief work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chess-tournaments-to-go-online/articleshow/75333913.cms||Kimberly Colaco
April 24, 2020||India||India attends Saarc health ministers conference hosted by Pakistan||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday participated in a video conference of Saarc health ministers hosted by Pakistan to promote greater regional cooperation to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said India was represented at the conference by Director General of Health Services who was assisted by experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "The virtual meeting was an occasion for India to reaffirm its strong commitment towards greater sharing of knowledge, expertise and best practices in the joint fight against Covid-19 for the larger regional good," the MEA said. Most Saarc countries were represented at the official level. "This event followed India's earlier initiative of hosting a video conference of senior health professionals on March 26 which had proved to be a productive and outcome-oriented exercise to promote greater regional cooperation against Coid-19," the MEA said in a statement. It said India made a detailed presentation at the conference on how it is responding to the situation. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) is a regional grouping comprising Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. All the Saarc member nations are reeling under adverse social and economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. At the video conference, the Indian side briefed other countries about its efforts to ramp up production of medicines and essential materials besides its research on drugs and vaccines to confront the pandemic. "At the meeting, India also highlighted the successful use and promising future of new and innovative technology-based solutions such as the mobile app 'Aarogya Setu' to maximize community outreach and intervention," the MEA said The meeting comes over a month after India took the lead with Prime Minister Narendra Modi bringing the SAARC leaders together through a video-conference amid rising coronavirus cases in the populous region. "The sentiment of cooperation and solidarity in the region intensified by Prime Minister Modi's video conference with Saarc Leaders on March 15 has led to much progress in the fight against Covid-19 through a series of concrete follow-up measures aimed at easing the suffering of the people in the region," the MEA said. It listed setting up of the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund, creation of a dedicated website developed by Saarc Disaster Management Centre in Gandhinagar and promotion of a stand-alone network of health and trade officials for their interaction in real time among the visible practical steps to deal with the pandemic at the regional level. India has also developed an electronic platform for use by all Saarc countries to exchange information on response mechanism to deal with the pandemic. "As the next major step, the platform will be launched for exchange of specialized information and tools on Covid-19 among designated health professionals in the region," the MEA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-attends-saarc-health-ministers-conference-hosted-by-pakistan/articleshow/75334242.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||#LOCKDOWNEFFECT: Weddings in Lucknow get postponed indefinitely||The lockdown due to Coronavirus has brought the business of shaadi to a grinding halt. More than 1600 weddings functions in the city have been cancelled or postponed due to lockdown in just April. These cancellations and postponements have incurred a loss of crores for all the associated parties like the caterers, decorators, hotels and wedding venues, band wallahs, etc. Industry wallahs fear the worst is yet to come, not counting the people whose weddings and engagements have been postponed. LOSS IN IN CRORES "Just in the month of April, we have seen cancellation and postponement of over 1600 wedding and related functions in only Lucknow district. And this estimate is of the bigger venues, not including the smaller ones. With the way things are going, we don’t see people having bigger gatherings for at least a year to come. Even if the administration gives permission for a wedding, do you think people will risk attending huge wedding functions? Also, at an average, a caterer charges Rs 700 per head per wedding, so if you include the next three months at least, no big weddings will take place before that and that’s why our losses are running in crores," says," Tarun Sawhney, President, Oudh Caterers Association. BCCLYEH SHAADI ABHI NAHI HO SAKTIAlka Srivastava, a housewife, whose son’s wedding was supposed to take place on May 2 has postponed it to later this year whenever a suitable date will be found next. “I had made the bookings in a hotel but now with the lockdown, having a normal shaadi seems impossible. My money that I had deposited for the wedding is also either gone or stuck,” says Alka, who is now contemplating having a small gathering of just family members after the lockdown is lifted to hold the wedding in her house. NO VENUE FOR LATER IN THE YEARThe weddings or engagements that have been postponed have little chance of being held or accommodated at the same venue later in the year because the bookings for that period have already been made. As Alka tells us,”Even if we postpone the wedding, most of the venues are already booked on the auspicious dates.” A fact that Arjun Singh, director of a prominent resort on Faizabad road agrees with. “We had approximately 46 bookings during this time, which have been cancelled for now. Now the catch is that while most people want the booking to be postponed for the later part of the year, we do not have availability of the venue as it is already booked for those dates,” says Arjun. Jatin Ahuja, owner of wedding banquet halls and hotels in the city says that he too had more than two dozen bookings for weddings and engagements in April but most have been postponed now. “All the people who had a booking with us have postponed the weddings as of now. They informed us that they will discuss the next available dates but it will be hard to accommodate them as we already have the bookings for the next sahalak,” he says. BCCLWHAT HAPPENS TO THE REFUND?The manager of a prominent hotel in Gomti Nagar, on the basis of anonymity, shares that as of now making refunds for bookings already made is not possible. “Though the weddings have been postponed at our hotel too, we are not sure regarding the policy of the refund as of now.” But for smaller venues, the problem of giving back the booking amount is a big problem. Ashok Singh, (name changed on requests) manager of a wedding venue, says that since the booking amount is shared with third parties like decorators, caterers etc, it is very difficult to give it back. “We share the booking amount with the decorators, light wallahas, phool wallahs, etc. These are small vendors and asking them to give us back the money at this time is not possible, so for us to return the booking amount is impossible at this momentin time. At the most, we can ask the people to postpone the date to a later available vacant slot at our venue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdowneffect-weddings-in-lucknow-get-postponed-indefinitely/articleshow/75330592.cms||Akash Wadhwa
April 24, 2020||India||Turned away by two hospitals, MP woman dies after delivery||RAICHUR: Turned away in labour pain by two government health facilities, a 25-year-old woman delivered her baby at a private hospital, but could not survive to celebrate the birth of her first child. She died six days later because she was referred to a third government facility after developing fever as the authorities at the private hospital suspected that she had contracted Covid-19. The deceased, Maria, was taken to a primary health centre in Manvi taluk in the Raichur district on April 13 following labour pains. But she was sent to another government hospital in Sindhanur taluk by the health workers at the PHC who said she was in the “high risk” category going by her maternity card. However, the second government facility also turned her away after a few hours. “A health worker asked us to leave, saying doctors were not available to conduct a Caesarian delivery. A staff nurse said we should not waste time since her condition was serious,” said Mallappa, Maria’s father. Maria was then taken to Veera Gangadhara Hospital in Sindhanur, where she delivered the baby the next day. However, her condition deteriorated after the delivery and the hospital referred her to Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on April 19 after her fever did not subside for five days. Maria died at RIMS the next day. Dr Abhinethri Patil of Veera Gangadhara Hospital, who attended to Maria, said her haemoglobin levels were very low when she was brought in. She said Maria’s fever did not subside despite medicines. “We tested her for malaria and dengue, both of which were ruled out. Since there were fears over Covid-19, we asked the family to go to Raichur,” she said. District health officer Ramakrishna said he would look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/turned-away-by-two-hospitals-mp-woman-dies-after-delivery/articleshow/75335367.cms||Shreyas HS
April 24, 2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: 200% jump in calls from drug users, alcoholics||NEW DELHI: Distress calls from alcoholics and drug users on national helpline spiked by 200% during the coronavirus lockdown, triggering concern in the government to urgently help out these individuals across states. The biggest reason for the outcry is the absence of alcohol because of closure of liquor shops and also the breakdown in the supply of narcotics owing to curbs on movement of people who act as mules. Another cause for irritation is the complete disappearance of the ubiquitous tobacco. Though vanishing of common substances of abuse as well as hard narcotics would be seen as a welcome development, the government is not celebrating because it is pushing even mild users to the edge. Raising eyebrows, the data collected by the social defence division of the ministry of social justice and empowerment shows that compared to an average of 90 calls on toll free number - 1800110031 between March 15-21, the number post-lockdown from March-end to April 5 shot up to an average of 266 calls per day. It marks a 200% spike in calls. The calls from April 5-12 remained in the high range of 236 a day, while from April 13-23, it remains at 159 per day – much higher than pre-lockdown. Between March 22 to 31 maximum calls were received from Uttar Pradesh (73), Delhi (34), Madhya Pradesh (31) and Gujarat (29). From April 1 -12 the trend reflected Uttar Pradesh leading with 203 calls followed by Bihar (136), Maharashtra (119) and Madhya Pradesh (109). From April 13 to 21 UP was again at the top with 69 calls followed by Bihar (68), Delhi (60) and Maharashtra (56). A senior official said the calls are triggered by restlessness, anxiety and withdrawal symptoms in people who are unable to access alcohol, drugs and tobacco. The complaints of moderate symptoms included headache, stomach ache and anger, as also severe withdrawal symptoms like seizures, hallucinations and shivering. As a result, the “helpline executives” are counselling those with moderate symptoms and guiding callers requiring more intensive intervention to the Integrated Rehabilitation Centres for Addicts. There are 495 IRCs in the country which means practically one per district in the worst states on the scale of addiction. Interestingly, the desperate callers’ request ranges from advice on kicking the habit to a few even asking how they can access the intoxicants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-lockdown-200-jump-in-calls-from-drug-users-alcoholics/articleshow/75335478.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
April 24, 2020||India||Govt moves NCLT to take charge of Delhi Gymkhana Club||NEW DELHI: The Centre has moved a petition seeking a change of management of the Delhi Gymkhana Club and appoint its 15 nominees as administrators to run the affairs of the sprawling facility in Lutyens’ Delhi. The petition was filed by the ministry of corporate affairs in the National Company Law Tribunal, seeking action under Section 241 and 242 of the Companies Act that allows a member of a company or the government to seek relief if the affairs of the entity are being run in a manner “prejudicial to public interest” or is “oppressive”, among other things. The Tribunal has issued notices and the case is to come up for hearing on Friday. The government had used the same provisions of the Companies Act to get the NCLT approval to supersede the board of IL&FS. Sources said the move follows an investigation ordered by the ministry following complaints from members of the Delhi Gymkhana Club which is adjacent to the Prime Minister’s residence. Apart from accusations of alleged mismanagement, there were allegations of the 107-year-old club accepting “deposits” in the form of application fee that was over Rs 1 lakh. The club does not pay any interest on the money during the waiting period, which can stretch from 15 years to 30-35 years. On April 10, 2019, TOI had reported about the MCA investigation. The preliminary findings had referred to an increase in the application fee for the government category from Rs 5,000 in 2000 to Rs 1.5 lakh now. For non-government applicants, the fee has gone up from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7.5 lakh during this period. The funds collected as application fee was invested in securities and deposits that would fetch returns. The Club’s president Lt-Gen DR Soni could not be reached over phone for comment. A text message sent in the evening did not illicit a response. Government sources said that the issue was under investigation for a long time and action was being contemplated for a while.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-moves-nclt-to-take-charge-of-delhi-gymkhana-club/articleshow/75335794.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 24, 2020||India||Stigma attached to Covid can cause more deaths: AIIMS head||NEW DELHI: Stigmatising of Covid-19 patients and their families is resulting in cases turning up late at hospitals, with heightened breathlessness, and this could mean increased morbidity and mortality, Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said on Thursday. According to Dr Guleria, the disease can be treated successfully in most cases and 80% of patients need only supportive care, while 20% would require enhanced attention and of these only 5% need ventilators. He said that 15% of the more serious patients essentially need enhanced oxygen support rather than ventilators and the government's capacity-building had kept this in mind. He urged people to support patients and their families instead of stigmatising them. "We should look at how we can support Covid-19 patients and their families. More people need to come for testing (on developing symptoms)," he said. The government said healthcare facilities for treating patients have increased by 3.5 times in the last one month. While 90-95% of Covid-19 patients recover, the mortality rate from the disease is rising due to the stigma attached to the disease, Dr Guleria said. AIIMS is leading clinical management of the infection across the country. So far, over 700 people have died due to the novel coronavirus in India. He said patients who recover should be honoured as they have won a battle, adding that it is not easy to even be in isolation, surrounded by doctors and nurses with full-body hazmat suits. Read also: 35 AIIMS docs, nurses asked to self-quarantine"We have to remember that this is a disease which is not that serious. Infected patients are approaching healthcare facilities at a later stage which is leading to increased mortality," Dr Guleria said. At present, there are a total of 3,773 Covid-dedicated facilities, which include 1.9 lakh isolation beds for severe and critical cases, 24,644 ICU beds and 12,371 ventilators. Besides, there are over 1.6 lakh isolation beds in Covid care centres which act as the primary leg of care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stigma-attached-to-covid-can-cause-more-deaths-aiims-head/articleshow/75335912.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 24, 2020||India||Huge jump in no. of people reading newspapers for over an hour: Survey||If there’s one thing that people are consuming more of during the nationwide lockdown, it is newspapers. In these extraordinary times, as the need for reliable, verified information becomes more critical than ever before, people have chosen to spend much more time with their newspapers, a survey has found. On an average, they are now spending 22 minutes more with their newspaper every day, reading the paper for a good one hour, a survey by market research firm Avance Field & Brand Solutions has found. In the pre-lockdown days, the average time spent on a newspaper was 38 minutes. In fact, almost 40% of those surveyed said they read the paper for more than an hour now; earlier, less than half, only 16%, spent as much time. During the lockdown, even the numbers of those reading the paper for over 30 minutes has shot up to 72% from 42%. And, readers who spent less than 15 minutes on their newspaper fell from 14% pre-lockdown to a mere 3%. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsWhat’s more, 42% are reading the paper multiple times instead of in one go, devoting more time to each section. Clearly, going by the survey’s findings, the relationship between readers and newspapers has deepened and widened in these challenging times. “Newspapers are truly an essential service and continue to be the most credible source of information,” the survey says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/huge-jump-in-no-of-people-reading-newspapers-for-over-an-hour-survey/articleshow/75336131.cms||---
April 24, 2020||India||IIT-D develops low-cost kit for detecting Covid-19||MUMBAI: Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT-D) has developed a low-cost Covid-19 detection kit costing barely a few hundred rupees using indigenously developed technology. The kit was approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the apex bio-medical research body which is at the centre of the fight to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, on Thursday. The institute is now in the process of identifying an industry partner and aims to get production rolling this week. The assay or procedure has been validated at ICMR with a sensitivity and specificity of 100%. This makes IIT-D the first academic institute to have obtained ICMR approval for a real-time PCR-based (Polymerase chain reaction) diagnostic assay. IIT Delhi’s team of 10, including four faculty members, identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the Covid-19 /SARS COV-2 genome. These regions are not present in other human coronaviruses, providing an opportunity to specifically detect Covid-19. “This method uses primers targeting unique regions of Covid-19 that were designed and tested using real-time PCR. This highly sensitive assay was developed by extensive optimisation using synthetic DNA constructs followed by in vitro generated RNA fragments,” said professor Vivekanandan Perumal, lead researcher from the Kusuma School of Biological Sciences. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe team began working on the detection assay kit in January-end. “From the very beginning, we kept all our labs accessible for the IIT Delhi community to carry out all kinds of research for Covid-19. Close to 20 projects in this area are on at our campus,” said IIT-D director Ramagopal Rao. Regarding technology used for the detection kit, he said, “we know tests will cost a few hundred rupees and that too can come down if production volumes are higher. IIT Delhi has internally funded this research and we have applied for a patent.” This is the first probe-free assay for Covid-19 approved by ICMR. The detection assay eliminates use of fluorescent probes which slashed the cost of putting together the kit. “We instead use a fluorescent dye along with highly specific primers to detect Covid-19," said professor Manoj Menon. Watch IIT-Delhi develops low-cost Covid-19 test kit, production to begin shortly||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iit-d-develops-low-cost-kit-for-detecting-covid-19/articleshow/75336320.cms||Hemali Chhapia
April 24, 2020||India||India faring better than other countries at the 5L-test mark: Committee chief||NEW DELHI: Though the number of Covid-19 patients in India is rising, the graph is linear and not exponential and could indicate a flattening of the curve as the country's positive rate remains largely unchanged at 4.5% of those tested even as number of tests conducted daily since March 23 has risen consistently crossing 5,00,000 overall on Wednesday. As of now, on an average more than 35,000 tests are conducted daily. The government on Thursday said India's case positivity average is 4.5%, even as testing increased 33 times in the last 30 days. On March 23, 14,915 samples had been tested and the number crossed half a million on April 22. The charts were shared by the empowered committee on testing and health infrastructure for Covid-19 headed by environment secretary C K Mishra. “The growth of Covid-19 cases has been more or less linear and not exponential; this indicates that the strategies we adopted have succeeded in containing the infection to a particular level,” said Mishra, who said the positivity rate, higher number of tests and comparisons with other nations at the 5,00,000 test mark validated India's testing strategy. “During the 30 days of lock down, we have been able to cut transmission, minimise spread and increase the doubling days of Covid-19. We have been able to consistently ramp up our testing and utilise our time preparing for the future in case the virus spreads further,” Mishra said. He also added that testing strategy has not been static and would be further altered depending on the situation regarding the spread of the disease in India. Highlighting government’s consistent expansion of testing numbers as well as categories as cases started increasing, Mishra said, “One crucial weapon we employed during the 30-day lockdown period is RT-PCR test to ascertain if one has contracted the disease or not.” The Indian Council of Medical Research head Dr Balram Bhargava said the number of labs, both government and private,have grown substantially to more than 300. Asked if India will reach a peak number of cases by May 3, the last day of the national lock down as of now, Bhargava said, ““It is difficult to say...But we are in a very stable formation...We may have managed to flatten the curve with 4.5% positivity rate.” More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsMishra said there was a huge spike in positive cases in many developed countries like UK, US and Italy after each reported a 400th confirmed case. However, India managed to stay on a linear curve rather than witnessing an explosion of cases. There were also countries like South Korea that did better, officials said comparing India’s strategy and status with other countries when it came to parameters like positivity rate. These countries, Mishra said also reached 5 lakh tests at a much higher incidence of positive cases. For instance, US did half a million tests on March 26 when 80,000 cases were found positive; Italy reached that benchmark on March 31 with 1 lakh positive cases. “In India we had conducted half a million tests by April 22 with over 20,000 positive cases,” Mishra said even though he added comparisons were not easy given varying demographics and resources and therefore different strategies. While highlighting that India’s testing strategy is “focused, targeted and evolving”, Mishra said, “this strategy is a response to a challenge and as the challenge kept expanding, the strategy kept evolving”. Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said no new Covid-19 cases has been reported from 78 districts in the last 14 days. He also said, “4,257 Covid-19 patients, which is 19.89 per cent of those infected have been cured so far. In the last 24 hours, 1,409 cases were reported, taking the total number of positive cases to 21,393.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-faring-better-than-other-countries-at-the-5l-test-mark-committee-chief/articleshow/75336392.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 24, 2020||India||7-year-old girl raped, stabbed in eyes in MP||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: A seven-year-old girl was raped and her eyes stabbed in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh on Wednesday, prompting statewide outrage and condemnation. Police nabbed a suspect on Thursday. This is the third rape in the state during the lockdown, a grim reminder that MP ranks on top in sexual crimes. The child was found in an abandoned house on the outskirts of the village, bleeding from the eyes, and with her hands and legs tied. She was taken to a hospital in Jabalpur on Thursday, where doctors operated on her to try and save her vision. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ordered police to arrest the rapist immediately and tweeted: “The monster behind this appalling crime will be given the harshest punishment.” After Damoh SP Hemant Chouhan announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for the arrest of the suspect, a 20-year-old man, identified as Sachin Sen, was caught on Thursday. “The accused lured away the girl on Wednesday evening and took her to the abandoned house, where he tied her up and committed the crime,” IG-Sagar Range Anil Sharma said. Doctors confirmed rape. On Thursday morning, early-risers followed whimpers of ‘maa-maa’ coming from an abandoned house on the village outskirts and were horrified to find the child trussed up and bleeding from the eyes, say police. It’s believed the rapist left her for dead. She was first taken to a local hospital and then taken to Jabalpur Medical College, 70km away, where she was wheeled into surgery. The doctors confirmed rape. “The girl has swelling in her eyes. Specialists have examined her and it does not seem she has any grave injuries in her eyes,” said superintendent of Jabalpur Medical College Dr Rajesh Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-year-old-girl-raped-stabbed-in-eyes-in-mp/articleshow/75336715.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Business||Remittances to India projected to fall by 23%||NEW DELHI: Remittances are projected to fall by about 23% in 2020 to $64 billion In India – a striking contrast with growth of 5.5% and receipts of $83 billion seen in 2019, as the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak and travel restrictions make a huge dent on flows, a World Bank report has estimated. The coronavirus-related global slowdown and travel restrictions will also affect migratory movements, and this is likely to keep remittances subdued even in 2021. The projected remittance growth of 5.8% in 2021 will keep total regional flows at about $115 billion, the report said. “Remittances to South Asia are projected to decline sharply by 22% to $109 billion in 2020. This is a significant and unprecedented deceleration compared with the growth of 6.1% seen in 2019,” said the report titled Covid-19 Crisis through a migration lens. “The deceleration in remittances to the South Asian region in 2020 is driven by the global economic slowdown due to the coronavirus outbreak as well as oil price declines. The economic slowdown is likely to directly affect remittance outflows from the United States, the United Kingdom, and EU countries to South Asia. Falling oil prices will affect remittance outflows from GCC countries and Malaysia,” the report said. The crisis has created a chaotic and painful process of mass return for internal migrants in India and many countries in Latin America. As a result, the Covid-19 containment measures might even have contributed to spreading the epidemic. The loss of jobs and livelihood has also ruptured an important lifeline to rural households in many countries, the report said. It said the lockdown in India has impacted livelihoods of a large proportion of the country’s nearly 40 million internal migrants. Around 50,000–60,000 moved from urban centres to rural areas of origin in a span of a few days. The government set up camps with basic provisions to provide shelter to these migrants in cities and districts of destination, transit, and origin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/remittances-to-india-projected-to-fall-by-23/articleshow/75336790.cms||---
April 24, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Fresh cases hit new high of 1,755, major spurt in Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 outbreak in Maharashtra, by far the worst-affected state in the country, turned grimmer on Thursday when it reported an explosion of new cases. As many 778 persons tested positive in the state during the past 24 hours, taking the national count of new cases on Thursday to 1,755, the highest single-day surge so far. With this, the number of coronavirus cases in India has jumped from 21,358 on Wednesday to 23,113, an 8.2% rise as per latest reports from states. The staggering spike in Maharashtra was not just the highest reported by a state in a day, beating its own previous record of 552, Mumbai too recorded its biggest rise in cases at 522. While Gujarat too continues to report high numbers (217 new cases), Madhya Pradesh recorded a surge in infections late on Thursday after a relative lull in the past few days, with 184 new cases. Delhi similarly showed a spike after several days of low numbers, with 128 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours and two deaths. The number of deaths due to coronavirus has been gradually rising. On Thursday, 43 deaths were reported from across the country, a majority of these from Maharashtra (14), Gujarat (9), MP (5) and UP (4). Exactly a month after the lockdown, Maharashtra’s total case tally on Thursday stood at 6,427 and deaths at 283. The lion share of positive cases came from Mumbai, which breached the 4,000-mark to record 4,206 cases. Gujarat also recorded death of nine patients on Thursday, taking the death toll to 112. The deaths were recorded from Ahmedabad (seven), Surat and Vadodara (one each). Madhya Pradesh, which appeared to have been gaining control of the outbreak after a rash of cases which had seen the patient count rising by over 350 in a day, may again be slipping back. The state reported not just 184 new cases but also five more deaths from the virus. Andhra Pradesh registered its highest single-day spike in cases with 80 people testing Covid-19 positive, and three deaths. Bihar too saw a spike in the infection, with 29 new cases in the state, taking the total number to 170. In Rajasthan, a 75-year-old man died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. However, his report was issued on Thursday, a day after his death, taking the state’s toll to 28. The state recorded 76 new cases also, taking the total cases to 1964. Telangana is inching towards 1,000 coronavirus positive cases with 27 new cases reported on Thursday. One person succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 25 in the state. Assam, meanwhile, reported its 35th Covid-19 case, after many days of zero new infections. Odisha on Thursday announced a complete shutdown of three districts, Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur, for 60 hours after they witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases. The government move comes hours after six more persons – four from Jajpur and two from Balasore – tested positive for the virus, raising the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state to 89. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn Jharkhand, the number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand crossed the 50-mark with seven more persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday, taking the tally to 56. Of these, 45 are active cases, while nine have recovered and two died during treatment. The number of cases in the state has doubled in eight days. The state had recorded its 28th Covid-19 patient on April 15 — 16 days after the coronavirus made its entry in Jharkhand on March 31. The J&K administration reported 20 new positive cases of the virus, taking the total number of infected people to 427.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fresh-cases-hit-new-high-of-1755-major-spurt-in-maharashtra/articleshow/75336917.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 24, 2020||Patna||Virtual classes the new normal?||PATNA: With boards and university examinations postponed due to lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus, lakhs of young minds, who were preparing to take a new step in their lives, have got stuck in the middle of nowhere. Though schools and universities have gradually adapted to virtual learning or online classes, students are facing initial hiccups, such as poor internet connectivity and inability of some teachers to make PowerPoint presentations. Some educational establishments, however, said online classes at times lead to increase in attendance of students. Parents too are adapting to the new medium of school education of their kids as they are getting assignments on WhatsApp and submitting the completed homework on email. Shubha Sharma, Hindi teacher at Christ Church High School, said resorting to online teaching has its own pros and cons. “The Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to look for an alternative to traditional classroom teaching. It requires a lot of planning, unlike regular or traditional classrooms where we used to keep the students engaged through personal interaction. Giving lectures online doesn’t allow the same method. Besides, teaching students, especially those taking their board examinations next year, is not just challenging but requires a lot of preparations and writing too,” she said. Several teachers said the post Covid-19 pandemic effects will be massive as online teaching might be given more importance. Piyush Sahay, coordinator of BBA department at St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology, said online teaching has increased the engagement and participation of students to 90%. “The participation of students during online classes has come to me as a surprise. Even the students who never spoke a word in the classroom have started showcasing their talent,” he said. Sahay said online teaching can be a problem for students learning mathematics or subjects that require the presence of equipment. “Students who don’t have Wi-Fi or an unlimited internet pack are finding it difficult to attend classes. Parents with two or more children are finding it difficult to arrange smartphones and laptops for their wards. “Online classes are fine but how are two children of the same family supposed to attend classes? Even though we want both our children to attend classes everyday, we make them attend the classes on alternate days due to unavailability of gadgets,” said Nitu Sinha, a resident of Kadamkuan. Farhat Hasan, director of International School, however, found an alternative way for families that have more than one child. “We conduct classes for senior sections in the morning and junior sections in afternoon,” Hasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/virtual-classes-the-new-normal/articleshow/75330444.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Business||Gold may zoom to Rs 82,000 per 10 gm by end 2021: Analysts||MUMBAI: As stocks and bonds as investment avenues do not show much hope under current market conditions, gold could be the asset to put your money in. If analysts at Bank of America Securities (BofA Sec) are to be believed, gold prices in the international market could rally to $3,000 per ounce (Oz) by end 2021. Translated into Indian rates, that could be about Rs 82,000/10 grams at current exchange rates. On Thursday, gold futures for June on MCX closed at Rs 46,352/10gm. So, in about one and a half years, gold prices in India could gain about 75%. In the international market, gold is currently trading at about $1,750 level. Analysts at Goldman Sachs, another global financial powerhouse too put their bets on the yellow metal and said, given current global market scenario, it was a better hedge than crude oil. Incidentally, late March, analysts at Goldman Sachs had predicted that crude oil price could enter the negative territory. According to BofA Sec, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, US GDP could go down by 30% in Q2 of 2020 — the steepest drop in modern history. Other countries like Japan will likely experience a 21.8% decline in output in Q2 CY20, while China just reported a contraction of 6.8% in Q1 CY20. “As central banks rush to expand their balance sheets and backstop asset values and consumer prices, a lot of risks could end up being socialised,” it noted. The analysts believe that a strong dollar, reduced financial market volatility and lower jewellery demand in India and China could become the headwinds for gold. “But beyond traditional gold supply and demand fundamentals, financial repression is back on an extraordinary scale. Rates in the US and most G-10 economies will likely be at or below zero for a very long period of time as central banks attempt to push inflation back above their targets.” Nominal GDP, central bank balance sheets, or official gold reserves will, in such a scenario, remain the key determinants of gold prices. “As central banks and governments double their balance sheets and fiscal deficits respectively, we have also decided to up our 18-month gold target from $2,000 to $3,000,” noted BofA Sec.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-may-zoom-to-rs-82000-per-10gm-by-end-21-analysts/articleshow/75334308.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||Travel permits for medical emergencies||PANAJI: The state government on Thursday said that inter-state permits can now be availed to visit Goa for medical or emergency purposes only. For inter-state permits, the applicant should mention the checkpost name. Applicants can register on www.goaonline.gov.in by providing email ID, mobile number, name, address and date of birth along with OTP authentication. To prove medical reason, identity and medical documents (prescription/medical certificate/case paper, etc) should be uploaded in JPEG/PDF with max size as mentioned in the application form. Upon receipt of the approval status, applicants can download the travel permit by accessing registered email or by clicking download link from the dashboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/travel-permits-for-medical-exigencies/articleshow/75334953.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||Patna pupils eyeing reputed colleges, varsities in catch-22 situation||PATNA: City students aspiring to study in reputed colleges in the country and abroad are disappointed with postponement of entrance examinations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While some are planning to take a one-year break, others are waiting for the lockdown to get over. Kankarbagh resident Anjali Singh, who was planning to take scholastic assessment test (SAT) to study physics at the University of California, is uncertain about sitting for the exam this year. “As the test is held in June, the dates haven’t been postponed yet. However, keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, I don’t think I will be able to take the test this time. As most countries are in complete or partial lockdown, it will take at least a year before situation returns to normal. Even if I take the test and get through it, my parents won’t allow me to go abroad for studies under the present circumstances,” Anjali said. Similarly, 17-year-old Hansika, a resident of Kadamkuan, has been advised by her teachers not to go for foreign universities this time. “As many students are still stranded in different countries and others had to rush back to India amid the pandemic, I don’t want to take any risk. Even my teachers have advised me to take a one-year break and wait for normalcy to return,” she said. Patna City resident Divya Kumar, who has been preparing for entrance exam to secure admission in a Russia-based medical college, had enrolled in a coaching institution in Bengaluru spending more than Rs 2 lakh. “It’s a very difficult time for me and my family. I don’t have the strength to wait for another year to take the exam as I passed Intermediate two years ago,” the 20-year-old said. As the number of Covid-19 cases in India is growing at a rapid speed, students preparing for entrance exams to secure admission in leading colleges in the country are also concerned about their future. “It is still uncertain whether the entrance exams will be conducted or not. Even if the universities take online tests, there is uncertainty over admission,” said Abhishek Shrivastava, a resident of Pataliputra Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pupils-eyeing-reputed-colleges-varsities-in-catch-22-situation/articleshow/75330674.cms||Archi Rani
April 24, 2020||Patna||Two killed in separate incidents in Bihar||PATNA: Two people were killed in separate incidents in Saharsa and Banka districts and Rs 50,000 was looted from the staff of a cooking gas agency in Supaul on Thursday. Meanwhile, a 55-year-old man allegedly committed suicide in depression in Jehanabad district. According to reports reaching the police headquarters, unidentified armed criminals shot dead a 30-year-old youth Mangroo Yadav near Bhushna Pul under the Suiya police station area in Banka district on Thursday. The deceased’s family has accused local sand mafia of hatching the conspiracy to eliminate Mangroo, who was the brain behind a series of raids against sand smugglers operating in the area. In another incident, a 25-year-old youth was shot dead by unidentified armed criminals at Khurasan village under the Itahari police station in Saharsa district. The deceased was identified as Ratan Yadav, a resident of Simri Bakhtiyarpur. Itahari police outpost SHO Kamlesh Kumar Singh said the assailants fired at Ratan around 8 am on Thursday when he was working in his agricultural field. One Munchun Yadav has been made named accused in the case. Agitated over the killing, some local residents blocked Khurasan-Telia road and disrupted vehicular traffic for three hours. The road blockade was lifted after the intervention of senior police officers, who assured of prompt action. In Supaul, unidentified armed criminals shot at an employee of a gas agency and looted Rs 50,000 from him. The incident took place when Manoj Kumar Sharma, a staff of Ganpati Gas Agency, was on way to distribute gas cylinders among consumers near Dharampatti village under the Raghopur police station area. Motorbike-borne criminals escaped towards Saraigarhki with the looted amount. The injured was rushed to the local PHC, from where he was later shifted to DMCH in a critical condition. In Samastipur, a youth was brutally assaulted by a mob after being caught committing theft in a house at Bhojpur village under the Sarairanjan police station area on Thursday morning. The injured, whose identity is yet to be ascertained, was admitted to the sadar hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-killed-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/75331273.cms||Ramashankar
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Rise in tests in sync with lab count: West Bengal||KOLKATA: The Bengal government on Thursday informed Calcutta high court that the testing scale-up in Bengal is proportional to the increase in number of ICMR-approved testing facilities here. The state said it had only one testing facility on March 3, which could test 58 samples. On April 21, with 10 testing laboratories, it could test 6,182 samples. It also informed the HC about the faulty RT-PCR test kits which caused delay and the ICMR halt in rapid testing. The government added it was now conducting pool tests to fully utilize the laboratories. The state was responding to a PIL that questioned its alleged inept handling of the pandemic. The state also said the suggestion that Bengal had a high Covid-19 mortality rate was incorrect and asked the petitioner to file proof to substantiate the claim. The Bengal government argued that, as on April 21, the number of Covid-19 positive cases here was 274. Seventy-three had been cured and 15 had been declared dead due to Covid-19. The state said these figures have been accepted by the government of India and published on its website and app. The state said unless it is ascertained that a death is caused due to Covid-19 it would be improper to cite that as the cause of death. It argued that testing was linked to several factors that were not in its control. The petitioner’s lawyer, Shamim Ahmed, told TOI they will file a reply on Tuesday, April 28, when the court will hear the case again. He added that a hearing was not possible on Thursday due to a link failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rise-in-tests-in-sync-with-lab-count-state/articleshow/75334867.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cop fires for 4 hours from police lines terrace||JHARGRAM: A constable of Jhargram Police kept the rest of the force on tenterhooks throughout Thursday, firing indiscriminately in the air from the terrace of the police lines. It took more than seven hours and his family’s arrival from Purulia to coax him down. Jhargram SP Amit Kumar Bharat Rathore said constable Binod Kumar had been hallucinating while on the terrace. Kumar, from Purulia, had posted a warning on his Facebook page in the morning, saying “Be prepared”. Later, however, his Facebook page could not be accessed. He was on sentry duty at the arms section of the Jhargram police lines since 11am. Around 1.40pm, Kumar suddenly started indiscriminately firing his service revolver. He continued firing in the air for almost four hours — till 5.30pm — with breaks ranging from 20-30 minutes. The rain, which started around 3.30pm failed to deter him and Kumar continued to shoot at will. Some 500-600 officers remained huddled inside different buildings on the premises as Kumar kept on firing. It stopped raining around 5.30pm and Kumar, too, stopped and entered the sentry guard room on the terrace. He remained there for some time, but came out soon after. Cops who gathered on the road outside the compound said they heard Kumar shout that he would not climb down till he ran out of ammunition. Senior officerswere heard asking Kumar to climb down and assured him they would address his grievances.But he remained unmoved. Finally, his parents and brother arrived and managed to coax him down around 9.10pm. The SP said, “A constable named Binod Kumar fired indiscriminately while on duty at the armoury of the police lines. He was suffering from hallucination. We finally brought him down after speaking to him and his family. It is yet to be ascertained how many rounds he fired. We will decide on what action should be taken against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-fires-for-4-hrs-from-police-lines-terrace/articleshow/75334891.cms||Sujay Khanra
April 24, 2020||Patna||A team that feeds 1,000 people daily||PATNA: A large group of youngsters, mostly in their twenties and early thirties, has come together to help the poor amid the Covid-19 crisis. The team, christened ‘Abhimanyu’, feeds approximately 1,000 people in Patna every day and provides medicines to the needy. The members connect with each other on social media platforms and pass on information about the requirement of food or medicines in different areas. A number of them have even stepped out of their comfort zones and are lifting grain sacks, packing grocery items and cooking food for the poor. The team got its name from a mythological character of the ‘Mahabharata’. One of its founders, Abhimanyu, told TOI, “This group was formed almost a year ago with just 20 people. We came to the rescue of flood victims and kids suffering from acute encephalitis syndrome. Now, we have members in all the districts of Bihar, who are distributing food materials and medicines among the poor.” 33-year-old Manish Singh, a ‘Team Abhimanyu’ member, said, “We have plenty of people to distribute relief materials in Patna. Therefore, we are focusing on other districts now.” Asked how the team makes arrangements for food and medicines, Manish replied, “Our friends are donating money for the purpose. Even strangers have appreciated our efforts on different social media platforms and helped us financially.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-team-that-feeds-1000-people-daily/articleshow/75330802.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 24, 2020||Agra||8 more test +ve for Covid-19 in Agra, district tally now 335||Agra: At least eight new cases of Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) were reported in Agra on Thursday, taking the district tally to 335. Out of these, one person is a shopkeeper, one is related to a ward boy of SN Medical College, one of them is a vegetable seller, one a female technician of a private dialysis centre, and one a private driver of a government official. A farmer, a labourer and an unemployed man, who had come in contact with an infected friend, were also found positive. The localities from where the new cases surfaced on Thursday were Balmiki Basti near Bypass Road, Masta Ki Bagichi, Jagdishpura, Vijay Nagar colony near Inner Ring Road, Sulltanganj Ki Puliya, Freeganj and Mehtab Bagh locality. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All eight new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to health department, out of the 335 cases which have surfaced in Agra, at least 104 are linked to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. While 92 cases are linked to a private hospital on National Highway-2. Another nine are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality. Besides, 26 cases are related to people who returned from abroad and their contacts. While 43 of them are linked to healthcare workers and their contacts, and 36 are related to Fatehpur Sikri where a tour guide was tested positive, earlier this month. District magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh said, “Total number of active Covid-19 cases in the district is 283. So far, 30 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. The area where the infected people were staying is being sanitised. We are conducting massive sampling to identify all the infected people and send them to institutional quarantine." In Agra district, a majority of the coronavirus patients are male and people in the age group of 21 to 40. Out of the 335 cases, 76 per cent are male while 56 per cent are in the age group of 21 to 40. And 10 per cent cases are related to age group nine to 19 and 6.5 per cent cases of age group 61 to 80. “A majority of the cases in the district are related to youngsters. Almost all of them are asymptomatic. They are not suffering from any kind of health problems. They also have the best recovery rate," the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/8-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-agra-district-tally-now-335/articleshow/75332038.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||Pregnant woman in Valsad village tests positive||Surat: A 27-year-old woman, who is five months pregnant, tested positive for coronavirus in Kelvani village of Dharampur taluka in Valsad district on Thursday. The woman Lila Patel, has been admitted to Valsad GMERS hospital. Health officials have collected samples of her family members and nearby residents to check for Covid-19 infection. Patel has no recent travel history, but had returned from Surat on March 22. Health officials claimed having travelled a month ago had no relation getting infected now. “It is not clear from where she got infected. Her village is in forest area and there are not other cases in the same village or nearby areas,” said a health official in Valsad. At least 50 people, including Patel’s family members and those who came in contact with her have been quarantined. Meanwhile, Valsad district administration declared Kelvani, Chinchozar, Vanzlat and Pondhajangal villages as containment area. Villages in 7km radius of these three villages has been declared buffer zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pregnant-woman-in-valsad-village-tests-positive/articleshow/75332600.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||Tobacco products, other goods worth Rs 12L stolen from sealed warehouse||Surat: Some unidentified persons were booked at Puna police station on Wednesday for stealing tobacco products and other goods worth Rs12.12 lakh from a warehouse sealed by GST department. Police have got some specific lead in the case.Thieves stole packets of pan masala, tobacco products, water bottles and plastic chairs worth Rs12.12 lakh from the warehouse of Harikesh Agency on Kadodara Road. The warehouse was sealed by GST office on March 2 for ‘tax evasion’. Meanwhile, Suresh Tejani, an employee of the agency, was informed over phone by someone about the theft on Wednesday. Police suspect a mini truck was brought to the warehouse to transport the goods. "It is surprising that no one noticed the truck of the thieves. We are investigating the case from multiple angles," said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tobacco-products-other-goods-worth-rs-12l-stolen-from-sealed-warehouse/articleshow/75332921.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Business||Gold may zoom to Rs 82,000 per 10gm by end ’21: Analysts||TNN Mumbai: As stocks and bonds as investment avenues do not show much hope under current market conditions, gold could be the asset to put your money in. If analysts at Bank of America Securities (BofA Sec) are to be believed, gold prices in the international market could rally to $3,000 per ounce (Oz) by end 2021. Translated into Indian rates, that could be about Rs 82,000/10 grams at current exchange rates. On Thursday, gold futures for June on MCX closed at Rs 46,352/10gm. So, in about one and a half years, gold prices in India could gain about 75%. In the international market, gold is currently trading at about $1,750 level. Analysts at Goldman Sachs, another global financial powerhouse too put their bets on the yellow metal and said, given current global market scenario, it was a better hedge than crude oil. Incidentally, late March, analysts at Goldman Sachs had predicted that crude oil price could enter the negative territory. According to BofA Sec, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, US GDP could go down by 30% in Q2 of 2020 — the steepest drop in modern history. Other countries like Japan will likely experience a 21.8% decline in output in Q2 CY20, while China just reported a contraction of 6.8% in Q1 CY20. “As central banks rush to expand their balance sheets and backstop asset values and consumer prices, a lot of risks could end up being socialised,” it noted. The analysts believe that a strong dollar, reduced financial market volatility and lower jewellery demand in India and China could become the headwinds for gold. “But beyond traditional gold supply and demand fundamentals, financial repression is back on an extraordinary scale. Rates in the US and most G-10 economies will likely be at or below zero for a very long period of time as central banks attempt to push inflation back above their targets.” Nominal GDP, central bank balance sheets, or official gold reserves will, in such a scenario, remain the key determinants of gold prices. “As central banks and governments double their balance sheets and fiscal deficits respectively, we have also decided to up our 18-month gold target from $2,000 to $3,000,” noted BofA Sec.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-may-zoom-to-rs-82000-per-10gm-by-end-21-analysts/articleshow/75334007.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||Govt’s ‘work plan’ for returnee migrants||PATNA: The state government is mulling a comprehensive plan to provide work to migrants, who recently returned or are scheduled to return after the end of nationwide lockdown on May 3. State labour resources minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said here on Thursday that the state government was gearing up to engage migrants workers in various schemes of the government. “We are fully aware of the problems and planning to deal with it accordingly,” he told TOI over phone. The works under MNREGA, Jan-Jivan-Hariyali, repair of embankments ahead of floods and in agriculture sector would provide ample workdays for these migrants workers. “Work has already started on infrastructure front with certain restrictions due to the lockdown,” the minister said. He added that CM Nitish Kumar and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi were reviewing the situation on a regular basis. “Everything is in the knowledge of the CM and the deputy CM, who are sensitive enough to cope with the situation,” Sinha said. According to rough estimates, around 2 lakh migrant labourers have already returned and more are expected to come in the coming days. “We know that there will be an influx of migrant workers after the lockdown is lifted. Those stranded in different states will leave for their hometowns,” an officer of the labour resources department said. A large number of labourers are stuck in Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal to name a few. The state government has already provided financial assistance to over 12 lakh stranded migrant workers. Disaster management department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said that around 17 lakh people have already got themselves registered at the recently launched website (aapda.bih.nic.in) and a sum of Rs 1,000 each has been credited to the bank accounts of 12 lakh people. Officials said altogether 195 quarantine-cum-relief camps were operational in different parts of the state. The centres were meant to provide accommodation to nearly 70,000 migrant workers who returned from across the country. “Now the government has decided to provide relief to migrant workers on the pattern of flood relief such as saree, dhoti, utensils, tooth paste, tooth brush etc, which they will keep with them while leaving the relief camps after completing 14-day quarantine period,” Pratyaya said. More importantly, the government has decided to provide milk (powder) to people in quarantine centres in both urban and rural areas. “The Comfed has been roped in to ensure supply of milk at these centres on the directive of CM Nitish Kumar,” he added. On the other hand, Bihar Bhawan in New Delhi has received over 22,000 calls—19,800 Google forms and 2,700 WhatsApp messages and letters for help till date. The resident commissioner Shiv Kumar said that so far 90,000 positive feedback have been received at Bihar Bhawan from migrant workers from Bihar across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govts-work-plan-for-returnee-migrants/articleshow/75331331.cms||Ramashankar
April 24, 2020||Varanasi||Mass screening, random sampling to go up in Varanasi||VARANASI: The district administration has decided to intensify the screening of people in city areas by collecting over 1,000 samples randomly in coming four-five days. The mass screening in city had taken a backseat since the focus had shifted on covering the population in hotspots and buffer zones. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Thursday, “There are four hotspots in the city and the population there and in the buffer zones is huge. They are in the centre of the city and densely populated, so we do not know whether there will be relaxation in curbs in city area after May 3. Ensuring social distancing in dense population is a tough task.” “On the other hand, relaxations are more likely in rural belts, hence we decided to deploy more teams in rural areas to accelerate the pace of screening of people in villages,” he added. The district administration has screened around two lakh population so far. Sharma said 1,000 samples are being collected randomly in rural belt and the screening process there will be completed in coming 4-5 days. He said reports of around 450 samples collected from city areas and sent to BHU laboratory are still pending. “Completion of screening process in rural belts will help in intensifying the drive in urban areas,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mass-screening-random-sampling-to-go-up/articleshow/75331902.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||10 fresh cases in Vadodara, one dies||Vadodara: A woman died at SSG Hospital (SSGH) in Vadodara, taking total number of deaths due to Covid-19 to 11 in the city. With 10 fresh cases being reported since Wednesday night, total number of Covid-19 cases reached 217 in the city. The deceased woman was from Tandalja area. She died at 8.30am at the hospital on Thursday. Fresh cases reported include three persons staying in Harni area. Sources said they used to work on EME campus of Indian Army located in Sama area. The new cases also included two from the rural areas of the district. A nurse working at a hospital on Parul University campus tested positive. Earlier, a relative of a cook on the campus had tested positive and the nurse was taking care of the first patient. One person from Chokari village in Padra also tested positive. The remaining cases were reported from Bahar Colony, Kalupura, Nagarwada, Wadi and Raopura areas of the city. In all, 106 samples were tested from the city and district out of which 10 tested positive. Vadodara Municipal Corporation also began testing with rapid testing kits in Salatwada and Navidharti areas of the city. All the tests turned out to be negative in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/10-fresh-cases-in-vadodara-one-dies/articleshow/75330636.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||Curfew not to be extended in city||Surat: City police have no plans to extend curfew currently in force until Friday morning in areas falling under the jurisdiction of five police stations. Curfew was imposed in these areas from midnight of April 16 up to 22 and later it got extended by two days. Curfew was imposed in areas falling under the limits of Athwalines, Lalgate, Mahidharpura and Salapatpura police stations. Area under Kamrunagar police chowky of Limbayat police station was also placed under curfew during the period. Majority of the 10 clusters which saw increase in coronavirus cases were from these areas. The state government decided to impose curfew in these areas to enforce social distancing for containing rising number of Covid-19 cases. "The curfew was extended after the situation was reviewed. Now, there is no need to extend it further," city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/curfew-not-to-be-extended-in-city/articleshow/75332668.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||Flower cultivators in North Karnataka stare at a second lost harvest||Dharwad: The indefinite deferral of weddings, anniversaries and various major events, including jayantis and jatras, have affected more than merely the hospitality industry. One such industry is floriculture, which has suffered very badly owing to the lockdown. April and May are months when flowers are in demand, given the profusion of events lined up in the summer months across Karnataka. The floral farms in North Karnataka, and the flower markets in the region make for a study in contrast this year: During the harvest season, all the flowers, ripe for the picking, are carted off to the bustling markets but this year, the flowers remain unpicked, while most markets are closed for business. Floriculture is an expensive affair, and many farmers have invested large sums, hoping for a bounteous return on investment. However, the unexpected jolt of the Covid-19 pandemic has dashed all their hopes and most ryots have been left with no option but to get rid of their colourful produce. Experts in the field estimate that flowers are cultivated across 22,000 hectares across the state, with an average annual output of 1.25 lakh tonnes. Karnataka reportedly accounts for three-fourth of the country’s floriculture production. Across North Karnataka – Belagavi, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Raichur and Kalaburagi – flowers are grown on sprawling fields, and many farmers are staring at massive losses this year. Rose, tuberose, gladioli, chrysanthemums, jasmine, orchids and carnations are but a few of the flowers grown widely across the region. While aster, hibiscus and champak flowers are widely cultivated in Belagavi, marigold is popular among farmers in Vijayapura. The flowers are immensely popular not only among customers across the country, but also in foreign lands. Cut flowers grown across North Karnataka are exported to Netherlands, Japan, United Kingdom, Germany and the USA. Given their extremely short shelf-life, flowers have to be kept in cold storage. However, owing to the enforcement of the lockdown, neither can the farmers ship their flowers nor house them in cold storage. Dharwad, Kalghatgi and Hubballi taluks are among the regions across Dharwad district where floriculture is practiced. While most floriculturists take to cultivation of roses, one often sees marigolds, lilies, jasmine and orchids shooting out radiantly from amid the roses. Local experts estimate the annual yield of flowers in Dharwad district at 2,000 tonnes. But this year, nearly 1,000 tonnes of flowers stand withering on the fields. For the second successive year, flower farmers are staring at a lost harvest. Kallappa Angadi, a flower farmer from Managundi village in Dharwad taluk, said that they lost their harvest to the flood last year. “The horticulture department is helping farmers sell fruits and vegetables, but flower cultivators have not been extended the same benefit,” rued Angadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/flower-cultivators-in-north-karnataka-stare-at-a-second-lost-harvest/articleshow/75332726.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 24, 2020||Surat||Traffic brigade jawan caught with liquor in Vapi||Surat: A jawan of traffic brigade and his associate were arrested by police for allegedly ferrying liquor worth Rs2,400 in a car in Vapi on Wednesday. Accused Mayur Tarte and Ajay Thakur, both residents of Vapi GIDC, had in their possession 48 liquor bottles of 180ml each which they had purchased from a supplier in Daman. They were caught near Gold Coin Circle at Chala. Roshan Bhaiya has been declared wanted by police for providing liquor to the arrested accused. The offence against them has been registered at Vapi town police station. Police had received specific information about Tarte and Thakur and therefore checking was tightened at the checkpost. About 48 liquor bottles were found in the storage of the car during checking. Tarte told police that he was a traffic brigade jawan and was attached to Vapi GIDC police station. "He told us that he had brought the liquor to sell. We are investigating who else is involved in bootlegging along with the accused," a police officer said. This happened just on the day when police head constable Pradhyumansinh Rathod posted in Surat and his aide Hemant Pardeshi were caught with liquor in Valsad. They too had brought the liquor from Daman. It has become tough for police to check liquor smuggling into Gujarat from Daman during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/traffic-brigade-jawan-caught-with-liquor-in-vapi/articleshow/75332711.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||First case in Dang: Surat-returned nurse infected||Surat: A 19-year-old nurse tested postive for Covid-19 in Dang district late on Wednesday night. This makes the first coronavirus case in the tribal district so far. According to health department officials, Preeti Kunwar, who was a serving as a nurse in Kiran Hospital in Surat city had returned to her native village a few days ago. Here, she applied for a nurse’s job at a government hospital in Ahwa town of Dang district and was immediately recruited. “Two days ago, the samples of Kunwar were collected for testing and on Wednesday, she tested postive for Covid-19. She has been admitted into an isolation ward of a Covid hospital in Subir town of Dang,”' Narsing Damor, Collector, Dang, told TOI.“District health officials had recruited her as they had requirement of a qualified nurse for the government hospital. As Dang is a tribal dominated district, we did not find more nurses. Preeti had applied for the job and she was selected. She even joined her duty on April 20. However, during the appointment she did not disclose that she was working with Kiran Hospital in Surat where many medical staff had tested Covid-19 positive. We will file a police complaint against her for not disclosing the details,” Damor said.According to the sources, Dang district administration had issued an advertisement for recruitment of 50 nurses. However, only five candiates turned up, including Kunwar.“Her report came as Covid-19 positive, but she is asymptomatic. Total 26 people who came into her contact have been put under quarantine including the medical staff,” said an official.Dang had been Covid-19 free till Wednesday. Health department is in search of other cases who had worked in hospitals in Surat and have returned to their native villages of late.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-case-in-dang-surat-returned-nurse-infected/articleshow/75332628.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||Two more NCH doctors test positive||Surat: The total death toll in Surat city from Covid-19 touched 13 on Thursday after a 75-year-old woman, who also had co-morbid conditions, succumbed to the virus early in the morning. Farshida Khan, a resident of Omnagar in Dumbal area, was suffering from hypertension and diabetes too.Meanwhile, on Thursday, 41 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Surat city taking the total positive case to 456 till evening. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise in Limbayat and central zone. “Our health teams are actively involved in surveillance in high density slum areas in the city to find out more cases. We are taking samples from green zone as well,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. Two more frontline doctors at New Civil Hospital, resident doctors Parul Goyal and Khusali Shroff too tested positive for Covid-19, said SMC officials. Earlier, Dr Mayur Kalsaria of Surat Civil Hospital had tested positive. A second Covid-19 positive case was reported from Surat APMC on Thursday. “We have asked APMC people to inform SMC about Covid-19 symptoms so that we can stop further spread of the virus. We penalized 17 shop owners for not keeping sanitizers for its customers,” Pani said. He further said that if SMC finds any coronavirus cases in places where it is distributing food packets, it would stop distribution and instead supply people with ration kits. On Thursday, SMC and NGOs provided food packets to more than 7.55 lakh people, he added. Kiran multi-speciality hospital has decided to shut its operation till May 1 after 12 of its medical staff members tested Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-nch-doctors-test-positive/articleshow/75332533.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||Install helpline for orphanages: Patna high court||PATNA: A Patna high court division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar on Thursday directed the social welfare department to install a dedicated toll-free help line to deal with problems faced by orphanages, old age homes and centres for disabled persons in the state due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Additional advocate general PN Shahi had submitted that there are already separate and dedicated toll free numbers dealing with the problems of such institutions. However, the bench ordered to set up dedicated toll free numbers after counsel Parul Prasad’s submission calling for separate toll free help line numbers specifically to deal problems faced by these places. Prasad had filed a PIL urging the high court to direct the state government for ensuring supply of food and other essential items to these institutions. TOI article ‘Tough to run old-age homes, orphanages’ published on April 15 has been attached as annexure in the PIL along with other central government’s letters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/install-helpline-for-orphanages-hc/articleshow/75332287.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||Haven’t defied lockdown: Jitan Ram Manjhi||PATNA: Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi courted a controversy by allegedly flouting the lockdown norms, a charge he later denied on Thursday. Manjhi reached Patna from his native village Mahakar in Gaya district on Wednesday. The former CM was escorted by a police team as per the protocol and even hooters were used by the road clearing party during the 100km-long journey. The HAM(S) chief, however, said the purpose of his visit to the state capital was to meet the Speaker of the state assembly. “I have not flouted any norm. I left for Patna after April 20 when some relaxations were announced in the lockdown,” he said. To buttress his point, the former CM said, “Had I been not aware of the lockdown norms, I would have visited Patna before April 20. But I didn’t do anything wrong. Government offices have been opened due to relaxation in the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-havent-defied-lockdown/articleshow/75332350.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||Masks mandatory in Bihar from today||PATNA: The state health department on Thursday made it mandatory for everyone to wear mask in public places. The order was prompted by a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state in the past few days. Issuing the order under the Bihar Epidemic Diseases, Covid-19 Act Regulations 2020, state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said those going out without mask were not only posing a threat to themselves, but also those around them. Violation of the order will invite punishment. As per the order, masks need not be surgical and can be homemade double- layered or even a clean multi-layered gamcha. There has been steep hike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar this week, especially in the past five days. Till April 19, there were 96 cases in the state, which increased to 153 on Thursday. Coronovirus cases were also reported from five new districts, Banka, East Champaran, Rohtas, Bhagalpur and Vaishali in the past eight days. Even state capital Patna has recorded 10 new cases in the past four days and it stands at fourth position with 16 cases. As of now, there are 11 active cases in Patna. Kumar said, “ A more targeted approach to identify covid positive people is the reason behind the increase in Covid-19 cases in Bihar recently. Both door-to-door screening, as well as the decision to test all those who had returned from foreign countries helped identify more people.” He added that two migrant workers with travel history from Maharashtra were identified in door-to-door screening in Bhagalpur. When asked what steps will the health department take now, Sanjay said, “For us it is important to identify who are infected and then segregate them and break the chain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/masks-mandatory-in-state-from-today/articleshow/75332244.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 24, 2020||Business||After RIL, Amazon to bring local kiranas online||Digbijay Mishra | TNN Bengaluru: Amazon India said it has on-boarded 5,000 offline retailers across categories on its platform under what it calls ‘Local Shops’. The move comes a day after the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries (RIL) announced a partnership between Jio and WhatsApp for a commerce initiative. Started as a pilot six months ago, local standalone stores selling grocery, consumer electronics, apparel and other products are live on Amazon across metro and non-metro markets. These include Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Coimbatore, Surat, Indore and Lucknow. The project also has relatively better known regional retailers like Sangeetha Electronics, Croma and Vishal Mega Mart. The local stores selling online would also fulfil most of the deliveries on their own. This is because they would be enabled with Amazon’s technology to serve local orders first based on pin-codes where they can deliver the same day or next day. If the retailers are willing to sell nationally, they will be able to sell through Amazon’s fulfilment services. In light of the ongoing lockdown and even weeks after it gets lifted, Amazon’s Local Shops could plug the drop in footfall at stores partially. Gopal Pillai, head of seller services at Amazon India, said the company would be committing about Rs 10 crore for the Local Shops programme to scale it up further. “This would leverage the best of local stores and Amazon’s network. Local stores are known for fast deliveries within short distances, while Amazon’s wide reach would bring more traffic to these retailers who have good stock availability,” Pillai told TOI. Incidentally, amid the pandemic, old rivals are also becoming allies. Pillai confirmed to TOI that it has initiated talks with the Retailers Association of India (RAI) — which counts large brick-and-mortar operators as members — for various partnerships, without giving any specifics. A person aware of the matter said the talks are at an early stage to enable more mom-and-pop stores to go online. Additionally, these stores will use Amazon’s fleet to do deliveries during the pandemic. RAI CEO Kumar Rajagopalan did not comment on the discussions with Amazon. “There is another delivery app for the stores to track the status of shipments after an order is ready for delivery. A retailer can choose to deliver to certain pin-codes on its own or by hiring a third-party, and rest can be done through Amazon,” Pillai said. Over the last one month, kiranas and local shops have come to the rescue of Indian consumers as the lockdown crippled the supply chain of essentials across large-scale retail stores, while online platforms struggled to fulfil the rising demand of essentials. On Wednesday, Ambani said nearly 3 crore kiranas in the near future will be able to transact digitally with their neighbourhood consumers through JioMart — the new commerce platform which it has already launched in Mumbai’s suburbs like Navi Mumbai and Thane. The orders are expected to be placed through WhatsApp. This is being seen as a potential game-changer for how online-to-offline (O2O) commerce could work. With Amazon’s serious play, going forward, this space would see intense action. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, earlier in January, announced a $1-billion investment in India to digitise small and medium businesses by 2025. The company has already invested over $7 billion in India’s e-commerce market to take on Walmart-owned Flipkart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-ril-amazon-to-bring-local-kiranas-online/articleshow/75334154.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 24, 2020||Business||Gold may zoom to Rs 82,000 per 10gm by end ’21: Analysts||TNN Mumbai: As stocks and bonds as investment avenues do not show much hope under current market conditions, gold could be the asset to put your money in. If analysts at Bank of America Securities (BofA Sec) are to be believed, gold prices in the international market could rally to $3,000 per ounce (Oz) by end 2021. Translated into Indian rates, that could be about Rs 82,000/10 grams at current exchange rates. On Thursday, gold futures for June on MCX closed at Rs 46,352/10gm. So, in about one and a half years, gold prices in India could gain about 75%. In the international market, gold is currently trading at about $1,750 level. Analysts at Goldman Sachs, another global financial powerhouse too put their bets on the yellow metal and said, given current global market scenario, it was a better hedge than crude oil. Incidentally, late March, analysts at Goldman Sachs had predicted that crude oil price could enter the negative territory. According to BofA Sec, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, US GDP could go down by 30% in Q2 of 2020 — the steepest drop in modern history. Other countries like Japan will likely experience a 21.8% decline in output in Q2 CY20, while China just reported a contraction of 6.8% in Q1 CY20. “As central banks rush to expand their balance sheets and backstop asset values and consumer prices, a lot of risks could end up being socialised,” it noted. The analysts believe that a strong dollar, reduced financial market volatility and lower jewellery demand in India and China could become the headwinds for gold. “But beyond traditional gold supply and demand fundamentals, financial repression is back on an extraordinary scale. Rates in the US and most G-10 economies will likely be at or below zero for a very long period of time as central banks attempt to push inflation back above their targets.” Nominal GDP, central bank balance sheets, or official gold reserves will, in such a scenario, remain the key determinants of gold prices. “As central banks and governments double their balance sheets and fiscal deficits respectively, we have also decided to up our 18-month gold target from $2,000 to $3,000,” noted BofA Sec.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-may-zoom-to-rs-82000-per-10gm-by-end-21-analysts/articleshow/75334018.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Business||Gold may zoom to Rs 82,000 per 10gm by end ’21: Analysts||TNN Mumbai: As stocks and bonds as investment avenues do not show much hope under current market conditions, gold could be the asset to put your money in. If analysts at Bank of America Securities (BofA Sec) are to be believed, gold prices in the international market could rally to $3,000 per ounce (Oz) by end 2021. Translated into Indian rates, that could be about Rs 82,000/10 grams at current exchange rates. On Thursday, gold futures for June on MCX closed at Rs 46,352/10gm. So, in about one and a half years, gold prices in India could gain about 75%. In the international market, gold is currently trading at about $1,750 level. Analysts at Goldman Sachs, another global financial powerhouse too put their bets on the yellow metal and said, given current global market scenario, it was a better hedge than crude oil. Incidentally, late March, analysts at Goldman Sachs had predicted that crude oil price could enter the negative territory. According to BofA Sec, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, US GDP could go down by 30% in Q2 of 2020 — the steepest drop in modern history. Other countries like Japan will likely experience a 21.8% decline in output in Q2 CY20, while China just reported a contraction of 6.8% in Q1 CY20. “As central banks rush to expand their balance sheets and backstop asset values and consumer prices, a lot of risks could end up being socialised,” it noted. The analysts believe that a strong dollar, reduced financial market volatility and lower jewellery demand in India and China could become the headwinds for gold. “But beyond traditional gold supply and demand fundamentals, financial repression is back on an extraordinary scale. Rates in the US and most G-10 economies will likely be at or below zero for a very long period of time as central banks attempt to push inflation back above their targets.” Nominal GDP, central bank balance sheets, or official gold reserves will, in such a scenario, remain the key determinants of gold prices. “As central banks and governments double their balance sheets and fiscal deficits respectively, we have also decided to up our 18-month gold target from $2,000 to $3,000,” noted BofA Sec.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-may-zoom-to-rs-82000-per-10gm-by-end-21-analysts/articleshow/75334024.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Business||LIC HF cuts rates for select borrowers||Mumbai: LIC Housing Finance, the second-largest mortgage company, has said that it will offer home loans at 7.4% to those who have a good credit score and term life insurance policy large enough to cover their debt. “Rate of interest for new customers having Cibil score of 800 or more is 7.5% for any amount of loan. An additional reduction of 10 basis points (7.4%) will be offered if the customer assigns their single-premium term assurance policy with the sum assured equal to the loan amount to LIC HFL” the company said. The rate of interest is linked to the creditworthiness as reflected in Cibil scores of the borrowers. A company official said the term insurance policy could be from any insurer and not necessarily LIC. The only condition is that the amount should be enough to cover the size of the advance and the premium for the loan period should be paid up front. “We want to bring confidence back to the sector and will do our part in supporting the real estate industry and the economy. The present crisis has also forced businesses to adapt to factors like social distancing and prepare for a new normal by leveraging technology,” said Siddhartha Mohanty, MD & CEO, LIC Housing Finance The company’s branches have started operations in some areas while in most other places staff are working from home. According to the official, what has helped was the company HomY app. “This which has equipped marketing teams to onboard customers digitally and provide faster turnaround time in loan approvals as well as servicing without visiting our offices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lic-hf-cuts-rates-for-select-borrowers/articleshow/75333878.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Rashes on feet could be sign of Covid-19||CHENNAI: As India is grappling with asymptomatic cases, doctors are adding one more warning sign of Covid-19 – rashes on feet. Quoting results from an Italian study that said one in five patients had a skin issue -- most commonly a red rash or a hives-like eruption -- infectious diseases experts are now asking dermatologists to think of Covid-19 when they see such rashes. “It’s called a ‘Covid’ feet,” says infectious diseases expert Dr Subramaniam Swaminathan of Gleneagles Global Hospital. “At least 20% of the patients in Italy had it. Doctors in Finland, Spain, the US and Canada also reported red patches and itchy boils in patients. We should start looking for them here too,” he said. The painful red bumps tend to occur at the tips of the toes or on the top of the feet, sometimes even on the hands – something similar to frostbite. Doctors explain the disease causes microscopic clots in small blood vessels. But they admit more studies are required to substantiate the theory. Not many cases have been reported in India. Two weeks ago, a dermatologist discussed a bizarre situation when a couple came to her clinic with rashes on the feet. “Rashes looked similar. And both of them had a mild fever. The doctor initially thought it was measles, but wondered how they both picked up the infection at the same time. They have recovered, but now looking back we both think it could have been Covid 19,” Swaminathan said. Senior dermatologists say there is growing evidence that skin could be a sensor about what may be happening with Covid-19 inside the body. “People with such symptoms should test for the viral infectioneven without symptoms such as fever, cough or body ache,” said senior dermatologist Dr Maya Vedamurthy. “The virus is nasty and tricky. It shows itself different in different people,” said another senior infectious disease expert Dr A Ramasubramanian of Apollo Hospitals. Take the case of a 24-year old patient who had nothing other than fever for 10 days and an 80-year-old who had breathlessness; both tested positive for Covid-19. “They did not present themselves as textbook cases. I wouldn’t be surprised if rashes are a symptom. It goes back to the theory of how little we know of this virus,” said Ramasubramanian. The prescription from doctors is more tests and isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rashes-on-feet-could-be-sign-of-covid-19/articleshow/75334943.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 warriors stand stoic at the front line||GANDHINAGAR: Krishna Rana, a staff nurse at the Covid-19 hospital longs to see her two-year-old daughter Kavya, but she hasn’t gone home for over a week now. Her home is in Shahibaug, barely a kilometre away from the Covid-19 hospital. But she feels going home may put her loved ones at risk, as she can easily get infected while treating Covid-19 patients. Rana is not alone. Like her, there are close to 550 frontline warriors – doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation workers and security personnel – posted at the designated Covid-19 hospital in the city, who are staying away from their families and loved ones, to minimize the risk of their families getting infected. These frontline workers are living in hotels or hostel facilities arranged by the government in and around the Civil Hospital campus. “I have not seen my daughter Kavya since I was posted here. My husband, who works in a private firm, has been taking care of our daughter. Although my house is just a kilometre away, I cannot go home and thus talk to my baby only over the phone,” said Rana. Ami Patel, another staff nurse at the Covid-19 hospital said her parents and family members were worried when she was posted at the Covid-19 hospital. “Yes, there are risks involved, but this is part of my job. I am staying in the nursing hostel campus to avoid any chance of my family members getting infected,” said Patel. Dr Arif Vora, a paediatric who lives in Danilimda area, is now serving in the Covid-19 hospital and staying within the civil hospital campus. Vora said, “There are three types of facilities for children at the Covid hospital – critical, non-critical and corona-negative children whose parents are positive. The government has advised us to stay here to serve people better.” Omen Prajapati, who is from Jamnagar and lives at PG hostel in Civil Hospital campus, has now been put up at a nearby hotel with 50 other doctors. “The government has made these arrangements so that doctors can spend maximum amount of time treating patients, and families of doctors remain safe,” said Prajapati. Dr Girish Parmar, in-charge of staff management at the Covid-19 hospital said staying arrangements for doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation workers and security personnel have been made in and around the Civil Hospital campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-warriors-stand-stoic-at-the-front-line/articleshow/75334072.cms||Kapil Dave
April 24, 2020||Patna||PU to start admission process on April 30||PATNA: As the universities and colleges are unlikely to resume their normal academic activities soon, Patna University (PU) has come up with a revised schedule for admission of students to its different courses at postgraduate and undergraduate level (both conventional and self-financing) in the next academic session (2020-21). The dates of entrance tests for admission to different courses have also been notified. According to the revised academic calendar issued on Thursday, the process of admission will commence on April 30 with online submission of application forms. The last date for submission of application forms for all types of UG and PG courses is June 30. Earlier, the process was scheduled to start on April 3, but postponed in the wake of nationwide lockdown. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said while admission to the conventional MA, MSc and MCom courses of the university would be made on the basis of marks obtained in the last qualifying examinations, admission to the conventional UG courses and both UG and PG self-financing courses would be made on the basis of written test. The course wise entrance test will be held from June 28 to July 18. Admission to the MBA course will be made on the basis of CAT/MAT score and personal interview. The entrance tests for admission to the BCom, BA, and BSc honours courses will be held on June 28, 29 and July 2, respectively. “All admissions will be completed by August 14 and induction meet of newly admitted students will be held between August 17 and 22. Classes of the new batches will commence on August 24,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-to-start-admission-process-on-april-30/articleshow/75330726.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||PESU hikes capacity as power demand surges||PATNA: The Patna Electric Supply Undertaking (PESU) has claimed to have enhanced the capacity of its power distribution network to tackle the surge in power demand as people are having to spend more time at home due to the Covid-19 lockdown as well as the expected rise in demand during the peak summer days. PESU, which undertakes power supply work in Patna and some peripheral areas, is also undertaking repairs and maintenance work despite the lockdown. With regard to the occasional power cuts being witnessed in many parts of the city, PESU general manager Dilip Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Thursday that it is mainly due to maintenance and repair work to avoid tripping and short- circuits. “Power cut is for small durations to carry out pruning work, strengthening jumpers or because of de-silting of drains by the civic body in the city,” Singh said. The areas which witnessed power cuts on Thursday include, Digha, Chajjubagh, SK Puri, Patliputra, Danapur and Raja Bazaar, due to maintenance work. PESU has installed additional feeders in areas such as Gai Ghat, Board colony, Patna City, Bihar Veterinary College and newly added power sub-stations in the state capital. Officials claimed that the power supply will not trip during steep surge in power demand with installation of these feeders of 11 KV capacity each. Singh said, “Six new power sub-stations have been installed at Radiant International School near Digha grid, Daroga Rai Path, Ram Krishna Nagar, Khemnichak and Beur. Each power sub-station has the capacity of 20 MV and two feeders (one regular source and another alternate source) were installed at each stations.” He added: “If one feeder breaks down due to load- shedding during peak demand period, we can supply power from alternate feeder.” The power sub- stations are connected to nine existing grids in Patna, which are located at Digha, Fatuha, Gaighat, Gauricak, Jakkanpur, Karbigahiya, Katra, Khagaul and Meethapur. There are 67 power sub-stations, which, in turn, are connected to feeders that supply transformers before power ultimately reaches the connected to households. According to PESU officials, five more sub- stations- Leeds International School, Asopur, Gaighat (at Government Girl’s School), Patliputra Sports Complex and Gardanibagh would be operational within next couple of months, while two sub- statins are under- construction at AIIMS Patna and Jogipur. Singh said the total capacity of power sub-stations has increased to 1,500 MV from 700 MV in 2019. Singh said under the present circumstances, instructions had been given to power workers to maintain social distancing while carrying out the work of electricity. Besides, protective gears like masks, gloves and hand- sanitizers were provided to the staffs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pesu-hikes-capacity-as-power-demand-surges/articleshow/75331000.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 24, 2020||Patna||Thailand to evacuate stranded nationals||GAYA: A day after Myanmar Airways International operated two special flights to evacuate 258 tourists stranded in Bodh Gaya, good news came for Thai nationals also. Thailand will also operate special flights to evacuate its stranded nationals at Bodh Gaya. Thai Air Asia will be operating two special flights to take back 342 stranded Thai nationals. The first special flight will land at Gaya Airport on Friday morning. Altogether 171 Thai nationals will be flown back to their country. Another special flight will land a day later on Saturday to evacuate an equal number of Thai nationals. The Thai nationals got stranded on account of sudden imposition of complete lockdown to combat Covid-19. According to Gaya Airport director Dilip Kumar, “Thai Air Asia has been granted special permission by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to operate the flights. Thai passengers will have to follow the social distancing norms at the entrance, boarding counter and special hold area.” Gaya civil Surgeon Dr BK Singh said that before boarding, the passengers would be medically examined. “Arrangements have been made for sanitisation of the airport and protective gears would be provided to everybody engaged in passenger handling and medical examination,” he said. Earlier, on Wednesday, the Myanmar Airways International flew back 258 Burmese in two narrow body passenger planes. No less than 24 Burmese missed the special flights and are still stranded. Thai Air Asia will also execute the evacuation job with the help of narrow body planes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/thailand-to-evacuate-stranded-nationals/articleshow/75332321.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Spend CSR fund in Aurangabad’||Aurangabad: MP Imtiyaz Jaleel on Thursday urged the Aurangabad-based industries to donate their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds to the district administration in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Jaleel said that he learnt that hardly any industries have come forward to help the district in fighting the pandemic. In a statement issued on Thursday, the Aurangabad MP said “I have requested the district collector to convene a meeting or contac t industry associations like the CMIA, CII, MASSIA and others to seek details of their CSR funds. This information on the CSR contributes also needs to be made public so that people know which are the industries that really care for public.” “People should know how caring the industries concerned are when it comes helping the respective regions in the need of the hour,” he added. These industries are using water, land, electricity and labour while availing other benefits. Therefore, they owe some responsibility too, said Jaleel. “They should spend their CSR on priority in areas where their factories are located,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/spend-csr-fund-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75332045.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Business||Top cos, PSUs set to issue over Rs 45k cr bonds in Apr||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: A host of Indian corporates and public sector undertakings are taking advantage of the surplus liquidity in the market by stocking up on cash and issuing bonds. Despite the lockdown, Indian issuers have raised over Rs 30,000 crore — the highest ever — by selling short-term to medium-term bonds. Given the spate of issuances in the pipeline, the total bond collection could go up to Rs 45,000 crore by the end of the month. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the RBI has pumped in a significant amount of money, leaving banks with surplus liquidity of nearly Rs 7 lakh crore. Despite this, banks continue to demand a spread of nearly 3% over the repo rate on medium-term bonds by top-rated issuers. As a result, the cost of borrowing for corporates has not come down in line with the 75-basis-point (100bps = 1 percentage point) reduction in the policy rate in March 2020. The issuers include Tata Group companies, L&T, Reliance, HDFC, M&M and a host of public sector finance companies. A few NBFCs like Sundaram, Cholamandalam and Hero Fincorp have also planned bond issues to take advantage of the special line provided by the RBI for banks to support finance companies. Many of the issuers are coming back for more funds. Among the state-owned entities, Power Finance Corporation has been a big issuer, selling Rs 1,320-crore 5-year bonds at 7.16%, and Rs 1,970-crore worth three-year bonds at 6.83%. L&T has floated a series of bonds of over Rs 5,000 crore with maturity ranging from three to 10 years, offering 7.2% to 7.8%. M&M has raised three-year funds at Rs 1,000 crore at 6.78%. The issuers in the market include IRFC, which plans to sell bonds worth Rs 500 crore with a greenshoe option to raise an additional Rs 3,000 crore. Rural Electrification Corporation is looking to raise Rs 2,000 crore through five-year bonds. NHPC recently raised Rs 750 crore by issuing 10-year bonds. Tata Steel is raising Rs 1,000 crore with a Rs 1,500-crore greenshoe option.For bankers, investing in a bond that’s rated triple-A is an attractive proposition. The risks are relatively lower and they can earn a decent spread, Also, given the lockdown, there is no growth in personal loans — the key driver of credit last year. Bankers say that corporates are raising funds, despite a relatively high spread, as part of their preparation for an extended lockdown. Most consumer-facing companies are not seeing any accretions to their top line. However, those in the core sector of cement and steel may see some demand on account of government spending. Finance firms are raising funds as their borrowers can defer their repayments during a lockdown. According to Bloomberg data, corporates have issued Rs 31,680 crore worth bonds mostly by issuing bonds up to three years. This is the highest they have mobilised in any month ever. There’s another Rs 14,920 crore worth bond issues in the pipeline from companies ranging from Indian Hotels to HDFC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-cos-psus-set-to-issue-over-rs-45k-cr-bonds-in-apr/articleshow/75334105.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 24, 2020||Business||Gold may zoom to Rs 82,000 per 10gm by end ’21: Analysts||TNN Mumbai: As stocks and bonds as investment avenues do not show much hope under current market conditions, gold could be the asset to put your money in. If analysts at Bank of America Securities (BofA Sec) are to be believed, gold prices in the international market could rally to $3,000 per ounce (Oz) by end 2021. Translated into Indian rates, that could be about Rs 82,000/10 grams at current exchange rates. On Thursday, gold futures for June on MCX closed at Rs 46,352/10gm. So, in about one and a half years, gold prices in India could gain about 75%. In the international market, gold is currently trading at about $1,750 level. Analysts at Goldman Sachs, another global financial powerhouse too put their bets on the yellow metal and said, given current global market scenario, it was a better hedge than crude oil. Incidentally, late March, analysts at Goldman Sachs had predicted that crude oil price could enter the negative territory. According to BofA Sec, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, US GDP could go down by 30% in Q2 of 2020 — the steepest drop in modern history. Other countries like Japan will likely experience a 21.8% decline in output in Q2 CY20, while China just reported a contraction of 6.8% in Q1 CY20. “As central banks rush to expand their balance sheets and backstop asset values and consumer prices, a lot of risks could end up being socialised,” it noted. The analysts believe that a strong dollar, reduced financial market volatility and lower jewellery demand in India and China could become the headwinds for gold. “But beyond traditional gold supply and demand fundamentals, financial repression is back on an extraordinary scale. Rates in the US and most G-10 economies will likely be at or below zero for a very long period of time as central banks attempt to push inflation back above their targets.” Nominal GDP, central bank balance sheets, or official gold reserves will, in such a scenario, remain the key determinants of gold prices. “As central banks and governments double their balance sheets and fiscal deficits respectively, we have also decided to up our 18-month gold target from $2,000 to $3,000,” noted BofA Sec.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-may-zoom-to-rs-82000-per-10gm-by-end-21-analysts/articleshow/75334013.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||WHO training for dist hosp employees||Kotulpur/Panskura: The World Health Organization (WHO) is helping the state set up, manage and train staff of Covid hospitals in the districts. WHO has been sending its consultant doctors and surveillance officers to newly acquired Covid hospitals in Bengal, most of which were either private hospitals or Ayush hospitals. At Kotulpur Medicare General Hospital, WHO consultant Soumyadeep Chowdhury organized detailed training of 36 healthcare workers, including doctors, on Tuesday. He focused on the disinfection protocol. The hospital does not have any Covid-19 patients at present. On Monday, WHO surveillance officer Subhadwip Bhuniyan visited the Panskura Corona Centre in East Midnapore. Bhuniyan examined the infrastructure and emphasised on the importance of abiding by the disinfection protocol. So far, 14 Covid-positive patients have been treated at the 20-bed hospital. However, it doesn’t have any patient at present. Bhuniyan then visited the Ayush Hospital in Midnapore Town. This helping process began on April 6, when a WHO doctor visited the new Covid treatment hospital in Burdwan Town for a training session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/who-training-for-dist-hosp-employees/articleshow/75334844.cms||Falguni Banerjee
April 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar asks officials for door-to-door screening in all districts||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday asked the officials concerned to ensure door-to-door screening of people on the pattern of polio eradication campaign in all the districts for ascertaining the possible presence of coronavirus symptoms in them at the initial stage. However, the districts have to be first prioritized for the screening exercise, the CM said at a review meeting. He also called for identification of full chain of contacts of the Covid-19 infected patients, as it would help in breaking the transmission chain. “The screening of such contacts of the patients and their immediate testing should also be done as a person can infect several others,” the CM added. The number of districts which have reported corona positive cases has increased. Earlier, only four hotspot districts – Nalanda, Siwan, Begusarai and Nawada – were selected for door-to-door screening exercise. The CM said the lockdown has led to fall in other diseases. Meanwhile, the CM on Thursday paid tributes to Veer Kunwar Singh on the occasion of his birth anniversary. Nitish recalled the bravery that Singh had shown in the country’s first war for Independence in 1857.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-for-door-to-door-screening-in-all-dists/articleshow/75331352.cms||Abhay Singh
April 24, 2020||Business||US to soon undertake review of non-immigrant visas including H-1Bs||BANGALORE/MUMBAI: US President Donald Trump, in the executive order signed by him on Wednesday, has sought a review of the non-immigrant programs, which include work visas, including the popular H-1Bs. While, the executive order, at present, temporarily bans some immigration – notably, those who were waiting for a green card outside the US, with some exceptions carved out – a review of the non-immigrant visa programmes within 30 days of the proclamation is going to put H-1B and L visas (used for intra-company transfers) under another round of stress test. President Trump wants the secretaries of labour and homeland security to review other non-immigrant visa programmes and recommend ‘other measures’ appropriate to stimulate the US economy and ensure prioritisation, hiring and employment of US workers. Ashwin Sharma, Jacksonville-based immigration attorney, told TOI, “At present the proclamation had left untouched the vulnerable visas in the non-immigrant categories. However, section 6 of the proclamation is deeply concerning as it leaves the door open to a future attack on the H-1B and other work visas.” Read AlsoDonald Trump suspends issue of new green cards for 60 daysUS President Donald Trump has said that he will halt issuing of new Green Cards or legal permanent residency for the next 60 days as part of his executive order to temporarily suspend immigration into the US. However, the move will not have any impact on those entering the country on a temporarySharma hopes that the President has no further plans to attack the H-1B and other non-immigrant visas under the guise of ‘protecting the American worker’. He wondered whether the proclamation is a subtle and first test of the waters. According to him, US will need its skills gap filled by H-1B and other professional workers in the long recovery from the ravages of Covid-19. Nasscom, the $191 billion IT industry body has pointed out to the US government that the knowledge sector and not just health care workers are essential and critical to helping the American people and the US economy recover during these difficult times. “The US needs access to those working in the health sector as well as those essential technology workers who are keeping the critical infrastructure operating in the US which is very important in the recovery phase and we believe that the department of homeland security (DHS) has provided an excellent roadmap for any subsequent potential recommendation for Non-immigrant and other visa categories. The Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) at the department of homeland security gave detailed examples of jobs and employees that are essential,” said Shivendra Singh, vice president & head - global trade development at Nasscom. In introducing the guidance, CISA had stated that functioning critical infrastructure is imperative during the response to the Covid-19 emergency for both public health and safety as well as community well-being. “Certain critical infrastructure industries have a special responsibility in these times to continue operations,” it said. It remains to be seen what recommendations will follow post a review by the secretaries of labour and homeland security. “However, a ban on non-immigrant visa is highly unlikely. In any case, any bans or restrictions will be effective only during the period of the national emergency. Even a president cannot override laws already written by Congress,” said Rajiv S Khanna, Arlington based immigration attorney. Even as there’s growing clamour to clamp down H-1B visas, a reality check showed that the top seven India-based companies are said to have received only 2,200 new H-1B petitions for initial employment in FY2018, less than 2.6% of the 85,000-annual limit for companies. The US is estimated to have a shortage of 7.5 million STEM talent as of April last year. Many in the US tech industry feel immigration is the only way to deal with it. Nasscom said the priorities established by the CISA should help define the types of essential workers that any subsequent recommendations on non-immigrant visa programmes should include and address. “We also hope that those developing recommendations regarding these programmes consult broadly and accept input from a wide variety of sources in their deliberations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-prez-seeks-review-of-non-immig-visas-like-h-1b/articleshow/75334087.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Funds crunch for unaided schools||PATNA: The Association of Independent Schools (Bihar) has urged chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar to ask banks to offer overdrafts or loans to educational institutes as per their requirements during the Covid-19 lockdown. A letter in this regard was submitted at the CM office on Thursday. The association’s president, C B Singh, claimed that private unaided schools were facing financial crunch after waiving off school fees during the lockdown period and finding it difficult to pay the salaries of teachers and non-teaching staff. “Teachers of all private schools are conducting online classes for almost eight hours. Now that the month of April is about to end, schools have to pay them their salaries amid financial crunch. The state government should, therefore, ask banks to provide loans to schools,” Singh said. With four branches in different locations of Patna, the Bishop Scott Group of Schools has around 150 teachers, 50 non-teaching staff, 50 security guards, 150 drivers and 80 attenders. “How will we pay salaries to so many people? Even if we get a loan, we will have to pay interest later. This is not a permanent solution,” Bishop Scott director Shailesh Kumar told this newspaper. Holy Mary International School (Darbhanga) director Shyam Narayan Yadav said, “It is time for us to release our staff’s salaries, but we are in a fix because of this unprecedented situation. Even banks have refused to give us big loans.” Don Bosco Academy director Alfred George deRozario also claimed that all schools were facing financial crunch. “Some parents have paid the tuition fees, but most of them have not. We will discuss this issue and come up with a solution soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/funds-crunch-for-unaided-schools/articleshow/75330776.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Children join hands to dig a well in Belthangdy village||Mangaluru: Belthangdy taluk in Dakshina Kannada was among the worst-hit areas when floods ravaged Karnataka last year. However, a few months later, Mittabagilu, a small village in the taluk, is staring at a drinking water crisis, with a local well having dried up. In such a bleak scenario, it was six schoolchildren who came to the rescue of the village, using their time away from school to dig a 13-foot well in Mittabagilu. The well currently has water up to a depth of two feet. Dhanush, one of the children who was involved in digging the well, noticed that a well on his father, Chidanand’s property, one used by the neighbours as well, had dried up, posing a serious problem to their potable water requirements. “That was when I discussed the possibility of digging a well with some of my friends,” said the class IX student. Along with his classmate Pushparaj, and two students from class VI Prasanna and Gururaj, and two bots from lass V Shreyas and Bhavaneesh, started to dig a well on April 13, and by April 18, the fruit of their labour gushed out after they had touched a depth of 10ft. Dhanush said that they started off without a concrete plan of action. “In all, it took us about 20 hours to dig the well, which is around 4ft in diameter. Water started gushing out when we had dug till 10ft, but we decided to keep going for another three feet. My family, and the neighbours are happy to have a source of drinking water,” Dhanush said. His father Chidanand admitted that neither he, nor the other adults in the neighbourhood felt the children would succeed in their endeavour. “We thought this was something they were doing for their own amusement, and we did not bother with what they were doing initially. But when we observed that they were in the earnest, some of us advised them on how to take out the mud they were digging out. Their efforts did not go waste. Now, I am planning on installing pre-cast cement rings and fortify the well,” Chidanand said. His neighbour Venkatarama Gowda said that all the adults had done was lend advice on the more technical aspects of the job. “The children did all the hard work themselves. The older kids were at the bottom, digging out the mud, while the younger ones helped lift it using a pulley. Dhanush is the mastermind of this project,” Gowda told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/children-join-hands-to-dig-a-well-in-belthangdy-village/articleshow/75333184.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 24, 2020||Business||Banks avoid NBFC lending, take 50% of RBI’s refinance||MUMBAI: Small non-banking finance companies continued to be shunned by banks, which availed only half of the Rs 25,000-crore refinance offered by the RBI for lending to NBFCs. This was despite the RBI’s attempt to improve the market for long-term bonds. The central bank on Thursday said that it would sell short-term treasury bills and buy long-term government bonds. While this brought down the yield on 10-year G-secs by 16 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 6.06%, it did nothing to help the NBFCs. To provide support to NBFCs, which are excluded from the three-month moratorium extended to businesses hit by Covid-19, the RBI had opened a special facility. This was the ‘targeted long-term repo operation (TLTRO 2.0). In this window, the RBI would offer cheap three-year funds through targeted long-term repo for up to Rs 50,000 crore. Only banks that lent to NBFCs could avail these funds with half of these reserves marked for small finance companies. In Thursday’s Rs 25,000-crore TLTRO, banks applied for only Rs 12,800 crore. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, the RBI has opened the liquidity tap, leaving banks with nearly Rs 7 lakh crore of surplus funds. By not availing of TLTRO 2.0, banks are sending a signal that they are wary of credit risks. A day before announcing ‘Operation Twist’ on Thursday, banks bought a record Rs 45,000 crore of government treasury bills at rates below the RBI’s reverse repo rate of 3.75%. This is the rate of interest that banks get when they keep their surplus money with the RBI. The crash in T-bill rates indicates that since the system is flush with funds, banks are expecting the RBI to further cut reverse repo rates in the coming months, bond dealers said. “Given the lack of risk appetite in banks, a structure with partial credit guarantee by the government may be the only viable option to ease liquidity challenges of NBFCs,” said Brickwork Ratings director Vydianathan Ramaswamy. Reverse repo auctions are done by the RBI for banks to park their money for 1-3 days, while T-bills are for 91 days, 182 days and 364 days. So currently, banks are willing to park their excess funds in T-bills at a rate lower than what they could earn overnight from the RBI — an indication that they expect the overnight rates to come down soon. On Wednesday, T-bills were auctioned at an annual yield-to-maturity (YTM) of 3.65-3.74%. A week prior to that, the RBI sold 364-day T-bills at a YTM of 4.37%, while a couple of days before the lockdown, this was sold at 5.18%. The low rates in T-bills also show that the government’s decision to raise money from short-term treasury bills instead of long-term bonds is paying off. RBI data showed that the government received bids aggregating Rs 3.4 lakh crore for T-bills worth Rs 45,000 crore that was on the block. In the first quarter of the current fiscal, the government plans to raise a record Rs 4.5 lakh crore through weekly T-bill auctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-avoid-nbfc-lending-take-50-of-rbis-refinance/articleshow/75334394.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 24, 2020||Business||Top companies, PSUs set to issue over Rs 45,000 crore bonds in April||MUMBAI: A host of Indian corporates and public sector undertakings are taking advantage of the surplus liquidity in the market by stocking up on cash and issuing bonds. Despite the lockdown, Indian issuers have raised over Rs 30,000 crore — the highest ever — by selling short-term to medium-term bonds. Given the spate of issuances in the pipeline, the total bond collection could go up to Rs 45,000 crore by the end of the month. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the RBI has pumped in a significant amount of money, leaving banks with surplus liquidity of nearly Rs 7 lakh crore. Despite this, banks continue to demand a spread of nearly 3% over the repo rate on medium-term bonds by top-rated issuers. As a result, the cost of borrowing for corporates has not come down in line with the 75-basis-point (100bps = 1 percentage point) reduction in the policy rate in March 2020. The issuers include Tata Group companies, L&T, Reliance, HDFC, M&M and a host of public sector finance companies. A few NBFCs like Sundaram, Cholamandalam and Hero Fincorp have also planned bond issues to take advantage of the special line provided by the RBI for banks to support finance companies. Many of the issuers are coming back for more funds. Among the state-owned entities, Power Finance Corporation has been a big issuer, selling Rs 1,320-crore 5-year bonds at 7.16%, and Rs 1,970-crore worth three-year bonds at 6.83%. L&T has floated a series of bonds of over Rs 5,000 crore with maturity ranging from three to 10 years, offering 7.2% to 7.8%. M&M has raised three-year funds at Rs 1,000 crore at 6.78%. The issuers in the market include IRFC, which plans to sell bonds worth Rs 500 crore with a greenshoe option to raise an additional Rs 3,000 crore. Rural Electrification Corporation is looking to raise Rs 2,000 crore through five-year bonds. NHPC recently raised Rs 750 crore by issuing 10-year bonds. Tata Steel is raising Rs 1,000 crore with a Rs 1,500-crore greenshoe option.For bankers, investing in a bond that’s rated triple-A is an attractive proposition. The risks are relatively lower and they can earn a decent spread, Also, given the lockdown, there is no growth in personal loans — the key driver of credit last year. Bankers say that corporates are raising funds, despite a relatively high spread, as part of their preparation for an extended lockdown. Most consumer-facing companies are not seeing any accretions to their top line. However, those in the core sector of cement and steel may see some demand on account of government spending. Finance firms are raising funds as their borrowers can defer their repayments during a lockdown. According to Bloomberg data, corporates have issued Rs 31,680 crore worth bonds mostly by issuing bonds up to three years. This is the highest they have mobilised in any month ever. There’s another Rs 14,920 crore worth bond issues in the pipeline from companies ranging from Indian Hotels to HDFC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-cos-psus-set-to-issue-over-rs-45k-cr-bonds-in-apr/articleshow/75334120.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 24, 2020||Business||ITC: Capacity utilisation to better in a quarter||MUMBAI/KOLKATA: Capacity utilisations would revert to reasonable levels in a quarter for hotels-to-FMCG major ITC, which is currently engaging teams to reimagine the future and scenario planning to tackle the adverse impact of Covid-19 on business. In a video conference with select media, ITC chairman Sanjiv Puri said the objective behind scenario planning is to work on revival strategies to bounce back quickly and take advantage of emerging opportunities. “We have to adapt to the situation and be agile. It’s a time for us to think of reviving and reimagining our future as well, looking at the opportunities in the future. We have to be agile on our feet to deal with situations and scenarios as they emerge,” he said. This, he said, has been demonstrated as ITC ramped up capacity significantly to produce four times the amount of handwash and 10 times the quantity of sanitiser after the outbreak of Covid-19. Capacity utilisations across its manufacturing locations are currently running at a low range of 25-60% depending on customer demand. “While economic activity has substantially reduced, conserving cash and reducing costs is important. What we hear is that this fight could last longer and there are chances of it (Covid-19) occurring again. It would take a quarter for a reasonable capacity utilisation to come in,” said Puri. Puri said ITC is only running those manufacturing units where there’s a visibility of demand. With the first quarter of the current financial year expected to be “one of the worst for the economy”, Puri said the first and most important task is to revive economic activity. “As far as investments are concerned, it will correlate to demand situation. For now, product launches will be limited. We will do what is essential and critical for consumer needs,” he added. Puri is optimistic about the hotels business, which is currently non-operational due to the lockdown, as and when it resumes operations in near future. Puri pointed out that the outbound traffic from India will go down for now after the lockdown is lifted and Covid-19 pandemic is mitigated. “We have to redesign and create opportunity for them who would travel in India. Safety and hygiene would be a new normal for hotels business,” he said. Despite the hurdles posed by Covid-19, ITC is not shifting the goalpost for its FMCG business. ITC has a projection of taking the FMCG business to Rs 1 lakh crore from Rs 12,000 crore. “This goal is aspirational for us and we will continue to work towards that. There will be a set back for a short period, but the opportunities exist and India has the potential to help us achieve that goal,” said Puri. In terms of consumer behaviour after Covid, Puri said a shift is expected towards health and wellness products going forward. “Based on early signs that we are picking up, there’s a shift towards a lot more health, wellness and hygiene products. Consumers will look for products they can trust. Thus the role of brands that have lived up to their expectations will be stronger in future,” said Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itc-capacity-utilisation-to-better-in-a-qtr/articleshow/75333946.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur cops facing dual challenge: Covid bundobust and crime||NAGPUR: Deteriorating law and order situation in Sakkardara is posing a dual challenge to city police, who are already burdened with strenuous lockdown duties in view of the coronavirus outbreak. The latest attack on a history-sheeter Bunty Thaore by his rivals Shubham Satpaise and Nehal Nagose in Bhande Plot area on Wednesday has added to the already heightened tension in the locality following a murder just a day ago. Thaore, who had recently returned after serving imprisonment under Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act, was attacked over old enmity. Satpaise and Nagose are out on bail in a triple murder case. After walking out of jail, the two had teamed up to dominate the localities in and around Bhande Plot, but Thaore was a hurdle in their plan. Sources say possibility of a group clash cannot be ruled out if the police do not act immediately. It’s learnt that a couple of days ago, Thaore had roughed up Satpaise over a trivial issue following which Sakkardara police had registered a non-cognizable offence. In the latest incident too, Sakkardara police were in no mood to register stricter offences against Satpaise and Nagose initially, but had to invoke attempt to murder charge following intervention of senior officials. A little over 24 hours ago, Bhande Plot area had witnessed murder of a 45-year-old businessman Haridas Savarkar over an old enmity by Bunty Khan and his father Noor Khan. Riot Control Police (RCP) and additional manpower had to be deployed in the locality to maintain law and order. The nearby Tajbagh locality too has been becoming a hub of goons dealing in narcotics apart from mushrooming of several gambling dens. The area had also witnessed firing incidents in broad daylight around a month ago wherein several rounds were fired from two firearms in a dramatic chase-and-fire manner. Zonal DCP Nirmala Devi said she is keeping tab on the law and order situation and also stepping up drive against anti-social activities. “We are taking all due precautions,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-facing-dual-challenge-covid-bundobust-crime/articleshow/75335003.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad schools roll back fee hike after GO||HYDERABAD: Two days after the Telangana government issued an order (GO) asking schools not to enhance fee for the 2020-21 academic year, many city schools have revoked their fee hike and offered to adjust the additional amount — against future payments — for those who have already paid the fees. The government order not only directed schools to not increase any kind of fees during the new academic year but also instructed them to charge only tuition fee, on a monthly basis, till further orders. Soon after the order, many schools such as Delhi Public School (DPS), Miyapur, Kennedy Global School, Jubilee Hills Public School (JHPS), Hyderabad Public School (HPS), Begumpet, Phoenix Greens among many others informed parents they will continue to follow the same fee structure which was applicable during 2019-20. “We had decided on a hike of approximately eight to nine per cent over the previous year’s fee. However, conditions have changed quite drastically over the last two months and given the unprecedented situation, we welcome the government order of no fee hike for this academic year,” reads a letter issued by Phoenix Greens, adding that they are rolling back the hike. Schools that had already sought a hiked term fee for the next academic year in March, decided to adjust it keeping in view the GO from the school education department. “Any excess fee, if already paid, will be adjusted against future payments,” reads a message sent by the JHPS management to all parents. A similar message was sent out to parents by managements of Kennedy Global School, DPS, Miyapur and HPS, Begumpet. While the school education department set up a call centre for parents, to register their grievances in case they witnessed non-compliance to the GO, Ch Ramana Kumar, additional director of the department said that they have not received any complaint in the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-schools-roll-back-fee-hike-after-go/articleshow/75335047.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||NMC removes 5 sanitiser booths from its hospitals||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has removed five sanitiser booths or tunnels from its hospitals after the centre and state governments issued guidelines stating that they are harmful for people. The guidelines stated that the disinfecting people with the help of sanitisation booths may affect their nose and eyes. Some private firms and NGOs from the city had donated these booths to the municipal corporation to ensure that the medical or office staff of the NMC will benefit from it. They will get proper sanitisation facilities before entering the hospital or office premises. The move aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The booths were set up at Zakir Hussain, Bytco hospital, Indira Gandhi ospital, among others. “We have removed all the five sanitizers booths or tunnels after the government issued guidelines in this regard,” said NMC officials. “We have provided sanitisers and hand wash to our staff at all hospitals, divisional offices of the NMC and its headquarters at the Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan as part of precautionary measures to prevent tyhe spread of Covid-19,” they said. The officials said that the municipal corporation has also provided all the safety equipments like face masks, hand gloves along with sanitisers to over 1,500 sanitation workers engaged in cleaning operations across all six divisions of the NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-removes-5-sanitiser-booths-from-its-hospitals/articleshow/75332213.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 cops discharged, raring to get to work||Ahmedabad: While a total of 65 cops and personnel of the State Reserve Police, Lok Rakshak Dal and Traffic Regulation Brigade have been infected with the Covid-19 virus and are being treated, on Wednesday the cops had something to smile about as six of their colleagues recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from SVP and Civil hospitals. The morale of these personnel is high and the fight against the virus as soon as possible. Special commissioner of police, crime branch Ajay Tomar said those discharged are lok rakshak of N division traffic branch, an ASI of E Division traffic police station, ASI of M division traffic police station, a constable and a woman lock rakshak of and a head constable of Ranip police station. “All six are at home. We are in consultation with doctors about how long they must remain quaratined. Before they were discharged they tested negative twice,” Tomar said. City police chief Ashish Bhatia has entrusted Tomar with the responsibility of looking after Covid-19 affected personnel and their families. The head constable with Ranip police station who has recovered told TOI, “I was ordered by my seniors to join work tomorrow. I am more than eager to serve the country in the fight against Covid. I have a six-old-daughter and a wife, but my duty comes first. I am grateful to Tomar Sir for looking after us like a family”. The lok rakshak of N division traffic police station, whose was a case of local transmission and was discharged on April 1 told TOI: “This is the an opportuinity to serve the country and I don’t want to miss it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-cops-discharged-raring-to-get-to-work/articleshow/75334068.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 24, 2020||Varanasi||Khadi and Village Industries Commission provides milk packets to children||VARANASI: The Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) distributed milk among poor kids in Varanasi. KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena, about 300 milk packets are being distributed among underprivileged children in the city. “While migrants and needy are being provided food their children were left unnoticed. KVIC decided to provide milk to these kids across the country,” Saxena told TOI over phone on Thursday. “With the support of the local police and the administration, milk packets were distributed among children in slums of Lamahi, Lalpur, Daulatpur and Saranath areas. We are running this programme in 11 states,” he added. In its earlier initiatives, KVIC is distributing essential items like khadi masks, ration kits, blankets and food through its offices and khadi institutions across the country. Saxena said that institutions allied with the KVIC donated around 500 khadi masks to their district collectors. KVIC has developed a double-layered khadi mask. KVIC has 2,400 active khadi institutions in the country.  Recently, the KVIC bagged an order to supply 7.5 lakh pieces of khadi masks to Jammu & Kashmir government for supply of 5 lakh masks to Jammu district, 1.40 lakh to Pulwama district, one lakh to Udhampur district and 10,000 to Kupwara district. “KVIC is specifically using double twisted khadi fabric for manufacturing these masks as it helps retain 70% of the moisture content inside, while providing an easy passage for the air to pass through, hence proving to be the best easily available, pocket friendly face mask,” he said adding that these masks are made of hand spun khadi fabric which is breathable, can be reused, washable and biodegradable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kvic-provides-milk-packets-to-children/articleshow/75331926.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Time to look beyond lockdown, resume business: Industry to Tamil Nadu government||CHENNAI: Industry, while appreciating the lockdown, now wants the state government to offer fiscal and procedural support to get it back on its feet. "The government has prevented a holocaust. Now the discourse should move to the next level. We cannot extend lockdowns. We must not delay things any further," said Palani G Periasamy, chairman Dharani Sugars and president of South India Sugar Mills Association. "Only commerce can bring back lost livelihood." "There is not even a single positive case among more than 35,000 mill employees. We have done well to contain. We must now restart. We cannot afford to postpone things any further. For our industry, the problem is labour and truck availability to start working. Some mills have started, others are getting ready," he said. Senior officials from the state government headed by the CM had a video conference with industry representatives and sought their feedback. N Srinivasan, vice chairman & MD of The India Cements, is learnt to have told the CM that each industry has its own problems in resuming operations. For cement makers, transporting cement is the main problem as trucks are struck midway and drivers have abandoned them. Cement industry has no problem in producing and selling cement. It can resume operation once the permission is obtained, he is learnt to have said. CII state council head Hari K Thiagarajan said he asked the CM to allow at least 50% of export capacity. "The state has an edge in exports. With China and Vietnam coming back, we should allow our units to complete pending orders immediately. Besides, with villages largely insulated from Covid, units in smaller towns should be allowed to reopen," he said. Another important suggestion is a separate package for MSMEs, he added. MM Forgings has said it will reopen its factory in Singampunari in a day. "We have received approvals for reopening the factory and also the one in Pant Nagar in north India," said Vidyashankar Krishnan, MD of the company. Ditto with Apollo Tyres. "We have taken approvals but are just getting plants ready to start production if needed. Our initial focus is on despatches of tyre inventory in the factory," said Satish Sharma, president, Apollo Tyres. Its competitor Michelin has opened its factory in Thervoy Kandigai with fewer staff and will scale it up gradually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/time-to-look-beyond-lockdown-resume-biz-industry-to-govt/articleshow/75334976.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy cops’ WhatsApp groups to protect health workers||TRICHY: Responding fast to instances of attacks on frontline health workers involved in the fight against Covid-19, Trichy range police have created WhatsApp groups incorporating medical professionals and sanitary workers so that they are protected from any violence. Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police V Balakrishnan took up the initiative and advised DSPs of all the 19 divisions in five districts — Trichy rural, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur — to create one ‘WhatsApp’ group each for all the divisions. He also instructed the inspectors of all the 66 law and order (L&O) police stations in the five districts to create one ‘WhatsApp’ group each under their jurisdiction. The aim was to enable all doctors, nurses, paramedics and sanitary workers to seek police help in case of any violence against them in the line of duty. While doctors and paramedics were brought under the group managed by DSPs, the sanitary workers were included in the groups maintained by inspectors. “This measure will keep the morale of the frontline health workers intact. They will receive immediate response from the police soon after they post an alert about the threat to them from anyone,” DIG Balakrishnan told TOI. To start with, the police identified 1,000 of them in all categories and included them in the WhatsApp groups. Endorsing the role of frontline health workers who combat Covid-19 risking their lives, the police sought to prioritise protection for them. The initiative also included one more task of bringing all of them under digital mapping system and tracking them and their family members through E-beat system. “Not only the frontline workers, their family members also should be given protection. The police personnel will visit their houses as part of their patrolling to ensure that the staff and their family members reach home safely,” said DIG Balakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-whatsapp-groups-to-protect-health-workers/articleshow/75334988.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Footloose govt officials in Jalna, Parbhani get notice||Aurangabad: A large number of government officials commuting daily to Aurangabad or their native places instead of staying back at the government headquarters has come under the scanner in Jalna and Parbhani districts amid the Covid-19 outbreak. While the Jalna district administration has issued show-cause notice to 21 such officials, its Parbhani counterpart went a step further by prohibiting inter-district travel of such officials, who include several class I officers. Jalna collector Ravindra Binwade on Thursday said majority of officials slapped with show-cause notices have furnished their reply in writing, while a few were yet to submit their say. “The authorities who were suspected of not staying at the headquarters assured that they would remain available around-the-clock at headquarters. Majority of those who were served with show-cause notices said they have found accommodation in Jalna and will not leave the headquarters as their services are required during the current pandemic,” he said. Among the 21 who were sent show-cause notice from Jalna collector included top officials from key government departments from health, civic supplies, RTO , education and social welfare fields among others. Jalna, which is hardly around 50km away from Aurangabad, has witnessed two confirmed cases of Covid-19 till Thursday evening. While Jalna collector issued show-cause notice, his counterpart from Parbhani has prohibited inter-district movement of government officers and staff till May 3. Besides citing administrative issues due to daily commuting employees preferring not to stay at the headquarters, Parbhani collector D M Mugalikar has also raised the issue of possible spread of Covid-19 due to such travel. Parbhani district has reported one confirmed case of Covid-19 till Thursday evening. Both Jalna and Parbhani district administrations have also warned errant officials and staff of stern action as per service rules and other enabling provisions. They have invoked the Epidemic Act 1897 , Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code among other legal provisions while asking the officials and staff not to leave the headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/footloose-govt-officials-in-jalna-parbhani-get-notice/articleshow/75332077.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Greens find it tough to take care of saplings||Mangaluru: With the nation under lockdown and summer setting in, nature lovers like Jeeth Milan Roche are facing a different kind of problem. Watering saplings is becoming difficult in these times. Jeeth loves nature and treats plants like his family members. He has planted thousands of saplings across Dakshina Kannada, especially in cemeteries, temples and on the premises of various churches. He says, “I understand the seriousness of the lockdown due to the pandemic, but at any cost, I need to water around 3,000 saplings in five cemeteries. They’re also part of my family. I can manage to water around 400 saplings every day. During normal days, students of the St Aloysius college Sahaya team was helping me, but now, without their help, watering saplings has become a tedious task. Forest department RFO Shridar is doing his best to help me. Thanks to Jaya Prakash, Jonas, Daya Lobo, Alwyn D’Silva , Vidyashankar, my brother Sumath Roche and my children Ethan and Nathan and my wife Selma, we are able to water plants daily, till afternoon. We start the day at 8 am and finish at around noon. We see to it that a sapling gets water at least once in 10 days. Jeeth adds, “Conservation of nature is important, and the positive news is that due to the lockdown, the pollution level has come down drastically, all over the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/greens-find-it-tough-to-take-care-of-saplings/articleshow/75330408.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Woman arrested for possession of arrack, cannabis gets bail||MADURAI: The Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court granted bail to a woman who was in possession of arrack and cannabis at her house during the lockdown period. The woman - Kalimuthu, 40, her husband and her relative were found in possession of arrack and ganja at her house on April 17. The Uchipuli police registered a case against the three under sections of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotrophic Substances Act. Kalimuthu who was arrested in this case filed an e-bail application before the court which was heard through video-conferencing. The petitioner’s counsel stated that she has no previous case and is willing to abide by any conditions imposed by the court. The public prosecutor submitted that Kalimuthu along with her husband and her relative who are arrayed as accused number one and three in the case were in possession of 10 litres of arrack and 250g of cannabis. He further submitted that while Kalimuthu was arrested on April 17, the remaining two are absconding. Considering the facts that the petitioner is a woman and that she has no previous cases, principal district and sessions judge R Shanmugasundaram granted bail to her by imposing certain conditions including that she should stay at her home till the lockdown period and should not come out to public places except for essential needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-arrested-for-possession-of-arrack-cannabis-gets-bail/articleshow/75334994.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha gets 3-month extension||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha, an IPS officer of the 1983 batch, was given a three-month extension in service on Thursday. Jha was to retire on April 30, but will now serve till July-end as director general of police, Gujarat. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved extension in Jha’s service for a period of three months beyond his superannuation, in public interest, read an order from the Centre. The order from the The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions, dated April 23, states that the ministry of of home affairs, for extension in service of Shivanand Jha, has approved his extension of three months beyond his superannuation in relaxation of Rule 16(1) of the The All India Service (DCRB) Rules, 1958, in public interest. Shivanand Jha was appointed as DGP and IGP of Gujarat in April 2018. At that time, it was after a gap of 22 months that Gujarat got a full-time DGP. Jha had taken charge from outgoing in-charge DGP Pramod Kumar. Jha hails from Bihar and graduated in first class from Patna University with History as his special subject. He had held the post of IB chief before being made the DGP and IGP of Gujarat. Before that he had served as police commissioner of Ahmedabad for three years. Jha has played a pivotal role in the implementation of the current lockdown imposed to prevent swift spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dgp-jha-gets-3-month-extension/articleshow/75338393.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha gets 3-month extension||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha, an IPS officer of the 1983 batch, was given a three-month extension in service on Thursday. Jha was to retire on April 30, but will now serve till July-end as director general of police, Gujarat. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved extension in Jha’s service for a period of three months beyond his superannuation, in public interest, read an order from the Centre. The order from the The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions, dated April 23, states that the ministry of of home affairs, for extension in service of Shivanand Jha, has approved his extension of three months beyond his superannuation in relaxation of Rule 16(1) of the The All India Service (DCRB) Rules, 1958, in public interest. Shivanand Jha was appointed as DGP and IGP of Gujarat in April 2018. At that time, it was after a gap of 22 months that Gujarat got a full-time DGP. Jha had taken charge from outgoing in-charge DGP Pramod Kumar. Jha hails from Bihar and graduated in first class from Patna University with History as his special subject. He had held the post of IB chief before being made the DGP and IGP of Gujarat. Before that he had served as police commissioner of Ahmedabad for three years. Jha has played a pivotal role in the implementation of the current lockdown imposed to prevent swift spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-jha-gets-3-month-extension/articleshow/75334065.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha gets 3-month extension||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha, an IPS officer of the 1983 batch, was given a three-month extension in service on Thursday. Jha was to retire on April 30, but will now serve till July-end as director general of police, Gujarat. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved extension in Jha’s service for a period of three months beyond his superannuation, in public interest, read an order from the Centre. The order from the The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions, dated April 23, states that the ministry of of home affairs, for extension in service of Shivanand Jha, has approved his extension of three months beyond his superannuation in relaxation of Rule 16(1) of the The All India Service (DCRB) Rules, 1958, in public interest. Shivanand Jha was appointed as DGP and IGP of Gujarat in April 2018. At that time, it was after a gap of 22 months that Gujarat got a full-time DGP. Jha had taken charge from outgoing in-charge DGP Pramod Kumar. Jha hails from Bihar and graduated in first class from Patna University with History as his special subject. He had held the post of IB chief before being made the DGP and IGP of Gujarat. Before that he had served as police commissioner of Ahmedabad for three years. Jha has played a pivotal role in the implementation of the current lockdown imposed to prevent swift spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dgp-jha-gets-3-month-extension/articleshow/75338395.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha gets 3-month extension||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha, an IPS officer of the 1983 batch, was given a three-month extension in service on Thursday. Jha was to retire on April 30, but will now serve till July-end as director general of police, Gujarat. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved extension in Jha’s service for a period of three months beyond his superannuation, in public interest, read an order from the Centre. The order from the The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions, dated April 23, states that the ministry of of home affairs, for extension in service of Shivanand Jha, has approved his extension of three months beyond his superannuation in relaxation of Rule 16(1) of the The All India Service (DCRB) Rules, 1958, in public interest. Shivanand Jha was appointed as DGP and IGP of Gujarat in April 2018. At that time, it was after a gap of 22 months that Gujarat got a full-time DGP. Jha had taken charge from outgoing in-charge DGP Pramod Kumar. Jha hails from Bihar and graduated in first class from Patna University with History as his special subject. He had held the post of IB chief before being made the DGP and IGP of Gujarat. Before that he had served as police commissioner of Ahmedabad for three years. Jha has played a pivotal role in the implementation of the current lockdown imposed to prevent swift spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dgp-jha-gets-3-month-extension/articleshow/75338394.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Trichy||86-year-old man, kin recover, had no symptoms for 28 days in hospital||TRICHY: A six-member family from Dindigul district were among the 16 Covid-19 infected people who were discharged from the Karur government medical college hospital on Thursday after being cured. However, the family members still doubt if they had the infection at all as they were asymptomatic for the entire 28 days of hospitalisation. What reinforced their belief was that among those discharged was a 86-year-old man who had multiple comorbidities, which places him in the high risk category. Throughout his stay in the hospital, he didn’t show any symptoms, something the doctors who treated him confirmed. This was despite him being diabetic and hypertensive and both his toes had to be removed a few years ago because of diabetes. His 43-year-old son told TOI that he still doubts if his family members and he really tested positive for Covid-19. “None of us including my father showed any symptoms right from day one and it was only the doctors who were saying this based on test reports,” he said. “However, we chose to follow all that the doctors told us. We were served good food and taken care of in the best way possible,” he added. Delighted to be returning home after almost a month, he boarded the ambulance after a brief chat with Karur district collector T Angalagan who greeted him with a fruit bouquet. Keeping the patients psychologically sound was key for their cure, said additional dean of the hospital Dr E Theranirajan. “Patients in isolation ward were placed at a distance from where they can interact with each other. This was to ensure that they don’t feel lonely. Further, they were given counselling thrice a day, televisions are installed for diversion apart from being given good food,” he said. It is usually difficult for overaged people to recover because of low immunity. Having his family members nearby kept him in good spirits which could be an added advantage for the cure of the 86-year-old man,” said collector T Anbalagan said. A six-year-old girl and a nine-year-old boy were also among those who got cured and were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/86-yr-old-man-kin-recover-had-no-symptoms-for-28-days-in-hosp/articleshow/75335015.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 24, 2020||Mysuru||Elephant rescued from farm pond||Mysuru: The forest department used an earthmover to rescue a 20-year-old elephant from a farm pond in Kudaluru village in Chamarajanagar district on Thursday. Deputy conservator of forests, MM Hills range, V Yedukondalu said the elephant might have accidentally fallen into the pond between 8am and 9am. “We were able to rescue the elephant in two hours and 15 minutes. After getting rescued, the elephant went straight into the forest,” he said. Locals said the pachyderm might have fallen into the pond while trying to drink water. Forest department said the pond is used for drinking and irrigation purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/elephant-rescued-from-farm-pond/articleshow/75332127.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||SIC pendency crosses over 51k applications amid lockdown||Aurangabad: Though the Supreme Court and different benches of the Bombay high court are conducting virtual hearings on urgent matters during the current lockdown, the State Information Commission ( SIC) has not adopted any such measures. Due to this, by the end of February, the SIC and its seven divisional benches have been witnessing pendency of over 51,000 applications towards the second appeal made under the RTI Act. And this number is expected to mount further with fresh applications piling up for the month of March and April. Notably, every year, the SIC witnesses summer vacation for a few weeks that may further aggravate the pendency issues. A senior administrative official from Aurangabad bench of the SIC said that hearings of second appeals were deferred till further notice since March 24 — when the lockdown was announced first. "No virtual hearings for second appeal made under RTI Act, 2005, have been planned so far. Many applicants hail from rural areas and we cannot expect them to attend virtual hearings even if we raise the desired infrastructure and facilities at our end," he said. Going by the current pendency and average disposal rate of applications, an RTI applicant will have to wait for around two years to get his or her turn for the hearing at the SIC. As per procedure followed in the appeals and complaints under the RTI Act, 2005, the information commission receives second appeals against the orders of appellate officers under section 19 of the Act. The applicant along with the public information officer or assistant public information officer and appellate officer (where required) are called for hearing by the information commissioner for the second appeal as their say has to be considered while deciding the case. Social activist and advocate Vishnu Dhobale said the SIC should have adopted the measure of virtual hearings during the current lockdown. "The current pandemic has been led to an unprecedented situation for every individual and establishment. However, there is a need for improvisation rather than making compromises. Like many other institutions, the SIC should have made the best use of latest technology to carry out the virtual hearing," he said. Stating that justice delayed is justice denied, Dhobale said average waiting period of two years to conduct the hearing for second appeals under the RTI would be detrimental to the spirit of the transparency Act. Being asked about the issues arising out of mounting pendency of RTI appeals, SIC administrative officials said cancelling summer vacations could be one of the options to expedite the disposal of pending applications. "It is most likely that the summer vacations would be called off this year. An official communication to this effect could get issued shortly," the official said. An official mail sent to SIC headquarters in Mumbai seeking official comment on mounting pendency of second appeals during lockdown, remained unanswered till Thursday evening. BOX SIC division Pendency of second appeals (till February 29) Pune 13,547 Amravati 8,776 Mumbai 7,229 Nashik 5,932 Aurangabad 5,481 Grater Mumbai 4,355 Konkan 3,688 Nagpur 2,227 Total 51,235 (Source- SIC, Maharashtra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sic-pendency-crosses-over-51k-applications-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75332129.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Distribution of free grocery kits to sanitary workers begins in Madurai||MADURAI: The distribution of free grocery kits to cover all 5,000 sanitary employees of the Madurai Corporation began on Thursday. The kits, containing five kg of rice, toor dal, Bengal gram, urad dal, pepper, tamarind, cumin seeds, gravy masala, sambar masala, cooking oil and soaps worth Rs 670 each, were distributed to 823 workers, deployed in Covid-19 prevention in Madurai West constituency. Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju, district collector T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan took part in the distribution function.Raju said that all the 5,000 workers will be covered soon. Earlier, he honoured sanitary workers by draping them with a shawl and presenting a garland. Addressing the workers, he said that they will start issuing tokens for residents to receive their share from PDS shops for May. Employees will visit door-to-door to issue the tokens. Steps have been taken to ensure every single family eligible to receive free rice through ration shops are getting their share promptly. Immediate action is being taken if there is any issue relating to quality of rice. Officials have been instructed to check for the quality of rice before they are taken to the ration shops, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/distribution-of-free-grocery-kits-to-sanitary-workers-begins/articleshow/75335011.cms||---
April 24, 2020||India||35 AIIMS docs, nurses asked to self-quarantine||NEW DELHI: In a major scare for healthcare workers in the capital, more than 35 doctors and nurses working at AIIMS’s gastroenterology division were asked to self-quarantine on Thursday, after it turned out that a male nurse working with them had Covid-19. Some of the patients this nurse attended to have also been tested and their results are awaited, doctors said. “We are contact tracing each and every person the nurse came in contact with including the doctors, nurses and patients and those considered at high risk are being tested while the others have been suggested to stay at home till the time the exact magnitude of this crisis is clear,” said an official who did not want to be quoted. At Lok Nayak hospital, a dietician working in the mess tested positive for the infection, following which the kitchen of the facility was closed till further orders, officials said, adding that all her contacts have been advised to self-quarantine and were being tested. There was a scare at Safdarjung hospital too recently, when a woman who underwent caesarean section tested positive for Covid-19. All doctors, nurses and orderlies who had come in her contact were tested of which, sources said, at least three have come positive for the disease. The hospital is now planning to perform all emergency surgeries and maternity cases requiring C-section and deliveries at its super-specialty block where Covid-19 patients are being kept. “All suspects would undergo Covid-19 tests. As soon as results of Covid-19 tests become available if the patient is negative, he or she will be shifted to the respective ward in non-Covid zone and if he or she tests positive, the patient will continue to stay in the super specialty block,” the hospital has decided. This is not the first time healthcare workers have been exposed to the risk of contracting Covid-19 from patients. A 40-year-old woman, a resident of Jahangipuri in northwest Delhi who was suffering from Covid-19, died during treatment at Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini four days ago. Tests results confirmed she was Covid-19 positive on Wednesday, after which all 57 healthcare workers in the hospital who had come in her contact were advised to undergo self-quarantine. Before this, a hospital in northwest Delhi had to send 68 staff members, including senior resident doctors, nursing officers, ECG technicians and housekeeping staff, on home quarantine when it turned out that one of the patients who underwent an emergency surgery at the hospital recently was a Covid-19 suspect. She had been advised home quarantine by the DM (north west) but when the 25-year-old pregnant woman suffered from sudden internal bleeding, her family members rushed her to Bhagwan Mahavir hospital in Pitampura. She later died during treatment. In March, Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) had to shut its OPD and IPD when as many as 27 staff members, including nurses and doctors, tested positive for Covid-19. Similar problem has been faced by other hospitals like Max Super Specialty, Saket, Sir Ganga Ram hospital and Apollo hospitals, too, putting into question how safe it is to attend to non-Covid patients and the measures required to do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/35-aiims-docs-nurses-asked-to-self-quarantine/articleshow/75337188.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Rs 4.15 crore released as relief for Madurai: Minister||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu is the first state to announce a relief package of Rs 3,280 crore along with the lockdown announcement to protect the welfare of the people, minister for revenue, disaster management R B Udayakumar, said on Thursday. Funds to the tune of Rs 4.15 crore (Rs 3.15 crore for Madurai district and Rs 1 crore for the corporation) had been released from the disaster relief fund, to meet the needs of the people, he said.Speaking after inspecting the shelter for the homeless in Poonga Murugan temple on Thursday, he said that since the lockdown was extended, the government had made arrangements to supply the requirements to the people for May also. To prevent people from crowding the shops, the essentials will be supplied at the doorsteps of the residents, and it will begin on Friday or Saturday, he said. All measures were being taken to ensure that the people did not go hungry.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-4-15cr-released-as-relief-for-madurai-min/articleshow/75335031.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Movement restrictions hurting industry||Gandhinagar: Although restrictions on industrial and commercial activities have been lifted from April 20 in areas outside limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, only 35,000 of the total five lakh registered units in the state have resumed operations. A major stumbling block is restrictions on inter-district and inter-state transport movement. A senior government officer said that although restrictions in non-urban areas have been lifted, the number of units which have resumed operations is still very less. “Main feedback received by us is regarding restrictions on inter-district and inter-state movement, panic in factory owners, non-availability of labour and the like,” said the official. Export units can re-start activities from April 25 Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the CM, said, “The chief minister has announced that export-oriented units within municipal limits will be allowed to re-start their business activities from April 25. However, these units should have export orders and should not fall in containment zones. At the same time, they are required to follow all the safety measures and need to seek an approval from the district collector.” At present, around 35,000 industrial units have resumed operations, employing around 3.25 lakh workers and labourers. Self-employed workers such as plumbers, electricians, carpenters, auto mechanics, etc can resume their work. Necessary instructions have been given to district collectors by the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/movement-restrictions-hurting-industry/articleshow/75334061.cms||Kapil Dave
April 24, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Work to commence on 40 development projects||VARANASI: The administration has started the process of restarting work at over 40 development project sites and industrial units in the district. The work had stopped due to the nationwide lockdown. Also, no new case of Covid-19 in the city was reported on Thursday. “As per government guidelines, work allotment to MNREGA labourers has been started in many rural areas in the district. Job for over 17,000 labourers had been created and industrial units out of city limits, including BHEL, have been allowed to operate. The highway projects of National Highway Authority of India, Rajkiya Nirman Nigams Godowlia-Dashaswamedh road construction, CPWDs work on BHU campus have also been started,” district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said on Thursday. The work at the Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) has also been started. In total, over 40 projects on case to case basis had been permitted to begin work by maintaining norms of social distancing. He said that while permitting work at project sites and industrial units, it has been ensured that work is done with captive labourers by conducting their thermal screening on daily basis. The DM said that all other relief operations are continuing while strict action like closing of fish market of Chowkghat and vegetable mandi of Lamahi on the violation of social distancing norms had been initiated. Meanwhile, 19 cases of Covid-19 positive had come to light till Wednesday in Varanasi. Of them, one had died and eight had recovered. Disclosing that no positive case came to light on Thursday, the DM said of the 19 infected persons including five TJ attendees, one had died and eight including two TJs had recovered. The DM said, “A total of 29 TJ attendees had been detected in the district after March 28. Initially, only two had been found Covid-19 positive while three, who were initially negative, also tested positive later. Despite getting cured, two TJ attendees have been still kept in the isolation ward of the DDU district hospital, where three others are also being treated. Other 24 TJ attendees are also being kept in close vigil at the Shivpur quarantine home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/work-to-commence-on-40-dev-projects/articleshow/75332194.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Ingredients in kabasura kudineer can fight Covid-19, say researchers in Chennai||CHENNAI: Even as the government on Thursday decided to distribute kabasura kudineer to boost immunity of people against coronavirus in containment zones in Chennai, researchers have found that some ingredients — chukku, kirambu and nilavembu — in the herbal concoction can fight the virus. Researchers from the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Sanjeev Biomedical Research Centre found through simulations that the phytocompounds or the chemical compounds present in at least eight of the herbs used to make kabasura kudineer could stop the virus from replicating and protect the body from developing Covid-19. The phytocompounds bind with the spike protein or the surface protein of coronavirus and stop it from binding with the human cell membrane receptors, which acts like a bridge, to enter the human cell before it begins to replicate. "If consumed before contracting the virus, the phytocompounds can bind to the epithelial cells of the respiratory system and boost the immune system while also stopping the virus from binding with the human cells and replicating after an individual catches the virus," said M S Ramasamy, director, Sanjeev Biomedical Research Centre, one of the researchers in the study. The spike protein is a major surface protein that coronavirus uses to bind to a receptor, which is another protein that acts like a doorway into a human cell. Once the spike protein binds to the human cell receptor, the viral membrane fuses with the human cell membrane allowing the genome of the virus to enter human cells and begin infection. Ramasamy said they tested the effectiveness of the ingredients used in the formulations of kabasura kudineer and thonthasura kudineer, which are concoctions of 15 and 10 herbs respectively. "In Siddha, we have more than 64 different drugs to treat fever caused by different infections. We chose kabasura kudineer and thonthasura kudineer based on the phytocompounds which are known to act on viruses that affect the respiratory system," Ramasamy said. The researchers found that a total of 10 medicinal herbs or plants used in the formulations of both the drugs were able to bind with different amino acids present in various regions of the spike protein. Among the 10 herbs, at least eight are used in making kabasura kudineer. It includes chukka, kirambu, siruthekku, kostam, adathodai, nilavembu, akkirakaram, mulliver and seendhil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ingredients-in-kabasura-kudineer-can-fight-covid-say-researchers/articleshow/75335027.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Kutchis in Mumbai are desperate to return to native||Rajkot: With the Maximum City turning into a red zone, Kutch people stranded in Mumbai do not see the lockdown ending any time soon there and are desperate to reach their native. In desperation, they have made representation to the various political leaders in Gujarat pleading for some arrangement to be made for their evacuation. Mumbai has been home to a huge population of Kutchis who have been living there for generations. They have also agreed to follow all the guidelines of home quarantine and go through mandatory tests after coming to Kutch. Among a few audio clips which have gone viral in various WhatsApp groups, one person is heard saying that his group has approached MPs, MLAs of Kutch and also sent messages to the CM’s office. Identified as Talaksi Nandu, now a businessman in Mumbai, said, “Mumbai is in red zone and we are tensed. We want to go to our native till the situation becomes normal and want the government to help us by giving us permission only. We don’t want the government to arrange buses and trains, we will come in our own vehicles.” Nagjibhai Rita, president of Vagad Chovisi Mahajan in Mumbai said, “We are getting many phone calls from people who want to go to Kutch. We are making arrangements for those who have problems of not getting food or medicine.” Ravindra Gami, leader of Kacchi Patel community in Mumbai said, “People are scared here and want to return home. They are also calling us to make arrangements, but there is no option available during the lockdown.” Member of Parliament of Kutch, Vinod Chavda said, “There are two aspects to this — people of Kutch are worried that the Mumbaikars will coronavirus with them, and the other is that the stranded people are desperately wanting to return home and even promising to follow all the stringent guidelines. But the government should make some arrangements .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutchis-in-mumbai-are-desperate-to-return-to-native/articleshow/75332187.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Farmers sell over 160 tonnes veggies, fruits through mobile market||MADURAI: The mobile vegetable and fruit markets in Dindigul district have seen sale of nearly 160 tonne of their wares in the last one month. Horticulture deputy director Dindigul K Srinivasan said the initiative by Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency and farmer producer groups has helped farmers to get good returns during lockdown period. The Reddiarchathiram block in the district saw a sale of 46,000 kg vegetables. On Thursday, five tonnes of hill garlic from farmers in Poondi village in Kodaikanal and 3-2 tonnes of hill bananas from Adalur village were procured by the horticulture department. This would help the farmers in a big way in terms of transport as the horticulture department has arranged for the consignments to be transported to Kerala, Srinivasan said. Five tonnes of plums priced at Rs 60 were also transported. Srinivasan said that procuring directly from the farmers helped them make better money as they would have been otherwise paying the middle men a 10% commission of their sales. While fruits from Kodaikanal are brought to the plains and sold, vegetables from the plains such as grapes, sapota, banana and vegetables, like onions and tomatoes are also reaching the hill station in abundance. M Nallusamy, a farmer from Oddanchathiram, said he cultivated 1,500 papaya trees and spent Rs 2 lakh for cultivation and had exported the produce at Rs 21 a kilogram before lockdown. He said he had to plead with a supplier to take two tonnes to avoid them going waste and he was paid just Rs 5 a kg. Now the horticulture department has procured a kilogram for Rs 10. These mobile shops are helping the farmers to some extent, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-sell-over-160t-veggies-fruits-through-mobile-market/articleshow/75335078.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: PDS shop staffer, three others test Covid +ve in Jabalpur||JABALPUR: With four new cases on Thursday, Jabalpur’s corona tally has gone up to 31. Among the new patients is a PDS shop helper — which has raised concerns as he might have come in contact with a large number of people, said an official. This 20-year-old youth is the grandson of Jabalpur’s patient number 22 — who was tested positive after her death a couple of days ago. Officials however said that the shop where he works is in the area which is already a containment zone — which reduces the chances of spread further. District collector Bharat Yadav said, people who have come into the contact with four new patients are being identified and traced, and those who have been traced are being sent into quarantine. “After inviting details of travel history from people, we have now started to verify the data received so far, and if anyone has concealed information, then strict action would be taken,” said Yadav and added, “People are requested to maintain social distancing and adhere to the guidelines issued by the administration. If needed, complete lockdown may be ordered, and stricter measures taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pds-shop-staffer-three-others-test-ve-in-jabalpur-tally-at-31/articleshow/75333863.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Allahabad||Daily wagers on way home from Nashik quarantined||Prayagraj: A group of 44 migrant labourers were caught travelling in a container near Kanwar on Kaushambi -Fatehpur border on Wednesday night. They were later quarantined at a degree college in Sayara in Sirathu tehsil of Kaushambi district. After being detained, the labourers were asked to sit in an open field while observing social distancing, as police recorded their details. The labourers told the police that they had started their journey from Mumbai about five days back and had reached Nashik after covering around 200km on foot. The Maharashtra police had intercepted them at Nashik and put them in the vehicle. The migrant labouers, who belonged to different villages of Kaushambi, finally reached the district on Wednesday night. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “All 44 migrant labourers were quarantined for 14 days.” He added that they had arranged a container at Nashik that brought them back to their home district on Wednesday evening. Meanwhile, Deoria police arrested seven labourers when they were trying to enter the district from Bihar border near Rampur Buzurg police post on Thursday. Inspector Bankata police station Gopal Prasad said that seven persons were walking towards UP-Bihar border when the police tried to stop them. They were arrested and sent to jail when they tried to enter the UP border, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/daily-wagers-on-way-home-from-nashik-quarantined/articleshow/75332314.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 10 aircraft ferried critically ill patients over last 14 days||HYDERABAD: While commercial operations continue to remain suspended, the city has been witnessing regular aircraft movement — from Begumpet and Shamshabsad – with a fleet of planes either ferrying essential commodities or carrying critically ill patients, to and from Hyderabad. According to officials, over the last two weeks, about 8 to 10 aircraft flew in and out of the city with patients requiring immediate medical attention. Some of them were also used by patients to return home, post treatment. “These aircraft were hired for domestic use. They have catered to various destinations such as Kolkata, Delhi, Vadodara among others. On Friday too there is a scheduled movement between Ranchi and Hyderabad,” said an official from the aviation sector, adding that the aircraft are leased from four-five different agencies in the country. Meanwhile, the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) has been handling a regular traffic of cargo aircraft – roughly four to seven every day, carrying over 150 tons of export and import cargo daily. These are operating between Hyderabad and international destinations. Among the carriers catering to this demand is Emirates Airline. “The shipments totalled more than 500 metric tonnes of basic raw materials, pharmaceuticals, pharma APIs, and perishables such as seafood and fruits, helping support local farmers and industries,” said a Emirates spokesperson. Within India, RGIA has handled aircraft movement, with vital cargo supplies, to states such as Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-aircraft-ferried-critically-ill-patients-over-last-14-days/articleshow/75335088.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Supply chain hiccups push up staples prices||Kolkata: Prices of grocery items across retail markets have shot up by 10%-15%, the second hike since the lockdown was enforced a month ago. Though the wholesale prices have cooled off, retail prices refused to move southward. On Retail prices of essentials like pulses, atta, sugar and edible oil has increased due to hitches in supply chain that led to a demand-supply gap. The primary reasons behind the price hike is escalation of costs on two counts: transportation and loading-unloading. “With the number of trucks and vans still way below the demand, we are paying almost one and half times, and sometimes double the usual cost for transportation,” said a Barisha market retailer. Also, labour costs have gone up due to shortage of manpower. The higher outgo has forced kirana stores to increase prices of loose grocery items, right from rice and atta to pulses, edible oil and sugar. Shop owners say that prices have gone up in the wholesale markets because of irregular truck movement and they are just passing it on to customers. Sources in the wholesale markets though alleged that retail prices were not commensurate with the wholesale price. There should be difference because they need to hire goods carriage for the transportation. But that does not mean that the retail price should not be higher by Rs10-20 per kg. The government must act to check profiteering,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary, Posta Merchants’ Association. Some wholesale prices of staples have actually dipped marginally. While shortage of packaging materials has lead to premium branded rice, pulses and sugar disappearing from the racks, many groceries are selling loose commodities at premium prices, said Amiya Moulik, a retired oil marketing company employee at Jadavpur. A large variety of both raw and parboiled rice are not available now. There is a short supply of Banskati, Jeerakati, Chamormoni and Gobindo Bhog varieties along with Basmati rice. In super markets, there has been a price rise of Rs 10 per kg loose rice of the above varieties compared to the pre-lockdown phase. Bags of 10kg are showing a price difference of anything between Rs 100 and Rs 150. In case of atta, MRPs of packed bags of five kilos have gone up by as much as Rs 20 in some cases. Super stores are gradually running out of stock and say that they are unable to procure in varieties and in sufficient quantities and are unable to pass on discounts to customers now. In Howrah, local kirana stores were selling such packaged grocery items at least Rs 10 more than the MRP, because of unavailability and movement restriction. Loose atta has gone up to Rs 42 per kg from Rs 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/supply-chain-hiccups-push-up-staples-prices/articleshow/75333862.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Low demand keeps 26 power units shut in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The decline in power demand resulting from reduced electricity consumption by industrial and commercial establishments has led to temporary shutting down of 26 power generating units in Gujarat, including both state-run and private company operated entities. A single power station has multiple units with different power generation capacity. “At present, the cumulative power generation capacity under Reserve Shutdown (RSD) is estimated to be around 5,500MW,” said sources in the government. Power units are kept under RSD if there is no demand for electricity. As many as 16 units of Gujarat government-owned Wanakbori, Ukai, Gandhinagar and Sikka coal-fired power stations as well as Dhuvaran gas-based power plant are currently closed. One more unit of Bhavnagar Lignite Thermal Power Station is non-operational due to lignite feeding problem, shows data available with the state load dispatch centre (SLDC). Seven units of Wanakbori Thermal Power Station in Kheda district are shut, while three units at Gandhinagar thermal station are not operational at the moment. Two units each at power stations located at Sikka near Jamnagar and Ukai in Tapi districts are also closed. “Nearly 3,122MW capacity of the state-run plants is shut due to reduction in power demand,” added government sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/low-demand-keeps-26-power-units-shut/articleshow/75338445.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||12 quarantined after cop’s father tests +ve||Rajkot: As many as a dozen persons including nine cops in Lathi of Amreli district were placed under home quarantine after they came in contact with Lathi police sub-inspector (PSI) whose father had tested Covid-19 positive. According to the police, while J Y Pathan, when PI with Lathi police station, was performing his duty, he came to know that his father had tested Covid-19 positive in Gandhinagar. “A worried Pathan rushed to Gandhinagar. He came in physical contact with his Covid-19 positive father. After returning to Lathi, there were a dozen persons who came in physical contact with Pathan. The health department of Amreli district administration had to place all of them under quarantine,” said Nirlipt Rai Amreli superintendent of police. Those under quarantine include nine cops, one TRB jawan, one home guard and one photographer. While six persons were admitted to Amreli district quarantine room, the rest were home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/12-quarantined-after-cops-father-tests-ve/articleshow/75332235.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||RMC seeks cops’ help to nab mask offenders||Rajkot: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has sought help from the city police to collect fine from people not wearing mask in public, which is in violation of order passed by the civic body. However, the city police has sought legal opinion for about their powers to collect fine for violation of notification issued by a civic body.The RMC has made it mandatory to wear the mask in public from April 13 to curb the spread of coronavirus in the city. The civic body officials have, till date, collected fine from over 1,000 persons. In a letter, municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal has informed city police commissioner that RMC wants to empower the police to collect fine from people not wearing masks. Agrawal has sought suggestions on police personnel who could be deputed for the job.The RMC has been collecting fine of Rs 1,000 from the first time offenders. For repeated offenders the fine amount was Rs 5, 000.City police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said, “We have received the request from RMC, but I have to check legally if RMC can empower the police to collect the fine on its behalf.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-seeks-cops-help-to-nab-mask-offenders/articleshow/75332271.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||Low demand keeps 26 power units shut in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The decline in power demand resulting from reduced electricity consumption by industrial and commercial establishments has led to temporary shutting down of 26 power generating units in Gujarat, including both state-run and private company operated entities. A single power station has multiple units with different power generation capacity. “At present, the cumulative power generation capacity under Reserve Shutdown (RSD) is estimated to be around 5,500MW,” said sources in the government. Power units are kept under RSD if there is no demand for electricity. As many as 16 units of Gujarat government-owned Wanakbori, Ukai, Gandhinagar and Sikka coal-fired power stations as well as Dhuvaran gas-based power plant are currently closed. One more unit of Bhavnagar Lignite Thermal Power Station is non-operational due to lignite feeding problem, shows data available with the state load dispatch centre (SLDC). Seven units of Wanakbori Thermal Power Station in Kheda district are shut, while three units at Gandhinagar thermal station are not operational at the moment. Two units each at power stations located at Sikka near Jamnagar and Ukai in Tapi districts are also closed. “Nearly 3,122MW capacity of the state-run plants is shut due to reduction in power demand,” added government sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/low-demand-keeps-26-power-units-shut/articleshow/75338444.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur Covid tally now 12||Vadodara: A peon of Chhota Udepur general hospital tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday taking the total number of cases in the district to 12. The 28-year-old patient Chetan Rathwa was discharging his duties in the isolation ward of the general hospital until three days back and had been put under home quarantine. As Rathwa’s report arrived positive, his family too was moved to the government quarantine facility. Rathwa was admitted to the isolation ward. Meanwhile at the isolation ward, sanitization activity was carried out and hydroxychloroquine were given to all hospital staffers working in the isolation ward. The health officials are waiting reports of 24 samples of family members of the affected persons. Two lab technicians have also been deputed at the general hospital to ease process of collecting samples. Meanwhile, third patient of the district – Mohsin Khatri – was discharged from the hospital on Thursday. Khatri, a resident of Bodeli, was applauded by the hospital staff for defeating the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-covid-tally-now-12/articleshow/75330707.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Low demand keeps 26 power units shut in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The decline in power demand resulting from reduced electricity consumption by industrial and commercial establishments has led to temporary shutting down of 26 power generating units in Gujarat, including both state-run and private company operated entities. A single power station has multiple units with different power generation capacity. “At present, the cumulative power generation capacity under Reserve Shutdown (RSD) is estimated to be around 5,500MW,” said sources in the government. Power units are kept under RSD if there is no demand for electricity. As many as 16 units of Gujarat government-owned Wanakbori, Ukai, Gandhinagar and Sikka coal-fired power stations as well as Dhuvaran gas-based power plant are currently closed. One more unit of Bhavnagar Lignite Thermal Power Station is non-operational due to lignite feeding problem, shows data available with the state load dispatch centre (SLDC). Seven units of Wanakbori Thermal Power Station in Kheda district are shut, while three units at Gandhinagar thermal station are not operational at the moment. Two units each at power stations located at Sikka near Jamnagar and Ukai in Tapi districts are also closed. “Nearly 3,122MW capacity of the state-run plants is shut due to reduction in power demand,” added government sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/low-demand-keeps-26-power-units-shut/articleshow/75334059.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Allahabad||Police challan more than 70 in city for not wearing masks||Prayagraj: Following a drive launched against people not using masks or ‘gamchhas’ , police challaned more than 70 persons for violating lockdown norms in the four districts of Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Kaushambi and Pratapgarh.  Over 1300 persons have been challaned in four districts of the range during one month of the lockdown period while 11 persons were arrested for violating lockdown norms in the city in the past 24 hours. SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Police have been maintaining strict watch in all nook and corner of the city for which additional mobile police pickets have been deployed on the border areas“. Strict vigilance is also being maintained at the lone hotspot Khuldabad--Shahganj border area. Police have also arrested 11 persons after lodging 11 FIRs in different parts of the city like Mutthiganj, Sarai Inayat t and Koraon police stations in the past 24 hours against those found violating lockdown rules||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-challan-more-than-70-in-city-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/75332342.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||Low demand keeps 26 power units shut in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The decline in power demand resulting from reduced electricity consumption by industrial and commercial establishments has led to temporary shutting down of 26 power generating units in Gujarat, including both state-run and private company operated entities. A single power station has multiple units with different power generation capacity. “At present, the cumulative power generation capacity under Reserve Shutdown (RSD) is estimated to be around 5,500MW,” said sources in the government. Power units are kept under RSD if there is no demand for electricity. As many as 16 units of Gujarat government-owned Wanakbori, Ukai, Gandhinagar and Sikka coal-fired power stations as well as Dhuvaran gas-based power plant are currently closed. One more unit of Bhavnagar Lignite Thermal Power Station is non-operational due to lignite feeding problem, shows data available with the state load dispatch centre (SLDC). Seven units of Wanakbori Thermal Power Station in Kheda district are shut, while three units at Gandhinagar thermal station are not operational at the moment. Two units each at power stations located at Sikka near Jamnagar and Ukai in Tapi districts are also closed. “Nearly 3,122MW capacity of the state-run plants is shut due to reduction in power demand,” added government sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/low-demand-keeps-26-power-units-shut/articleshow/75338446.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Demand rises, hotels assign more quarantine rooms||KOLKATA: In the past fortnight, over a half a dozen doctors have checked into hotels that have been temporarily turned into paid quarantine centres. With an entire lot of health workers requiring to be quarantined every time a patient or a healthcare worker at a hospital tests positive, an increasing number of doctors are checking into hotels. Consequently, the room count available for quarantine has also shot up from 645 to 2,000 in the past 10 days. Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) had arranged paid quarantine facilities in the city from March 27 following request from health and tourism departments. HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar told TOI that doctors who checked in are happy with the facilities. “Some doctors have also checked out after staying for 14 days and they have referred hotels to others,” Poddar added. According to him, though HRAEI started the facility from Kolkata, it now has paid quarantine facilities all over the state, including in Siliguri, Asansol, Kalimpong, Darjeeling, Midnapore, Durgapur, Purulia and Burdwan. The number of people checked in so far has crossed 200. HRAEI had initially arranged 400 rooms for isolation in Kolkata in March. The initial response was lukewarm, but after the spread of Covid-19, the demand has gained momentum. FHRAI former national president T S Walia said almost 50-60 people have already completed the isolation term in hotel rooms. The charges for rooms range from Rs 2,500-Rs 5,000 per day, depending on hotel categories. The package includes everything, like breakfast, lunch and dinner. Some of the hotels are offering different cuisines for the boarders. Currently, there are 2,500-2,600 rooms in five-star and five-star deluxe categories in the city and more than 2,000 in the three-four-star categories. Besides, there are 15,000 rooms in the non-star category in the city and its surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/demand-rises-hotels-assign-more-quarantine-rooms/articleshow/75333883.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||Stung by dengue, 68-year-old in Bhopal dies of corona co-infection||BHOPAL: A 68-year-old patient with co-infection of dengue and Covid-19 died in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Bhopal here on Thursday, confirmed institute director, Dr Sarman Singh. The patient also had other underlying medical conditions. The rare instance of co-infection led to rapid deterioration in the patient’s health. The case is Bhopal’s eighth Covid-19 related death. It is first death of a hospitalized Covid-19 patient in AIIMS Bhopal. It should be noted that the deceased person family members were not screened nor diagnosed after the patient tested positive earlier this week. He died on the fourth day after being admitted to the hospital. His platelet improved on admission in the hospital but was nebulized since Tuesday, said officials. TOI report on Monday cited patient’s case with experts terming it a first case of co-infection of dengue and Covid-19. CMHO on Monday had assured that health screening of the patients family as per protocol would be undertaken. The case is expected to be cited in the scientific community with regards of vector-borne infections and Covid-19. Two people who were admitted to Hamidia hospital with symptoms of Covid-19 died. Their test reports are awaited. One is from Astha and other from Bhopal. Family members of the person who deceased in Bhopal was a resident of Kumarpura. 8 in one family test positive: Eight people from the same family tested positive in Ashoka Garden area, here on Thursday. Overall, 25 more people were diagnosed with Covid-19, taking the Bhopal tally to 328. Earlier, the landlord was diagnosed with Covid-19 and on Thursday the tenants were tested positive for the infection. Of the eight, four are women. According to the information, these patients were residents of Nawab Colony in Ashoka Garden. Four children under 8 test positive: Out of the 25 who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, four are children. Two are aged 5 and one is 6 and other 8 years old. They are said to be in stable condition.  Milk seller infects parents: Three days ago a milk-selling youth in TT Nagar was diagnosed with Covid-19. The health department team quarantined about 30 people who came in contact with him and samples were collected and sent for investigation. In the report on Thursday, the parents of the milk seller tested positive. Apart from this, the virus has also been confirmed in another close contact. Six more people in the Shahjahanabad police line test positive: The number of police personnel testing positive for Covid-19 is constantly increasing. Six police personnel and their family members were diagnosed with Covid-19, here on Thursday.  Three police personnel and three family members have been admitted to private hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stung-by-dengue-68-yr-old-dies-of-corona-co-infection/articleshow/75333896.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Farmer innovates spray for sanitizing, gives it free||Rajkot: A farmer has converted his pesticide spraying pumps into sanitizer sprayers and started distributing them free among the people of Rajkot. Apart from the pumps, Ashwin Kungasia, a corona hero from Raghunandan Society in Popatpara locality of Rajkot, also distributes sanitizers for free.“I give spraying pumps and sanitizers to those who approach me. I request them to return the pumps after use,” says Kungasia, who has bought 20 pumps. Kungasia also bought 25 barrels of sanitizer. He first sprayed sanitizer in Popatpara, Miyanavas and Raghunandan Society. Each pump cost Kungasia Rs2,900 and a sanitizer barrel Rs400. Kungasia also owns a petrol pump and a farmland. His uncle Dana Kungasia served as chairman of standing committee of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (1996-2000). At the time of drought in 1997, Kungasia provided drinking water through tankers to residents of Popatpara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-innovates-spray-for-sanitizing-gives-it-free/articleshow/75332304.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Agra||Entire thana with 27 cops quarantined after detainee turns out Covid-19 positive||Agra: 27 police personnel posted at Firozabad’s Ramgadh thana were placed under quarantine after a detainee of lockdown violation turned out to be Covid-19 positive. While health department said that two fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district, which took the tally of Firozabad to 64.According to police, six men were arrested on April 14 in Ramgadh area for violating lockdown. Later, after the FIR, their medical examination was conducted and samples were sent to Saifai medical college.On Thursday, one of the accused tested positive. After that Ramgadh SHO Shyam Singh and 26 other policemen posted at the thana were sent to quarantine.In the evening, entire police station was sanitised and a new inspector was given the charge.Prabal Pratap Singh, superintendent of police (city), said, “All the policemen including SHO Ramgadh has been quarantined and their samples are being collected. Contact tracing has also begun.”Sachindra Patel, SP of Firozabad district, said, “Inspector Anoop Kumar Tiwari has been given the charge of the police station until further notice.”Earlier, in neighbouring Agra, over 12 policemen were quarantined after a burglary suspect was tested Covid-19 positive. Fortunately, no policeman was tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/entire-thana-with-27-cops-quarantined-after-detainee-turns-out-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75332297.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Agra||J&K students stranded in Agra appeal to UP CM to send them home for Ramzan||AGRA: Ahead of the holy month of Ramzan, 12 students, including four girls, from Jammu and Kashmir, who are currently stranded in Agra due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, have appealed to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to make the necessary travel arrangements so that they can return home. The students claimed that, of late, they hardly had any money and were suffering for lack of basic necessities. On Wednesday, following a letter from the additional resident commissioner of Jammu and Kashmir Niraj Kumar, the local administration provided them with some ration. On Thursday, Rashaid Ali Mustafa, an M.Phil student, said, “The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Agra are on the rise. Authorities of J&K should come forward and evacuate us. We are hopeful that CM Yogi Adityanath will help us to go home during Ramzan." While Manzoor Wani, M.Sc forestry student, said, “We are in deep mental stress and want to go home. Like, students from UP stranded in Kota, Rajasthan, were recently brought back, we urge chief minister to help us, too." Echoing Rashaid and Manzoor, M.Sc environment student Rozia Tabussam said, “We are in trouble and want the governments of Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh to make the necessary arrangements for us to return home. Our parents are worried about our wellbeing and are not able to live properly." Making an appeal to the Union home ministry on the students' behalf, J&K MP Mir Mohammad Fayaz said, “Several state governments have made arrangements to evacuate the stranded students. But in Jammu and Kashmir there is no one to take cognizance of their condition. I urge the Union Home Minister to help the students of Jammu and Kashmir stuck in different parts of country in returning them home during the holy month of Ramzan." Assuring the students that all their basic requirements will be taken care of, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We are ensuring that the stranded students does not suffer of food shortage and other basic necessities. We cannot allow the students from Jammu and Kashmir to go back home due to lockdown. However, if the government agrees, we will make all the necessary arrangements and send the students home - only after Covid-19 tests." All the students - pursuing post-graduation from Agra university - are currently living on rent in Nasserabad colony of Khandari locality. Five students - Asia Kouser, Rozia Tabussam, Mavish Malik, Farheen Malik and Mohd Shahid Malik - are from Rajouri district. Whereas, Manzoor Vani is from Ganderbal, Aadil Farooq War from Handwara, Aaqib Ahmad Sheikh from Kulgam, Mohd Sideeq Dar and Uzair Lone from Budgam, Nayiem Ahmad Giri from Kishtwar and Rashaid Ali Mushtafa from Poonch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jk-students-stranded-in-agra-appeal-to-cm-to-send-them-home-for-ramzan/articleshow/75332308.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Temple priest’s mother, 10 others test positive in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Two people including the mother of a priest at the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple tested positive for Covid-19 in Madurai. The temple staff and police personnel had to be screened for the disease. With 11 new cases the total number of cases in the southern districts climbed to 359. The two cases in Madurai were the first to be reported in these places. One was a 71-year-old woman, from the crowded West Masi Street near Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple. She has no recent travel history and had been confined to her home. She has two sons; one of them is a priest at the Meenakshi temple. She had complained of breathing difficulties and was treated at a private hospital. As she developed fever, she was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on April 21, and tested positive on Friday. Around 54 police personnel, 40 priests and 50 temple staff were screened for Covid-19 on Thursday on the temple premises as her son was a priest there. Madurai Corporation workers disinfected the temple, which now is part of the containment zone. Meanwhile, R Saminatha Battar from the Athisiva Sivachariyargal Nala Sangam, has clarified that the son of the Covid-19 patient had not travelled abroad as reported in some media channels. The other patient tested positive was a 60-year-old man, a watchman staying in Sellur. He has no fever but had breathing issues for a week. Madurai District Collector Dr T G Vinay has urged the people in the containment zones to stay indoors and to contact 8428425000 for all their needs including medicines, groceries and other requirements. From April 25, only vehicles with passes would be allowed on the roads. If people were found to be travelling without passes, the vehicles would be seized, he has said. The emergency control room numbers 0452-2546160, 9597176061 and toll free number 1077 can be contacted for any details 24 x7, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temple-priests-mother-10-others-testve-in-south-tn/articleshow/75335101.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Steel utensil makers in Sellur see no light at end of tunnel||MADURAI: Stainless steel utensil manufacturing units in Sellur, one of the hubs of the industry in the city, are facing heavy losses due to the lockdown with manufacturers saying their future looks bleak even after the restrictions are lifted. V Pandian, a manufacturer, points out that the labour-intensive industry has been providing employment to many locals and there has been big demand for its products. “We have about 10 to 20 labourers working in a unit and it is their labour that brings out a utensil. These men used to make a minimum of Rs 5,000 a week, which means about 1,000 families in and around Sellur have been living comfortably,” he said adding that now they have been hit hard. There are about 350 shops in Madurai which sell cooking utensils made of ever silver, which supply tin sheets at the rate of Rs 120 per kilogram to the utensil makers. The manufacturing units in turn transform the sheets into utensils by bending and welding to produce utensils which are then polished into shiny vessels seen in every household. Each of these manufacturing units, around 50 of which are in Sellur, is able to make 200 kg of vessels in various sizes a day. Since the lockdown started and affected transport, each unit has about 800 kg to 1,000 kgs of undelivered goods. The shops which supply the steel buy back the utensils for Rs 270 to Rs 300 a kg. This helps the owners of the units to meet the high labour costs. The more skilled the worker the more he earns. Shanmugam, who runs a unit, said the labourers who make good money are not in the habit of saving and have a fairly affluent lifestyle. Many of them also spend a good share of their income on alcohol. The industry had already been hit by demonetization, GST and power cuts when Covid happened. “Even if we are closed, we pay industrial electricity rates which is Rs 5,000 minimum. Then there is shop rent and dues to banks which are asking us to pay up without depending on the moratorium,’’ he said. Raman, a worker, says as they earned well in the units, their women folk mostly stayed at home. “Now we have asked them to look out for jobs like housemaids, but they are reluctant to do so,’’ he said. Now, they have started borrowing about Rs 2,000 from the owners of their units per week promising to repay when work begins, but that remains a question mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/steel-utensil-makers-see-no-light-at-end-of-tunnel/articleshow/75335100.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Virtual tour of zoo to help beat lockdown blues||KOLKATA: Looking for a way to beat the lockdown blues? Take a virtual tour of Alipore zoo sitting at home. The authorities of Alipore Zoological Gardens launched an app on Thursday to help people take virtual tour of the zoo. The app — Kolkata Zoo — was launched at the zoo by forest minister Rajeev Banerjee. The name of the app will later be changed. The visitors, though, will have to wait till the situation normalises to have a glimpse of animals born in the zoos across the state during the lockdown period. Among the new guests is a zebra calf that was born at Alipore zoo. Experts and vets, meanwhile, have warned about environmental impact on the newborns in case of a prolonged lockdown. State zoo authority member secretary, V K Yadav, said the app would have a map, through which one can explore his/her favourite sites inside the zoo. “It will offer panoramic view of the zoo. One can get to check both photos and videos of their favourite animals in their enclosures. There’s also a feature of voiceover — if one is exploring the tiger enclosure through this app, he/she will have the option of choosing the voiceover that will give them an insight about the animal,” Yadav added. The minister, on Thursday, also made announcements about the new arrivals in the zoos and mini-zoos across the state. The biggest attraction among them is the Mishmi takin calf born to one of the two females brought to Darjeeling zoo in January 2019 from Berlin. “Five Mishmi takins, three males and two females, were brought to the state zoo from Tierpark Berlin under an exchange programme,” said Yadav. Also, a zebra calf was born in Alipore zoo, taking the total count of the animal at zoo to nine. Banerjee added that a Himalyan goral calf was also born at the Darjeeling zoo recently. “A leopard cat has also given birth to three kittens in the Hills zoo,” added Banerjee. “The fact that the zoos don’t have any visitor now will not have much impact on the new animals. Because, when an animal is born in a zoo it gets used to the crowd. But, if the lockdown is extended, it will have an impact on them. In that case, they will have to suddenly get accustomed to visitors’ rush when the zoo reopens,” said veterinary DN Banerjee, who was earlier associated with Alipore zoo. According to him, there will also be impact as far as pollution is concerned. “Since vehicle movement is almost suspended, pollution level is low now. When the lockdown is lifted, the new guests will have to adjust themselves with the pollution,” he added. Yadav added that they would make zoo website more dynamic by introducing features like feedback, newsletters and options to upload pictures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virtual-tour-of-zoo-to-help-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75333895.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
April 24, 2020||Allahabad||Fake social media a/cs being used for inflammatory posts||Prayagraj: A large number of social media users booked or arrested for allegedly uploading deragotary/inflammatory posts during the lockdown were found using fake IDs to create accounts on these social networking websites, according to police cybercell data. Most of these posts involved the accused using inflammatory and vulgar remarks to hurt the sentiments a community or circulating fake news. According to Prayagraj police’s cybercrime unit, 20 men have been arrested between March 23 and April 23 for posting inflammatory content on social media using fake IDs in districts comprising Prayagraj range — Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Kaushambi. Their accounts were later blocked. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “A total of 56 cases were registered between March 23 and April 23 against those found using derogatory language against communities and political figures. Over 50% of them were found using fake details to create an account on social networking websites. Police managed to arrested 20 men on the charges of uploading derogatory remarks \ photos \ comments on social media. Of these 15 persons were arrested in Prayagraj, three in Pratapgarh and, one each in Kaushambi and Fatehpur.” The 56 FIRs were lodged under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 295 A (malicious acts intended to outrage religious feeling of any class insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 65 and 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act with different police stations in the range. While highest 43 FIRs were registered in Prayagraj district followed by Pratapgarh (6), Fatehpur (4) and Kaushambi (3). SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “We have lodged 43 cases with different police stations of the city against those who had allegedly uploaded derogatory content or videos about the novel coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown enforced following the pandemic in past one month” He said that 15 persons have been arrested for the crime so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/fake-social-media-a/cs-being-used-for-inflammatory-posts/articleshow/75332375.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 22 held under PASA for attacking frontline workers||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha on Thursday once again warned that the Prevention of Anti-social Activities Act (PASA) is being used against those involved in attacks on frontline warriors, including police, medical staff, government personnel and others. “Till now, 22 persons have been detained under PASA in six cases of attacks against cops and government employees who are fighting against the spread of Covid-19,” Jha said. The DGP reiterated that police, government personnel and medical staff form the society’s first line of defence against Covid-19, and persons attacking them will be forthwith jailed under the provisions of PASA. The DGP gave examples of three recent incidents that took place in Jetpur, Balisna and Bayad respectively, in which the accused have been detained under PASA and sent to jails across the state. “Those who attacked a patrol team in Jetpur on April 17 were detained and sent to Surat Jail,” Jha said. “Inan incident which took place in Balisna of Sabarkantha, a case was registered against three persons in Prantij. They have been detained and sent to Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara jails. On the third incident, Jha said, “In the case in Bayad, where a police team was attacked, the accused were detained under PASA and sent to Surat jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/22-held-under-pasa-for-attacking-frontline-workers/articleshow/75334057.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Sikh community fights hunger amongst stranded labourers, one hot meal at a time||PANAJI: The Betim-based Sikh Gurudwara's initiative ‘Langar pe Hunger’ aimed at feeding the underprivileged during the pandemic has now expanded to serve more than 13 villages in North Goa, besides Panaji. The areas being covered under the service are Socorro, Mapusa, Calangute, Candolim, Canca, Parra, Assonora, Nanoda, Mulgao, Bicholim, Porvorim, Ribandar and Old Goa. Members of the community have also been distributing essentials like rice, wheat, flour, dal, oil, onions, potatoes, ginger and garlic among the needy. They are also collaborating with social workers to distribute masks, sanitisers and other requisites in slum areas besides conducting awareness drives on health, social distancing and community distancing. The langar or community kitchen in the Sikh tradition which provides everyone in need with food irrespective of their caste, class, religion and gender has proven to be life-saving for a lot of people in Goa – especially the labourers and migrants that were stranded in the state following the lockdown. The service had been catering to the lunch and dinner meals of about 200 hungry people on a daily basis at the Gurudwara, as well. Members of the Sikh community in Goa did not discontinue feeding the hungry even on the occasion of Baisakhi last week. Some of the community members served nutritious food to the underprivileged and stranded labourers, instead of staying home with their respective families to observe the festival. During the initial days of the service, permissions to move around was an issue. This, however, has now been resolved. Not only have they been granted the requisite permissions, but the local public are even commending their efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-sikh-community-fights-hunger-amongst-stranded-labourers-one-hot-meal-at-a-time/articleshow/75335102.cms||Nida Sayed
April 24, 2020||Madurai||App to curb unnecessary use of vehicles in Madurai||MADURAI: The city police have launched a mobile application to monitor vehicles being used rampantly without necessity, while curfew restrictions are in place. The app will also help check the authenticity of vehicle pass provided by the district administration by scanning the QR code in the pass sticker. Madurai city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham and deputy commissioner of police (law and order) E Karthick checked the functionality of the software at Goripalayam Junction on Wednesday. The app was developed by Turiyo Sys, a Madurai-based software company. The software was widely used on Thursday by police personnel from traffic and law and order. MSR Rajsanthosh of Turiyo Sys said they developed the app based on request from the city police. It took 10 days to design and develop the app. “It was designed keeping in mind the user friendliness. Vehicle pass can be checked either by typing registration number or scanning QR code. There is no need to even enter vehicle number, as a photograph can do the job. The app can read number from the photo,” he said. A higher police officer said that details of vehicles stopped for inquiry or checking will be entered into the app. When a vehicle number is entered, database will show how many times the particular vehicle was stopped for inquiry and places where it was spotted. It will help the police personnel to find out whether the vehicle owner was habitually involved in wandering unnecessarily. Those who are found wandering unnecessarily will be levied Rs 500 fine under Section 179 of the Motor Vehicle Act. Stringent action will be taken against those, who are found venture out despite warnings, he added. “It has come to light that some people are misusing vehicle pass provided by the district administration for essential services. Now, we can identify such vehicles by scanning the QR code available in the sticker,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/app-to-curb-unnecessary-use-of-vehicles/articleshow/75335105.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||No new cases in Rajkot, two +ve in Botad||Rajkot: There were no fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Rajkot on Thursday. However, in Bhavnagar, a 60-year-old man tested positive in Kanbiwad area on Wednesday night. With this total 34 people have tested positive in Bhavnagar. In Botad too, two people got infected with the virus on Thursday. This includes a 78-year-old man who was in close contact with the first positive patient of the district. Another patient is a 48-year-old woman also a relative of the first Covid-19 patient. In all, 12 persons have tested positive in Botad of which one has died. Currently, 10 persons are under treatment in Botad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-new-cases-in-rajkot-two-ve-in-botad/articleshow/75332325.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||ISP Nashik prints over 22,000 emergency passport certificates||Nashik: The city-based India Security Press (ISP) has printed around 22,700 emergency passport certificates after directions from the external affairs ministry. These certificates are one-time travel documents that can be used by Indian citizens to return to India once the air services resume. This document is used in case of damage or loss of passport. Around 22,000 Indian citizens in various foreign countries are in need of these certificates. An official from the ISP said though the press has been closed since March 24 due to the lockdown, they had to undertake emergency operations to print these certificates. “The external foreign affair ministry had asked for urgent printing of emergency passport certificates. Accordingly, we started immediate operations by calling our employees to work. We printed the certificates and dispatched them,” the official said. “These passport certificates are to be given by the ministry to citizens who are stranded in various countries and their passports have either been damaged or lost. There are 4,500 such Indians in Kuwait alone,” he added. ISP Nashik is one of the nine units of Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Ltd (SMPCIL). The other SPMCIL unit in Nashik is the Currency Note Press (CNP). While CNP Nashik prints currency notes of various denominations — Rs 500, Rs 100, Rs 50, Rs 20 and Rs 10 — the ISP Nashik unit prints revenue stamps, stamp papers, passports and visas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/isp-nashik-prints-over-22000-emergency-passport-certificates/articleshow/75332331.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Covid isolation : KMC scouts for resorts on city outskirts||Kolkata: Having failed to convert two civic properties in the city into Covid-19 quarantine centres, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation has started looking for resorts or community halls on the outskirts for the purpose. The KMC health department had planned to convert a new multi-storied building on CN Roy Road in Topsia and another at Parnasree Palli into quarantine centres. However, due to protests from locals the state health department has asked the civic body to desist from setting up the centres in densely populated areas. Accordingly, the KMC has shifted its focus to properties outside the city limits. According to a KMC official, they are now looking at some resorts lying idle since the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown. Though the civic authorities are yet to zero in on any resort, sources in the KMC said the civic top brass could be eyeing a few resorts off Diamond Harbour Road (around Joka) and in the Rajarhat-New Town area. Apart from this, the KMC officials are also looking for some community halls either owned by the civic body or the state government outside the residential areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-isolation-kmc-scouts-for-resorts-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/75333902.cms||Saikat Ray
April 24, 2020||Goa||Keep distance or lose wares: Bicholim municipal council||BICHOLIM: Bicholim municipal council (BMC) will initiate legal action against fish and the vegetable vendors who are flouting social distancing requirements while interacting with customers, said BMC chief officer Vivek Naik. Villagers alerted the council about the complete disregard for distancing, and demanded that BMC keep a watch at areas where vendors were allotted spaces by the council. “Most of the times I see people crowding near the places where fish and vegetables are being sold, and if this continues then the efforts of the administration to control the pandemic may end up futile. I requested BMC to look into the matter and initiate action,” said Raviraj Chari, a local. Naik told TOI that his team will keep a watch over violations of social distancing by vendors, and their goods will be seized if they defy the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/keep-distance-or-lose-wares-bmc/articleshow/75335103.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Agra||2 new Covid-19 cases surface, one each in Aligarh and Mathura||Agra: Two more persons — one each in Aligarh and Mathura — tested positive for novel coronavirus on Thursday, taking the tally of the two districts to 7 and 8 respectively. Aligarh’s chief development officer Anunay Jha told TOI, “A 43-year-old man from Usmanpara tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. While the patient has been admitted at Harduaganj’s CHC for treatment, three members of his family have been quarantined.” Mathura’s chief medical officer (CMO) Sher Singh confirmed that one more person from Lal Darwaja tested positive. He said, “The patient’s age is 67. He works as an accountant and has been admitted to a private hospital.” Singh added that all 12 members of his family have been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-new-covid-19-cases-surface-one-each-in-aligarh-and-mathura/articleshow/75332324.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man tests positive 35 days after arrival from Sharjah||Thiruvananthapuram: The district authorities are staring at the ‘incubation puzzle’ of coronavirus as a person tested positive for Covid-19, 35 days after he had arrived from Sharjah. The patient who is a resident of Puthenchantha in Varkala arrived on March 20 and he was under home quarantine in his house. He completed the 28-day quarantine period on April 18. Three days ago he showed signs of cough and mild respiratory distress. He sought treatment at Government Hospital, Varkala, and was given medicines. With cough not subsiding, he volunteered for a test and samples were collected at Paripally medical college and on Thursday his results came positive. He was shifted to Medical College Hospital by evening. The health authorities are also mulling going for a retest considering the unusually long time taken by him to show symptoms and test positive. Previously, two other cases R3 and R15 who had arrived from foreign countries took 12 days before their samples were tested positive. All other cases, where the persons arrived from foreign countries, tested positive within 3-6 days of being under quarantine. In all the 16 cases reported so far in the district, only two cases showed serious symptoms while remaining cases had shown either no signs or mild moderate symptoms. The ward-level surveillance team which monitored the patient at Varkala said that he was very co-operative during the quarantine period and never violated the conditions. He has been very concerned about his kids and often expressed willingness for a test. In the first week of April, his three children; all boys developed fever. Initially they were taken to taluk hospital and later to Medical College Hospital. It was concluded that the boys were infected with viral fever and all of them recovered soon. The health team is now monitoring seven members of the family including the members of the wife’s house at Vettoor. They had supplied provisions to the family during the period of home quarantine. After the quarantine period was over, the children and wife had reportedly visited the house at Vettoor. Both local residents and health authorities have been flummoxed by the patient testing positive even after 35 days. The authorities said that he was healthy and did not show any signs of disease during the quarantine period. Even when his kids developed fever, he was stable, health officials said. The delay in onset of symptoms has thrown questions at the period of quarantine that has to be followed. The samples of all the family members have been collected. The district now has 2 active cases. Meanwhile district administration has written to health department to shrink the containment zone within corporation limits. A map of containment zone that has to be observed around Ambalathara where one of the active patients resides was also presented to the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-tests-positive-35-days-after-arrival-from-sharjah/articleshow/75332319.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Agra||Patients at isolation facility claim medical staff absent as woman’s condition worsens, share video||Agra: Two videos shot by patients of Firozabad isolation facility went viral on Thursday, alleging that no medical staff was available even as a woman co-patient’s condition deteriorated. In one video, a patient can be seen purportedly banging the isolation facility’s door, seeking medical aid for the Covid19-infected woman as she is unable to breath properly. The 23-year-old admitted in hospital on Monday hails from Nagla Mirza area of Ramgadh police jurisdiction. In the second video, patients can be seen claiming absence of medical staff even as two nursing assistants are standing in the next room. The videos are said to have been shot on Wednesday night. The district magistrate has ordered legal action against the patients who shot the video, claiming that they were trying to spread a false narrative. Firozabad DM Chandra Vijay Singh said, “The narrative and allegations the patients of isolation facility attempted to spread were found untrue. The medial team was scared because of the patients’ aggressive behavior. We are taking legal action against the patients who shot the video and made it viral and revealing the identity of the woman patient.” “Contrary to their claim, the woman patient told us that medical staff was treating her well,” the DM added. There are 22 Covid-19 patients at the isolation facility. Dr Alok Sharma, chief medical superintendent of Firozabad district hospital said, “It was an unwarranted act that left the medical staff scared. We shifted the woman wot another facility and stabilized her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/patients-at-isolation-facility-claim-medical-staff-absent-as-womans-condition-worsens-share-video/articleshow/75332317.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kanpur||11 more test Covid +ve, cases rise to 94||Kanpur: A 72-year-old man who died on Tuesday following a cardiac arrest became the city’s third Covid-19 fatality with his samples confirming the infection on Thursday, while three patients, all coronavirus infection suspects, died. He was father of the coronavirus patient from Quli Bazar area. The family members of elderly have been quarantined. Meanwhile, 10 more people tested positive for novel coronavirus, taking Kanpur district’s tally to 94. “Total 132 samples were sent to KGMU lab in Lucknow. The report, which arrived on Thursday, confirmed 11 persons as coronavirus positive. The cases include a 72-year-old deceased of Quli Bazar, six residents of Colonelganj area, two Madrassa students, one more local of Quli Bazar, and a head constable posted at Anwarganj police station,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. “Now the active cases tally reaches 84. All 10 people have been shifted to Covid-19 hospital. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has reached 94,” he added. “All necessary preventive measures are been taken in Quli Bazar locality. Now, we are tracing the contacts of the deceased. They will also have to go into mandatory 14-day quarantine,” the CMO said further. Meanwhile, three persons including a 45-year-old man from Chamanganj area admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital as coronavirus suspect, died on Wednesday. Similarly, another suspect, a woman from Binaur area in ICU of LLR died during treatment. Another elderly man, a Covid-19 suspect, died at Ursala Horseman hospital. The test reports of all three are awaited. SP East, Raj Kumar Agarwal told TOI, “We are tracing the persons who had come in contact with the head constable, they all would be quarantined. A massive sanitization exercise was carried out at the Anwarganj police station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/11-more-test-covid-ve-cases-rise-to-94/articleshow/75332564.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 24, 2020||Kanpur||Zoo steps up measures to protect animals from Covid-19||Kanpur: After four tigers and three lions tested positive at the Bronx Zoo in New York, the Kanpur zoo authorities have stepped up measures to protect big cats from the virus.  Kanpur zoo is home to nine tigers, five lions and more than 20 leopards, five jungle cats and one leopard cat. Talking to TOI, senior zoo vet, Dr RK Singh said, “We have already taken all precautions to save animals from coronavirus.” “The vets are spending very little time with tigers, lions and leopards to keep animals safe from any human. We are also keeping watch on the animals with CCTV cameras. Only in case of an emergency, we go close to lions, tigers and leopards.” Also, keepers have been instructed to maintain minimal contact with the felids. It is also being ensured that the keepers wear proper protective gear, he further said. Dr Singh further said that the number of staff visiting the zoo on official duty has also been reduced to minimise the risk of man to man and man to animal contact. He said isolation cages had already been readied to isolate an animal in case it falls prey to any contagious disease. “At the entry gate of the zoo, first the staff is sanitized and then their vehicles are made to take mist bath containing sodium hypochlorite to ensure complete sanitization. We are providing immuno-modulators to all big cats in order to improve their immunity”, the zoo vet further said. Apart from big cats, the zoo vets and staff are also taking extra care of other wild animals such as rhino, hippo, zebra and deer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/zoo-steps-up-measures-to-protect-animals-from-covid-19/articleshow/75332511.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
April 24, 2020||Goa||Calangute police act tough on violators||SALIGAO: Calangute police have arrested 123 persons and attached around 47 vehicles for violation of lockdown guidelines. Speaking to TOI, Calangute PI Nolasco Raposo said the violations included two persons proceeding on a two-wheeler, four persons travelling together in a car and those roaming on the road without valid reason. The lockdown guidelines allow only one person on a two-wheeler at a time and two persons in a four-wheeler, one in the driver’s seat and one in the rear seat. Everyone venturing out of their homes must wear masks. He said that arrests have been made under Sections 188 and 123 of the Indian Penal Code, and the accused will be chargesheeted and produced before the court once the lockdown ends. Raposo also said that the attached vehicles will be released only after paying a fine of Rs 200. “Being a beach belt area, there was apprehension in the minds of the people that there could be many cases of Covid-19 brought by tourists. Fortunately, this was not the case,” said Raposo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-police-act-tough-on-violators/articleshow/75335106.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Can’t do much outside with city shut, better to stay in jail: Court||Ahmedabad: Many prisoners are granted bail temporarily to support their families during the lockdown period in Covid-19 pandemic, but the city sessions court refused temporary bail to a Sabarmati jail inmate, Alpesh Patel (40), saying that there is nothing he can do for his son if released from prison because the city is locked down. Patel has been behind bars since the first week of January on charges of abetting his wife’s suicide. He urged the court for temporary bail so that he could go to his 10-year-old son in the Amraiwadi area and arrange for his uniform and books. He also wanted to secure admission and pay the school fees for his son’s next academic session. This argument did not go down well with the court, which said that the reasons put forth by Patel were not convincing. He cited financial reasons for his release, but he cannot earn anything or work anywhere because of the nationwide lockdown. The court further said that the prisoner had sought bail to secure his son’s admission and to pay school fees, but all educational activities are stalled and all schools are closed due to the lockdown. School uniform and books are not available. There is no school that will accept fees at the moment because of the government’s express instructions in this regard. Looking at the present situation, the court observed, the government is taking care of the poor. It is providing grains, groceries and essential items to the needy on furnishing APL and BPL ration cards. The court reiterated that the prisoner would not be able to do anything, and could not even find work or earn for himself. Moreover, the court also considered gravity of Patel's offence for rejecting his bail, as his case did not fall in the category prescribed by the high-powered committee for release during the Covid-19 pandemic. On the other hand, the Gujarat high court granted bail for seven days to Hemraj Chopatiya, whose wife requested his temporary release so that he could pay the house rent and make financial arrangements for her. Chopatiya has been in jail for last two years for an offence committed in Sola police station jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cant-do-much-outside-with-city-shut-better-to-stay-in-jail-court/articleshow/75334053.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops on toes as many cross borders defying lockdown||Thiruvananthapuram: Inter-district travel and movement across state borders during lockdown are causing headache for district administration and health wing forcing authorities to keep such persons under institutional quarantine. Two pairs of couples, aged 19-20 were brought to a Covid care home at Nalanchira after city police had come across them travelling through the city. The authorities suspect that one of the couples had eloped from their native village in Tamil Nadu and they met with the other couple at Kanyakumari. Following lockdown, they managed to reach the district and now they are being kept at the care home. The health team is puzzled over such unexpected cases being brought to care home as it defeats the very purpose of covid-care centres. The officials said that the swab samples have been taken and sent for testing and they would be kept in the care home for a period of 14 days. “They are healthy, we have kept them at hostels. They told us that they reached here by bus, but we believe they came by walking along the rail track. They might have run away from parents. As of now we have no other option but to keep them here. They are not symptomatic,” said an official. Following the communication with the couples, the officials have learnt that they were staying at Kanyakumari and were employed at a mobile shop. Two of them hail from Balaramapuram and others are natives of Tamil Nadu. A family engaged in making of pickles had boarded a vegetable laden truck and Karamana police intercepted the vehicle and took them to Covid-care home. Another family comprising four members drove by car and managed to cross the border and they have also been sent to institutional quarantine. In the past five days, the authorities also came across a vehicle carrying labourers who were reportedly here for maintenance work in a government institution. It later came to light that four of the labourers who had boarded the vehicle had disembarked on their way and others didn't know about where they had gone. “This kind of movement is raising serious concerns. Despite increased surveillance, people manage to cross borders and reach here. Inter-district movement is also being monitored,” a senior health official said. Two members of a family who tried to cross the border at Kaliyikkavila were also brought under institutional quarantine. In March, the authorities had taken a Madurai native, who had walked along the rail track, to Covid care home . He had completed the quarantine period and was later let off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-on-toes-as-many-cross-borders-defying-lockdown/articleshow/75332354.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Private hospitals await nod to test all patients for Covid-19||KOCHI: With India deciding to adopt a tuberculosis testing device to screen for Covid-19, many private hospitals are in process of acquiring diagnostic kits in the hope that the central government will eventually allow them to test those admitted for other medical procedures. Many are also upgrading their labs to meet Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) standards. ICMR had earlier this month approved the use of US FDA-approved GeneXpert or India’s Truenat beta- CoV test in the private sector for detection of the novel coronavirus. The Kerala government has invited applications from private labs willing to carry out these tests. While ICMR has approved Truenat beta as a confirmatory test for Covid-19, it is not yet licensed for commercial use. Moreover, anyone testing positive on Truenat will have to get it reconfirmed through the available RT-PCR test. “Though, at present, before all in-patient admissions and elective procedures screening is not permitted, ultimately government will have to permit it. Many hospitals are acquiring Truenat machines and Covid cartridges in anticipation that they can start testing and start routine hospital work once government clearance is received," said Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) hospital board of India chairman Dr Jayakrishnan A V. Already a debate is raging among doctors on whether to test all patients for Covid-19. Many hospitals have stopped OP and elective surgery since Covid-19 cases were reported. During the H1N1 outbreak, testing facilities were initially only available with the government, which were then extended to private hospitals. “Covid-19 tests, just like HIV tests, will become a reality. Along with taking the travel and contact history of patients, this is needed for the safety of medical staff and other patients,” said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya. At present, Truenat is available in six to seven private hospitals in Kerala, while over 10 institutes in the private sector have GeneXpert facility. About six government hospitals have GeneXpert facility. Truenat machines cost Rs 6.5-12 lakh, depending on testing capacity. Testing time is less than 45 minutes, when compared to RT-PCR that takes minimum four hours. The state government has fixed Rs 1,500 per test for Truenat, while it’s Rs 4,500 for RT-PCR. It’s free for BPL patients with Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi cards. Private hospital managements and doctors’ association across the country are trying to convince the central government to permit them to conduct these tests before surgery. “The world is struggling with Covid-19 pandemic and it is time that Centre changes its guidelines to include Covid testing of all patients before an elective surgery,” said Dr Girdhar Gyani, director general of the Association of Healthcare Providers India. Meanwhile, Aster MIMS, Kozhikode, has become the first private hospital in Kerala to get ICMR approval to conduct RT-PCR tests. Currently, they are testing all patients in Kannur and Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pvt-hospitals-for-covid-19-testing-before-surgeries/articleshow/75340741.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Private hospitals await nod to test all patients for Covid-19||KOCHI: With India deciding to adopt a tuberculosis testing device to screen for Covid-19, many private hospitals are in process of acquiring diagnostic kits in the hope that the central government will eventually allow them to test those admitted for other medical procedures. Many are also upgrading their labs to meet Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) standards. ICMR had earlier this month approved the use of US FDA-approved GeneXpert or India’s Truenat beta- CoV test in the private sector for detection of the novel coronavirus. The Kerala government has invited applications from private labs willing to carry out these tests. While ICMR has approved Truenat beta as a confirmatory test for Covid-19, it is not yet licensed for commercial use. Moreover, anyone testing positive on Truenat will have to get it reconfirmed through the available RT-PCR test. “Though, at present, before all in-patient admissions and elective procedures screening is not permitted, ultimately government will have to permit it. Many hospitals are acquiring Truenat machines and Covid cartridges in anticipation that they can start testing and start routine hospital work once government clearance is received," said Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) hospital board of India chairman Dr Jayakrishnan A V. Already a debate is raging among doctors on whether to test all patients for Covid-19. Many hospitals have stopped OP and elective surgery since Covid-19 cases were reported. During the H1N1 outbreak, testing facilities were initially only available with the government, which were then extended to private hospitals. “Covid-19 tests, just like HIV tests, will become a reality. Along with taking the travel and contact history of patients, this is needed for the safety of medical staff and other patients,” said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya. At present, Truenat is available in six to seven private hospitals in Kerala, while over 10 institutes in the private sector have GeneXpert facility. About six government hospitals have GeneXpert facility. Truenat machines cost Rs 6.5-12 lakh, depending on testing capacity. Testing time is less than 45 minutes, when compared to RT-PCR that takes minimum four hours. The state government has fixed Rs 1,500 per test for Truenat, while it’s Rs 4,500 for RT-PCR. It’s free for BPL patients with Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi cards. Private hospital managements and doctors’ association across the country are trying to convince the central government to permit them to conduct these tests before surgery. “The world is struggling with Covid-19 pandemic and it is time that Centre changes its guidelines to include Covid testing of all patients before an elective surgery,” said Dr Girdhar Gyani, director general of the Association of Healthcare Providers India. Meanwhile, Aster MIMS, Kozhikode, has become the first private hospital in Kerala to get ICMR approval to conduct RT-PCR tests. Currently, they are testing all patients in Kannur and Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pvt-hospitals-for-covid-19-testing-before-surgeries/articleshow/75330620.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Veterinary staff in Madurai seek safety gear, transport||MADURAI: Employees and officials of veterinary centres in Madurai district have urged the district administration to provide them safety gear and transport facility. Doctors, hospital workers and ministerial staff working in such hospitals are forced to spend from their pockets to purchase marks and gloves from their pockets. There are 137 sub-centres, veterinary clinics and polyclinics in Madurai district. And there are more than 300 doctors, technicians, ministerial staff and administrative staff working in such clinics throughout Madurai district. As per the state government’s directive, one-third of the staff are working in all the centres. A veterinary doctor said that safety equipment like hand gloves and marks are need of the hour. A large number of people visit veterinary clinics and their safety is compromised due to lack of such protective gears, he said. A woman livestock inspector from Madurai city said that they are finding it difficult to commute between their house and workplace due to unavailability of the public transport system. Earlier, her husband used to drop and pick her. But now that police are not allowing pillion riders as it can enable spread of covid-19 it has become difficult now. “Some of the women employees are forced to walk from Simmakkal and Periyar up to Tallakulam clinic. The vehicle available with the department and drivers have been reassigned works to fight covid-19,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/veterinary-staff-seek-safety-gear-transport/articleshow/75335117.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||Junior college admissions to take place as usual||Nashik: Deputy director of education, Nashik, Nitin Upasani has assured that the admission to the first year junior college (FYJC) for students who gave their Secondary School Certificate exam (Class X) will take place, as usual, this year. Upasani, who is also the divisional secretary of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, told TOI that the process of preparing the result of Class X will be smooth once the lockdown is lifted and there will be no confusion about the admissions for FYJC. “The students should take note that as soon as the result of SSC exam (Class X) is declared, the process of admissions will begin. There can be a delay of a week, but not more than that. The students should not panic and wait for the colleges to declare the dates of admissions,” said Upasani. According to Upasani, there are 57 colleges in the city that can “Both online and offline admissions can be undertaken smoothly and there is enough time for the junior colleges to come up with strategies for admissions. They should have provision for social distancing with limited staff in the colleges so that the students can collect the prospectus. We are also planning for providing the prospectus online,” he added. The colleges have to complete 220 instructional days in an academic year. According to Upasani, the colleges may begin online lectures for the first month of the academic year or adjust the winter vacations so that the students. Meanwhile, the teachers are correcting the answer scripts of SSC students and moderators are simultaneously carrying out the work. The board is positive that the lockdown will be lifted on May 3. “The only problem is that the bundles of answer scripts are stuck in transit. They will be retrieved once the lockdown is lifted. We have a vehicle ready to collect all the moderated answer scripts from Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar which we will be send after May 3,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/junior-college-admissions-to-take-place-as-usual/articleshow/75332368.cms||pragya jain
April 24, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur DM warns schools against seeking fees during lockdown||KANPUR: Amid complaints lodged by parents that schools were demanding fees against the state government’s order, Kanpur Nagar DM Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Thursday warned all private schools to comply with the notification. He reminded the schools that the fees due will have to be charged after the end of the lockdown. The DM said if any school management sends notice for fee payment to parents during this period, legal action would be taken against them. “The state government’s order does not imply that the pending fees to be charged after the lockdown was to be enhanced by schools. If any school is found enhancing the fees, it should be prepared to face legal consequences,” Tiwari added. “However, if the parents themselves feel capable of making the fee payment on time, they are welcome to do so,” he said. Tiwari emphasized on the fact that the fees was not waived, only the time period had been extended. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Surendra Maithani wrote to CM Yogi Adityanath and urged him to waive the school fees of April, May and June as due to shutdown state, many parents would be unable to pay the fees. In a telephonic conversation with state education minister Dinesh Sharma, Maithani sought intervention of the state in it and also discussed the matter with Kanpur DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dm-warns-schools-against-seeking-fees-during-lockdown/articleshow/75332612.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||18 people arrested for gambling||Ahmedabad: Even as some parts of Shah-e-Alam area have been put under cluster quarantine, Danilimda police on Wednesday nabbed 10 persons for allegedly gambling in a house in Zaid Duplex near Shafi Manzil. Police booked them for violation of Section 144 CrPC and lockdown rules. “On Wednesday, while we were on patrol, we followed up on a tip-off and raided a house in Zaid Duplex, which also comes under cluster quarantine. We found 10 persons sitting in a circle and gambling without maintaining social distancing. We seized Rs 47,000 from them and booked them under Prevention of Gambling Act and for violation of CrPC Section 144,” said an official of Danilimda police station. Krishnanagar police nabbed eight persons while they were gambling in the compound of a house near Saijpur Tower on Wednesday. “They were sitting and gambling. We seized Rs 30,000 from them,” said a police official. They were released on bail from the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/18-people-arrested-for-gambling/articleshow/75334050.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Activists flag concern over crucial vacant posts in Gujarat's Gir||RAJKOT: Wildlife activists have filed over 50 complaint on the portal of Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) expressing concern about the recent deaths of lions in Gir region. They have also alleged apathy on the part of forest department and the state government over the issue. The activists have also demanded filling up of vacant posts of forest officials in crucial area of lion conservation in Gir region. These activists include organizations like Wild Saurashtra and Sky Forest Youth Club have also made representations to the state government through emails. The activists have requested PMO to direct the forest department get the lions tested for CDV. “It’s learnt that no test samples were sent for virus examination. What is the harm in confirming it by prompt testing at standard lab?” the complaint stated. They also refused to accept the theory that the entire pride of lions was rescued as one of the cubs was ill. They argued that it has been a well accepted practice to capture only the unwell lions or cubs and release them with their pride after treatment. Dharmesh Kargathara, member of Wild Saurashtra said, “Our demand is clear. One, get the lions tested for CDV and second is fill the vacant post of senior officials in wildlife circle. A big division like Gir east where there are significant numbers of lion cannot have an in-charge head. There should be full time head for this division.” According to the complaint, the post of deputy conservator of forest (DFC) in Gir east division has been vacant since last one year. Important Gir ranges like Tulsishyam, Hadala, Dalkhaniya falls under this Gir east division where more then dozen lions have died because of some disease. More than 23 lions had died due to canine distemper virus (CDV) in Dalkhaniya range in 2018. As many as 33 lions were captured, which are yet to be released in the wild. The activists claimed that the post of assistant conservator of forest in Visavadar and Sasan was also vacant, besides the post of deputy conservator of forest (task force), since last one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/activists-flag-concern-over-crucial-vacant-posts-in-gir/articleshow/75332388.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops mark truck entry-exit points at fruit hub near containment zone||KOLKATA: Cops have demarcated separate entry and exit points for trucks entering the Mechhua fruit market in Jorasanko located near the containment zone of Burrabazar. They have also sealed several adjacent lanes for the safety of locals. “From now on, trucks will enter the market from Balmukund Makar Road on Central Avenue. After loading and unloading, they will exit through the MG Road side. All other lanes have been sealed,” said a police officer. TimesViewSome city zones, even at the best of times, are places where hygiene does not exactly thrive. Discretion is all-important. There will have to be a balance between precautions and commerce.From traders, drivers to labourers working in one of India’s biggest fruit markets, everyone will have to wear masks and maintain social distancing as per norms. Parts of Burrabazar, Posta, College Street, Muktaram Babu Street, Jorasanko and Rabindra Sarani have been declared ‘Covid sensitive zones’, for which cops and civic health officials have taken additional precautionary measures. “The market is located in the middle of a containment zone where several Covid-19 positive cases have been detected. But fruits are essential and the market caters to large parts of eastern and north eastern states. That is why, we had to let it operate,” said a senior police officer. Nearly 100 fruits-laden trucks are entering the market daily from different parts of the state. Earlier, there were no designated points to load and unload the fruits from the trucks that would be parked haphazardly with cartons dumped on the carriageway. The auction of fruits would attract thousands of retailers from across south Bengal. Several lanes that lead to the fruit market have also been sealed. Cops from Lalbazar visited the market and held discussions with the local merchants before sealing several streets leading to the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-mark-truck-entry-exit-points-at-fruit-hub-near-containment-zone/articleshow/75333931.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 24, 2020||India||Centre freezes DA for 18 months, eyes saving of Rs 38k crore||NEW DELHI: The finance ministry on Thursday announced an 18-month freeze on additional installments of dearness allowance for central government employees and dearness relief for pensioners, a move that will help it immediately cut spending by over Rs 15,000 crore when the government is pressed for funds due to Covid-19. The Centre is hoping to save Rs 37,530 crore during the current and next financial years and states could gain by over Rs 82,000 crore if they follow suit. The decision notified by the expenditure department includes the rollback of last month’s cabinet decision of a 4% increase in the dearness allowance for 48 lakh employees and the dearness relief for 65 lakh pensioners. The decision notified by the expenditure department included paying arrears for three months since the decision was effective January 1. DA and the dearness relief is part of the government’s policy to offset the impact of inflation on salaries and pension. The payment is made twice a year – January and July – and is linked to the formula prescribed by the 7th Pay Commission. DA is typically linked to retail inflation and has hovered around 4% increase in recent months. Currently, DA and dearness relief are fixed at 17% of the basic pay or pension, which will not be impacted by the government order. Only two future instalments have been put on hold and no arrear will be paid for this period. The decision to hold back fresh DA comes at a time when the government is battling a severe financial crisis with its already stretched fiscal position. Not only is it being forced to step up spending to fight the pandemic, but its revenues have plummeted due to the lockdown as economic activity has come to a halt. The expenditure department has already prioritised spending and capped the amount that ministries can spend during the first three months of the current fiscal year. Besides, lawmakers have taken a pay cut at a time when salaries in the corporate sector are also being pared, while many daily wagers go without work. Several states have already announced measures to reduce salaries and a DA freeze in many states is expected in the coming days. This had created pressure on the bureaucracy to come up with some sort of an adjustment for central government employees and pensioners, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-freezes-da-for-18-months-eyes-saving-of-rs-38k-crore/articleshow/75337242.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||After big cos, startups target Covid-centric products||Ahmedabad: Desperate days call for different measures! Taking cue from large-scale manufacturers who have moved into masks and hand-sanitizers and other products to aid the fight against Covid-19, several startups too have now taken to manufacturing Covid-centric products. Ahmedabad-based Axio Biosolutions has recently rolled out a range of surgical hand-disinfectants and hand-sanitizers from a unit with a manufacturing capacity of 25,000 litres at present. The plan is to expand the capacity to 100,000 litres in the coming days. Leo Mavely, founder & CEO, Axio Biosolutions, said, “For India to tackle the pandemic, we need to address the large-scale shortage of quality hygiene and safety products. Our priority is to meet the urgent demands from hospitals and institutions in India, followed by other regions.” As part of Gujarat University Start-up and Entrepreneurship Council’s breakthrough challenge, Arpit Almal, founder, Anaha Tech has also come up with a solution that can add anti-microbial properties to textile fabrics. “It’s a nano-tech composite material which is used to treat textiles. Currently, we’re in talks with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for treating bedsheets that can be used on hospital beds. The treated textiles will kill germs without washing the textile. It can have multiple applications for aprons of doctors, bedsheets, curtains, table covers and other surfaces,” confirmed Almal, whose firm will be treating some 500 bedsheets for the civic authorities next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-big-cos-startups-target-covid-centric-products/articleshow/75334046.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Link social distancing, hygiene to appraisals, Haryana tells companies in post-lockdown guidelines||GURUGRAM: Poor hygiene practices and not following social distancing norms could affect your annual appraisal, if you happen to work in Gurugram or the Manesar industrial area. Indicating how workplaces will change as the country copes with the coronavirus pandemic, the Haryana government issued a set of guidelines that industries in Delhi’s vicinity are expected to follow, in addition to the protocols issued by the Centre. It has clarified that these are in the nature of advisories but also said it expects companies to stick to them. Among those are linking appraisals to efforts to keep the workplace safe from Covid, doing away with smoking areas altogether and making health insurance cover mandatory. The guidelines also make installation of the Arogya Setu app mandatory for all workers in companies that apply to resume operations. Additional chief secretary and GMDA chief VS Kundu said, “These are advisory guidelines and will help the industries to resume operations. While they are not mandatory, we believe that the industries not adhering to these might be in violation of the norms issued by the Union home ministry.” The advisory has been issued after consultation with industry bodies such as CII and Nasscom. The extensive document listing the advisories, which also mentions the advisable chemical composition of disinfectants sanitising premises, covers multiple areas in detail, including manufacturing shifts, life beyond work and reconfiguration of HR policies. It states that mandatory installation of the Arogya Setu app by all the employees on their mobile phones will ensure that the government can trace their contacts in case they turn Covid-19 positive. In terms of HR policies, besides mandatory health cover for all employees, the advisory mentions that employees’ non-adherence to social distancing and hygiene practices will reflect poorly on their annual appraisals, and repeated indiscipline, substantiated by evidence from other employees, must result in their summary removal from the job, in spite of their capability and performance. Employees, it adds, must check their temperature at home, too, and should not turn up for work in case of fever or any other symptoms of flu. “The organisation must ask employees not to self-medicate, even with OTC drugs such as paracetamol,” said a labour department official. The guidelines say smoking breaks in organisations are social-distancing disruptors and employees must be encouraged to get prescription nicotine patches or gums. The advisory further suggests that window/split ACs with HEPA-based air purifiers and exhaust fans are better than centralised ACs to manage Covid-19 risk. “If an organisation can manage this, it will be a worthwhile investment. For work requiring collaboration that would interfere with social distancing, redesign the production flow, even if it adds to production time substantially,” says the advisory, which was issued by the Gurugram administration. “Since Gurugram has a unique industrial and workforce mix, owning to its adjacency to Delhi and various NCR cities, all organisations should always adopt more stringent measures,” said additional labour commissioner (NCR areas of Haryana) Munish Sharma. Sunjay Kapur, chairman of CII Haryana State Council, told TOI, “These guidelines are based on the inputs from industry and experts. We are hopeful that these guidelines will help the government and industry in calibrated opening up of the businesses in India as well as Haryana and also smoothen the approval process,” But some industrialists say the guidelines have magnified their troubles. “The guidelines that have been issued are way too cumbersome. This is the third time they have been revised. Most industries are choosing not to apply for permissions due to the difficulty in the process,” said Deepak Maini, a city-based industry owner and member of Industrial Development Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/link-social-distancing-hygiene-to-appraisals-haryana-tells-companies-in-post-lockdown-guidelines/articleshow/75307315.cms||Shubhra Pant
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Terrific Thursday: 79 recover in Gujarat, 45 discharged en masse||VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: The sight outside Ebrahim Bavani ITI on Ajwa Road on Thursday reminded many of the Indian cricket team arriving home to a rousing welcome after winning the inaugural T20 world cup in 2007. But the occasion here was no smaller than winning a World Cup. As many as 45 Covid-19 patients, who defeated the deadly novel coronavirus, were discharged at the same time from the Covid care centre (CCC) at the institute; the first such en masse discharge in Gujarat and probably India too, after the outbreak of pandemic. In fact, Gujarat saw the highest single-day recovery on Thursday with as many as 79 positive patients being discharged. The applause that the 23 men and 22 women, all from Nagarwada area, got from health workers and doctors got even more thunderous as they hit the main road in the specially arranged city buses. As the vehicles traversed through the roads, people in the near-by areas came out in their balconies and terraces, clapping for them and some even clanking thaalis to acknowledge their victory over the deadly virus. At some places, the buses were showered with flower petals too. ‘Recovery rate in Gujarat better than national rate’We came here on April 13 and stayed till Thursday. It was heartening to see so many people coming to see us off and showering us with love. They had lined on the roadside and were clapping for us,” said Tausif Pathan who was kept at the facility along with his wife Tanzil. Nagarwada was declared a red zone after at least 150 people had tested positive since the first case surfaced on April 5. However, all will be in home quarantine for 14 days. Senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao, the officer on Special Duty (OSD) for Covid in central Gujarat, said, “They were treated and discharged within 10 days. Discharge of such a large number of Covid-19 patients at the same time and from the same place is probably be the only incident of its kind." Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that in all 258 patients have recovered in the state so far. "Besides 45 in Vadodara, 27 were discharged in Ahmedabad, five in Anand and one each in Chhota Udepur and Kheda," she said. Of the 79, 45 were men and 34 women. Recovery rate in Gujarat patients is 9.8% of total positive cases as against the national rate of 19.3% as on April 22, said Ravi. In Surat, two patients - 69-year-old Zubeda Abdul Satar Patel, a resident of Rander and Sajid Abdul Rehman Ansari, 40, a resident of Rampura - were discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/terrific-thursday-79-recover-in-guj-45-discharged-en-masse/articleshow/75340724.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||Terrific Thursday: 79 recover in Gujarat, 45 discharged en masse||VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: The sight outside Ebrahim Bavani ITI on Ajwa Road on Thursday reminded many of the Indian cricket team arriving home to a rousing welcome after winning the inaugural T20 world cup in 2007. But the occasion here was no smaller than winning a World Cup. As many as 45 Covid-19 patients, who defeated the deadly novel coronavirus, were discharged at the same time from the Covid care centre (CCC) at the institute; the first such en masse discharge in Gujarat and probably India too, after the outbreak of pandemic. In fact, Gujarat saw the highest single-day recovery on Thursday with as many as 79 positive patients being discharged. The applause that the 23 men and 22 women, all from Nagarwada area, got from health workers and doctors got even more thunderous as they hit the main road in the specially arranged city buses. As the vehicles traversed through the roads, people in the near-by areas came out in their balconies and terraces, clapping for them and some even clanking thaalis to acknowledge their victory over the deadly virus. At some places, the buses were showered with flower petals too. ‘Recovery rate in Gujarat better than national rate’We came here on April 13 and stayed till Thursday. It was heartening to see so many people coming to see us off and showering us with love. They had lined on the roadside and were clapping for us,” said Tausif Pathan who was kept at the facility along with his wife Tanzil. Nagarwada was declared a red zone after at least 150 people had tested positive since the first case surfaced on April 5. However, all will be in home quarantine for 14 days. Senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao, the officer on Special Duty (OSD) for Covid in central Gujarat, said, “They were treated and discharged within 10 days. Discharge of such a large number of Covid-19 patients at the same time and from the same place is probably be the only incident of its kind." Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that in all 258 patients have recovered in the state so far. "Besides 45 in Vadodara, 27 were discharged in Ahmedabad, five in Anand and one each in Chhota Udepur and Kheda," she said. Of the 79, 45 were men and 34 women. Recovery rate in Gujarat patients is 9.8% of total positive cases as against the national rate of 19.3% as on April 22, said Ravi. In Surat, two patients - 69-year-old Zubeda Abdul Satar Patel, a resident of Rander and Sajid Abdul Rehman Ansari, 40, a resident of Rampura - were discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/terrific-thursday-79-recover-in-guj-45-discharged-en-masse/articleshow/75330810.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Amid lockdown gloom, hails bring smile on faces||Thiruvananthapuram: People stuck in houses due to lockdown had a pleasant surprise on Thursday in the form of rainfall accompanied by hailstorm. Hails known as ‘alippazham’ in local parlance was witnessed in several places including Vattiyoorkavu, Venganoor, Malayinkeezhu. People celebrated hailstorm by sharing pictures of those tiny ice pieces on social media. According to India Meteorological Department, thunderstorm accompanied by moderate rainfall is likely in several places, including Thiruvananthapuram, in the coming days. The pre-monsoon rainfall is characterized by afternoon thundershowers. IMD has observed 4.3mm rainfall in the city on Thursday. Hailstones are formed by layers of water attaching and freezing in a large cloud, mostly cumulonimbus cloud. Recently, Wayanad and Kasaragod had witnessed hailstorm along with the pre-monsoon rainfall. The summer rainfall is bringing relief to the district which has been experiencing a deficient rainfall this season. The district was experiencing around 50% deficiency until a few weeks ago. Climate researcher Rajeevan Erikulam said rainfall activity is likely to increase in the coming days due to the movement of Madden–Julian oscillation (MJO) to the west Indian ocean. The MJO is characterised as an eastward moving pulse of cloud and rainfall near the equator. “It is likely to move towards Bay of Bengal in the coming days. Under its influence, most south Indian states will experience summer rainfall for the next two weeks,” he said. Rajeevan said the district which was getting deficient rainfall will compensate in the coming days. “Last year, the deficiency of pre-monsoon rainfall in the district was 52% on April 23. This year the deficiency is 29%. The deficiency will be reduced in the coming days,” he said. With monsoon just a month away, the district will not have to be concerned over water shortage in the coming days. Last year, the rainfall was 53% deficient during the pre-monsoon period from March 1 to May 31. This was followed by a 20% excess monsoon rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/amid-lockdown-gloom-hails-bring-smile-on-faces/articleshow/75332439.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Tablighi Jamaat member sneaks into Botad, held||Rajkot: A member of Tablighi Jamaat, who had allegedly sneaked into Botad, by hiding in a fruit truck from Aurangabad in Maharashtra, was arrested on Wednesday.Police said the accused, identified as Imtiyaz Mudia (35), was arrested from his residence in Muslim Society of Botad. “Mudia had gone to Mumbai to attend ‘markaz’, a religious congregation. Then he had gone to Thane and Aurangabad before returning to Botad in a truck carrying fruits. When we received a tip-off about his arrival, we raided his house and arrested him,” said H R Goswami, inspector with Botad special operation group. The police would place Mudia under 14-day quarantine before taking further action against him, said Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tablighi-jamaat-member-sneaks-into-botad-held/articleshow/75332430.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Big push for rapid tests in red zones||Thiruvananthapuram: Apart from Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram, the other ten districts have been placed in orange zone. Kottayam and Idukki, which were earlier declared as green zones, will also come under orange zone now. As many as 10 positive cases were reported on Thursday of which four are from Idukki, two each from Kozhikode and Kottayam and one each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. Test results of eight Covid-19 patients have returned negative. Of these, six are in Kasaragod and one each from Malappuram and Kannur. The total number of positive cases reported in the state is now 447 of which 127 persons are admitted in various hospitals. Of the 23,876 persons under surveillance, 23,439 are in home isolation and 437 are admitted in designated isolation facilities. To date, 21,334 samples have been sent for testing out of which 20,326 were negative. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a press briefing, said it has been decided to extend rapid antibody tests in the four red zone districts to check for community spread. In addition, random tests will be carried out among policemen, health workers, home delivery boys and volunteers who are involved in prevention activities. The state has received sanction from ICMR to begin sample testing facilities at Pariyaram Medical College in Kannur and Kottayam Medical College. The ICMR has asked the state government not to use the kits supplied by them until further orders. The random sampling is being done using rapid antibody PCR kits. The shortage of kits had badly affected the testing of more samples. However now we have kits and more are expected in the coming days. Hence we are hopeful that we can increase the number of tests, said Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/big-push-for-rapid-tests-in-red-zones/articleshow/75330743.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||6,448 units allowed to start ops in Rajkot||Rajkot: After the state government granted partial permission to industries to start operations while observing safety norms, Rajkot district administration allowed 6,448 units to begin operations from April 22. “A total of 6,475 units of 11 talukas of Rajkot district had applied for the permission, of which 1,999 units of GIDC and 4,999 units that fall outside the jurisdiction of the GIDC have been granted the permission,” said Kishor Mori, general manager of Rajkot district industrial centre. From Monday, 1,114 units under GIDC have started functioning, while 333 units in Lodhika GIDC and two units in Padadhari GIDC started functioning from Wednesday, said Mori in a press release. A total of 3,983 units falling out of GIDC limits were granted permission to start functioning from April 21, while those granted permission to start operations from April 22 included Dhoraji (40 units), Gondal (60 units), Jasdan (33), Kotadasangani (740), Lodhika (43), Padadhari (57) and Rajkot taluka (43). Meanshile, the Junagadh Chamber of Commerce and Industry has sought permission from the district collector to allow the industrial units in the district to resume operations. In a representation before the collector, the chamber claimed that as there were tiny units situated at distances from each other, there was little scope of crowd gathering, and thus social distancing could be maintained. Apart from the units, the chamber also sought permission for wiremen, plumbers, agricultural shops, stationary shops, vehicle repairing shops, garment shops and the shops selling tobacco products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/6448-units-allowed-to-start-ops-in-rajkot/articleshow/75332464.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight booked for visiting temples||Ahmedabad: Navrangpura police of the city booked eight persons on Wednesday and Tuesday, for visiting a Hindu temple and a Jain derasar, in two separate cases. In the case filed on Wednesday night, a patrol team received video footage from the police control room showing people gathered outside a Jain derasar in the Navrangpura area. The FIR states that four persons had gathered at the derasar and violated the lockdown notification but police could not identify them. After this, police registered a case for violation of the lockdown notification against four unidentified persons and began an investigation on basis of the footage. On Thursday, a Navranpura police team was flying a drone to see if anyone was violating the lockdown. The cops found four persons gathered at the Somnath Mahadev temple in Mithakhali village at around 11.45am on Thursday. A police team rushed there and arrested four persons for not maintaining social distancing and for coming out of their house during the lockdown. The four accused include two 60-year-old men from Mithakhali village. Police booked them for violation of the notification and under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eight-booked-for-visiting-temples/articleshow/75334044.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government relaxes curbs, allows job scheme, construction in villages||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday issued an order relaxing certain activities, including work under MGNREGA and construction activities in rural areas, in coronavirus non-containment zones across the state. It has also permitted state and central government offices to function for maintaining essential services with attendance not exceeding 33% of the total staff strength. The government also clarified on the list of ‘continuous process industries’ exempted from restrictions, based on requests from industrial bodies. This includes refineries, large steel plants (including TMT bar manufacturers), cement plants, chemical industries, including paint, sugar mills, fertilizers, float glass plants, large foundries, and tyre manufacturing plants and paper mills. Continuous process industries are those where production is continuous or is in a continuous flow as materials that are being processed are continuously in motion undergoing chemical reactions or subject to mechanical or heat treatment. Skeletal staff allowed for maintenance of closed industriesChief secretary K Shanmugham said, “It is ordered to permit skeletal staff for essential maintenance of all closed industrial units to ensure the safety of the machinery/installation.” The order was issued soon after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami held an interactive session via video conference with industrialists on Covid-19 preventive measures and permitting industries to open in a phased manner. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe state government also made amendments to its previous notification, exempting bed-side attendants and caregivers of senior citizens from lockdown restriction, e-commerce companies of food processing units such as bread making units, milk processing plants, flour mills, dal mills located in urban areas, facilities for export/import such as packing houses, inspection and treatment facilities for seeds and horticulture produce, and research establishments dealing with agriculture and horticulture activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-relaxes-curbs-allows-job-scheme-construction-in-villages/articleshow/75335170.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two held for spreading panic, rumours||KOLKATA: Two persons were arrested on charges of spreading Covid-19 panic and falsely targeting a community on television. Gopal Mukherjee (60) was arrested in Kalighat for allegedly sharing a video claiming a Covid-19 case that prompted a disinfection drive in a hotel. The video was circulated on a WhatsApp group. The hotel’s general manager lodged an FIR, stating that the video clip spread “rumours related to Covid-19 on social media”. Mukherjee was produced in a local court on Wednesday. The court later granted him bail after his lawyer explained the circumstances, under which he had forwarded the video. In the other incident, Subhojit Ghosh was nabbed by Phoolbagan police for allegedly targeting a community on television, claiming they were indulging in black marketing in the city. Cops have started a probe and a case under several non-bailable and stringent IPC sections. Meanwhile, cops have arrested around 590 people on Thursday for violating the lockdown. Cops have impounded around 64 vehicles for violation of the lockdown. Extensive drives in markets led to the prosecution of 121 people for not wearing masks. The prosecution came for the first time after the government made it mandatory for all to wear masks in markets. Thirty-six people were also prosecuted for spitting in public places. The police may conduct a special drive at night to clamp down on the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-held-for-spreading-panic-rumours/articleshow/75333982.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Lockdown saves girl from being trafficked||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 pandemic has turned out to be a blessing for a 16-year-old girl from Baruipur. She had been trafficked to Delhi while riots broke out on the north-eastern fringes of the city. She was sold to a man in Rajasthan, but the latter could not come to Delhi and take possession of the girl, thanks to the lockdown. A joint team of Baruipur and Delhi police, with the help of a Delhi-based NGO and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), rescued the girl on April 21. Cops have detained a person in connection with the trafficking. The minor, however, will have to remain in Delhi till the lockdown ends. She was sent for medical examination and kept at a children’s home in Delhi. “We traced the area where she had been confined. But we had no clue about the exact house where she was kept. We decided to check each house, posing as NGO members and distributed ration to people. We were lucky that the trafficker had readily accepted our ration offer,” a member of the rescue team told TOI. According to the police, the minor was confined to a dingy room in Khajuri Khas area after she had been trafficked to Delhi on March 21. As the girl went missing, her father lodged a complaint with the police, alleging that she had been abducted. He received calls from the trafficker who had asked him to withdraw the case and threatened him with dire consequences. “The girl was lured on the pretext of marriage as she had developed a liking for one of the traffickers. Just two days before the announcement of the lockdown, the accused had taken her to Delhi by train with an intention to sell her,” said a member of the NGO, Mission Mukti Foundfation. The unexpected announcement of the lockdown sent the trafficker’s plan haywire. According to the police, there was stringent police checking at the UP border, close to the place where the girl had been kept. That did not give the accused any chance to flee the area with the girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-saves-girl-from-being-trafficked/articleshow/75333965.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 24, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit hotel management trainee in Lucknow admitted to PGI with Covid-19||Pilibhit: A 21-year-old hotel management trainee of a village under Puranpur Kotwali police station in Pilibhit was tested positive for novel coronavirus at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on April 19.The Pilibhit health department was informed by SGPGI on Thursday afternoon. The youth had left home for Lucknow on February 2 and had been living there since then. According to the youth’s father, his son was undergoing training at Hotel Ramada in Lucknow. After leaving his home on February 2, he had gone missing from his hostel and could not be traced despite all efforts by the family.When his mobile phone was also found switched-off, the father had filed a written missing person’s complaint at Banthara police station in Lucknow on February 8. “Since then, we had lost track of him. Then, we heard from a health department team on Thursday evening that my son was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at SGPGI, after he tested positive,” the worried father told TOI.“It is a matter of great concern that my son got infected, but a great relief to know he is alive and has been traced,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-hotel-management-trainee-in-lucknow-admitted-to-pgi-with-covid-19/articleshow/75329153.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Surat||Bharuch industries resume operations||Bharuch/Surat: Industrial operations have resumed in some units in Bharuch district after over three weeks since nationwide lockdown was enforced by the authorities in March to contain the spread of coronavirus. With large number of migrant workers back in their native states, the industries are facing acute manpower shortage. A committee headed by district collector had granted permission to over 1,100 units, including 750 in Ankleshwar & Panoli, 70 in Jhagadia, 150 in Dahej and Vilayat, 23 in Palej, three in Jambusar and three in Valia to resume operations until Tuesday. The permission was given on the condition that these industries will adhere to guidelines of ministry of home affairs to maintain sanitization, provide masks to employees and create required facilities for them. The managements of the units have also been asked to ensure that the employees maintain social distancing norms.Ankleshwar Industries Association president Mahesh Patel told TOI, “Despite permission, several units could not restart their production in the absence of workers and no raw material. It will take a few more days for resumption of full-fledged operations in the industrial units. “All major units in Dahej are facing a manpower crisis. Most of the units will be operational at 30 per cent of their production capacity, said Sunil Bhatt, vice-president, Dahej Industries Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bharuch-industries-resume-operations/articleshow/75332488.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctors develop shield for health workers||Ahmedabad: World over, the doctors and paramedical staff treating Covid-19 patients are getting infected with the virus. Primary reason for the phenomenon is proximity of the anaesthetists and surgeons to the patients’ head and neck area where viral load and presence of aerosols is more. A team of Dr Atul Gaur, consultant anaesthetist at the University Hospitals of Leicester, UK, and Dr Rajeev Lochan Tiwari, HoD, anaesthesia, at Fortis Escorts Hospital, Jaipur, have found a solution to this problem in form of I-CAD (infection control assist device) project. The project is incubated at Nidhi Techno Business Incubator (NIDHI-TBI) at Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G). Dr Gaur, lead inventor for the device, said that the project could be defined as a simple solution for complex problem. “Advanced healthcare systems have concept of negative pressure operation theatres (OTs) for management of airborne contagious diseases. It's different than the normal OTs as its pressure is lower than the adjoining areas, causing the air to flow from higher pressure to lower pressure area, changing the air inside,” he said. This helps in reducing the infectious viral load leaking out to reduce the indoor hospital pollution. “But not all hospitals can afford to get such OTs. Thus, the idea was to create a small enclosure that can function exactly like the negative pressure chamber.” Dr Tiwari worked on the first prototype where he used a bin to create the hood-like device with two suction tubes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-develop-shield-for-health-workers/articleshow/75334042.cms||Parth Shastri
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||First probation home opened in Kollam||Thiruvananthapuram: The social justice department has come up with state’s first probation home in Valakom in Kollam to ensure that eligible convicted prisoners are not denied parole because they do not have a residence, 59 years after the rules in this regard were framed. The probation home, Thanalidam, aims to provide shelter to prisoners who have come out on parole in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, and have no homes or relatives. A 59-year old Kottayam native who was released from Viyyur central prison is the first resident of Thanalidam. Two more persons who have been freed after their imprisonment term have expressed their desire to go to the probation home. At present, the home in Pathanampuram that has been launched in association with Gandhi Bhavan, will accommodate males in the age group of 18 years to 70 years. Till December 31, 2019, parole applications of 338 prisoners of three central prisons and three women’s prisons were declined because they had no place to go. For granting parole for convicts, two reports are usually considered — a police report and a report from the probation officer. If report of the probation officer says that they have either no place to reside or that their family members are not ready to accept the convict, they would be denied parole. According to rule 20 of Kerala probation of offenders’ rules that was finalised and notified in 1960, if the probation officer is of the opinion that the convict seeking parole, early release or has been recommended for probation period does not have a fixed abode or his abode and its circumstances are not suitable for his stay during that period, such persons should be lodged in probation homes. Though the rules are in force, no such homes were set up by the government leading to many convicts being denied paroles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/first-probation-home-opened-in-kollam/articleshow/75332525.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Veterinarians launch telemedicine service||Mangaluru: With social distancing expected to be the new normal due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most doctors have opted for telemedicine to stay connected with their patients. Following this trend, three veterinarians from The Woof Wagon, a veterinary clinic and pet resort, Dr Shantanu Kalambi, Dr Suranjana Ganguly from Bengaluru and Dr Akshay Mohan from Mysuru, have launched ‘Dial-A-Vet’, a telemedicine service, recently. Dr Shantanu Kalambi, who works with Reef Watch Marine Conservation, said that due to the lockdown, very few veterinarians are available. “We launched this service as many people were looking for basic veterinary consultation for their pets. “ With the coronavirus outbreak, several doubts have been raised on the role animals may play in the spread of Covid-19. Experts have been stressing that the risk of animals spreading Covid-19 is low. Even as researchers are still learning about this virus, there have been instances of people abandoning pets. Dr Suranjana Ganguly, from Compassion Unlimited Plus Action (CUPA), said that this is also an attempt to combat unqualified advice being shared on social media platforms. The team is receiving calls from across India, with queries mostly related to stomach, behaviour and vaccination issues of pets. They receive about 30-40 calls per day. While online registration is available, video calls can also be made, if needed. CUPA also runs a televet service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/veterinarians-launch-telemedicine-service/articleshow/75330728.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Man attacked over village polls dies; dozen booked||Rajkot: The man who was attacked on Wednesday by a dozen assailants over a political rivalry in Gadhadaka village of Jamjodhpur taluka in Jamnagar district succumbed to his injuries on Thursday.Police said the accused had attacked Mustaq Safia (24) with knives, bats and iron pipes. “The accused were allegedly led by Ibrahim Safia and Abbas Safia, who had been harbouring a grudge against Mustaq’s brother Yasin Safia, ever since he won the election of Gadhadaka village panchayat and became the village sarpanch,” said A D Vala, sub-inspector with Sheth Vadal police station. Also injured in the incident were Mustaq’s cousin Ayub Safia and village barber Vallabh Valand. “Mustaq and Ayub had gone to pick up Vallabh on their motorcycle, when the accused waylaid them. Spraying insecticide into the eyes of Mustaq, they launched an attack. They also beat up Ayub and Valand. Valand suffered a fracture in his leg, while both the legs of Mustaq were fractured,” said Vala. The victims were first taken to Jamjodhpur Civil Hospital and from there they were shifted to GG Hospital in Jamnagar, where Mustaq succumbed to his injuries.Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-attacked-over-village-polls-dies-dozen-booked/articleshow/75332547.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Three abuse DSP at Chunabhatti checkpoint, held||BHOPAL: Three youths hurled abuses at a DSP and sped away when she tried to stop their car at a police check point in Chunabhatti on Wednesday. The cop alerted TT Nagar police station after which cops nabbed the accused at Riviera Town near MANIT. Police nabbed two youths from car and their two friends who had allegedly came to the spot to meet them. However, one of the accused, who had hurled abuses on the DSP, managed to flee. The cops registered a case against the five accused under relevant sections of the IPC and National Disaster Act and were investigating the case further. One of the accused is son of a builder, while one of the nabbed accused is the son of a woman arrested in the infamous honeytrap case which rocked the state in the recent past. SHO Chunabhatti DSP Richa Jain said, “Police had received a tip off from an informer that some youths were allegedly seen at a farmhouse in Kaliyasot area violating the lockdown. The informer sent photos of the registration plates of the luxury sedan car of the accused.” DSP Jain said that She, along with police team reached the check point near Kolar slum area to stop the accused. Around 6.30pm the accused passed from the spot in their luxury sedan. She signalled them to stop, but the accused further accelerated their car, she, however, managed to get off the road. But the accused sitting on the back seat made obscene gestures and fled. DSP Jain said that she chased the car and at the same time sent message on wireless to other surrounding police stations. Subsequently, the team of TT Nagar police and Chunabhatti police nabbed the accused near Riviera Town Colony. DSP Jain said that when police asked the accused to come out of car they started arguing and hurled abuses on the cops. DSP Jain said that the nabbed accused who were in the car has been identified as Kalash Khare, 20, and Karan Purswani, 21, while their accomplice who managed to run away was identified as Aryan Wasne. Search was on to nab him. The friends of the accused, who had come to meet them, were identified as Shalin Jain and Himansh Bhateja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/three-abuse-dsp-at-chunabhatti-checkpoint-held/articleshow/75333994.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man objects to loud talking, attacked||AHMEDABAD: A 68-year-old man from the Chandkheda area of the city was attacked by three neighbours of his on Thursday morning, because he objected to one of them talking loudly on his mobile phone. In his FIR, Bhikhu Bhalakia, resident of Sudarashannagar, stated that his neighbour Nikunj Pandya was talking loudly on his phone. Nikunj had earlier also taunted Bhalakia. Bhalakia told Nikunj not to talk so loudly or he would film him on his phone. Nikunj then got aggressive with Bhalakia and began abusing him. Nikunj’s brothers Hiren and Pragnesh then joined him in the scuffle with Bhalakia. As Bhalkia began calling for help, his son Jignesh rushed to his aid. But the three men attacked him with stones and left him severely injured. Bhalakia’s daughter, Radheshree, also tried to rescue her father and brother but she was attacked with an iron rod by Pragnesh. Radheshree suffered severe injuries to her face, suffering three broken teeth and an injury on her lips. Other neighbours then rescued the Bhalakia family and the three brothers fled. Bhalakia and his children were taken to a private hospital. Police registered a case of assault, criminal intimidation, abetment and violation of the lockdown notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-objects-to-loud-talking-attacked/articleshow/75334034.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||Private hospital visitors under lens||Dharwad: The health and family welfare department has set up survey teams in Dharwad district to collect information on those who visited private hospitals and clinics with complaints of respiratory problems, cough, cold and fever in the past 10 days. The teams involving ASHA workers and the health department staff will also record if doctors advised advanced treatment to any patient. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Wednesday directed the health department to form the survey teams. “There is need to officially ascertain how many people have visited these hospitals and availed treatment,” she said. Meanwhile, projects under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act have started in eight villages Navalgund and Kalghatagi taluks of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/private-hospital-visitors-under-lens/articleshow/75321434.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Provided PPEs of poor quality, say ambulance pilots in Madurai||MADURAI: Despite turning up for work and putting their lives at risk every day, 108 ambulance workers say they remain poorly protected against Covid-19. From low quality personal protective equipment (PPEs) to lack of proper mechanism for self-isolation and quarantine, emergency technicians (EMTs) and pilots working in ambulances are in fear of unknowingly contracting Covid-19 or worse, acting as carriers to pass it on to their families. “The PPEs we are being given now are of poor quality. The suit is gown-like and does not cover the body fully. The material is very thin and even our sweat usually passes through,” said a 29-year-old ambulance worker from Madurai. He works with one of the five ambulances dedicated exclusively for ferrying Covid-19 patients. Around 40 people work in these ambulances. Unlike other healthcare and sanitary workers at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), ambulance workers do not work on a rotational basis with time for quarantining or testing. “We work in 12-hour shifts. I try to self-isolate by staying in a separate room, shower and properly disinfect myself before entering the house. But not every worker can do that,” added the 29-year-old man. Another worker, a 27-year-old EMT, said the workers were all not trained to use PPEs. “EMTs are trained in medical care, but it is not the same for pilots. Many Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic so we can never know. The drivers simply act based on their limited knowledge when wearing and removing PPEs,” she said. On Thursday, after repeated demands, arrangements were made for them to get tested at GRH. Officials with 108 ambulance said the pilots were at a low risk of getting infected. “Isolation and quarantine on rotational basis is not possible as we don’t have the manpower,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/provided-ppes-of-poor-quality-say-ambulance-pilots/articleshow/75335213.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Deputy CM urges GCC to begin MFP procurement||Visakhapatnam: Deputy chief minister Pamula Pushpa Sreevani has urged Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) authorities to aggressively pursue the procurement and purchase of minor forest produce ( MFP) from tribals. During a meeting with GCC authorities in Vizianagaram on Wednesday, the deputy CM urged them to visit hamlets and villages for purchase and procurement of MFP, especially tamarind. She pointed out that this was necessary as most tribals were unable to trade in major market towns on their own and were forced to sit on large perishable stocks. They were also told to maximise their purchasing capacity this year so that they can fill in for the private procurers who have not bought directly from the tribals. The authorities on their part informed the deputy CM that they already procured 200 metric tonne of tamarind, but lack of cold storage facilities was preventing them from extensive procurement of other MFPs and can only procure as much as can be sold immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/deputy-cm-urges-gcc-to-begin-mfp-procurement/articleshow/75332577.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Madurai||Duo gets bail in case for posting derogatory video against PM Modi||MADURAI: The Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court on Wednesday granted bail to two people who were arrested for posting a video on social media by making derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the lockdown announcement. The S P Pattinam police had registered a case against Seeni, Ibrahim and a woman Nainar Fathima, residents of Pasipattinam in Ramanathapuram district for posting the video. They were booked under sections 504, 505(1)(b) of IPC and under section 67 of Information Technology Act. Seeni and Ibrahim, who were arrested filed an e-bail application before the sessions court which was heard through video-conferencing. The petitioners’ counsel submitted that while the major act was committed by Fathima, Seeni and Ibrahim who instigated her to post the video are in judicial custody since April 11. The public prosecutor submitted that though initially Fathima was absconding, subsequently she appeared at the police station in connection with the case. Hence, the principal district and sessions judge R Shanmugasundaram granted bail to the petitioners by imposing certain conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/duo-gets-bail-in-case-for-posting-derogatory-video-against-pm/articleshow/75335225.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru wildlife warden reaches out to tribals during lockdown||Mysuru: Ensuring the welfare of members of tribal communities is an integral part of wildlife conservation. The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to curb its spread have plunged members of tribal communities in the Old Mysore region in distress. The lockdown has further increased the distance between the haadis or tribal hamlets that they dwell in and the towns and villages that provide them with employment, and essential commodities necessary for survival. Taking note of their difficulties during the lockdown, honorary wildlife warden for Mysuru district Kritika Alanahally has been striving to ensure that those dwelling in the haadis near the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve are supplied with essential commodities. Krithika roped in wildlife volunteers Bhindiya and Madhu, and was provided financial support by Zeus Biotechnology, headed by Abhilash Nair and Sanvi Technologies chief Yashasvi. With their able assistance, Krithika has been supplying essential supplies and medicines to the tribal communities in Nagarahole range in HD Kote taluk. So far, Krithika has distributed essential commodities to residents in Manimoole Haadi, Moole Ooru Haadi and Thimmana Hosahalli Haadi among other hamlets. Each household, she said, was being provided 5kg rice, 1kg dal, refined oil, sugar, biscuits and soap. In addition to meeting their basic requirements, Krithika and the other volunteers have been educating the residents of the tribal hamlets about the need to protect themselves from the pandemic. “It is my responsibility as an honorary wildlife warden to help the tribals in these times, when they do not have any source of income to stock up on essential commodities,” Krithika told TOI. She has been asking the residents to keep themselves clean, and repeatedly wash their hands so as to keep the Covid-19 infection at bay. Expressing her gratitude to friends who had supported her endeavour, Krithika said, “So far, we have distributed food and other essential supplied to more than 100 tribal families. We are working with the forest department, and compiled a list of all tribal hamlets in Mysuru district. We will continue to supply essential goods to them till the lockdown is lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-wildlife-warden-reaches-out-to-tribals-during-lockdown/articleshow/75332294.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||Patients hail ITI’s healing touch||Vadodara: The Ebrahim Bavani ITI was developed as a Covid care centre when the GMERS Hospital at Gotri fell woefully short of expectations and those kept there complained to the authorities. The care centre model was appreciated even by the expert group from central government that visited the city on Monday. The institute not only provided space to keep patients, but also supplemented the meals provided there by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). A team of doctors from the Baroda Muslim Doctors Association (BMDA) also worked with VMC’s health teams to take care of the patients. As many as 97 patients from Nagarwada area were shifted to this facility. Social activist Zuber Gopalani, who had coordinated efforts with the administration to set up the centre, said that the BMDA and his team focused on providing better services and an atmosphere. “VMC provided excellent food that was hygienic and nutritious unlike the situation at GMERS Hospital. We added some items according to the food habits of those kept here, but only after all agreed to it,” he said. Officer on Special Duty (OSD) for Covid-19 management and senior IAS officer Vinod Rao said that the centre was a unique example of of how keeping people together in an area in proximity to their locality adds to the healing process community and administration coming together. “The chances of any conflict were also annulled due to community involvement,” he added. Mohammed Usman, another patient said, “ The centre was very well managed. We got good treatment and thank all involved from our heart.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/patients-hail-itis-healing-touch/articleshow/75330864.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||Hundreds being fed by APJ Abdul Kalam org||Nashik: The city branch of APJ Abdul Kalam foundation is feeding hundreds of poor and needy people in different parts of the city during the lockdown. Rachna Hande, district coordinator of the foundation, said, "A woman in our building used to cook food for others. I approached her and requested to cook food for the needy and poor to which she agreed. On Wednesday, we prepared food for 1,300 people and distributed it in Deolali area." Since the imposition of the lockdown the foundation has fed around 5,000 people. "I took permission from the district administration before carrying out the distribution of food. Our foundation does not have many members, but people come forward with whatever help possible for them. Some give food packets and we collect and distribute them among the poor," said Hande, adding that they have also donated face masks, hand gloves and sanitiser. "The pandemic has brought difficult times for all of us. We only want to ensure that no one is hungry during the lockdown. We assure that we will help out anyone and everyone to the best of our capacity," she said. The foundation has also distributed 1,500 masks to sanitation employees, police personnel of Nirbhaya squad and Deolali police station, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hundreds-being-fed-by-apj-abdul-kalam-org/articleshow/75332610.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||Three die in house fire at Chhota Udepur village||Vadodara: Three members of a family were charred to death after their house caught fire in Chhota Udepur district on Wednesday midnight. According to locals, the fire broke out in the kutcha house of Devji Rathwa, a farmer living at Virpur village in Chhota Udepur, at around 11.30pm due to a short-circuit. Devji and his eldest daughter Sarita had gone to their farm to water their crops and his wife Asha (35), son Sumit (6) and youngest daughter Sonal (4) were asleep in their house. As the entire house got engulfed in flames, villagers tried to douse the fire by sprinkling water. However, dousing the fire using buckets of water took lot of time and the trio succumbed to their injuries. Locals had also called fire brigade from Chhota Udepur town, which is 46 kilometres away. But due to lockdown and closure of roads, the fire engine could reach Virpur only after four hours. Government officials reached the village on Thursday on learning about the incident. Taluka development officer M J Leuva said family members will be paid compensation for the loss of lives and their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-die-in-house-fire-at-chhota-udepur-village/articleshow/75330837.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Leprosy patients given soaps||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad district collectorate has distributed soaps to 130 families of the city, which have about 500 leprosy patients. A majority of these persons depend on begging to earn a living. In collaboration with a soap manufacturing company and NGOs which work among leprosy patients, as many as 130 families were provided soaps. Officials said the families are APL and BPL card holders and are receiving regular ration and food packets. The district collectorate has been identifying vulnerable sections of the society, who are likely to face serious problems during the Covid-19 pandemic. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/leprosy-patients-given-soaps/articleshow/75334030.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||19 fresh Covid cases in Bihar, tally rises to 162||PATNA: Bihar reported 19 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 162. So far, altogether 44 people have recovered and two have died while there are 116 active cases in the state now. Of the 19 new cases on Thursday, six were reported from Sasaram in Rohtas district, five men in the agre group of 18 to 63 and a 36-year-old woman. “All six are from the same family where a woman with travel history from Ranchi's Hindpiri had tested positive,” state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said. The other four positive cases are from Jamalpur in Munger and includes a 30-year-old man and three women in their sixties. They had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive person. The rest are from Kaimur. A day after eight new cases, no positive cases were reported from Patna on Thursday. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said, “Reports of 55 samples of all those who came in contact with an infected person had come negative on Thursday afternoon. We are waiting for the result of 70 more samples.” He requested city residents to follow social distancing norms and not to take the virus lightly. “It is better to remain indoor as the virus is now spreading. Those who have to go to office should follow all precautions,” Ravi added. When asked whether the administration has zeroed in on how this coronavirus infection spread in Khajpura, Ravi said, “All those who have tested positive are related to the same company involved in cash management system of banks. One of their core group members had returned from Delhi. However, he has tested negative, while other four who came in his direct contact have tested positive. It could be that he recovered but that cannot be ascertained.” Ravi further said samples of seven contacts of a migrant worker from Salimur in Bakhtiyarpur who had tested positive on Wednesday has also been sent for test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/19-fresh-covid-cases-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-162/articleshow/75331395.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 24, 2020||Patna||In a first, Bihar to withdraw Rs 7,000 crore from ‘sinking fund’||PATNA: Given the severe economic slowdown and strain on tax collection in Bihar, the state government has for the first time decided to withdraw Rs 7,035 crore from its ‘sinking fund’ for debt repayment, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said on Thursday. The state government has sought the RBI’s permission for making the withdrawal. Constituted for the first time in 2009, the sinking fund was created to meet such a crisis. An amount is set aside every year by the state governments to repay old deb as and when required. However, this requires permission from the RBI. The total amount of the sinking fund available with the state government is Rs 7,683.08 crore, including the principal worth Rs 5,740.12 crore and interest accrued on it to the tune of Rs 1,942.90 crore. Modi said on account of augmenting economic slowdown and now the nationwide lockdown since March 25, the state’s share in the central pool of taxes was reduced by Rs 25,000 crore during the 2019-20 fiscal. Further, the reduction was Rs 10,000 more than what it had been in the 2018-19 fiscal due to slowdown in the economy. “Like other states, the Bihar government had also appealed to the Centre to increase the cap for market borrowings from the existing 3% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) to 4% of the GSDP during the 2020-21 fiscal,” Modi said. However, the Centre did not agree to it, and the cap was kept fixed at 3% under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. Accordingly, the state government would be able to raise only Rs 21,188.42 crore, which would be Rs 6,461 short of the total requirement. It has forced the government to visit the sinking fund for the purpose of repaying the principal amount of the old debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-a-first-bihar-to-withdraw-rs-7k-crore-from-sinking-fund/articleshow/75331465.cms||Abhay Singh
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Nicotine addicts fire in air to scare tobacco dealer||Rajkot: Their craving for nicotine during the lockdown period became so irresistible that they fired in the air to scare a wholesale dealer of tobacco when the latter refused to open his godown in Chotila of Surendranagar district on Wednesday night. Police said the accused, Awesh Gani, Samad Saleem, Azeem Gani and Sageer Ghogha arrived at the godown of Gulam Rasool Loladiya (28) located near Kalpana Talkies. According to the police, the accused first asked Loladiya’s uncle Mehboob Allahrakha to open the godown. Allahrakha said that the godown was owned by Loladiya and that he could not open it without his permission. When the altercation escalated, Loladiya came out of his house. “The accused then asked Loladiya to open the godown, and when he refused, Awesh Gani allegedly fired one round in the air from his revolver. When scared Loladiya open the godown, accused take out tobacco pouches and cigarettes.Meanwhile, Loladiya approached us,” said cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nicotine-addicts-fire-in-air-to-scare-tobacco-dealer/articleshow/75332589.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Mancherial ACP moved out over nod to prayer call plea||Hyderabad: An assistant commissioner of police (ACP) posted with Ramagundam commissionerate has been attached to the state police headquarters for permitting custodians of worship places in Mancherial town to travel to the places of worship during the month of Ramzan. Ramagundam commissioner of police V Satyanarayana said such a permission should not have been issued without the consent of higher officials. “ACP Ch Lakshminarayana signed their application, stating permission is granted. After a preliminary enquiry, a report has been submitted to the DGP and based on the report, the ACP has been attached to the state police headquarters as part of disciplinary action,” Satyanarayana said. On April 20, general secretary of a religious committee in Mancherial district approached Lakshminarayana, ACP, Mancherial town, seeking permission to give prayer calls five times a day and turn on siren in the morning and evening during the month of Ramzan for all the worship places in the town. The applicant also sought permission for the Imams and Moazzans to visit the worship places during the month of Ramzan every day. The ACP signed on the application. Subsequently, the application went viral on social media as people started sharing it on WhatsApp and others also started approaching local police seeking similar permissions. The commissioner clarified that there was no truth in certain allegations being circulated on social media that the ACP took refrigerator from someone and issued a car pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mancherial-acp-moved-out-over-nod-to-prayer-call-plea/articleshow/75335222.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Two deaths take Tamil Nadu toll to 20, Covid-19 positive count hits 1,683||CHENNAI: Two deaths and Covid-19 infection in labour wards of two Chennai hospitals kept health workers on their toes as the state capital also accounted for half the 54 positive cases in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. A 70-year-old man at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and a 56-year-old woman at the Apollo Hospitals in Vanagaram succumbed to the viral infection on Thursday, taking the toll to 20. Two gynaecologists, one a senior citizen, from a private hospital in RA Puram, who tested positive for the viral infection, were admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Thursday along with a staff nurse. At a hospital in Mogappair, a new mother who tested positive after C-section, has been moved to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. The infant is now in the neo-natal unit. The health condition of the doctors, nurse, mother and the baby is stable, doctors said. “The child is given breast milk from our bank. The mother is stable,” said Kilpauk hospital dean Dr Vasanthamani P. Officials from the Greater Chennai Corporation said most patients of the RA Puram doctors have been tracked, quarantined and tested. “The hospital is functioning with skeleton staff with the lockdown. There are few outpatients. Samples of all staff have been taken,” said a senior health department official. ”The data of the patients who came last week is being collected. They also will be tested,” he said. At the Mogappair hospital, 15 employees including four doctors and staff nurses have been quarantined on the premises. Swab samples of all the staff members are being tested, officials said. The patient came to the Mogappair hospital with labour pain on April 21. Doctors took swab samples before taking her into the theatre for a C-section. “Doctors say they had taken abundant precaution and were dressed in PPE during the surgery. Yet, we have asked them to stay in quarantine until test results come. The only other patient in the hospital was discharged on Thursday morning. She had a normal delivery and we are tracking her,” officials said. Among the 54 cases fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, there were more staff nurses from Ramnad and Namakkal and two hospital workers from a Chennai hospital. Health officials said 27 of them were primary sources, who had a travel history and an equal number had contracted the infection from close contacts. They included two participants of the Tablighi Jamaat conference and 15 others who were close contacts of people who had tested positive. Chennai had 27 of the cases, Salem recorded five cases, Namakkal had four, Dindugul and Virudunagar had three each, and Madurai had two cases. Ten other districts recorded one case each, taking the total to 1,683. Meanwhile, 90 patients were discharged, taking the number of people to 752. There were 908 people undergoing treatment at various hospitals across the state. The state tested 6,880 people in the last 24 hours and 59,952 so far, a bulletin from the state health departments said. Medall healthcare, a diagnostic lab in Chennai, was approved for testing on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-deaths-take-state-toll-to-20-covid-19-ve-count-hits-1683/articleshow/75335227.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: When coronavirus ‘misguides’ and punches a hole||JAIPUR: As a guide and tour operator, Vikram Rana never had an emotional attachment to the character which Dev Anand portrayed in one of his best-ever hits ‘Guide’ way back in 1965. “It’s more of a fantasy than reality,” he pointed out.” “There can be a bit of social awkwardness when a new group of strangers show up, and a guide should be able to break that immediately to help people feel comfortable talking to each other. But we never indulge in romance with any guest. We are very professionals,” he said with an impish smile. In the movie, Raju (played by Dev Anand) earned his living by taking tourists to historic sites. So does Rana for the last 26 years until his life suddenly turned topsy-turvy, courtesy Covid-19. During his long career as a professional tour guide and one of the most senior and respected, Rana never come across such kind of situation what he has been facing now. “The scenario is worse than 9/11.There was a considerable drop in foreign tourists’ footfalls that time. Earning was obviously less but the good thing was all the monuments were open,” he stated with a note of concern. He said the Tourist Guides' Federation of India president Sanjay Sharma recently sent a letter to the tourism ministry asking for financial aid for them. “Unfortunately, we got no response yet. Vijay S Rajawat, another tour guide, said the cascading effect of the coronavirus is crippling the Indian tourism and the fear surrounding it will lead to a massive drop in the number of tourists, both foreign and local. He said places like Hawa Mahal, City Palace, Jal Mahal, Nahargarh fort, Amber Palace and Jaigarh fort which used to be brimming with tourists from October to April till Easter, are deserted. “And I presume there would be hardly any tourist visible out there even after the lockdown is lifted. The logic is simple. Until the vaccine is out, you can’t expect any foreign tourists not even locals.”  He also demanded finalcial assistance from the government. Considering the present scenario, another guide Vaseem Ahmed feels how long he would be able to support his family with the savings is a big question. “Throughout the year, we depend on the income we earn during a season. Like others we don’t have regular salary not even medical insurance. We have around 4500 both state and regional levels tour guides here and all of us only rely on tourism.” He believes the battle against the virus will be won one day. But the world that will emerge may look very different from the one we lived in. “The pandemic will force us to reconsider who we are and what we value. Value for humanity or value for prosperity?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/when-virus-misguides-punches-a-hole/articleshow/75335221.cms||Ashish Sen
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Volatile market pushes up prices of chicken and fish in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Prices of fish and chicken in the open markets have skyrocketed in the last few days owning to lack of supply. While high temperatures and humidity have affected the supply of chicken, lack of transportation and the annual fishing ban has reduced the supply of fish in the markets. “I was a bit surprised when I went to the market. A kilogram of chicken is selling for Rs 210 and the price of rohu (silawati) and catla is around Rs 200 per kg. The usual price of rohu is generally between Rs 150 and Rs 180,” said K Srinivas, a resident of PM Palem. A few weeks back the price of chicken meat in the city was around Rs 80 to Rs 90 per kg as people had stopped buying fearing that it may increase the risk of coronavirus (Covid-19) infection. However, demand picked up once people were assured that it was safe to consume the meat. “This is a trend during the summer months every year. Because of the hot and humid weather a lot of chickens die and supply takes a hit. This year, large number of birds had to be culled as there was hardly any demand during the initial days,” said Mastan Ahmed, a chicken meat vendor. Meanwhile, supply of fish has also reduced considerably due to two reasons. First, the mandatory ban on marine fishing since April 15 and second, fishermen could not venture into the sea for more than a fortnight before the ban was imposed because of lockdown restrictions. The city gets its supply of fresh water fish from the Godavari River, Raiwada reservoir and neighbourhood ponds. But most fishermen in the region have been staying put at home since the lockdown began. “The supply has dropped sharply and there’s an issue with transportation as well. Moreover, people are buying whatever stock is available in the market. This has affected the supply and demand chain and led to increased prices,” said M Raju, a fish vendor. On March 31, TOI had reported that traders were apprehensive of a surge in fish price from mid-April. “Vanjaram, one of the most sought-after sea fishes in Andhra Pradesh, is selling for Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 when the normal price is around Rs 600 to Rs 700. Price of prawn has also increased from Rs 300 per kg to Rs 500 per kg,” said Mugi Appanna, another fish vendor. The only solace for non-vegetarians is that eggs are still selling for Rs 5 a piece in the open market. Several stores are even selling seven eggs for Rs 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/volatile-market-pushes-up-prices-of-chicken-and-fish/articleshow/75332636.cms||Arpit Basu
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||World’s smallest cat spotted in R’bore||Jaipur: With lockdown in place due to Covid-19 which has brought tourism to a standstill, many species of wild animals which were rarely spotted in the national parks in Rajasthan have been venturing out fearlessly due to lack of human presence. The rusty spotted cat (Prionailurus Rubiginosus) species listed as ‘near threatened’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) was captured in the camera at Ranthambore National Park (RNP) on Thursday. Rubiginosus is the world’s smallest cat. The rusty spotted cat was seen at Phalodi range in Tapda village. Rubiginosus is found only in India, Nepal and Sri Lanka. It was last spotted in Sariska Tiger Reserve around three years back. This member of the cat family prefers dense vegetation and rocky areas. “We are spotting this cat in same area for few days. It is a rare sighting as this type of cat does not have a very large population. We will continue to monitor it,” said a forest official. The elusive rusty spotted cat found in just three Asian countries and was gifted to Europe decades ago by Sri Lanka. The smallest cat found in the European countries is the direct descendants of the ones that were gifted to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/worlds-smallest-cat-spotted-in-rbore/articleshow/75335249.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana to test if BCG vaccine can boost Covid-19 immunity||ROHTAK: Haryana will start testing the potential cover a 100-year-old vaccine for tuberculosis can provide for Covid-19. The trial, which will involve 175 healthy high-risk people observed over 180 days, begins next week. Read the entire story on TOI+  Is BCG vaccine an immunity booster?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-to-test-if-bcg-vaccine-can-boost-covid-immunity/articleshow/75335460.cms||Ipsita Pati
April 24, 2020||Nashik||Wholesale grocers donate Rs 51K for police||Nashik: The Nashik Wholesale Vyapari Association has donated Rs 51,000 to the Nashik Police Welfare Fund to show solidarity with the police amid this current situation.Prafull Sancheti, the president of the association, said “The city police have carried out the lockdown measures very efficiently in the city. We wanted to show our support to them, hence we collected the money and gave the cheque to the commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil.” Along with the doctors and the cleaning staff who are working selflessly amid the crisis, the police are making sure that people are not on the streets without a valid reason. “The grocers are also exposed to risk of contracting the virus as they are working in their shops from 10am to 4pm. They have to get the grocery from various places to ensure their customers get the necessary items,” said Sancheti. All 350 members of the association have contributed Rs 5,000 for the battle against Covid-19. “Our members are contributing as per their capabilities but all of us are giving a minimum of Rs 5,000. Other than the contribution for the police welfare fund, we will also donate to the chief minister’s relief fund and PM CARES. We conduct video conferences to plan out our course of action. We have also asked the members to wear masks and gloves in their shops,” he said. The association is also concerned about the number of Covid-19 cases among the police personnel. “There are cases in Mumbai, Indore and other parts of the country where some police personnel have contracted the virus,” said Sancheti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wholesale-grocers-donate-rs-51k-for-police/articleshow/75332653.cms||pragya jain
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 relapses in two recovered persons in Guj||Palanpur: In the first cases of Covid-19 relapse in Gujarat, two patients who had recovered and discharged were again found to be infected with the infection in Patan district on Thursday. The relapse was reported in a 60-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man, both from Nedra village near Siddhpur town. They were discharged on April 19 along with five others and all were kept in a government quarantine facility as per protocol. Before being sent home, they were tested again. In the process, the two tested positive late on Wednesday night and were admitted to Dharpur Medical College Hospital in Patan, said DK Parikh, district development officer, Patan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-relapses-in-two-recovered-persons-in-guj/articleshow/75332648.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||65 seafarers on land after over 40 days of offshore suspense||PANAJI: After spending more than 40 days in Indian waters on-board cruise ship Marella Discovery, 65 Goan crew along with other Indian crew were finally signed off and disembarked at Mumbai port on Thursday morning. “We are very happy to be able to get off the cruise. It all happened in time, just before the cruise was supposed to leave India. We were very scared we would be taken to Europe,” one of the seafarers told TOI. On disembarking, their swab samples were taken and the Goans were sent to three hotels. One group was left waiting in the bus till late Thursday evening waiting for the hotel to accept them. Some complained about the poor hotel accommodation. Their test results are expected on Friday evening following which they are likely be issued travel passes and be brought back to Goa. The vessel, which was off the Kochi coast and later Mumbai, was given permission to dock after DG shipping issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for sign-on and sign-off for the seafarers. The SOP was issued on the very evening the captain announced that the cruise vessel would proceed to Europe as the government, local agents and politicians were not providing any assistance. Stating that they are grateful that the government acted before the vessel proceeded to Europe, president of the Goan Seamen Association of India (GSAI) Frank Viegas said, “We urge the government to let the crew from Karnika and Angriya to sign off in the same way. Now that a clear SOP has been issued by DG shipping, we also appeal to the government to bring back the other seafarers stranded in other parts of the world.” A special function, complete with Bhangra music, was organised to bid farewell to the Indians on-board the Marella Discovery on Wednesday night where the captain greeted each one individually. After their initial desperate SOS video to the government, the crew made another video on Wednesday thanking government officials, the Goan Seamen Association of India and their Captain Chris Dodds for their efforts. “We used to get together at night and pray for a safe return home,” the seafarer said. One of the younger seafarers on board said he will reconsider his decision to continue as a seafarer considering the risks with the pandemic. “This has never happened to me before. I’m not sure I want to continue,” he said. “It was a good decision to permit the crew of Marella Discovery to disembark before the vessel left the country. Now it depends on the CM whether to quarantine them in Goa,” Viegas said. Locals from Sakinaka, Andheri made an issue when they found that the seafarers were going to stay in a hotel in the vicinity and police had to intervene, said Dixon Vaz from the GSAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seafarers-step-on-land-after-more-than-40-days-offshore-suspense/articleshow/75335230.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sree Chitra develops RNA extraction kit||T’puram: Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology has developed an innovative extraction kit for isolating RNA from swabs. It can be used to extract high-purity RNA from patient samples not only for LAMP-N testing but also for RT-PCR test. The first step of isolating high-quality and high-concentration of RNA without degradation is critical to the outcome of RT-PCR or LAMP-N test. Barring a few Indian manufactures, a majority of RNA isolation kits are imported and its non-availability often becomes a severe bottleneck for RT-PCR testing in large numbers across the country, said Dr Asha Kishore, director of the institute. “This protocol uses magnetic nanoparticle to capture and concentrate the RNA from the patient sample. This is a significant advantage because even if some viral RNA disintegrates during storage and transportation of the samples, all of it is captured by the magnetic bead-based extraction technology. The magnetic nanoparticle beads bind to the viral RNA and when exposed to a magnetic field gives a highly purified and concentrated level of RNA,” she said. As the yield of PCR or LAMP-N test is dependent on getting adequate quantity of viral RNA, this innovation enhances the chances of identifying positive cases. The institute has filed for a patent for this simpler technology. The technology of ‘Chitra Magna’ has been transferred to Agappe Diagnostics Ltd in Ernakulam. The company has already taken the Chitra GeneLAMP-N technology which uses RT LAMP for identification of the N gene of SARS-CoV-2. It is a potential confirmatory test with accuracy matching RT-PCR in its initial validation at NIV by ICMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sree-chitra-develops-rna-extraction-kit/articleshow/75330824.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Classes go virtual, kids get real on etiquette||CHENNAI: As the world fights a virus, schoolteachers are facing a new battlefront: Virtual classrooms and playful kids. To make the new normal of online classrooms work, schools are coming up with rules and etiquette from being punctual and looking neat and presentable to maintaining silence and order in classrooms at homes. “Online learning is new and it’s a challenge,” said Gowri Sivashankar, principal, Chettinad Hari Shree Vidyalayam. “Though we cannot offer the same level of interaction or pay attention to details as we used to in regular schools, we need to strategize and ensure that we create a school-like environment so that children take these classes seriously,” she said. Since the lockdown, several schools have now moved to digital platforms such as Zoom, Google Meet, Skype and Zoho Meets, with caveats that IDs and passwords of these tools shall not be shared. And since the children are now studying from home, educators have taken strict measures to ensure that they do not slack. “Children have to be ready in their seats 15 minutes before the classes start. We are strict about tardiness and it is monitored with the help of parents,” said Bharati Lakshmi, principal, Vael’s International school. “Just because they are attending classes from home, it doesn’t mean they can come right from the bed. They have to maintain neatness and hygiene at all times,” she said. At the beginning of the class, teachers take attendance and at the end of the session, the list is marked to all parents. Those who do not attend have to send written explanations. Children are also asked to keep a bottle of water next to them and not take frequent bathroom or water breaks since they are given 5- to 10-minute intervals after every class ends. Students are also asked to switch off their microphones or mute them so that teachers can conduct classes with better sound quality. ‘Online classes are making students more responsible’When students have doubts, they can either use ‘raise hand’ feature, if the classes are being held on Zoom, or they could type their questions on the chat-box and wait for teacher’s response. And they need to start with ‘I have a question, followed by the question,’ to enforce discipline. While many schools insist that questions be asked through chat-boxes, at Kids Central International school, students are free to ask through the camera. “There is no hard and fast rule, but we do ask others to mute their mics while a student is talking to avoid interruption and to ensure better quality,” said Sindu Suneel, deputy head of the school. “It took a while for students to adjust to this norm, especially my daughter,” said Sumitra Siva, parent of a Class IX student. “In the beginning, I could see her chatting with others over video and on the chat-box, while the teacher was trying to take lessons. But then we received the etiquette list from the school, and it’s working,” she said. “Since children now attend an hour’s class compared to the 40 minutes in regular classes, it can be heavy on them,” said Gowri. “But the online classes are also making children more responsible. We see that they are turning in assignments on time and becoming independent learners,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/classes-go-virtual-kids-get-real-on-etiquette/articleshow/75335269.cms||Aditi R
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Quarantine mandatory for BSF jawans joining duty after leave||JAISALMER: Those jawans and officers of the paramilitary forces, including BSF, who went on leave prior to the start of lockdown, will now have to stay in quarantine on returning to their place of deployment. Directions have been issued in this regard by the BSF DG and strict action will be taken against those not following it. Senior officers have started making plans for the officers and jawans returning to duty from leave. Process has been initiated for creating quarantine centres at hospitals, battalion headquarters and sector headquarters. The district administration has been asked to provide government schools or government buildings for quarantine centres. After the directions were issued, a large number of officers caught in lockdown reached their deployment spots on Wednesday evening. They will now remain under 14-day quarantine. BSF sources said a battalion in Barmer has over 100 jawans and officers who have gone on leave and when they return they will need a big quarantine centre. A request has been made to the district administration to provide a government school for the purpose. BSF DG S S Deswal on Wednesday issued strict warning stating that violator of the new norms will have to face strict disciplinary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/quarantine-mandatory-for-bsf-jawans-joining-duty-after-leave/articleshow/75335259.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fortified rice to be distributed through PDS in Vizianagaram||Visakhapatnam: In a bid to provide nutritious food to people so that they can build immunity, the district administration has decided to distributed fortified rice in a phased manner. In the first phase, which has already begun, fortified rice is being distributed in Badangi, Bobbili, Ramabhadrapuram and Terlam mandals. As per directives of the health department, one kilogram of fortified rice seeds is mixed with hundred kilograms of rice to raise nutritional levels. This can be of particular help to people suffering from anaemia. According to data from National Family Health Survey, 78.7% children and 75% women in the district are anaemic and suffer from malnutrition. Speaking to TOI, joint collector C Kishore Kumar said, “Our efforts are aimed at boosting immunity levels of the poor and the needy by providing nutritious food.” “Vizianagaram holds the dubious distinction of having the maximum percentage of anaemic women and children in the state. It was declared a violet district and provision of fortified rice through PDS is one of the measures being takes,” the joint collector added. Sources said fortified rice will be supplied across all notified areas most of which fall under the Parvathipuram revenue division. The district administration said that distribution will be carried out across the district till June, but as of now it is limited to Bobbili assembly constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fortified-rice-to-be-distributed-through-pds-in-vizianagaram/articleshow/75332671.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Stay at home, grow veggies & post video||Thiruvananthapuram: To encourage people engaged in vegetable cultivation during lockdown, the district team of Haritha Keralam Mission has announced a hashtag campaign. Conducted in the form of a competition ‘covidne prathirodhikam - noorumeni pachakari’, the campaign aims to promote vegetable cultivation while staying at home during lockdown. Residents of Thiruvananthapuram, who have cultivated vegetables on their house premises or at terrace during lockdown can participate in the contest. “The objective of the vegetable cultivation competition is to promote agriculture activities at home, understand self-sufficiency by not depending on other states for vegetables, cultivation of pesticide-free vegetable and to help people find the pleasure in vegetable cultivation,” said a statement from Haritha Keralam Mission. People engaged in vegetable cultivation or microgreen farming during lockdown may send photographs or a short video and description on the kind of farming method (organic or inorganic) and list the crop varieties or vegetables to tvmharithakeralam@gmail.com on or before May 20. Photographs and videos of each participant will be reviewed by district-based expert committee of the mission and prizes will be awarded at panchayat, block and district level. Haritha Keralam Mission has been conducting similar programmes online for people. Earlier, the mission had conducted Facebook live programmes about water conservation methods, water budgeting at houses, water usage and water resource rejuvenation, waste management at house, personal hygiene and cleanliness, led by experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/stay-at-home-grow-veggies-post-video/articleshow/75332659.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||4 suspects try to flee from Ajmer hosp, brought back||Ajmer: Four Covid-19 suspects tried to flee from JLN Hospital here on Thursday morning. They were later caught by police and admitted back to the hospital. Doctors have taken samples of the suspects, but their reports are awaited.Hospital claimed that the suspects were shouting since Wednesday night to go out and as a precautionatry measure the ward was locked from outside. “But on Thursday morning they broke the door and fled. There was a single nurse on duty and she informed the police,” hospital sources said. One of the suspects alleged that they were asking for water but no one listened to them. Doctors said they were waiting for the reports as one more positive case was reported in Ajmer on Thursday, taking the total count to 104.Doctors said around 3,620 samples have been collected from Mochi Mohalla from where 79 cases were reported a day before. A medical team is continuously carrying out survey in the area. The medical department has appealed that whoever is having fever, cough and cold should come forward for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-suspects-try-to-flee-from-ajmer-hosp-brought-back/articleshow/75335250.cms||---
April 24, 2020||India||Covid ties govt hands, no big defence deal for now||NEW DELHI: No major deal for new weapon systems for the armed forces will be inked in at least the first quarter of the ongoing fiscal in the backdrop of the government grappling with the huge financial impact of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. With the finance ministry putting a stringent cap on expenditure by different ministries in the first quarter of 2020-21 (April-June), the limited funds available with the defence ministry for military modernisation will go towards “committed liabilities” or instalments for defence deals inked earlier. “Some payments to foreign armament companies might even get deferred,” said a source. The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, has told the Army, Navy and IAF to put all capital acquisitions “on hold” till the Covid-19 situation improves, said sources. The MoD and DMA, on being contacted by TOI, refused to comment. A source, however, said, “It can’t be business as usual. With the government’s cash position under heavy stress, the directive is to restrict capital expenditure to 15-20% in the first quarter (instead of 25%) in the MoD. This amount will cover only committed liabilities.” “New deals with foreign companies as well as some payments, especially to the defence PSUs here, will have to be delayed,” he added. The armed forces have been allocated only 65% of what they wanted under capital expenditure for 2020-21 to plug critical operational gaps against the collusive threat from China and Pakistan. The overall capital allocation was just Rs 1,13,734 crore against the projection of Rs 1,75,702 crore, leaving little for new acquisition projects. In terms of committed liabilities, India is paying hefty milestone-linked instalments for deals like the one of Rs 59,000 crore for 36 French Rafale fighter jets inked in September 2016 and the other of Rs 40,000 crore for five squadrons of Russian S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile systems in October 2018. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe arrival of the first four Rafales in India next month has been delayed by “a few weeks” due to the coronavirus pandemic, while the S-400 deliveries will begin only by end-2021 at the earliest. The overall Rs 3.37 lakh crore defence budget (revenue and capital) this year works out to just 1.5% of the projected GDP for 2020-21, which is the lowest such figure since the 1962 war with China. Another Rs 1.33 lakh crore has been allocated separately for defence pensions of retired military and civilian personnel. With the country confronted with an unprecedented crisis due to Covid-19, a cut in the overall defence budget could also well be on the cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-ties-govt-hands-no-big-defence-deal-for-now/articleshow/75337399.cms||Rajat Pandit
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||‘One entry-one exit’ policy at colonies in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In a concerted bid to stall the spread of coronavirus, various residential colonies in the city have come up with a ‘one entry-one exit’ policy. Residents of Vengalrao Nagar, Kalyan Nagar, Siddharth Nagar, Rajiv Nagar Colony, Rahmatnagar, Netaji Nagar and other areas, under the SR Nagar police limits, have adopted this policy for the last few days. Each of these residential colonies are accessible through multiple entry points and the chances of the virus spreading is high as many people use the roads that pass through these colonies. Hence, the local police permitted the residential welfare associations (RWAs) to follow ‘one entry-one exit’ system. “The police department has given official permission to the RWAs to implement this concept strictly till the lockdown is in force,” S Murali Krishna, SR Nagar inspector, told TOI. “Accordingly, the RWAs are putting up wooden barricades and tin-sheds and are making other alternate arrangements to close the entries which lead to their colonies,” said the inspector. “The state government has already earmarked ‘containment zones/areas’ based on the number of Covid-19 cases and has restricted exit and entry of the residents of these zones/areas. But because of the rise in the number of cases, the police department has decided to implement this concept,” added the inspector. “Closing all other entry/exit points is causing inconvenience but there is no other option but to follow the rules and prevent the spread of the virus,” said N Bhaskar Reddy, a resident of Rajiv Nagar Colony. In fact, certain RWAs have even restricted the entry of vegetable and fruits vendors. “We have done this as a precautionary measure. If anybody wants to buy vegetables and fruits, they can visit nearby Rythu Bazars,” said P Suresh, a resident of Vengalrao Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-entry-one-exit-policy-at-colonies/articleshow/75334113.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 24, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer doctor accuses SDM of assaulting her||AJMER: A woman doctor filed a complaint at Civil Lines police station here on Thursday accusing a woman IAS officer posted as SDM, of assaulting and threatening her. The SDM however refuted the charges. Police have initiated investigation before registering an FIR in the matter. Medical officer Jyotsana Ranga has stated in her complaint that recently, at the CMHO office, there was a meeting addressed by SDM Artika Shukla. Shukla allegedly spoke against some resident doctors and others, while Dr Ranga was sitting with her mobile in her hand. Shukla thought that Ranga was shooting a video or recording something on the phone. Shukla then allegedly misbehaved with and manhandled Ranga, trying to snatch her mobile. Dr Ranga has also alleged that when a large number of positive cases emerged in Mochi Mohalla, she asked that all suspects be sent to quarantine centre, but nodal officer SDM Shukla directed to home quarantine them instead. Shukla however maintained that all allegations made against her are baseless. “At a time when 44 corona cases have been reported from Ajmer, it is extremely unfortunate that she is spreading baseless rumours, rather than working for the patients. No one manhandled her and no one said anything to her,” said Shukla. She said that the doctor was misbehaving hence was asked to leave. “As Covid in-charge of Ajmer, I had gone to the CMHO to plan contact tracing of patients and will continue to do so in future,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-doctor-accuses-sdm-of-assaulting-her/articleshow/75335267.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Teacher travels to K’taka, booked||Kozhikode: Police have registered case against a school teacher for travelling all the way from Thiruvananthapuram to Karnataka through the Muthanga checkpost in Wayanad during the Covid-19 lockdown. Kalpetta excise inspector Shajahan, who took the teacher from the Kozhikode-Wayanad distict border to Karnataka through the Muthanga checkpost in his official vehicle, has also been slapped with the case. The incident took place on Tuesday afternoon. Kalpetta DSP will probe the case registered by Vythiri police. Police identified the woman as Kamna Sharma, a teacher at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pattom, in Thiruvananthapuram, who travelled with an interdistrict pass issued by a DSP in Thiruvananthapuram rural district. District collector Adeela Abdulla said that she has sought reports from the police and excise departments about the incident which will be forwarded to the chief secretary. Sharma had reached Kozhikode-Wayanad border from Thiruvananthapuram in another excise circle inspector’s car and shifted to Shajahan’s vehicle to travel to Karnataka, police said. The woman’s husband was waiting at the Karntaka border and they were probably headed for Delhi, police said. Wayanad district police chief R Ilango said that the two were slapped with section 4 and 5 of Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance apart from section 269 of IPC (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 118 (e) of Kerala Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/teacher-travels-to-ktaka-booked/articleshow/75330919.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit jailbird paints messages to raise awareness about pandemic||Pilibhit: A prisoner in Pilibhit district jail is using his painting skills to spread awareness among prisoners about essential safety measures they need to adopt to prevent getting infected by novel coronavirus. So far, Anupam Trivedi has made two paintings on walls of the jail campus that portray how people may checkmate Covid-19 by resorting to minor but lifestyle changes.As per jail authorities, Anupam plans to make some more paintings to depict the importance of social distancing and the moral duty of the masses to honour frontline fighters against the infection, as a token of gratitude to them for their struggle to protect the people from the pandemic.His forthcoming paintings will also spread the message that attacks on lives of the protectors — medical staff and police — is a devilry which cannot be exonerated by God or law, said Anoop Singh, the superintendent of district jail.A commerce graduate, Anupam (41) had been sentenced to imprisonment for 10 years by the district and session’s court on November 10, 2016, after he was lodged in Pilibhit jail on May 18, 2015 on the charge of killing his wife, Sandhya, for dowry.His artistic skill was first recognised by jail authorities when he sketched a picture of Lord Shiva on a jail wall with a pencil. “Following this, we started showing him YouTube videos on painting techniques to embellish his innate skills. These efforts have transformed Anupam into a refined painter,” Anoop Singh said.“The paint, brush and other material is being arranged by jail officials. Deputy jailer Vikram Singh Yadav is the key motivator behind raising the morale of this creative prisoner,” he added.A few days ago, Anupam had also composed a poem to inspire prisoners to collectively fight the virus pandemic, which was appreciated by everyone in jail, Singh further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-jailbird-paints-messages-to-raise-awareness-about-pandemic/articleshow/75327661.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Indore||Help is just a phone call away for families of policemen on duty||Indore: The police family helpline number started in Indore has received over 70 calls in past one month from families needing help in groceries, medicines and other things. The helpline was started by IG Vivek Sharma a month ago in Indore zone and the number was given to the policemen in these districts. IG said that all the SHOs have also been asked to appoint one person to look after the problems faced by the family members of the policemen in their police stations. “I have also asked officials to make sure that none of the hospitals ask for money from policemen admitted for Covid-related treatment. They have to see that they are comfortably given admission. I have made ASP Guruprasad Parashar the nodal officer for the same,” he said adding that if their problems are not resolved within 48 hours, the complainants can directly call me. Every morning SP monitors the complaints received and they try to resolve it within 24 hours. ASP Manisha Pathak Soni said that they had received a call from constable Brij posted in Sanyogitaganj police station. His father, a heart patient, has been staying in a village near Ashta and could not get his medicines following which he approached for help and the medicines were made available to him within a day. Though the helpline is only for the policemen and their families, the officials also helped a blind couple who were left with no grocery items in their house after a complaint by one Vijay Kumar. He said that a female constable posted in Jhabua had also sought help from them and they delivered medicines to her mother who lived in Indore within half an hour. Similarly, constable Girish Pandey, posted in Narsinhpur had called the helpline asking the officials to take care of his daughter who had been living in Indore for studies and was stuck here after the lockdown. The girl was tracked and the helpline constables delivered her all the necessary items. The team comprises coordinator subedar Yogesh Rajput who attends the calls and understands the problems faced by the officials. He has assistance from constables Prakshit and Amit who help him reach the families of the policemen. Not only this, ASP Soni said that they have also collaborated with Dr Dinesh Acharya who provides medical help over phone to these families such that they dont face health related problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/help-is-just-a-phone-call-away-for-families-of-policemen-on-duty/articleshow/75334108.cms||Karishma Kotwal
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Kesar delivery at your doorsteps by next month in Gujarat||RAJKOT: Amid Covid-19 gloom, smack your lips and savour this good news. Mango lovers, who are wondering if they would get to relish the luscious kesar this year, will get the fruits delivered at their doorsteps! While the annual ‘kesar mahotsav’ held in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar is a non-possibility due to Covid-19, the mango growers from Junagadh have got a clearance from the government to start home delivery in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar from May 3. Gir Krushi Vasant Producers Company, a conglomerate of nearly 600 mango farmers, will take orders on WhatsApp and Facebook to deliver the mangoes. However, the deliveries would be done just twice a week. The company already has a list of nearly 5,000 regular customers and more buyers will be added through social media. This farmer cooperative had sold around 70,000 boxes (each of 10 kg) in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar last year. Tushar Dhameliya, director of the company, told TOI: “Ahmedabad collector office will give the permission for home delivery on the condition that all of us follow the coronavirus guidelines strictly.” “The state horticulture department has decided to provide them a farm near Sanathal on Ahmedabad’s outskirts to store the mango stock. “We will be hiring mini pick-up vans for which the collector office has agreed to issue passes,” Dhamelia added. They have also approached Gir-Somnath collector to permit them to load the trucks from mango orchards. Junagadh farmers have been selling mangoes directly in Ahmedabad since 2009 at the kesar mahotsav facilitated by Gujarat Agro Industries Corporation. In Saurashtra, mangoes are cultivated in nearly 20,000 hectares in Junagadh, Amreli and Gir-Somnath districts and the average production every year is around two lakh tonnes. Talala Marketing Yard, the biggest trading centre for kesar, has already started getting mangoes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kesar-delivery-at-your-doorsteps-by-next-month/articleshow/75332717.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 24, 2020||Indore||IMC begins community survey, 78k homes visited||Indore: It’s time for community survey to defeat corona. Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) officials have started door-to-door visits as a measure to tackle coronavirus pandemic. IMC teams have visited more than 77814 households to check people with any history of foreign travel, anyone with covid-19 symptoms and are also tracking those who came in contact of any infected person. The teams are also collecting information on total number of members in the family, anyone with cold cough or fever, and those who are already on medication for comorbid conditions like blood pressure, diabetes, cancer or other health issues. As part of this community survey, around 1064 IMC teams are out on field visiting households of their respective assigned routes covering both housing societies and individual houses. Of 77814 households of areas excluding containment and buffer zones, where IMC teams paid visits till Thursday evening, 129 were found to have had contact of positive Covid patients, and around 3404 residents were found to have mild cold, cough, and fever related symptoms. Officials said that the objective of this survey is to look for any patients with travel history or similar symptoms, create awareness on coronavirus, dispel myths and make people aware about precautions. Additional collector Rohan Saxena said that this is awareness cum surveillance drive in which IMC staff are speaking to house owner or head of the family. “They are informed of the symptoms and asked if any of them has them. If there is any such person, we can move them into isolation. The team also ask about anyone having travel history and ask them to home quarantine for 14 days,” he said, adding that a team of doctors would pay a visit to residents who will be found to be symptomatic. Mayank Shrivastava, one of the team members engaged in survey at Pardeshipura said that they have to follow all precautions while going door-to-door to collect basic information from residents. “There is no issue with cooperation on part of residents as they are also keen to clear their myths and confusion about the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/imc-begins-community-survey-78k-homes-visited/articleshow/75334093.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pass applications flood police commissionerate||Visakhapatnam: The city police have been flooded with nearly 10,000 applications for permits after they announced a week ago that passes would be issued for medical emergency and last rites. So far, police have issued 848 passes for inter-district travel and another 229 applications were submitted to the city police chief RK Meena on Thursday. “Most of the passes issued to people were related to health issues. More than 60% had applied to see their parents or family members who are in hospitals in serious condition and to assist pregnant women,” one of the officers involved in the process said. Around 130 passes were issued on Wednesday. The city police chief has assigned the work to an additional SP rank officer M Rajani in the commissionerate. More than 30 police staff are working around the clock to address these applications. “We are only issuing passes to pregnant ladies to go to their native places, immediate family member to attend last rites. We have received 9,540 applications through emails and WhatsApp till the date. Out of which 5,570 have been verified till the date,” the ADCP (administration) Rajani told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pass-applications-flood-police-commissionerate/articleshow/75332693.cms||Siva G
April 24, 2020||Indore||Honey, sparrows have returned to the backyard||Indore: The lockdown, it seems, is now having a silver lining too… To be precise, a melodious one. With corona pandemic confining humankind to their houses, birds who had abandoned the urban landscape are now retuning to city ‘homes’. And suddenly, backyards and balconies are filled with sweet chirpings especially early in the morning… house sparrows, Asian koel, purple sunbird, Oriental magpie robin, Indian grey hornbill and little swifts are being sighted across the city, residents of at least 10 localities claim so. The singing and chattering of birds is now proving to be a sort of balm on the frayed nerves of the locals who have been battling the virus for over a month now. “With calmness all around, one is noticing more bird activity in urban areas. In my locality where I had been observing birds since a long time, for the first time I saw a pair of spot-breasted fantail also known as white-spotted fantail. This bird is generally seen in dense wooded areas,” birdwatcher Ajay Gadikar said. Birdwatchers in the city say that a significant drop in pollution, fresh air and less human interface have created a welcoming environment for birds. Many species such as Jungle babbler, coppersmith barbet and yellow oriole are new entrants in urban areas, they say. Looking at increasing bird activity, many people have started keeping water and food for them on their terrace and balconies. Anamika Goyal, a resident of Sukhliya said, “I was never an early riser but these birds have made me one. I had never imagined that my morning will start with the chirping of birds so close to me.” The lockdown has made birds and squirrels come out of their hidings and enjoy the clam, clean atmosphere but bird watchers warn that things may not remain same once the lockdown ends. “With life coming to normal post lockdown, we may miss these beautiful bird sightings of birds. Even these winged creatures will have problem to adapt to the noisy environment because they prefer calmness. Noise makes them uncomfortable and this is the reason they avoid urban areas,” birdwatcher Ritesh Khabia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/honey-sparrows-have-returned-to-the-backyard/articleshow/75334110.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Clusters without stores struggle||Hyderabad: People residing in containment zones without shops or supermarkets are struggling to get provisions for their day-to-day survival, said many residents. Civic officials tasked with helping them has also failed to provide them essential commodities at their doorstep in several areas. Mohammed Azeem, former president of Brundhavan Colony (Tolichowki), rued that stocking essentials has become a very difficult task as a departmental store was outside their cluster.  “I give a list of essentials and money to a person, deployed by GHMC, who has permission to step out of the cluster and bring essentials. The irony is the person never brings all the essentials in the list as he may not find them. Life is becoming difficult with each passing day as purchasing essentials has become a challenge,” Azeem added. Another resident from Ramnagar said as shops in their area remained closed, locals were facing problems. “The shops in this locality are closed and cops don’t allow us to step out. We don’t know whom to contact for essentials and how to purchase them,” the resident said. On Thursday, GHMC’s Covid control room received more than 500 calls and many were concerns about not getting essentials, apart from those experiencing coronavirus symptoms and seeking to be quarantined. GHMC, in their defence, said nodal officers were tasked with ensuring essentials to households and were trying to ensure everyone got their goods. “On Thursday, we received 472 calls from 14 containment zones, including Qutubullapur, Chandanagar and Kukatpally, seeking essentials and the civic body will provide them. Exclusive nodal officers, appointed for each cluster, are ensuring essentials reach households,” GHMC said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clusters-without-stores-struggle/articleshow/75334091.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man, 10-month-old daughter killed in Bundi accident||KOTA: A 26-year-old man and his 10-month-old daughter were killed while his wife sustained head injury after a truck hit their motorbike near Hastinapur village on Kota-Lalsot Mega Highway under Keshoraipatan police station of Bundi district on Thursday morning. The mishap reportedly occurred due to thick smog drifting over the road from a field where a massive fire had broken out in the standing crop. The deceased were identified as Gopal Meenam, 26, a resident of Choteda village and his daughter Divya. His wife Rinku Meena is undergoing treatment at a hospital. The family was riding on a motorbike to Keshoraipatan around 10.30am on Thursday when a truck from the opposite direction collided head on against the motorbike killing Gopal and his daughter on the spot, SHO Keshoraipatan Lakhanlal Meena said. The bodies were handed over to the family members after postmortem, the SHO added. The truck driver fled from the spot, however, the truck was seized and a case was lodged against him, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-10-mth-old-daughter-killed-in-bundi-accident/articleshow/75335270.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||Basilica roof repairs to be completed in two weeks: ASI Goa||Panaji: Repairs of the Basilica of Bom Jesus roof will be completed within two weeks, ASI (Goa circle) superintending archaeologist K Amarnath Ramakrishna said on Thursday. Disciplinary action will be taken against the Aurangabad-based contractor who abandoned the work and left the roof of the world heritage monument open to the elements, Ramakrishna told TOI. “The contractor is presently in Hospet, but due to the lockdown he is unable to do anything. There was sudden rainfall on Monday and due to that there is some problem. We have seen the damage and we will attend to it immediately,” he said. Although, the ASI officer said that repairs would be completed in two weeks, he was unable to commit to a date when the work would begin. “We are processing the papers. Most probably we will begin work next week,” he told TOI. Denying there was any delay on the part of ASI to repair the roof, Ramakrishna said the “actual tender process had taken a long time. The contract was awarded to the contractor from Aurangabad approved by the director general”. Work on the roof began before the lockdown in March, he said. Ports minister Michael Lobo inspected the damage to the monument which houses the relics of St Francis Xavier on Thursday after basilica rector Fr Patricio Fernandes on Wednesday appealed to the chief minister, Goa governor, Archbishop of Goa, director general of ASI and other authorities for urgent intervention in repairing the monument before the monsoon. The rector had stated that the walls of the basilica were crumbling, that termites were attacking the altars and statues and the unseasonal rain last week wet its walls, wooden beams and floor. TOI had first reported on October 13, 2019, that the basilica was showing signs of rainfall damage. Fernandes, in his letter, stated that the work was pending since January and maintenance work was required to be completed before the monsoon to ensure that the basilica is not only protected and conserved for the present generation, but is safeguarded for future generations. “The failure to undertake repairs on time and the absence of proper and necessary facilities gives a clear indication that the basilica has not been a priority for the ASI,” he wrote in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/basilica-roof-repairs-to-be-completed-in-2-weeks-asi/articleshow/75335261.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Anna university ranks seventh in water research||CHENNAI: Extensive research has helped Anna University place 7th in clean water and sanitation category of the Impact Rankings 2020 released by Times Higher Education on Wednesday. In the overall category, however, the university was ranked between 401 and 600. IIT Kharagpur, with 86.7 points ranked 6th in the zero hunger category, and was the only Indian institute among the top 100 in the overall category, ranking 57th. Its extensive research in groundwater, surface water, sanitation and treating sewage helped Anna University secure 70.1 points and rank among the top 10 out of 330 universities from 63 countries. University of North Carolina in the United States topped the list with 81.4 points, while Tongji University, Shanghai, China, and Western Sydney University, Australia, were ranked second and third with 75.9 points and 73.7 points. In the same category, IIT Kharagpur was ranked fourth with 73.6 points, while IIT Madras was ranked 32 with 62.5 points. “We have undertaken many research studies on groundwater, surface water and developed new technology to convert waste water into potable water,” said Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa. The university also reuses the sewage generated and has a fully functional rainwater harvesting system besides helping the state government with solutions to various water related issues. In the overall category, the university was ranked in the 401-600 group since it has submitted data only in a few categories of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It got good score in the categories of industry, innovation and infrastructure, and partnership for goals. “We are tying up with many companies and public sector undertakings to do research in many areas. Next year, we will try to break into the top 200,” Surappa added. Professor L Elango from the department of geology at Anna University, one of the leading researchers in groundwater-related subjects, said the faculty members undertook extensive studies in areas like groundwater recharge, groundwater depletion, fluoride contamination, sea water intrusion and pollution in rivers with the help of Isro and other agencies. Indian Institute of Madras got the highest points, 97.6, for research in industry, innovation and infrastructure and ranked 16th in the category. In the overall category, IIT-M was ranked 301-400. The parameters for the rankings include research related to water, consumption per person, reuse and commitment to ensuring good management in the wider community. Impact rankings assess varsities against the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Times Higher Education gathered data from institutions in December last year and after verifying the data has published the rankings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-ranks-7-in-water-research/articleshow/75334127.cms||A Ragu Raman
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Knotty affairs: Coronavirus plays spoilsport in wedding season||JAIPUR: The outbreak of Covid-19 has affected almost every business and marriages are no exception. This year, though the number of auspicious days for Hindu weddings were more in the month of April, May and June, compared to previous years, majority of the weddings have either been postponed or downsized. Due to the lockdown and uncertain future, kin of those whose weddings are postponed have not even planned these weddings for the upcoming winters. Be it the wedding band groups, food caterers, people involved in light and sound, decoration and other components, everyone is sitting idle. They are regularly been called up by their respective clients to refund the money for the bookings. “This year in the month of April, there were more number of sawa (auspicious days) compared to normal summers. During December 2019, we were aiming at a good business after seeing the trend of our bookings for summers. However, everything has been destroyed to an extent that we have to pay back our customers. And that too when we are not getting refunds for the marriage lawns and other bookings,” Mohit Sand, a wedding planner, told TOI on Thursday. In April, as per the Hindu wedding calendar, there were eight auspicious days for weddings, in May, there were 10 days and in July there were six days. “People have not only cancelled their weddings in April, they have also asked for cancellations in May and June as well. It is a big loss,” said Siddharth Chaturvedi, another wedding planner. Those involved in the wedding industry are praying for things to normalise by at least September this year so that they can get bookings for November, December, January 2021 and February 2021. “Even during the economic slump in 2008 and post demonetisation we did not see much dip in the business. It is simple zero at this time. I had a booking of at least 20 weddings for the month of April, May and June,” said Rajkumar Sharma, involved in food catering for weddings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/knotty-affairs-virus-plays-spoilsport-in-wedding-season/articleshow/75335278.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||BJP MP seeks central aid for disabled persons||Jaipur: Former disability commissioner of Rajasthan Khillimal Jain wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to give an additional Rs 1,000 ex-gratia to specially-abled persons with 40% disability, as announced by the Centre, in view of the Covid-19 crisisRajsamand MP Diya Kumari also wrote to Union minister for social justice and empowerment department Thawarchand Gehlot and demanded the same for persons-with-disability (PwDs).Hemant Bhai Goyal, vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, spoke to Thawarchand Gehlot over the phone to apprise him about the matter. The minister promised to look into the matter and give Rs 1,000 to specially-abled persons with 40% disability.“As per sub-section 3C of Section 24 of the Divyang Rights Act, 2014, even those persons with 40% disabilities are eligible for government relief or assistance at the time of natural or man-made disasters following guidelines of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities," Jain pointed out in the letter."Therefore, you are requested to pass orders to provide financial assistance to all PwDs suffering from 40% disability," he added.So far, around 28,000 specially-abled people in Rajasthan have received the amount when there are 3.5 lakh such people in the state. According to an official, the Centre is giving the ex-gratia amount to only those who fall in the national BPL list and those who are 80% disabled. Earlier, Goyal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Gehlot requesting them to provide Rs 1,000 pension for three months to even those who are 40% physically challenged.He had also mailed the letter to the chief commissioner, disability, of the central government and secretary, social justice and empowerment department, Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-mp-seeks-central-aid-for-disabled-persons/articleshow/75335274.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha co booked for not paying salaries during lockdown||Wardha: Mohata Industries Ltd, one of the biggest textile units of the district, was booked by the police on Thursday for not paying salaries of employees and labourers during the lockdown. The offences were filed after the district administration filed a complaint over violation of government’s Covid-19 and lockdown norms. Labour unions had complained to district administration that from the day lockdown was imposed the company had not paid its 607 employees and labourers. Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh (RMMS) too had requested the company to pay wages. Meanwhile, the RMMS wrote letters to district labour officer and administration. Despite several requests by the administration, the company seemed reluctant to pay the wages. Sub-divisional officer Chandrabhan Khandait said the company had promised it would pay wages before April 6. But every time it delayed the payment citing several reasons. Khandait said district collector Vivek Bhimanwar ordered him on Wednesday to take action against the company management as they are violating government orders. Further, he said, district guardian minister Sunil Kedar also asked the collector to take action. The company has been booked under sections 188 and 269 of IPC, section 51(B) and 58 of Disaster Management Act 2005, the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, and Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations 2020. Police have filed offences against Mohata industries Ltd director Vinod Kumar Mohata, interim resolution professional Prashant Jain, and seven others. Jain, appointed as part of proceedings involving the company before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), said the company was already in problems. “We had written several times to the district administration and informed them about the situation. Company has to pay all dues but it is not in a position to pay now. We are aware about the situation due to Covid-19, and all businesses are suffering. We will pay all dues after the markets reopen,” he said. A reliable source in the company said on condition of anonymity that the company had already been facing a slowdown since few months. “We could only pay 50% salaries of February. Only our spinning department was functioning. We were expecting payment for a consignment, but the stock could not be shipped before lockdown came into force and is now stuck,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-co-booked-for-not-paying-salaries-during-lockdown/articleshow/75351634.cms||Balwant Dhage
April 24, 2020||Bareilly||Cops on Bareilly’s borders given thermal scanners||Bareilly: To ensure that no Covid-19 infected person enters Bareilly district, all policemen deputed at entry points on the borders have been provided with thermal scanners, N-95 masks and gloves. According to DM Nitish Kumar, no new Covid-19 positive case has been detected in the district after six Subhash Nagar residents recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospital. In this context, some relaxation might be given in the coming days. However, this will only be possible if precautionary measures are strictly followed to ensure that no person infected with Covid-19 enters the district, he added. Therefore, steps have been taken to ensure that policemen on the borders are protected while not allowing an infected person from slipping into the district. Kumar told TOI, “Our district has been Covid-19 free but we are still taking all measures to ensure that the infection does not enter here. We have five entry points. Thermal scanners and other required equipment have been provided to policemen to check people associated with essential services coming from outside.” The policemen will examine visitors and inform the health department if they find any suspected case. DM said pool sampling has been started. For the purpose, 30 mobile labs have been pressed into service in the district. Each mobile lab has the capacity to collect as many as 100 samples. “Each mobile lab will cover at least two villages a day,” he said. Random samples of vegetable hawkers, chemist shop owners and people connected with essential services are being taken for tests, the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cops-on-bareillys-borders-given-thermal-scanners/articleshow/75330912.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Trump hit pause on green card order to please voters: Assn||Hyderabad: The American Telugu Association (ATA) has allayed fears after US President Donald Trump signed an executive order “pausing” immigration for certain categories for 60 days. The groups said the “pause” is limited in nature. “A big relief is that all H-1B visa holders currently working in the US will not be impacted by this order. They can continue to work and apply for green card,” American Telugu Association said in a statement. Jagan Tamirisa, immigration lead, with Chugh law firm, said, “The restrictions will apply to green cards for new immigrants who are currently outside the United States. There are exemptions to this such as for healthcare workers, researchers helping during the Covid-19 crisis and members of the armed forces.” About 50,000 to 60,000 applications are projected to get delayed in these 60 days, he said. ATA president Parmesh Bheemreddy said the group was studying the order and stands ready to help Telugu-origin people in the US. Stating that the move might be one to please local voter base, ATA president-elect Bhuvanesh Boojala said the executive order would not have any major impact. “It’s only a 60-day hold on issuing/approving the green cards. After that, they will again re-assess the situation, most likely remove the ban. This is just to make locals happy.” Agreeing, Jayanth Challa, president of Ace Info Solutions, said, “Most US embassies/consulates are closed due to Covid-19 and there isn’t going to be much visa processing happening anyway for the next 60 days. Due to the upcoming polls, President Trump is courting to the right-wing electorate to help him win key states.” Speaking about the future of immigrant jobs, he said, “Once businesses start opening up, probably in a gradual way, there will be lot of demand for workers and the US needs all immigrants it can get to meet those demands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trump-hit-pause-on-green-card-order-to-please-voters-assn/articleshow/75334124.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Raj labourers stuck in Jaisalmer continue to leave for home dists||Jaisalmer: The process of sending back the labourers from various districts of the state, who had come to Jaisalmer district in January for the harvest season, continued on Thursday as well. Around 1,773 remaining labourers were sent from various areas of Jaisalmer to different parts of the state in 33 buses on Thursday morning. On Wednesday 3,030 labourers were sent back and so far, a total of 4,803 labourers have been sent to their home districts across the state. On the other hand, the state government has issued directions to ferry students from various districts of Rajasthan who are stranded in Kota, to their respective homes. There are 150 students from Barmer who are stuck in Kota and revenue minister Harish Choudhary said that the government has appealed to the parents of the students who are stranded in Kota, to inform the local authorities about them so that no student remains stuck away from home. Jaisalmer district administration, after receiving directions from the state government, arranged for buses to send the labourers back to their homes. Collector Namit Mehta said that the process of sending back the labourers continued till Thursday morning. These labourers were stuck in Ramgarh, Mohangarh, Chandham, Sutharwala Mandi etc. He said that 895 labourers were sent back to Ganganagar in 15 buses, 596 were sent to Hanumangarh in 12 buses, 121 to Baran in two buses, 61 to Jhalawar in one bus, 45 to Pali and 55 to Kota in one bus each. All passengers were medically checked, screened and were given food before starting the journey. The buses were sanitised. Meanwhile, some labourers from Punjab reportedly tried to get into the buses going to Ganganagar amidst the hustle but were stopped by the administration and were sent back to the shelter homes. Barmer MLA Mevaram Jain said that according to the talks held with the CM, permission has been obtained to bring the students of various districts including Barmer stuck in Kota back to their homes. Moreover, the government is giving permission to travel to nearby districts of Barmer for necessary work, barring the corona hotspot areas. He said that the government is making a list of the people from Rajasthan who are stranded in other states and want to return, and that hopefully permission from the Centre shall be obtained to bring these people back to Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-labourers-stuck-in-jaisalmer-continue-to-leave-for-home-dists/articleshow/75335282.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Indore||Permission given for cremation supplies||Indore: Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) has obtained special permission to ensure adequate supply of firewood, clothes and other essential items at cremation grounds (Muktidham) in Indore during ongoing lockdown. This comes after various trusts that look after management of crematoriums in city raised concern over shortage and disruptions in supply of firewood and other items due to lockdown. “Wood supplies had stopped for initial weeks ever since the lockdown was started, and management trusts of crematoriums were not sure if they would be able to continue with cremations,” said official sources with IMC. Health department official Dr Natwar Sharda told TOI, “Management trusts of crematoriums had earlier raised an issue in this regard on basis of which a special permission has been obtained from administration to ensure uninterrupted supply of woods, cloth and other essential items used in performing last rites during lockdown.”  “The permission has been issued with strict recommendation about abidance of social distancing norms and measures by staff who would be engaged in the work to prevent spread of coronavirus during transportation of supplies,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/permission-given-for-cremation-supplies/articleshow/75334123.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Home quarantine may be extended to 28 days||Visakhapatnam: District health authorities are mulling extention of home quarantine period to 28 days following two recent cases where patients tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) even after being in quarantine for 14 days. The officials also plan to begin aggressive testing from Friday using rapid testing kits received from South Korea. On Wednesday night, a 27-year-old woman from the red zone of Thatichetlapalem, who was under strict home quarantine for nearly 20 days, tested positive for Covid-19. On April 3, her three family members who had tested positive were admitted, treated and have been discharged. One of the members had a travel history to Mumbai. However, none of them has shown any sign of relapse. Another woman, a Delhi returnee, who had tested negative in early April, tested positive on Sunday almost after 14 days. She was already in the quarantine centre at Sheelanagar. Dr PV Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College and member of various district Covid-19 control committees, said, “Earlier, the symptoms or positive cases could be detected within five to 10 days and therefore 14-day home quarantine was mandatory. But the recent cases show that one can test positive even after 14 days or even three weeks. Therefore, to avoid any risk of spreading, the district administration and health officials are planning to extend the mandatory quarantine period to 28 days.” “We will also conduct more tests with the rapid test kits from South Korea, which have been checked for accuracy and are not faulty like the Chinese ones. These kits can test both IgM and IgG antibodies,” Dr Sudhakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/home-quarantine-may-be-extended-to-28-days/articleshow/75332723.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||Hotelier shows the way in volunteering||Hubballi: The owner of Hotel Metropolis was the first in Hubballi to voluntarily offer his four-storey space for use as a quarantine facility. Following his gesture, other hoteliers too came forward to join hands with the authorities for a cause. Ashraf Ali, 63, is also offering food to medical professionals and people who are quarantined at more than 20 hotels in the city. Since April 2, his hotel has been serving breakfast, lunch and dinner, which means the supply of 1,200 food packets to benefit 400 people every day. Dr Prabhu Biradar, health officer, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation, said, “Before anyone came forward to give their hotel for the purpose of quarantine, he (Ali) came forward and also served food with utmost care.” People are happy with the quality and taste of food served by Hotel Metropolis, he said. Sources said that doctors staying at the hotel also check the food for quality and hygiene. Hubballi Urban tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal said the medical staff and other personnel deputed are happy with the food provided by Metropolis. The hotel says it conducts thermal screening of its workers and regular monitors to ensure hygiene. Ali says nation comes first for him. “It’s a great opportunity to work for a cause as the whole county is going through a tough time. Soon after lockdown was declared by the Prime Minister, we rushed to the DC and submitted a letter to take our hotel with 45 rooms for quarantine. As many hotels face labour problem during lockdown, we decided to cater food to all hotels being used as quarantine centre,” he said. The posh Hotel Metropolis is one of the prominent in Hubballi. Ali’s other hotel in Mumbai is also being used as a quarantine centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hotelier-shows-the-way-in-volunteering/articleshow/75321638.cms||J Abbas Mulla
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kudumbashree offers support to spl children of Buds schools||Thiruvanathapuram: Kudumbashree is providing creative support to children with learning difficulties as they are stuck in their houses due to lockdown over the outbreak of Covid-19. To reduce hyperactivity in students of Buds Schools under local bodies, Kudumbashree has introduced various activities to make them agile and happy. Around 8,521 children are studying in 270 Buds institutions run by Kudumbashree in the state. In a press release, Kudumbashree said the programme was conceived to instil confidence and encourage students to be creative at the time of lockdown. “Parents are happy because children are following the tasks suggested by teachers,” it said. Regular activities, in accordance with the IQ level of each child, is integral for the emotional development of children with learning disabilities. Regular activities were hit by the lockdown. Thus, Kudumbashree developed programmes which the children could do at homes with or without the support of parents. Guidelines were given to district mission officers and district-wise WhatsApp groups were formed with parents, Buds School teachers, district mission officers, CDS chairpersons, etc., as members. Daily activities of children are coordinated through such groups. Individual activities were planned considering the interests and difficulties of each student in Buds Schools. Similar approach has been taken for indoor activities too. Teacher informs the daily tasks on the group. Painting, handicrafts, pencil drawing, helping in cooking, planting saplings, watering etc, are some of the tasks given on a daily basis. In Malappuram district, a new calendar ‘mazhavillu’ was designed and activities are based on it. Shamna, a student of Manovikas Kendra under Kudumbashree Buds School finds interest in making brooms using midriffs of coconut palms while Dichu Dilip of Buds School, Kadakkal in Kollam, spends his lockdown days playing percussion instruments. Parents are encouraged to post pictures and videos of such activities on WhastApp groups. In the second phase, Kudumbashree is planning to introduce more programmes such as recitation, paper-bag making, paper-pen making, TikTok videos, mimicry, fancy dress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kudumbashree-offers-support-to-spl-children-of-buds-schools/articleshow/75332743.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Bihar students stir, send SOS to Nitish Kumar||KOTA: While the homesick students from Bihar appealed to the Nitish Kumar-led government to call them back by demonstrating a silent protest, over 40 students from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Diu left for their hometowns by three buses on Thursday. Meanwhile, at least 69 buses are parked various locations to depart with students from Haryana and Assam on Friday morning. At least 38 students from Dadra and Nagar Haveli and six from Diu left by three buses on Thursday noon and as many as 18 buses with students from Assam and 31 buses with students from Haryana are scheduled to depart on Friday, ADM (admin), Kota Narendra Gupta, who is monitoring the task, said. Besides, the students of Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran would start leaving by 10 buses on Thursday evening, he added. Over 250 students from Bundi, Baran and Jhalawar would leave for their homes and students from other districts are likely to leave on Friday, Nitesh Sharma of Allen Career institute said. Meanwhile, over 12,000 Bihar students stuck in hostels and PGs on Friday made a touching appeal to the Bihar government to call them back. Shahbaz, 18, a NEET aspirant and his PG mate Aajam Hussain, both from Katihar district in Bihar said they were desperately anxious to go back as it was getting troublesome to spend even a single day amid the critical problems of food and the pandemic. The students from Bihar appealed to the Nitish government and the authorities concerned to think seriously about the thousands of students from Bihar, Shahbaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bihar-students-stir-send-sos-to-nitish/articleshow/75335287.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dust storm, rainfall pull down mercury||JAIPUR: Dust storm and rainfall across the state on Thursday brought down the mercury by almost 4°C. Barmer remained hottest clocking 40.7°C. Attributing the climatic change to upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said similar conditions will prevail in the state for the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up amid dust storms, gusty winds and showers. Till noon, mild showers were witnessed in almost every part of the city. The city’s minimum temperature was 21.3°C and maximum 35.1°C. However, the sudden rainfall in Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Churu districts and some parts of Jaipur rural affected farmers badly as grains they kept in open farms for drying got wet. Barmer was followed Jodhpur (40°C), Churu and Udaipur at 38.5°C each, Jaisalmer and Kota at 38.2°C each, Sriganganagar (37°C), Ajmer (36.7°C) and Bikaner (34.3°C). In April, there has been three spells of rainfall and dust storm which has kept the mercury on or below 40°C. “Usually by this time, every district gets an average maximum temperature above 40°C,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Weathermen said that from Sunday onwards, the mercury will start taking an upward swing with many places likely to maximum temperatures on and above 40°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dust-storm-rainfall-pull-down-mercury/articleshow/75335292.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Medical market reopens today, but with rider||LUCKNOW: The district administration on Thursday gave conditional approval for reopening of medicine wholesale market in Aminabad from Friday. The 700-odd wholesalers will open outlets on rotation basis — 80 for three days, with a batch of 40 in the morning shift and equal number in the evening. They will deliver consignments to retailers after taking orders on phone or text messages. In turn, distributors at Transportnagar will deliver medicines to wholesalers at their doorstep. The decision was taken in view of the shortage faced by retailers following April 15 decision to shift the market to Transportnagar after a locality near the wholesale hub was declared Covid-19 hotspot. However, it did not workout as many wholesalers could not find a place to operate in Transportnagar. Drug inspector Madhuri Singh said the chemists’ association will prepare a roster to operate. “Retailers from other districts will get medicines at Transportngar and not have to come to Aminabad,” she added. President, Lucknow Chemist and Druggist Association, Girjesh Rastogi said, “Only those involved in packing, billing and delivering will come to the shops to avoid overcrowding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/med-market-reopens-today-but-with-rider/articleshow/75335347.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Many opt for books to drown Covid-19 babble||VISAKHAPATNAM: The habit of reading a book, which is no more a popular habit among people, especially children, has made a comeback during the lockdown period. On World Book Day, a few Vizagites speak about their lost habit of book reading, either due to lack of time or excessive dependence on smartphones. Heritage narrator and environment enthusiast Jayshree Hatangadi said, “With my network of friends and family members, who are interested in books, we have started a discussion forum. We speak about books we plan to read or share views on books we have already read or reading.” People are also turning to books to avoid Covid-19 related news and debates being circulated in the social media 24x7. “I was an avid reader of fiction novels. But once I started working I could hardly manage time and it would take me several months to complete one novel. But now, I am optimising my time reading books that keep me hooked till the end like Robin Cook’s medical mysteries or other detective novels and science fiction. Reading books keeps me occupied rather than participating in depressing debates on social media,” said Bhagyasree Venugopal, who works on projects with the state forest department. With no scope to go out and play with friends, even children are finding solace in story books. Advocate Rahimunnisa Begum said, “My 10-year-old daughter Shabana Parveen is spending her time reading books and making crafts and abacus. She’s hooked onto bed time stories for children, Akbar and Birbal and Jungle Book by Rudyard Kipling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/many-opt-for-books-to-drown-covid-babble/articleshow/75332782.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Boy from MP dies in Suryapet||Hyderabad: Mystery shrouds the death of a minor boy, from Madhya Pradesh, who was working in a stone crushing factory, in Nagaram in Suryapet district on Thursday. “Due to the lockdown, the factory owner arranged a place in the agricultural field for migrant workers. A few days ago, the boy fell sick. He died on Thursday before he could be shifted to hospital,” said Lingam, SI, Nagaram. He also said the boy had no contact with any Covid-19 positive patients. Child rights activists alleged that he had shown coronavirus-like symptoms, while police said he was suffering from anaemia. A case of suspicious death was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boy-from-mp-dies-in-suryapet/articleshow/75335324.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Four held for raping mentally-ill teen in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Four persons were taken into custody by Dundigal Police on Thursday on the suspicion that they gang raped a 14-year-old girl who is mentally-ill. Police said the victim left her house after quarrelling with her parents on Monday. The victim’s parents approached police after their efforts to find her were in vain. Police formed search teams and traced the missing girl. During investigation, they came to know that she was gang raped by four men who stay in the same colony. “The victim is not completely in sound mental condition. On the day of she went missing, she was found by locals asking passers by to give her money. When she approached the suspects, one of them took her to his house on the pretext of giving her money. We suspect that they gang raped her. The investigation is still being done,’’ Dundigal inspector S Venkatesham told TOI. Meanwhile in Asifnagar, police are interrogating a 14-year-old boy who allegedly outraged the modesty of an 8-year-old girl. The local police said that the incident took place two days ago and a case was registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-held-for-raping-mentally-ill-teen/articleshow/75334165.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||SSG isolation ward man eats in open, video viral||Vadodara: The state-run SSG Hospital got itself into a major controversy when a video of a Covid-19 positive patient from its isolation ward eating his food in the hospital’s canteen area went viral on Thursday. The video got into rapid circulation with fingers pointing at the hospital authorities’ alleged security lapse and thus putting others at risk of getting infected too. The hospital authorities are now probing the alleged security lapse. Sources said that the patient was identified as 19-year-old Harsh Kahar, a resident of Raopura area. The hospital authorities said that the patient was admitted in the ward where coronavirus suspects are admitted. Going by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s medical bulletin, samples of Kahar which were collected on Wednesday tested positive on Thursday. “We have created a 200-bed capacity facility where all suspected cases are admitted. If they test positive of Covid-19, they are shifted to a ward which is quite far away from the canteen area that is meant for relatives of patients,” said Dr Rajeev Daveshwar, medical superintendent of SSG Hospital. “It seems the patient had managed to sneak out of the ward where the suspects are admitted. But we are probing it and if we detect any lapse on the part of the security, we will take necessary action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ssg-isolation-ward-man-eats-in-open-video-viral/articleshow/75330888.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Indore||High death rate in Indore due to late hospitalization, comorbidity: Audit||Indore: Audit of deaths reported in Indore due to Covid-19 revealed comorbidity, late arrival of patients in hospital and advance respiratory tract infection as main reasons behind victims failing to recover. Experts advised diabetic patients to take special care as attack of virus has proven deadly in almost all the cases. Following instructions issued by team of senior officials from Centre, MGM formed a team of five senior doctors and assigned task to prepare a death audit report in Indore. With this, the team had ordered to attach case-sheet of each patient, who died during treatment at different hospitals. “The audit report reads that all the protocols related to the treatment were followed but some patients (total 53) failed to survive as main reasons including comorbidity, infected persons arriving the hospital in late stage for treatment and advance respiratory tract infection were found in most of the cases,” college dean Dr Jyoti Bindal told TOI. She added that the report also mentioned that diabetes is one single biggest factor with hypertension that proved deadly to many patients with comorbidity. “One of the deaths was reported as the victim, who was a youngster, was suffering from chronic alcoholism,” the dean said. Dr Bindal added that Central government officials had asked all hospitals to submit case-sheet of each patient, who died during treatment. “The report, along with case sheet of all the victims, has been submitted to Centre’s senior officials. They will stay for one more day (Saturday) and we are likely to receive instructions, if any, from them on basis of report by tomorrow,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/high-death-rate-in-indore-due-to-late-hospitalization-comorbidity-audit/articleshow/75334161.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Woman jumps to death in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 43-year-old woman committed suicide by jumping from the second floor of an isolated building situated at Vidhyadhar Nagar locality. She was who was ill for a long time and was residing at her maternal home situated at Vidyadhar Nagar area. Police said that the cause of the suicide is under investigation.  According to the police, the woman identified as Sumitra Chaudhary reached at an isolated building which is almost 700 meters from the house of her parents. “She went to the terrace of the building on the third floor and jumped off. Acting on information our team rushed to the spot and she was taken to the hospital. She was declared brought dead,” said a senior officer.  The body was handed over to her family. “No suicide note was found so far. She was ailing for a long time. The reason why she took step is a matter of investigation,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-jumps-to-death-in-city/articleshow/75335311.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Dust storm, rainfall pull down mercury||JAIPUR: Dust storm and rainfall across the state on Thursday brought down the mercury by almost 4°C. Barmer remained hottest clocking 40.7°C. Attributing the climatic change to upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said similar conditions will prevail in the state for the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up amid dust storms, gusty winds and showers. Till noon, mild showers were witnessed in almost every part of the city. The city’s minimum temperature was 21.3°C and maximum 35.1°C. However, the sudden rainfall in Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Churu districts and some parts of Jaipur rural affected farmers badly as grains they kept in open farms for drying got wet. Barmer was followed Jodhpur (40°C), Churu and Udaipur at 38.5°C each, Jaisalmer and Kota at 38.2°C each, Sriganganagar (37°C), Ajmer (36.7°C) and Bikaner (34.3°C). In April, there has been three spells of rainfall and dust storm which has kept the mercury on or below 40°C. “Usually by this time, every district gets an average maximum temperature above 40°C,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Weathermen said that from Sunday onwards, the mercury will start taking an upward swing with many places likely to maximum temperatures on and above 40°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/dust-storm-rainfall-pull-down-mercury/articleshow/75343444.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Dust storm, rainfall pull down mercury||JAIPUR: Dust storm and rainfall across the state on Thursday brought down the mercury by almost 4°C. Barmer remained hottest clocking 40.7°C. Attributing the climatic change to upper air cyclonic circulation and western disturbances, Jaipur Met office said similar conditions will prevail in the state for the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up amid dust storms, gusty winds and showers. Till noon, mild showers were witnessed in almost every part of the city. The city’s minimum temperature was 21.3°C and maximum 35.1°C. However, the sudden rainfall in Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Churu districts and some parts of Jaipur rural affected farmers badly as grains they kept in open farms for drying got wet. Barmer was followed Jodhpur (40°C), Churu and Udaipur at 38.5°C each, Jaisalmer and Kota at 38.2°C each, Sriganganagar (37°C), Ajmer (36.7°C) and Bikaner (34.3°C). In April, there has been three spells of rainfall and dust storm which has kept the mercury on or below 40°C. “Usually by this time, every district gets an average maximum temperature above 40°C,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Weathermen said that from Sunday onwards, the mercury will start taking an upward swing with many places likely to maximum temperatures on and above 40°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dust-storm-rainfall-pull-down-mercury/articleshow/75343446.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||North Western Railway trains keep essentials on tracks||JAIPUR: At a time when passengers trains are not running, the North Western Railway (NWR) is involved in timely transportation of essential commodities including medical equipment, foodgrains, petroleum and fertilizers. Railway staff are working tirelessly to ensure timely delivery of goods especially essential commodities. Recently, when a child suffering from autism needed camel milk, NWR transported it from Phalana (Jodhpur) to Mumbai. Since the time lockdown was imposed, NWR chalked out a strategy to ensure uninterrupted loading and unloading of essential commodities. “Whe a child suffering from autism needed camel milk, our officers coordinated with the operating teams and got it transported from Phalana (Jodhpur) to Mumbai,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR, on Thursday. Till Thursday, NWR had carried 94,000 tons of foodgrains covering Rajasthan and some parts of Haryana. “On an average, nearly 140 goods trains are running daily while we are also running parcel trains to ensure we can support the government in ensuring timely delivery of medicines, medical equipment, foodgrains, petroleum and fertilisers. Apart from this, our parcel trains are also getting good response,” he added. According to data, NWR has transported nearly 7 tons of medicines, 35 tons of medical goods including soaps and sanitisers and nearly 55 tons of food materials. “Parcel trains are meant for smaller quantities of essential commodities which are booked and sent to nearby cities and towns. We are getting good response as wholesale traders are transporting their wheat flour, vegetables and fruits to various places,” said an officer. Apart from parcel trains, NWR has been operating 140 goods trains per day on an average. “We have run 31 trains containing foodgrains, 10,000 tons of edible oil, 16,000 tons of petroleum, 16,000 tons of zinc and 5,000 tons of fertilisers,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-trains-keep-essentials-on-tracks/articleshow/75335285.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 24, 2020||Rajkot||Woman arrested for obstructing cop||Rajkot: A woman was arrested for allegedly obstructing a cop from performing his duty in Arabfali Society of Langawad locality in Jamnagar on Wednesday. Police said the accused, identified as Shabana Ambalia (25), had allegedly attacked sub-inspector R K Gosai when the latter asked her to go home. “Ambalia was loitering on the road. When I asked her to go home, she attacked me. I arrested her and booked her for obstructing a government servant from performing his duty,” said Gosai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-arrested-for-obstructing-cop/articleshow/75332767.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Auto driver returns heart patient’s life-saving meds, case file||Mangaluru: Yousuf, an autorickshaw driver, returned the medical file and life-saving medicines of a patient, who inadvertently left it behind in Yousuf’s autorickshaw, who was returning home after meeting a cardiologist. It was the presence of mind shown by Yousuf in spotting the file and medicines, and calling the specialist doctor his customer had consulted, based on the details therein, that enabled him to return them to the grateful patient. Recalling the incident, cardiologist Dr Padmanabh Kamath, said, “Covid-19 is imposing a lot of hardships on the common man, and it is not sparing any particular section of the population. A cardiac patient, who after his visit to hospital, after getting an appointment with great difficulty, left his case file and life-saving medicines in the autorickshaw he travelled in. This was noticed by Yousuf, who then called me, as my phone number was printed in the case record of the patient.” Later, through the hospital records, the patient’s credentials were traced, and the driver returned the case file and the medicines purchased by the patient, Dr Kamath said, adding this case exemplifies the presence of Good Samaritans in all walks of life, whom we salute. The driver is from Moodbidri. The patient had recently undergone an angioplasty, and the case file and medicines were critical for him. Based on the information that Yousuf provided, Dr Kamath got Bharathi Suraj, a housekeeping staff of the hospital where he works, trace the mobile number of the patient from hospital records, and relayed it to the autorickshaw driver. Bharathi also informed the patient to expect a call from Yousuf, who in the interim, obtained the patient’s address, and returned the same. Dr Kamath hailed this selfless act of Yousuf in a post he shared on WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/auto-driver-returns-heart-patients-life-saving-meds-case-file/articleshow/75330931.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad firm gets immunotherapy nod, but donors few||HYDERABAD: A city-based company received the Centre’s go-ahead to create a drug for immunoglobulin (most common antibody present in blood and other body fluids) treatment of Covid-19 patients. But, lack of donors may pose an issue. Virchow Biotech Private Limited (VBPL), which has got state and central approval for trials, needs patients who have recovered from the novel coronavirus to come back and donate their plasma. At present, only a few are willing to do so.“There is a need for more awareness so that people come forward to donate. The state government is counselling patients who are recovering, but after what they have been through many are hesitant,” said Dr Rajesh Tummuru of VBPL. A person can donate plasma after at least 14 to 28 days of testing negative for the virus. Explaining the need for more donors, Tummuru says, “With over 16,000 active cases, and the number of those recovered in hundreds, it is crucial that everyone comes forward.” The doctor said the drug produced from plasma of one patient can possibly treat one or two people depending on the severity. Immunoglobulin therapy can prove to be more promising as compared to direct plasma administration. Direct plasma therapy has several safety and efficacy issues and a single transfusion might not be sufficient. Citing an example, Tummuru says, “Transfer of direct plasma requires both the patient and donor to have the same blood type, which is a limiting factor. With approved drugs under immunotherapy you know how much to give and in what concentration.” VBPL has got approval from Drug Controller General of India to develop immunotherapy for the treatment of Covid-19. It has been given funding from the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) for the purpose. The company has also got approval from the state Drug Control Administration. VBPL said it has already started working on developing a potential treatment. Dr Murali Tummuru, MD, Virchow Biotech, said: “The company will be offering free treatment for the initial three months after the product launch with the objective to serve the national cause.” He added, “We will be ready with the safe and effective product within 30 days and the company is ready to contribute to country’s efforts in this fight against pandemic”. The process includes collecting convalescent sera from individuals who have recovered from Covid-19 and purifying immunoglobulin from the plasma on a commercial scale. The trials will be conducted using these preparations among patients. Currently, the company has the capacity to process over 3,00,000 litres of plasma annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firm-gets-immunotherapy-nod-but-donors-few/articleshow/75334144.cms||Uttara Varma
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 120 crore ticket cash of Rajasthan flyers stuck with airlines||JAIPUR: A whopping Rs 120 crore of ticket money of passengers who were supposed to fly from various parts of Rajasthan to national and international destinations are stuck with various airlines companies. Though all flights have been cancelled, people are yet to receive their cancellation refunds. The central government recently issued a notification that people who booked flight tickets between March 25 and May 3 will get full refunds. Though it sounds promising, it has not given much relief to passengers. Rajasthan Travel Agent Association president Dheeraj Mittal said, “The notification by the central government is valid only for those flights that were booked during the lockdown period — March 25 to May 3. Flight tickets booked in advance will not be refunded.” Mittal said this had become a headache for travel agents in the state and all over the country as people are demanding money from them. “Airline companies are making money out of it and people are holding us responsible. This is not fair on the part of the government and it should make the companies pay back cancellation amount of all the tickets booked in advance. Most people book flights tickets at least 3 months in advance. When lockdown started, people were booking flight tickets only for emergency which was short-lived as domestic flight travel was also put on hold around that time,” said Mittal. Airline companies have also come up with a strategy to give customers ‘credit shells’ which can be used any time within a year. This, however, is considered to be against norms of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). On Monday, a PIL was filed in Supreme Court against credit shells given by the airline companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-120cr-ticket-cash-of-raj-flyers-stuck-with-airlines/articleshow/75335313.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||City bizman buys 5.65% in payment gateway Infibeam||Nagpur: City businessman Ravi Agrawal used the stock market lows to increase his stake in payment gateway service provider Infibeam Avenues Ltd to 5.65%. Infibeam’s service under the brand name CCAvenue is dubbed one of the largest in India. From April 22 to 24, Agrawal purchased 47 lakh shares of the company. The Ahmedabad-based company is headed by former Amazon employee Vishal Mehta. The story that Mehta had nearly bought over Flipkart in its initial days and offered promoters Sachin and Binny Bansal a job of Rs 15,000 each is famous in the corporate world. The deal did not materialize and rest is history. Now Agrawal is among the biggest individual shareholders in Mehta’s company. Infibeam share price increased by 9.90% on Friday. Agrawal calls it a strategic investment as in his view e-commerce will hold a larger space in the retail business in post-Covid-19 world. “I now have 3.27 crore shares of the company purchased from the open market. In last three days, I increased the stake by another 0.70% taking it above 5%, as the rates were favourable. The development has been disclosed before the stock exchange on Friday,” he said. Infibeam has also provided software for the government e-Marketplace Portal (GEM), through which government procurement is done. It offers services for readymade e-markets giving it a stake in both e-tailing and payment gateway businesses, said Agrawal. Agrawal is however still far from getting any say in management of the company for which he will have to hold at least 10% shares, he said. With a market cap of over Rs2800 crore the promoters have 42% stake in Infibeam, said Agrawal who showed keenness in increasing his stake further in the company. Agrawal is at the helm of L7 Group which has inerest in a wide range of businesses. He began with dealing in foodgrains like rice and wheat, later extending it to soyabean. Infibeam had recently announced its foray into American markets too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-bizman-buys-5-65-in-payment-gateway-infibeam/articleshow/75361235.cms||Shishir Arya
April 24, 2020||Mysuru||Flood-hit tribal family stays in cave for 6 months||CHIKKAMAGALURU: After chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s intervention, a tribal family living in a cave in Mudigere forest for the past six months after losing its house during the previous monsoon in Kallaki village, Chikkamagaluru district, will be given shelter at a refugee camp. Mudigere tahsildar H M Ramesh said the family will be accommodated in a camp on Thursday and moved to a new house soon. The government help to Ananth, his wife Annapurna and their five-year-old son Avinash came after an NGO alerted the media about their plight. Ananth’s daughter is a class 5 student in a residential school for tribals in Menasinahadya. The chief minister took note of the media coverage and directed DC Bagadi Goutham to help the poor family. Yediyurappa has also asked officials to offer Rs 1 lakh to the family to build a house. His family was depending on forest by-products and struggled to collect food after the Covid-19 lockdown. Ananth said that he had approached the taluk administration for help of losing his house, but moved to the cave after realising that help was not forthcoming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/flood-hit-tribal-family-stays-in-cave-for-6-months/articleshow/75336822.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown pushes many down the economic ladder||VISAKHAPATNAM: Eighteen-year-old Bittu from Bihar works at a recovery store in Visakhapatnam. He made about Rs 500 per day by stitching car seats. Life was not easy but he managed to get food on his plate and save money to send back home. But having lost his livelihood since the lockdown, Bittu’s savings are dwindling and the prospect of begging for food is looming large. He dropped out twice from a queue at a food distribution centre at the Gnanapuram side of the railway station. “Every time I go there, I see people who are more desperate than I am. I can manage with the rations we have left, or even go hungry. But slum dwellers have nothing left. So, I leave the queue. Sooner or later I will have to stand with the others for four hours a day waiting for food,” said Bittu. The eighteen-year-old lives with 10 workers in a small rented house in Akkayapalem and they cook their own meals. Bittu is one among a large group of migrant labourers who work in Visakhapatnam and belong to the low income group. The protracted lockdown has cast uncertainty on their lives and future and is pushing them lower down the economic ladder. It is hence of little surprise that the number of people thronging food distribution centre is swelling with each passing day. Vanaprastha Old Age home began distributing food on March 23, a day after the Janata Curfew that preceded the lockdown. The demand for food has been increasing with each passing day. The numbers have now swelled to more than 25,000 a day.Over 20 hunger relief centres, police, NGOs and individuals have also joined hands to feed the poor. Bittu has already spent Rs 7,000 of his savings since the lockdown began. “Our contractor paid us only for the work done till the beginning of the lockdown. I feel bad as I have never stood in a queue for food.” Another urban poor, who was not a destitute before the lockdown, and is now a common face in food queues is Pothu Raju, a contractor who hires daily wage workers for construction activities. Speaking to TOI, he said “Several people like us have used up savings and rations. But money and food both are running low,” Raju said. “I lost my livelihood since construction activities have come to a standstill. And now I have joined the food queues.” “ I used to help carry brick and mortar at a construction site. But since I have been out of work I borrowed from my neighbours to feed my two infants,” said Anusuya, who has a family of four. “Yesterday, I set aside all shame and stood in the queue. But a fight broke out and I returned home humiliated and helpless, but I have to do something for food,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-pushes-many-down-the-economic-ladder/articleshow/75332828.cms||Reshma Jain
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||9-month-old youngest and fastest to recover from Covid-19: Health dept||DEHRADUN: A 45-year-old man who came in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat member in Dehradun and ended up passing the infection to his 9-month-old child — who made a miraculous recovery in a record time of six days — is now going through an agonising wait to see his son. The father, who has remained in the isolation ward of the Government Doon Medical College & Hospital (GDMCH) for 20 days now, has no access to a smartphone to see his child on video. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant meanwhile said that the 9-month-old is possibly “the fastest recovery in the country.” The hospital authorities are now trying to arrange for a video call but admit it’s no easy task. A long list of safety protocols have to be adhered to, said Ashutosh Sayana, principal of the hospital. A nurse at the facility, who did not wish to be named, said, “The child is with his mother — who has tested negative — at a quarantine facility. She also doesn’t have a smartphone but it will be easier to arrange one there than for someone in a Covid-19 ward because of the risks associated.” She added that there were still no clear answers to how long the virus can survive on surfaces, such as a cellphone. “Would it be safe to bring back a phone used by a Covid-19 patient? Can it be sanitised? We have to look at all these things before a call can be arranged,” she told TOI. As the wait continues, the father is growing more desperate. The man had tested positive after he came in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat member in a local mosque where he worked. He was shifted to the Covid-19 ward on April 5. Later, the infant also tested positive and was admitted to the hospital on March 17. He was discharged within six days. Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Government Doon Medical College & Hospital (GDMCH) told TOI that the case had been a challenge for doctors. “Because of the tender age of the infant, the situation was challenging as he could not be kept in isolation without his mother. The doctors had to take care of both the baby and the mother who had tested negative.” Dr Anurag Agarwal, who treated the baby, added that despite the challenges in treating infants due to restrictions on certain medications, the baby managed to make a quick recovery. “The good thing was that the child was totally asymptomatic and remained cheerful. We didn’t even use much medication in his case. His recovery has spread smiles among the entire staff of the hospital,” he said. Commenting on the case, Dr Deepjyoti Kalita, associate professor of microbiology and nodal officer of Covid-19 at All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh said, “We cannot clearly say since how long this child was infected, which is also a factor that influences the speed of recovery. However, it is established in some researches that kids are less susceptible to the coronavirus than adults. There are various reasons for this and one is the vaccinations that are given to them on a regular basis,” he added. While the child’s recovery has given hope to the father, he wishes to see him and his family just once. Back home in Azad Nagar, the couple’s seven children under home quarantine also haven’t seen their parents for days. Their eldest son, all of 19 years, is now in charge. “We are barely managing to keep it all together. Thankfully, our father left some money at home before he was admitted to the hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/9-month-old-youngest-and-fastest-to-recover-from-covid-19-health-dept/articleshow/75330958.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Pune to Ytl on foot, 25-year-old delivers baby in ATM kiosk||Yavatmal: A 25-year-old woman, who was part of a group of daily wagers attempting to reach Yavatmal on foot from Pune, gave birth to a baby girl in an ATM kiosk at Wadala Bahiroba village in Nevasa tehsil of Ahmednagar district on April 19, after a walk of nearly 190km in seven days. The woman Nirmala had accompanied husband Sandeep Kale, a resident of Pimpalner village in Yavatmal district, to Pune in search of work. They were part of a group of 13 labourers from Arni tehsil. After the lockdown was imposed, the labourers were rendered jobless. Left with no money and income, Kale and others were desperate to return to their hometowns. As no transport was available, they decided to walk on foot from Wagholi area of Pune to their respective villages in Yavatmal, a distance of over 560km. Nirmala, who was nine-month pregnant, and others left Pune on April 13. After walking around 190km, the group reached Wadala Bahiroba on April 19 where Nirmala developed labour pains. With no help in sight amid the lockdown, the woman took shelter in a roadside ATM kiosk where she gave birth to a baby. After a villager informed about the delivery in the ATM kiosk to a local medical practitioner Dr Avinash Kale, he rushed there and shifted the woman and newborn to rural hospital at Nevasa. “Both the mother and baby are doing fine,” said Dr Kale. Others from the group were also examined for health conditions and have been lodged in Sangam Mangal Karyalaya where they have been provided with food, water and medicines under the supervision of tehsildar. Meanwhile, Yavatmal district Congress general secretary Anil Gaikwad and Jitendra Moghe said they are in touch with the authorities in Nevasa and trying to get transit permission for the labourers’ return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pune-to-ytl-on-foot-25-year-old-delivers-baby-in-atm-kiosk/articleshow/75351716.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Fearing infection, people in Chennai now delay emergency care||CHENNAI: On Thursday, a 48-year-woman was brought to a private hospital in Nungambakkam nearly 36 hours after she had a heart attack. Two days ago, she had some chest and upper abdominal discomfort after dinner and assuming it was acidity, took acid suppression tablets. But, the pain didn’t reduce. “If she had reached a hospital in a couple of hours, we would have opened up the arteries and she would have gotten away without any damage to her heart muscle. But now she can get breathless on exertion and even day-to-day routine can be laborious for her,” said Dhavapalani Alagappan, head of emergency department, Apollo Hospitals. Usually people going through such discomfort reach out to hospitals in case of pain much earlier, he added. But now, given the Covid-19 scare and ongoing lockdown, many are resorting to home-remedies and almost all emergencies are presented to medical professionals much later. Some delays have resulted in deaths. A man in his late fifties, who was diagnosed with a kidney disease, went against medical advice and postponed dialysis due to the lockdown. Two weeks ago, he reached a stage where he couldn’t breath and none of the hospitals on his way had dialysis option. He was declared brought dead when he reached Chennai. “My hypothesis is fear of getting infected is preventing patients from seeking medical help at the right time. This can push up mortality, particularly among those in the economically weaker section,” said S Balasubramanian, senior doctor at Kanchi Kamakoti Child Trust Hospital, Doctors say fear that hospitals could be a source of infection is natural. But, the public should understand that most private hospitals, which are in operation now, have separate blocks for emergency cases. As per the Tamil Nadu government’s Covid-19 guidelines, fever cases are treated in a different area and referred to nearby government hospitals immediately if found suspicious. However, given the lack of public transport and the strict police crackdown, reaching the hospital is a difficult task for a majority of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fearing-infection-people-now-delay-emergency-care/articleshow/75334226.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 24, 2020||Kochi||Man held for spreading corona-related fake news||Palakkad: A man was arrested on Thursday for circulating fake news that a person at Kanjikode industrial area has tested positive for novel coronavirus. Pramod of Pampallam sent the message with a photo of the ‘infected’ person to several WhatsApp groups keeping health workers and police on their toes. But on investigation it was found to be untrue. Sub-inspector of Kasaba police station, Rajeev NS, led the team which arrested Pramod. They have also seized his mobile phone. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-held-for-spreading-corona-related-fake-news/articleshow/75330994.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Central team warns of a surge in cases in hotspots after lockdown||Acentral health team visiting Maharashtra to assess the Covid-19 situation in Pune and Mumbai has directed the state to be ready for a spike in cases in the coming weeks. So far, the state has been claiming that the doubling rate had improved from the 3.1 days to 7.01 days. The officials said more cases would surface after the lockdown period ends and the state will have to be ready with more centres for testing and more hospitals with beds to accommodate Covid-19 patients. Pune district on Thursday had registered 55 cases until 6pm taking the total up to 936. The numbers have varied between 50 and 70 cases a day in the last four days after the stringent eight-day lockdown began on Monday. Testing and surveillance would throw up more cases from the hotspots, a health official said. Another team member told TOI that they would submit their final analysis in two days. “We have visited the hotspots in Pune and Mumbai and observed the measures taken to mitigate coronavirus. We have told the state authorities to be more prepared for a surge in cases after the lockdown ends,” a member told TOI on Thursday. Two members who visited Baramati, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s constituency, to study the containment, said the steps were in order. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said Pune showed more cases as it was testing more both in government and private laboratories. “We are prepared for more testing and have provided for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals,” he said. Pune’s divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, who met Sassoon General Hospital authorities representatives of private hospitals and private doctors on Thursday, has directed them to take extra care about identifying symptomatic patients, and taking special intervention in critical cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/central-team-warns-of-a-surge-in-cases-in-hotspots-after-lockdown/articleshow/75335360.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Migrant’s body found near railway track||HYDERABAD: The partially burnt body of a 21-year-old migrant worker from Bihar was found near railway tracks at Udamgadda under Mailardevpally on Thursday. Police also found injuries on his neck and leg. They suspect he was first killed and later his body was set ablaze. The deceased was identified as Ajit Kumar Yadav. He was working in a plastic manufacturing unit. According to police, the victim was suspected to have died on April 21 . “It is suspected that he was killed before his body was burnt. We are investigating,” a police officer from Mailardevpally police station said. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy and a murder case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-body-found-near-rly-track/articleshow/75334222.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||HC should have vacation, say lawyers||PANAJI: Stating that pendency of cases in Goa courts is not like that in other states, the Panjim Lawyers Forum has requested withdrawal of the circular cancelling the court’s one month vacation. The association has stated that permitting courts to function in May during their vacation will be counterproductive for senior members of the bar between 60-80 years of age who are in the vulnerable age group. In a letter to the chief justice of the high court of Bombay and senior administrative judge of the high court of Bombay at Goa, the lawyer’s association said senior members may not be versatile and conversant with video conferencing technology and that the threat of Covid still looms large. "Considering the poor conditons of our courts , poor ventilation and no cooling we could see increased fatalities amongst lawyers and litigants due to Covid and other causes. It would be suicidal to think of opening the courts in May,” they stated, adding that many witnesses are out of station witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-should-have-vacation-say-lawyers/articleshow/75335397.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kochi||Drones to maintain vigil at TN border||Kottayam: Drones will be used to prevent sneaking in of people from the other side at the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in Idukki district. The decision was made in a meeting convened by Idukki district collector H Dinesen on Thursday. The move comes after it came to notice that people are using unconventional routes, forest roads and resorting to trekking to enter the state during the lockdown. In the meeting, district police chief P K Madhu said that though people are sent back from the checkposts, the cops noticed that people are trying to sneak into the state through forest roads. It was decided to use drones at four areas in the district. The collector and the police chief said that stopping the couple, natives of Pala, who had travelled from New Delhi by road till Cumbammet was an achievement for the police. The couple had travelled nearly 3,500km, bypassing checkposts in several states. They were moved to a Covid care centre in Cumbammet, where the woman was tested positive for Covid-19. She was shifted to Kottayam medical college alongwith her husband on Wednesday night. Meanwhile, inspection will be intensified at all checkposts to prevent any stowaways in vehicles carrying cattle and poultry. Earlier, five persons were held at a checkpost for trying to enter the state in a truck carrying cattle. The district collector has ordered the police to beef up surveillance in the forest areas along the border with the help of the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/drones-to-maintain-vigil-at-tn-border/articleshow/75331069.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No devotees allowed at Simhachalam for annual puja||Visakhapatnam: The state government has decided to organise Chandanotsavam of Simhachalam temple as a low-key affair and not allow devotees and even trust board members be present for the rituals. An order in this regard has been issued by the state endowment department. The annual event will be held on April 26. This is the first time in the history of the temple that an executive officer (EO) is going to offer Pattu Vastrams (silk clothes) to Lord Varaha Lakshmi Nrusimha Swamy. Generally, family members of the hereditary trusties, Gajapathi Rajus from the royal family of Vizianagaram, offer the silk clothes. The endowment department had also mentioned that even the family members of the temple executive officer should not be allowed for the rituals. The Simhachalam temple has been under lockdown for the past one month to prevent the spread of coronavirus and special pujas are being conducted with just a few priests. The state government had appointed a 16-member trust board one-and-a-half months ago. According to the temple administration, 125 kg of sandalwood paste has been prepared for the deity on Chandanotsavam. The temple management had already announced that it will take up online receipts for pujas. If any devotee wishes to get the sandalwood paste that is removed from the deity on the Chandanotsavam day, the management will send it to the doorsteps of the devotees on payment. On Vaisakha Suddha Tadiya, popularly known as ‘Akshaya Tritiya’, layers of sandalwood paste covering the deity are ceremonially removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-devotees-allowed-at-simhachalam-for-annual-puja/articleshow/75332860.cms||Siva G
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Stuck in India, expectant mothers seek help in returning home to US||HYDERABAD: Anjali (name changed) had come to India, when she was six months pregnant, for a brief visit to see her ailing grandfather. She planned to head back to the US soon, but a month on, she sees no hope of that happening. “The lockdown was announced suddenly and all commercial flights cancelled. I am currently stranded in in the city. I fear I will give birth here without my husband to support me,” said the resident of Raleigh, North Carolina. Anjali has a three-year-old son who is a US citizen. Even though she has applied to be repatriated, she has not yet received any positive response from US consular officials. Besides the stress of handling the situation by herself, there are other considerations too. “I am working at night just to retain my job. My H1B work visa expires in September, by which time I have to be in the US. But that seems impossible considering the new born will need a H4 dependent visa and that will take time to process,” said the software engineer, pleading with the government to help her get back home. Anjali is among several people across the country on US work visas, mostly H1Bs, who are either pregnant or whose spouses are pregnant and alone abroad. They have been demanding that the government at least allow outbound flights to ensure they reach home soon. Venu Mareddy, who is stuck in Ongole, AP, is expecting his second child with his wife who is due to deliver on May 22. “I was told it is a risky c-section. My relatives are in New York, but they have no way to travel to Columbus, Ohio.” In his case, he is on a dependent H4 visa but has an employment authorization document (EAD) that allows him to work. “But this will expire soon. If it does before I reach home, I will lose my job,” the techie said. What is worse for spouses stuck in India is the rising number of coronavirus positive cases in the US. “My wife is due to deliver in September. I am worried because there is no one to take her to the hospital,” said Ajay (name changed) who came to Mangalore from Atlanta after his father passed away. Ajay’s H1B visa extension has to be stamped which may further delay his travel. Even those with health issues are keen to go back home. Sachin Gupta, who is currently in Sultanpur, UP, brought his seven-month old to see his parent. “My son was born with a cleft foot and needs treatment which can last up to three to four years. We have already missed several doctor’s appointments,” he said. For many, being stranded in India is a double whammy, as they are also losing money for each missed medical appointment. Says Tejaswi Chinnam, who has to go for a non-pregnancy related check-up, “My insurance cover is in the US. I have an appointment with the doctor next month. In the States it takes up to three months to get confirmed appointments. A no-show means the money gets deducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stuck-in-india-expectant-mothers-seek-help-in-returning-home-to-us/articleshow/75334234.cms||Uttara Varma
April 24, 2020||Indore||Automatic machine, more manpower to up sample testing||Indore: MGM virology has been trying different ways to increase its capacity. The lab began with testing of one sample on March 21 and tested around 320 samples on April 22 with 188 others under process in PCR stage. The authorities have completed installation of one fully automatic RNA extraction machine and have also trained 10 assistant professors of microbiology department in RNA extraction and using them to reduce testing time. Both these steps were taken following directions of a four-member NCDC team, which inspected the facility on April 16 on directions of Union government. Dr Shikha Ghanghoriya, nodal officer in charge of virology lab said, “We are aiming to test anything above 480 samples a day. We are trying to consistently increase the testing capacity. The installation of one fully automated RNA extraction machine is helping us a lot.” Now, we can extract RNA of 96 samples at one go within couple of hours, said Ghanghoriya. The 10 assistant professors of microbiology department are also helping us in RNA extraction on two manual machines, said Ghanghoriya. Dean Dr Jyoti Bindal had earlier said, “For three four days after April 17, the installation process of automatic RNA extraction machine and precautionary quarantining of staff members of lab affected testing capacity.” But, now we are back to normal and focusing on increasing testing, added Bindal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/automatic-machine-more-manpower-to-up-sample-testing/articleshow/75334218.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 24, 2020||Pune||Four more succumb to contagion, record 104 test Covid-19 positive in Pune||PUNE: Four critically ill patients diagnosed with Covid-19 contagion died, while 104 new cases, including record 99 from PMC limits alone, were recorded in Pune on Thursday, taking the casualty and patient count to 985 and 63, respectively, so far. While district health officer reported two deaths, PMC has reported four. All patients had co-morbidity issues, a health official said, adding they were residents of Parvati Darshan, Mahatma Phule Peth, Bhavani Peth and Yerawada. As for the fresh cases, a person tested positive in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and four in the rural parts of Pune on Thursday. When contacted, PMC’s health department chief Ramchandra Hankare confirmed the record rise in cases and said, “It is for the first time that the city has reported such high numbers in a single day.” The previous highest of 85 was recorded on April 20. Civic health officials attributed the rise in cases to increased testing. “The testing of samples has increased in the last few days. The administration has also initiated rigorous survey in the hotspots. The contact tracing has gone up and our teams on field are identifying suspected patients too,” a civic health official said. Among the four deaths, two were reported from the Sassoon General Hospital. A 41-year-old man from Parvati Darshan diagnosed with Covid-19 contagion succumbed on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. He had underlying issues like diabetics and heart disease. Besides, a 50-year-old woman from Mahatma Phule Peth, who also had pneumonia, died at Sassoon hospital on April 21. Her swab report came positive for the contagion on Thursday. An 83-year-old man from the Bhavani Peth area was admitted to Army Institute of Cardiothoracic Sciences in Kondhwa on April 4. He had pneumonia as well as hypertension and died on Thursday. The fourth death occurred in a 56-year-old woman of Laxminagar in Yerawada. She was a patient of hypertension. The PMC has initiated home-to-home survey, under which 1.30 lakh houses have been covered so far. The civic administration has also set up 74 flu clinics and has appealed symptomatic citizens to visit the clinics. The PMC said besides treatment of positive cases, eight patients of Covid-19 contagion recovered and were discharged on Thursday. As many as 4,627 people are still in quarantine in PMC limits. One more area sealed in PCMC limitsThe Rupeenagar area of Talawade in Pimpri Chinchwad was sealed on Thursday midnight, Pavan Salve, additional medical officer of health, PCMC, said. One positive patient residing in Bhosari was discharged on Thursday after his both reports came negative. As many as 37 positive patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals in PCMC limits. So far, 60 people have tested positive in Pimpri Chinchwad, while 56 in rural areas of Pune. A total of 79 people tested negative for the contagion in areas under the PCMC limits on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-more-succumb-to-contagion-record-104-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75335376.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 24, 2020||Pune||Teacher broadcasts experiments to pupils across globe||PUNE: With schools closed due to the coronavirus pandemic, a zilla parishad teacher from Solapur has taken to igniting minds from a corner of his home. Ranjitsinh Disale has been explaining simple science experiments to students in 17 countries using Skype. He has set up a small laboratory to carry out 27 experiments on air, sound, speed, light, pressure, among others, using items of daily use. His story has been published by Microsoft on its website. Students from various countries can access the videos of his experiments. The online laboratory opens every day for different groups from 9.30 am till 4pm and again from 8pm to 9 pm. Since items of daily use are used, students can perform the same at home without the need for any special equipment. “Out of the 68 schools from across the world with whom I have conducted these sessions, 13 are zilla parishad schools from Maharashtra. The content is age-appropriate,” said Disale, a teacher in a school at Paritewadi, Solapur. He never tells students what the experiment is about in the beginning as he wants them to think about various possibilities and then arrive at a conclusion. He starts his session by taking the names of objects kept on the table in front of him. “For example, with two lemons, two glasses of water and salt, I ask students what they think the experiment is about. Without fail they tell me that I am going to make a lemonade. They ask me to put the salt in water, which I do, but when they don't see me cutting the lemons, they realise that the experiment is not about that,” said Disale. He then goes on to drop one lemon each to the two tumblers of water with and without salt respectively. “Lemon in pure water submerges, while lemon in salt water floats because the density of water is high. This is Archimedes’ principle. Water displaced by lemon has a higher mass. The students are asked to conduct the experiment with different things and understand how it works. In this process they understand the fundamentals of science well,” said Disale. He said Indian students accept things without questioning, while foreign students do not. “In India, we have a culture of teaching children that whatever the elders or teachers say is correct and in this process, they learn to accept everything without questioning. Foreign students question whatever I say and tell me that they will conduct the experiment and get back to me,” said Disale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teacher-broadcasts-experiments-to-pupils-across-globe/articleshow/75335394.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||States require big financial package from Centre: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: The central government has to give a big financial help to states to strengthen the fight against Covid-19, said chief minister Ashok Gehlot at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting held on Thursday. He stressed that unless there is such a financial package, it would be difficult for states to maintain normalcy. The Centre has not yet shown any interest in the Rs 1 lakh crore package demanded by corona-affected states and put forward by the chief minister. CM: Without fin package, revival would come under severe strainJaipur: Jaipur: “In the present situation, the biggest worry is that lakhs of people have lost livelihoods and are suffering from hunger. The central government must take steps proactively to provide food and financial security to the poor, vulnerable and needy,” the chief minister demanded. He apprised the CWC of the works being carried out by the state government. “We gave advance pension to 80 lakh beneficiaries. For the poor and destitute, we transferred Rs 2,500 to 31 lakh daily-wage earners. We will also give 10kg wheat by buying it from the open market to cater to the destitute and other deserving poor out of NFSA. This is a landmark decision,” said the chief minister. The state government’s decision to purchase 30,000 metric tonnes of additional food grains to serve 60 lakh poor outside the NFSA has become political with the state transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas taking a dig at BJP on Thursday. The minister alleged that despite the BJP bagging all 25 seats to the Lok Sabha, the state had to purchase from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to meet its demand for wheat. He alleged that the MPs failed to put pressure on the Centre to increase the state quota for wheat. He complained that the government’s constructive suggestions for centralised procurement and distribution of test kits and other equipment have been ignored. “We emphasized on rapid testing but unfortunately the test kits have failed...There is need for centralised procurement of kits, ventilators so that availability, quality and quantity can be assured,” he said. The CM maintained that without financial package, the revival of state finances and industry would come under severe strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-requirebig-financialpackage-fromcentre-gehlot/articleshow/75335400.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 24, 2020||Goa||With barges docked, long-lost shellfish return at Quelossim||PANAJI: As barge transportation of iron ore stays suspended along Goa’s rivers, the state’s biodiversity is seeing a rejuvenation. In the Zuari at Quelossim, villagers, much to their delight, have recently found that the vanishing ‘chuddio’ are back in the mangrove areas. The unique cylindrical fresh water mussel vaguely resembles a chocolate, and like many other lesser-known shellfish, it hasn’t yet been properly documented. Though not broader than green mussels, ‘chuddio’ are longer, and a mature adult can grow up to four inches long. Goa’s rivers and estuaries have a few hundred species, which have been affected by intense barge traffic in the past few decades and other forms of pollution.  “A detailed list may not be available. We only know more about commercially-important species,” said Baban Ingole, a fisheries scientist. But Goa could have in its waters over 50 bivalves and more than 100 molluscan shellfish. The lull in mining activity has seen the re-emergence of a few vanishing species of shellfish (the category also includes prawns, lobsters and crabs). An increased demand for fish is drawing locals to the riverside. “A few people are extracting this shellfish in the river’s mangroves, but in small quantities,” said Lopinho Xavier, chairman of Quelossim panchayat’s biodiversity management committee (BMC). The riverine village harbours a few shellfish species, some of them, as residents claim, not commonly found elsewhere. ‘Mare’, a little-known mangrove clam, and ‘maddoio’, another type of shellfish found in mud flats, are harvested locally and sold by the roadside. Around two decades ago, the Quelossim river banks even hosted the highly-endangered window pane oysters, now restricted in mere broodstock to Chicalim bay. In aquaculture, broodstock is used to refer to individuals used for breeding purposes. The sale of the highly-valued bivalves, also used as window panes, has been banned by Union environment ministry by their inclusion in Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act. In recent years, these bivalves have shown some resurgence in Sancoale and Chicalim areas downstream of the Zuari. “This is purely the broodstock, and if it is exhausted, they may be wiped out from its last habitat,” said Chicalim BMC member Rui M Costa Araujo. Similarly, ‘chuddio’ (fresh water mussels) were also found in the river Sal a decade ago, but now, Quelossim is perhaps the only place the broodstock is currently surviving. Most shellfish species are protein rich and are prized for their taste. “’Chuddio’ tastes good if fried with a little masala,” a villager said. Goa has a rich biodiversity of shellfish, including mangrove clams, but most of it is data-deficient in terms of public information. “Freshwater mussels are probably from the family Margaritifera or Unionidae. Some of the species are also known for pearls and hence are called freshwater pearl mussels. They are edible and are also medically important,” said Ingole, who is former head of NIO’s biological oceanography division. The BMC has included ‘chuddio’ and other species in Quelossim’s public biodiversity register to identify resources for sustainable consumption. Meanwhile, environmental concerns are being raised about the presence of rusty barges in the Zuari, as also other forms of pollution in other rivers. “We need to conserve all species as they may be close to extinction,” Xavier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-barges-docked-long-lost-shellfish-return/articleshow/75335364.cms||Paul Fernandes
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Mother-in-law of first Covid-19 victim in DK dies of the disease||Mangaluru: The Covid-19 fatality rate doubled in Dakshina Kannada, within 96 hours, after a 75-year-old woman died due to the disease at Wenlock Hospital, on Thursday. The deceased was related to P-390, the first person who died due to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada, on Sunday. This septuagenarian, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, and died later in the day, in the same circumstances in which her daughter-in-law died. The septuagenarian was being treated at First Neuro Specialty at Padil, on the city’s outskirts, after suffering from a stroke, since March 18. She was admitted to the ICU of Wenlock Hospital, with severe breathing issues, on April 22. Her throat swab was sent for testing, after she was admitted at Wenlock Hospital, and she tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. She was pronounced dead a short while after the report confirmed that she had contracted Covid-19. The district administration has already declared a 100-metre radius around First Neuro Specialty to be a containment zone, and has also declared it a supervised isolation centre. With the day’s development, the district has recorded a total 17 Covid-19 cases. While 12 of these Covid-19 patients have been discharged, three of them are undergoing treatment. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, in the official district bulletin, stated that there is no change in the health status of P-409, the neighbour of P-390, who is on ventilator support in the ICU of Wenlock Hospital. She was the 16th positive case that the district recorded on Tuesday. The district administration has sealed Kasba village in Bantwal taluk, from where P-390 hailed, following her death on Sunday, and declared it a containment zone. The district administration has shifted 50 people from this containment zone since then, including a person who was shifted on Thursday, to the isolation facility set up at the National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK) campus at Srinivasnagar, some 23km from here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mother-in-law-of-first-covid-19-victim-in-dk-dies-of-the-disease/articleshow/75331047.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cooped up indoors for weeks on end, children are facing a silent trauma||HYDERABAD: With schools shut, playgrounds inaccessible and venturing out ruled out, children are facing a tough time during the lockdown. Noticing changes in the behaviour and sleep patterns of their wards, tense parents are seeking the help of experts and counsellors. “Children are energetic and need physical activity to burn the energy. During lockdown, parents have observed behavioural changes in their children. Since they are confined within the four walls for most part of the day, it’s natural that they feel restless, gloomy and irritated,” said Dr Radhika Acharya, a clinical psychiatrist. According to experts, as children express their emotions through their actions, family should involve them in some kind of physical activity at home. “Schools are closed, but online classes are going on from 9 am to 4 pm and they are given a lot of homework. It is a big change for them,” added Dr Radhika. Parents are concerned about disturbed sleep patterns, anxiety and depression among adolescents. “Many adolescents are concerned about their entrance exams and the uncertainty lying ahead. This has also led to depression and anxiety among them,” said Dr Praveen Kumar, a psychiatrist from Apollo Hospital.“Parents or adults at home must talk to the children, ask them how they are feeling. Involve them in physical and common activities,” he added. To help the kids wriggle out of this psychological crisis, city-based child rights NGO, Balala Hakkula Sangham (BHS) collaborated with a psychotherapist to provide free counselling to those aged below 18.“Kids and teens have greater chances of suffering from mental agony and stress as they are confined to their homes. To help them we have opened a tele-counselling facility. Both children and parents can seek help from the expert,” said Achyuta Rao, president of BHS. Rao said that Dr Lavanya Miriam will provide tele-counselling between 4 pm and 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cooped-up-indoors-for-weeks-on-end-children-are-facing-a-silent-trauma/articleshow/75334249.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||9700 liquor bottles stolen||Lucknow: With shops shut during lockdown, liquor seems to be in demand, especially in the black market. Burglars broke into a store of country-made liquor in Para on Wednesday and decamped with 9,744 bottles kept inside 203 cartons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9700-liquor-bottles-stolen/articleshow/75335407.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||NGO in Goa helps connect Covid relief seekers with donors||PANAJI: During the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, if any person is looking for relief services such as food, medicine, shelter and counselling, Covid relief service directory - a unique online initiative launched by Goa based NGO, Anyay Rahit Zindagi (ARZ), promises to be of assistance. Through http://covidrelief.in/, any person or family who requires relief services will be connected to relief service providers, by giving them information about relief services at the level of a local block or taluka. Arun Pandey, director at ARZ said the idea of the Covid relief dictionary kicked off after a native of Bihar who survived commercial sexual exploitation called an Arz social worker about not having money for rations due to the lockdown. Arz ended up transferring money to her account which helped her buy food. After checking with other survivors who were rescued in Goa from commercial sexual exploitation, the team realised that mostwere without rations, and had no money to purchase medicines or pay rent. Arz then decided to connect the survivors with the relief services in their neighbourhoods. Pandey said many families in India in need of relief services, and are unable to access these, even though there are many government agencies, NGOs and individuals providing such services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngo-helps-connect-covid-relief-seekers-with-donors/articleshow/75335419.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||132 patients, including 22 linked to Tablighi Jamaat meet, cured in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Hundred and thirty two coronavirus patients, including all the 22 linked to Tablighi Jamaat, tested negative for Covid-19 in Jaipur on Thursday and have been declared cured of the virus. However, out of the 132, only six have been discharged. Out of the 22 people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, nine were found staying at a mosque in Ramganj’s Bhistiyon Ka Masjid. They all belong to Bagalkot in Karnataka. Out of these nine people from Karnataka, two underwent treatment at the SMS Hospital, while seven were asymptomatic and recovered at the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RHUS) Hospital. All of them had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 4. ‘All mosques in city searched’Jaipur: The health department searched almost all mosques in the city in the first week of April following the report of positive cases from Delhi’s Nizamudddin area. On the same day, on April 4, 13 more people linked to TJ tested positive for Covid-19. All of them were staying at different mosques in Ramganj. They too have tested negative after being treated at RUHS Hospital. Six of them are from Maharashtra, six from Tamil Nadu and one from Jharkhand. “They all have been tested negative,” a senior health department official said. He said that a total 22 people linked to Jaamat had tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur and that all of them have been cured. In Jaipur, 14 people have died of Covid-19, while 737 tested positive, till 2pm on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/132-patients-including-22-linked-to-jamaat-meet-cured-in-jaipur/articleshow/75335423.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop hangs self in Mahabubabad||Hyderabad: A 50-year-old head constable allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a tree near bus station complex in Thorrur in Mahabubabad district on Wednesday night. He reportedly had financial problems. The deceased, head constable V Upender, was attached to the Thorrur police station. He was performing lockdown duties at check points for the past one month. Around 9.30 pm, he started his journey home after finishing bandobust duties. “At around 9.45pm, locals noticed him hanging from a tree near bus station complex with a rope and alerted police,” Mahbubabad SP N Koti Reddy said. Police found a suicide note purportedly written by the victim in his pocket. “In the note, he said he had invested money in a private chit fund, but the organiser did return the amount to him. He then had to borrow Rs 5 lakh for his daughter’s wedding a month ago,” the SP said, quoting the note. Upender is survived by his wife and two children. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-hangs-self-in-mahabubabad/articleshow/75335443.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||NGO serves meals to 5,000 migrants in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: As the Covid-19 pandemic rages around, a city-based non-government organization (NGO) has been providing meals to nearly 5,000 migrants every day. The Institute of Social Studies and Transformation (IST), an initiative of city-based NGO Janvikas, is working in close coordination with deputy commissioner of police, Zone 5, to provide food to migrants twice a day through 15 self-run kitchens, a media statement said. Since the nationwide lockdown began on March 24, there have been several reports of panic and insecurity among migrant labourers working in several sectors as well as casual and contract workers. This is also true of Ahmedabad and its hinterland. Many migrant workers belonging to distant states such as UP, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal have been stuck at their work sites. In the last three weeks, several local NGOs have been distributing food packets to feed these workers by raising funds through local contributions. Besides this, community kitchens were initiated. The team and volunteers of IST have been supplying food in localities such as Gomtipur, Rakhial and Saraspur, where many of these migrant workers are located. “Our team conducted a mapping exercise to identify the number of workers in various clusters. So far we have mapped some 5,000 workers and helped them get connected to nearby community groups to access daily food packs,” the statement said. “During this period, we have been able to successfully link them all to one community group or another.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngo-serves-meals-to-5k-migrants/articleshow/75306003.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai restaurants cook up new ideas to keep pot boiling||MUMBAI: When popular restaurants—Bombay Canteen and O Pedro—made a comeback on Wednesday with online deliveries, it was the Mutton Biryani and Goan Pork Chilli that sold out within hours, an indication that the lockdown Masterchefs are still missing food from their hangouts. With uncertainty looming over when they will reopen their physical spaces, several restaurants in the city over the past week have decided to adapt to the new normal. The restaurants that have started deliveries are also going the extra mile to keep a skeletal staff in the kitchen, follow social distancing and hygiene practices, wear masks and gloves and regular temperature checks. To reassure customers, they are attaching a note informing them about the chef and delivery agent’s body temperatures along with a set of instructions to follow before consuming the food. “We had been thinking about it, but wanted to take our time to do the backend work. I don’t think restaurants and pubs are coming back to life anytime soon with the norms that would have to be followed. So while the demand for eating is not going away, where the consumption happens is set to change, and this is our way to adapt,” said Sameer Seth, partner at Hunger Inc Hospitality that runs the two restaurants. On day one, the restaurants, working out of their kitchen in Bandra Kurla Complex delivered orders from Colaba to Navi Mumbai. To keep the excitement going, the restaurant plans to change the menu every two weeks and also introduce specials for the weekend. Chef Gresham Fernandes, Culinary Director, Impresario Handmade Restaurants said that several of the brand’s restaurants including Salt Water Cafe, Smoke House Deli, Ishaara, Flea Bazaar Cafe, SOCIAL select outlets and anti SOCIAL were delivering. Fernandes said that multiple reasons—calls from regular guests for comfort food, the need to pay rent and salaries of employees and even supporting their suppliers—led to the decision to resume operations. “ We are running the kitchen at Salt Water Cafe with just five people. They stay here at the restaurant and are provided with meals and a bed. This ensures that they are safe too,” Fernandes said. Smoke House Deli, Pali Hill is also delivering DIY kits—a range of packages filled with ingredients and recipes of the restaurant—that patrons can cook at home. The company said this is a great way for parents to cook with children or couples who wanted to do something special on date nights. “Another great insight we got that it is like sanitising the food yourself. This reassures the patrons too,” a spokesperson said. The fear still looms large for many. Bandra-based mother to a six-month-old infant, Rita Jagtiani said that while the idea to have someone else cook may otherwise seem tempting, in the current situation, it was daunting. “I won’t be ordering anytime soon. I am happy eating something simple at home. We are trying to limit the number of people coming home. Irrespective of the measures taken by the restaurants, the same delivery person will be going to several homes. Why would I also want the extra pressure of cleaning the bags or handling the boxes a certain way? The fear is always going to be there. Cooking at home definitely involves a lot of work, but I just want to be safe,” she said. Restaurateurs, however, are taking each day as it comes. Saransh Goila of Goila’s Butter Chicken said, “We are seeing only about 30% of our regular volumes and if this continues it might not be worth continuing operations and putting our staff at risk. But, we also find comfort in being able to serve those who cannot cook.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/restaurants-cook-up-new-ideas-to-keep-pot-boiling/articleshow/75335452.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
April 24, 2020||Goa||‘Efforts of seafarers led to their return’||PANAJI: The return of around 180 seafarers from three cruise liners happened because of the pressure exerted by seafarers and the Goan Seamen Association of India and no political party or politician can take credit, the GFP said. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that Ayush minister Shripad Naik was the only one who followed up with the Centre regarding the issue. “This is a victory, however small, of purely the seafarer community, their families in Goa and the association trying to protect and promote their interests in Goa for the last 10 years called the Goan Seamen Association of India,” Sardesai said. Sardesai said that protests and video messages from the seafarer community jolted the state government into action and forced the Centre to take a favourable decision. Calling NCP MLA Churchil Alemao the BJP’s “attack dog”, Sardesai questioned his loyalty to the NCP. “The government is using the supposed-to-be, non-ruling NCP MLA to target me?” Sardesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/efforts-of-seafarers-led-to-their-return/articleshow/75335429.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Sanitary warriors from Lucknow Municipal Corporation working without a break||LUCKNOW: Sarvesh Kumar, a sanitary worker in Lucknow Municipal Corporation, wakes up daily at 5am, wears his uniform and mask, picks up his broom and goes straight to his assigned area to clean filth and collect garbage regardless of the coronvirus infection threat. “I make sure to complete whatever duty is assigned to me with full responsibility. I take a bath as soon as I return home after completing my duty and maintain social distance while working and also at home. Even a slight laxity will be dangerous, hence we work extra hours, but ensure cleanliness in the city,” Sarvesh told TOI. More than 10,000 sanitary workers are working overtime these days to check outbreak of Covid-19 in the city. They clean drains, sweep streets and collect garbage from bins and households. Some are also involved in sanitization drive, sprinkling disinfectant across the city. While most of the population has been asked to stay home, sanitary workers are reporting daily without taking leave or weekly offs. People are also acknowledging their contribution by thanking them or applauding for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sanitary-warriors-from-lmc-working-without-a-break/articleshow/75335442.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
April 24, 2020||Mumbai||Restaurants cook up new ideas to keep pot boiling||Mumbai: When popular restaurants—Bombay Canteen and O Pedro—made a comeback on Wednesday with online deliveries, it was the Mutton Biryani and Goan Pork Chilli that sold out within hours, an indication that the lockdown Masterchefs are still missing food from their hangouts. With uncertainty looming over when they will reopen their physical spaces, several restaurants in the city over the past week have decided to adapt to the new normal. The restaurants that have started deliveries are also going the extra mile to keep a skeletal staff in the kitchen, follow social distancing and hygiene practices, wear masks and gloves and regular temperature checks. To reassure customers, they are attaching a note informing them about the chef and delivery agent’s body temperatures along with a set of instructions to follow before consuming the food. “We had been thinking about it, but wanted to take our time to do the backend work. I don’t think restaurants and pubs are coming back to life anytime soon with the norms that would have to be followed. So while the demand for eating is not going away, where the consumption happens is set to change, and this is our way to adapt,” said Sameer Seth, partner at Hunger Inc Hospitality that runs the two restaurants. On day one, the restaurants, working out of their kitchen in Bandra Kurla Complex delivered orders from Colaba to Navi Mumbai. To keep the excitement going, the restaurant plans to change the menu every two weeks and also introduce specials for the weekend. Chef Gresham Fernandes, Culinary Director, Impresario Handmade Restaurants said that several of the brand’s restaurants including Salt Water Cafe, Smoke House Deli, Ishaara, Flea Bazaar Cafe, SOCIAL select outlets and anti SOCIAL were delivering. Fernandes said that multiple reasons—calls from regular guests for comfort food, the need to pay rent and salaries of employees and even supporting their suppliers—led to the decision to resume operations. “ We are running the kitchen at Salt Water Cafe with just five people. They stay here at the restaurant and are provided with meals and a bed. This ensures that they are safe too,” Fernandes said. Smoke House Deli, Pali Hill is also delivering DIY kits—a range of packages filled with ingredients and recipes of the restaurant—that patrons can cook at home. The company said this is a great way for parents to cook with children or couples who wanted to do something special on date nights. “Another great insight we got that it is like sanitising the food yourself. This reassures the patrons too,” a spokesperson said. The fear still looms large for many. Bandra-based mother to a six-month-old infant, Rita Jagtiani said that while the idea to have someone else cook may otherwise seem tempting, in the current situation, it was daunting. “I won’t be ordering anytime soon. I am happy eating something simple at home. We are trying to limit the number of people coming home. Irrespective of the measures taken by the restaurants, the same delivery person will be going to several homes. Why would I also want the extra pressure of cleaning the bags or handling the boxes a certain way? The fear is always going to be there. Cooking at home definitely involves a lot of work, but I just want to be safe,” she said. Restaurateurs, however, are taking each day as it comes. Saransh Goila of Goila’s Butter Chicken said, “We are seeing only about 30% of our regular volumes and if this continues it might not be worth continuing operations and putting our staff at risk. But, we also find comfort in being able to serve those who cannot cook.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/restaurants-cook-up-new-ideas-to-keep-pot-boiling/articleshow/75335450.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Youngster arrested for burglary||A thief was arrested by the Chandrayangutta police on Thursday for committing theft at a house, following which the Chandrayangutta police was rewarded with cash. The accused was identified as Shaik Khaja Yousuf who was booked under section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of IPC.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youngster-arrested-for-burglary/articleshow/75334269.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 fatality rate in PMR has critical flaws: Experts||PUNE: With 59 deaths from 881 positive cases — a figure of 6.7% as on April 22 — is Pune’s Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) at par with hotspots Italy and Spain? Not quite. Experts have cautioned against flaws in the method being used to arrive at the infection death rate. Currently, most asymptomatic people and those with mild influenza-like illness are not even being tested for Covid-19 in India. The death rate is calculated based on the number of recorded positive cases: deaths/cases. But if testing improves, an expanded denominator base brings down the CFR. An analysis of numbers from the Pune Metropolitan Region shows a consistent fall in the death rate after the second week of April, when private labs joined to ramp up testing. Experts said the drop explains why Covid-19’s CFR is misleading. Specialists TOI spoke to said the CFR calculation ignores untested asymptomatic or mild cases of Covid-19 and instead considers only those who tested positive. South Korea, which can test as many as 20,000 people in a day, is a good example. The country’s overall CFR has been less than 1% because of an expanded denominator base, which included mild or asymptomatic cases. But in countries like Italy, Spain and India, where only people in care are being screened, case fatality rates have exceeded 5% because the denominator is much smaller, experts said. “The exact number of positive cases in regions of India, including Pune, are currently unknown,” said epidemiologist and professor at DY Patil Medical College, Amitav Banerjee. “If we test asymptomatic and mild cases, we will have more positive cases and the death rate will reduce. Due to gaps in healthcare, only the very severe cases are seeking treatment. So the fatality rate may not reflect the true severity of Covid-19. It may even overestimate it,” he said. Public health expert Subhash Salunke, an advisor to the state government, said, “There is no denying that the death rate will dip if we consider sub-clinical cases.” Senior physician DB Kadam, head of the task force set up to curb deaths in Pune, said patients, on an average, were reporting to hospitals only on the sixth day from onset of illness. “Self-delays in treatment is a common thread among a sizeable number of infected in Pune,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-fatality-rate-in-pmr-has-critical-flaws-experts/articleshow/75335447.cms||Umesh Isalkar
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||IAS association gives up hike in DA||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat IAS Officers Association on Wednesday voluntarily decided and passed a resolution to relinquish the increase in the dearness allowance (DA) of their members for the financial year 2020-21. The amount relinquished by the IAS officers will be contributed to the state government for use in Covid-19 outbreak control activities. The government of India is also reportedly considering a proposal to suspend disbursement of increased DA for its employees. Punamchand Parmar, additional chief secretary (ACS) who is president of the Gujarat IAS association and Hareet Shukla, secretary, science & technology department and secretary of the IAS association, after consulting with members, submitted a written consent to the state government to relinquish their DA rise for the current financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ias-association-gives-up-hike-in-da/articleshow/75306020.cms||Kapil Dave
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Donate blood: Asad urges the recovered||Hyderabad: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi in a video on Thursday urged people who have recovered from coronavirus to donate blood. "Health ministry has issued a statement asking people who have recovered from coronavirus to donate blood by visiting their nearest Red Cross center. Doctors have said it can be used to fight coronavirus," said Owaisi. He added that Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act is being used to suppress the voice of Muslims and Dalits and condemned Maharashtra’s Palghar district incident where three persons were killed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/donate-blood-asad-urges-the-recovered/articleshow/75334316.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Migrants shifted to temporary shelters||Animal Husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, GHMC Mayor Bonthu Rammohan along with officials on Thursday identified around 300 migrants in Secunderabad and shifted them to function halls being used as temporary shelter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/migrants-shifted-to-temporary-shelters/articleshow/75334333.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||Six fight back Covid-19 in Gujarat's Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: Six patients won the battle against Covid-19 on Thursday in Anand district and were discharged from the hospital. These include two boys, 9 and 11 years old, and a 56-year-old woman from Nadiad, Bharti Shah, who was also suffering from other medical conditions including thyroid and diabetes. In presence of top officials from the district administration, the patients from Khambhat’s Aling crossroads area and neighbouring Nadiad town of Kheda district walked out of Anand’s civil hospital on Thursday evening amid thunderous applause from the medical team which was treating them at the government hospital. Nine-year-old Yuvraj Rana and 11-year-old Vansh Rana kept waving at the nursing staff of the hospital as they, along with three other family members, boarded an ambulance to return to their home. All the patients had tested positive on April 14 and April 15 f in Khambhat. “While six patients have been discharged from the civil hospital, two other patients who are currently admitted at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad, have also tested negative. They will be discharged soon,” said Anand district collector R G Gohil, who remained present at the hospital as the patients were being discharged. “The discharge of the Nadiad patient shows that even those having other co-morbid conditions can recover from the infection,” Gohil said. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district touched 38 as a 27-year-old nurse of Petlad’s civil hospital tested positive. The woman is a resident of staff quarters of the civil hospital campus of Petlad. Of the 38 who have tested positive, nine have been discharged, two died while 27 are currently being treated at various hospitals .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nadiad-woman-and-five-others-discharged-in-anand/articleshow/75330904.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Mortality rate in Rajasthan much below national average||JAIPUR: Being among the top five states reporting highest number of Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan is at 15th spot in the list of states having high mortality rates due to Covid-19. The mortality rate in Rajasthan stands at 1.43, while in Meghalaya it is highest at 8.33. Maharashtra reported the highest number of 269 deaths in the country with a mortality rate of 4.76. The figures are up to April 22. The first case in the state was reported on March 3 when an Italian tourist was found infected with the virus. However, the first death was reported on March 26 when a 73-year-old person died of Covid-19, since then 27 people have died in the state. The first death was reported from Bhilwara. “Mortality rate due to Covid-19 in the state is just 1.43%,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. Sharma said those who died in the state after being tested positive for Covid-19 were already suffering from pre-existing conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, renal and cardiac diseases. He said the national average of mortality rate due to Covid-19 is 3.18, while in the state it is 1.43. However, in the state, majority of the people tested positive for Covid-19 were below 60 years and they did not have any co-morbidities. However, the health department claimed that early detection is the key to save lives of the people tested positive for Covid-19. “In any such epidemic, it is the primary responsibility of the government to save lives. By early detection through aggressive testing coupled with superior quality care at our designated facilities, we have managed to keep the mortality as one of the lowest in the country, if one compares with similar states,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Besides, majority of the patients are below 60 years of age. “Demographic profile of the patients has also helped as more than 75% of the cases are below 60 years of age,” Singh said. According to a report shared by the health department, the states which reported highest deaths are Maharashtra (269), Gujarat (103), Madhya Pradesh (80), Delhi (48) and Rajasthan (27). In the state, highest number of deaths have been reported from Jaipur (14), Kota (3), two each in Jodhpur and Bhilwara and one each in Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Tonk, Nagaur and one from UP who died in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mortality-rate-in-state-much-below-national-average/articleshow/75335448.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Jobs under MGNREGA back, but with riders||CHENNAI: Sixty-five-year-old Kalyani of Dindugal’s Sengakadu village heaved a sigh of relief when she heard that the state government had decided to allow resumption of the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme on Thursday. She was hoping to get back to work as making ends meet for herself and her mother was becoming increasingly difficult. “Before the lockdown, I used to get work for two weeks that guaranteed at least Rs 1,800 a month. The government ration and earnings from MGNREGA work were sufficient for me and my mother to have three meals a day for a month. Apart from the ‘noorunaal velai’ (100 days work), I stopped working as an agricultural worker due to deteriorating health,” said Kalyani. For 82.67 lakh workers, including 62.64 lakh women, the world’s largest employment scheme is a safety net. Though projects under the scheme will resume from Friday, after a gap of 30 days, the government has issued certain riders. Whether it would mean an earning for all is a question. Chief secretary K Shanmugam, on Thursday said the work should not be taken up in the Covid-19 containment zones and red blocks. Going by this, the work would be allowed in 187 of the 388 blocks in 37 districts (excluding Chennai). “It should be subjected to the condition that the workers are provided with masks and not more than one-third of the required number of workers are mobilised,” read the order of the chief secretary. Strict physical distancing guidelines should be followed. Authorities said 56 types of agriculture and allied work would be taken up as per the guidelines. “We will allow five to 10 workers at each worksite. We have to use the available funds to procure masks for the workers and ensure that they follow social distancing norms,” said a project director of a district rural development agency. Following the enhancement of the wage from Rs 229 to Rs 256 per day, the MGNREGA scheme would be much sought after among the rural dwellers during these testing times, but employment of all active workers would be difficult, the official said. “With earning opportunities drying up during the lockdown, more number workers will turn up for MGNREGA work. It will be difficult to ensure a job for everyone,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jobs-under-mgnrega-back-but-with-riders/articleshow/75334338.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
April 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Two escape from quarantine centre||Vijayawada: Panic gripped residents of Mylavaram after two suspected Covid-19 patients—Venkateswara Rao (33) and Narasamma (30)—escaped from a quarantine centre at Mylavaram in Krishna district on Thursday. Mylavaram police said the duo had violated the lockdown restrictions in the past by visiting their relatives’ place in Mylavaram, following which, officials put them through medical tests and shifted them to a local quarantine centre. A case has been registered against them for violating quarantine rules. Police sources said that the two managed to reach Kodada town. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-escape-from-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75331143.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Relaxation in rules to pave way for more transport vehicles||Kolhapur: The Regional Transport Office (RTO), Kolhapur, has granted permission to more than 6,500 vehicles to transport essential goods and commodities in the district. With the government offering some relaxation in rules after April 20, the transport activities in Kolhapur district may now gain momentum. As per the zoning system, Kolhapur falls in the orange zone. Hence, some relaxations, like starting industrial and agricultural activities, have been allowed in the district. All the stakeholders will require the transport service to carry out their works. The industrial units will need trucks to procure raw materials and dispatch finished goods to the destinations as per demand. The farmers will need tractors to plough their fields and trucks to supply fertilisers and other essential materials.After the government announced some relaxations, the district administration felt the need to increase vehicular movement. It asked the concerned authorities to grant permission to the industrial units and farmers who would need vehicles to get raw materials and supply their goods. Following this, various government agencies including the regional transport office (RTO), police and market committees granted permission to some industries and farmers to ply their vehicles on road. Regional transport officer, Kolhapur division, S T Alwaris said, “Soon after the lockdown was imposed, we had granted permission to only those vehicles providing essential services and transporting essential commodities, like food grains and vegetables, to ply on roads. The supply of diesel and petrol were also limited to ensure that vehicles other than those of essential services did not take to the roads.”“After the government announced some relaxation in rules post April 20, we hastened the process of granting permission to vehicles for transportation and other purposes. So far, we have granted permission to vehicles that are carrying food grains, vegetables, industrial goods, raw material and fertilisers. As the industries start, we will receive more applications from transporters seeking permission to start operations,” said Alwaris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/relaxation-in-rules-to-pave-way-for-more-transport-vehicles/articleshow/75333021.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vijayawada||36 woman staff of Disha PS quarantined||Vijayawada: A day after the city police quarantined two cops who aided a Covid-19 patient, another 36 women police staff were put under quarantine as secondary contacts on Thursday. According to cops, the entire staff of Disha police station including a DSP-rank officer has been kept under quarantine after the incident surfaced. Police sources said since both the sub-inspector and a cyber expert were found to be primary contacts of the deceased Covid-19 patient, the entire staff of Disha police station have been kept in home quarantine for the time being. “We have also sent the samples of the sub-inspector and cyber expert for Covid-19 testing and are awaiting for its results,” a senior city police official told TOI. The incident happened on April 20 when the 55-year-old woman who was suffering from dehydration and fever was first taken to Global Hospital by her family. Later, the hospital authorities advised them to take her to old GGH as they did not have outpatient services. Since there were no vehicles, a sub-inspector and a cyber expert working at the Disha police station took her along with her husband to the GGH in on their vehicle. Eventually, the woman passed away while she was being taken to ESI hospital from New Vijayawada GGH. During the course of contact tracing, it was learnt that both the SI and the cyber expert happen to have transported them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/36-woman-staff-of-disha-ps-quarantined/articleshow/75331133.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Claps, flowers for sanitary staff||Lucknow: Appreciating efforts of sanitary workers, many citizens on Thursday garlanded and showered flowers on them such as in Samar Vihar Colony in Alambagh and in Pandeyganj. Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, who had appealed to people to show this gesture to sanitary staff, did ‘aarti’ of the workers before they left for their duties on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/claps-flowers-for-sanitary-staff/articleshow/75335455.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Just 18 per cent of infected are 60+ but account for over 50 per cent of deaths||NEW DELHI: Of the 2,376 Covid-19 positive cases in Delhi as on Thursday, only 443 (18%) are aged 60 and above. However, the elderly constitute 52% of all deaths underscoring the severity the disease can cause if they get affected by it. Government data shows mortality rate is the highest (6%) among those aged 60 and above compared with 3% aged between 50 and 59 and 0.64% in people younger than 50. As India looks to ease lockdown restrictions, experts said it is important to develop a long-term strategy to protect the elderly from contracting Covid-19. Dr VK Paul, member of Niti Aayog, on Thursday said if older people fall sick, then they need to be identified early and all efforts should be made to protect them. “The mortality and severity of Covid-19 is higher in senior citizens. There’s a clear message that they have to be protected at all costs,” said Paul, who is also heading a panel to coordinate efforts to tackle the novel coronavirus outbreak. Paul was addressing an interacting session organised by Niti Ayog on how to take care of senior citizens during Covid-19. The session was also attended by epidemiologist Dr HPS Sachdev, who suggested continuation of physical distancing well beyond the lockdown period for elderly people. “They shouldn’t go out. Also, family members or caregivers should maintain a safe distance, say a metre or two, while talking to them and always follow coughing etiquette,” Sachdev said. The epidemiologist added that physical distancing shouldn’t lead to complete isolation socially. “It’s important to remain connected through phone or by watching TV to relax a little. In-house activities, such as medication or yoga, can be done to relieve stress and anxiety,” he said. Dr AB Dey, professor and head of geriatrics division at AIIMS, said senior citizens are predisposed to developing complications if they get any infection. “This virus is new. It is known to cause serious complications in the elderly. Therefore, it is important to prevent them from contracting it and, in case they develop symptoms, they must be taken to the right health facility immediately for timely treatment,” he added. “If the elderly develop symptoms such as breathing difficulty or pneumonia, they must be hospitalised. With timely medical support, chances of recovery are higher,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant (internal medicine) at Apollo Hospital. The risk of developing serious complications by Covid-19 isn’t the only worry for senior citizens. A survey conducted by NGO Agewell Foundation shows that 70% of the elderly are either already facing health complications or fearing to develop them due to the lockdown. The survey involved telephone interaction with 5,000 senior citizens. They said access to regular medicines or physiotherapy was the most critical health challenge being faced by them. Anxiety, sleeplessness, lack of appetite and physical activity were others. Interestingly, Agewell Foundation said 59% of elderly claimed they felt lonely and isolated even amid family members. “The primary reasons were neglect by younger family members, unsympathetic relationship, discriminatory behavior and rising frustration levels,” the NGO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-18-of-infected-are-60-but-account-for-over-50-of-deaths/articleshow/75335789.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||Kids in Covid-19 hotspots face risk over delayed immunisation, warn experts||Belagavi: The state government on Thursday resumed routine immunisation activities, that were hampered during the nation-wide lockdown across the state, barring Covid-19 hotspots. According to a government notification, routine vaccination drive, which was halted in the state on March 23, will be carried out in the state barring containment zones or Covid clusters. According to the available data, there are 337 containment zones where children will not be administered immunity shots. Although the government officials cite possible infection from exposure as the reason behind continued suspension of immunisation drive in containment zones, it appears lack of clarity in policy may be the actual reason. Speaking to TOI, B N Rajani, deputy director, immunisation, health and family welfare department, said: “We admit that delay beyond three weeks between two doses is not advisable. The programme was hampered for over three weeks due to Covid-19 situation.” “It is impediment to further suspend the programme at Covid-19 hotspots as we cannot expose children to infection. The government has to come up with a new set of guidelines and until then no vaccination except shots for newborns will be administered at Covid-19 hotspots,” she said. Delhi-based public health activist and advocate E Premdas Pinto said, “There are several undernourished children who are prone to diseases which these vaccines can prevent. The government has to go by principle of proportionality while dealing with public health system. We cannot ignore our other responsibilities. Barring hotspots from the programme is simply irrational and illogical.”. Premdas said immunity issues may not show up immediately. “Immunity building takes time and children are at risk in the long term. The government has to come up with solution for these zones,” he added. Sylvia Karpagam, a doctor and public health researcher from Bengaluru, said, “The guidelines are discriminatory. Every child is entitled for vaccination and we cannot deprive the children of their right. The move clearly shows that they lack planning for these clusters. “The government should provide PPEs to health workers, designate places and allow people come to come for vaccination drive. It is not that difficult,” said Sylvia. What are the vaccines? Most of the vaccines are administered to children between 0 to 1 year. They are given BCG at birth. Other shots are IPV, HIB vaccine, Triple Antigen, Hepatitis B and Varilix. At the age of five OPV and TD vaccines are administered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kids-in-covid-19-hotspots-face-risk-over-delayed-immunisation-warn-experts/articleshow/75331136.cms||Shreyas HS
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||217 new Covid-19 cases in Gujarat; 151 from Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The city continued to record high number of Covid-19 positive cases. On Thursday, Ahmedabad district recorded 70% of the new cases or 151 out of 217 cases. The city also recorded seven deaths out of nine recorded on Thursday. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said they are in no number competition with any state or country and there is no reason to slow down tests. The state government faced criticism on Thursday for capping maximum daily tests at 3,000. “It doesn’t matter whether Gujarat is second, third or fourth… We are employing transparent and intensive methods to identify new cases from hotspots. We started preparations for Covid-19 from beginning of March,” she said. “Out of the total, 2,500 would be for the new cases whereas 500 would be for the 2,200-plus positive patients in state hospitals. With rapid antibody testing (RAT), the number would be higher,” she added. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat has carried out 42,384 tests to find positive cases. Ravi said 150 ventilators from a Rajkot-based firm were received on Thursday. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat has 28 patients on ventilator said state health officials. With the new cases, Ahmedabad district recorded 1,652 positive cases, which is 63% of Gujarat's total . The district also recorded 62% of deaths in the state. Out of the seven deaths recorded in Ahmedabad, two were women and five were men. Of these, one was a cardiac patient whereas four others had hypertension and one had diabetes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/217-new-cases-in-state-151-from-city/articleshow/75335463.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Mumbai||After a month of lockdown, more questions than answers in Mum||Mumbai: In a month since the lockdown against the coronavirus began, cases have soared in the state and Mumbai, raising questions about how effectively the restrictions were implemented. The state added 6,320 Covid-19 cases and reported 280 deaths, while Mumbai, which had only 41 cases on March 24, saw cases jumping 100-fold to reach 4,205 on Thursday. There was mixed reaction among doctors, healthcare experts and bureaucrats on whether the lockdown worked in the city with a population of 12 million squeezed into a habitable area of only 120 sq km. Mumbai accounts for 65% of the state’s cases. “Implementation of the lockdown in Mumbai was not done effectively. Even till two days ago, we saw traffic at toll nakas. Also, slums in Mumbai are still a concern and an effective mechanism has not yet been worked out,” said a senior official. Senior bureaucrats said good results have been seen in places where the lockdown was implemented effectively. One of them cited the example of Islampur in Sangli that reported 26 cases killing the threat with a very effective containment plan. Too many things in Mumbai were left till the very last, they complained.Health minister Rajesh Tope said a lot has been covered in the last one month, including increasing the testing capacity many fold. From just three labs in the state initially, there are 38 now. A total of 7,200 tests per day are being conducted in the state, and 3,000 in Mumbai. The fatality rate that was quite high in the state as well as the city, hovering about 7% last week, was also a cause for concern at the national level. Tope said the case fatality rate has been brought down to 5% and less currently. A senior civic official said Mumbai should have announced the lockdown at least a month before the others. “We are an international hub, but we didn’t stop air traffic till the rest of the country did. Dubai or UAE were not even on the list of high-risk countries till March 14-15. So thousands of people, several of them slumdwellers, came from the Middle East and entered the dense pockets,” he said. BMC commissioner Pravin Pardeshi has said in multiple interviews that many positive cases in Dharavi were traced to travellers coming from the UAE and also people who attended the Tablighi Markaz in Delhi. Mumbai’s civic administration has also come under major criticism for flip-flops in the testing criteria. On April 12, as cases rose steadily, it decided to stop testing high-risk asymptomatic contacts. After criticism, it reverted. On the ground though, the two circulars issued in a span of three days caused massive confusion among the workers. A decision to audit deaths and the formation of a task force on April 15 too has been viewed with scepticism. A senior doctor said: “While we should be looking if people suffering from other ailments are dying of Covid, we are looking into Covid deaths to see whether those numbers can be reduced. Death criteria and discharge protocols are still in the making even as we are in the 46th day of tackling the epidemic.” The civic body’s attempts to ramp up Covid care facilities have also been sputtering. Till a few days ago, the only excusive Covid-19 hospital was the 420-bed SevenHills Hospital in Marol. Over the last few weeks, it has roped in several private hospitals, such as Saifee, Nanavati, among others, to work as dedicated Covid hospitals. The count of beds in such facilities is now 1500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-a-month-of-lockdown-more-questions-than-answers-in-mum/articleshow/75335465.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||‘Char Dham Yatra to begin sans pilgrims’||Dehradun: The four Char Dham shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri would only be opened for religious activities and rituals by priests and pilgrims won’t be allowed, the state government said on Thursday. While Gangotri and Yamunotri are scheduled to open on April 26, the portals of Kedarnath would open on April 29. The Badrinath shrine – which was earlier scheduled to open on April 30 – is now slated to open on May 15, as announced by the government a few days ago. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI that allowing devotees to the shrines was “not possible under the current scenario.” He added, “I had a video conference with all district magistrates concerned and the preparations are almost complete. The trek route to Kedarnath is clear, electricity and water arrangements have been made. We are waiting for further guidelines on the lockdown to take a decision on pilgrims.” Meanwhile, the state government intends to allow only a limited number of priests inside the temple premises for the religious rituals. As reported by TOI earlier, Badri Kedar Temple Committee has requested DM Rudrapayag to grant permission for 16 people for the opening ceremony of Kedarnath. Meanwhile, a high number of advance bookings to the Char Dham shrines – especially those which were in the months of April and May – have been cancelled. Out of total bookings worth Rs 4 crore received by GMVN – the nodal agency for the yatra – advance bookings to the tune of Rs 1.5 crore have been cancelled. To prevent people from cancelling their bookings, GMVN had also offered them to avail the package any time later this year or in the coming two years. The rooms and other facilities would be provided at the same tariff and no extra charges would be taken, the agency has offered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-yatra-to-begin-sans-pilgrims/articleshow/75333036.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 24, 2020||Mumbai||After a month of lockdown, more questions than answers in Mum||Mumbai: In a month since the lockdown against the coronavirus began, cases have soared in the state and Mumbai, raising questions about how effectively the restrictions were implemented. The state added 6,320 Covid-19 cases and reported 280 deaths, while Mumbai, which had only 41 cases on March 24, saw cases jumping 100-fold to reach 4,205 on Thursday. There was mixed reaction among doctors, healthcare experts and bureaucrats on whether the lockdown worked in the city with a population of 12 million squeezed into a habitable area of only 120 sq km. Mumbai accounts for 65% of the state’s cases. “Implementation of the lockdown in Mumbai was not done effectively. Even till two days ago, we saw traffic at toll nakas. Also, slums in Mumbai are still a concern and an effective mechanism has not yet been worked out,” said a senior official. Senior bureaucrats said good results have been seen in places where the lockdown was implemented effectively. One of them cited the example of Islampur in Sangli that reported 26 cases killing the threat with a very effective containment plan. Too many things in Mumbai were left till the very last, they complained.Health minister Rajesh Tope said a lot has been covered in the last one month, including increasing the testing capacity many fold. From just three labs in the state initially, there are 38 now. A total of 7,200 tests per day are being conducted in the state, and 3,000 in Mumbai. The fatality rate that was quite high in the state as well as the city, hovering about 7% last week, was also a cause for concern at the national level. Tope said the case fatality rate has been brought down to 5% and less currently. A senior civic official said Mumbai should have announced the lockdown at least a month before the others. “We are an international hub, but we didn’t stop air traffic till the rest of the country did. Dubai or UAE were not even on the list of high-risk countries till March 14-15. So thousands of people, several of them slumdwellers, came from the Middle East and entered the dense pockets,” he said. BMC commissioner Pravin Pardeshi has said in multiple interviews that many positive cases in Dharavi were traced to travellers coming from the UAE and also people who attended the Tablighi Markaz in Delhi. Mumbai’s civic administration has also come under major criticism for flip-flops in the testing criteria. On April 12, as cases rose steadily, it decided to stop testing high-risk asymptomatic contacts. After criticism, it reverted. On the ground though, the two circulars issued in a span of three days caused massive confusion among the workers. A decision to audit deaths and the formation of a task force on April 15 too has been viewed with scepticism. A senior doctor said: “While we should be looking if people suffering from other ailments are dying of Covid, we are looking into Covid deaths to see whether those numbers can be reduced. Death criteria and discharge protocols are still in the making even as we are in the 46th day of tackling the epidemic.” The civic body’s attempts to ramp up Covid care facilities have also been sputtering. Till a few days ago, the only excusive Covid-19 hospital was the 420-bed SevenHills Hospital in Marol. Over the last few weeks, it has roped in several private hospitals, such as Saifee, Nanavati, among others, to work as dedicated Covid hospitals. The count of beds in such facilities is now 1500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-a-month-of-lockdown-more-questions-than-answers-in-mum/articleshow/75335464.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Kharif crop loans expedited in state||Jaipur: About Rs 50 crore has been distributed to more than 25,000 farmers in past five days, as Kharif crop loans have been expedited in the state. Cooperatives minister said that the distribution of Kharif crop loans to farmers was started from April 16. The minister said that in the light of the coronavirus pandemic, necessary orders have been issued for faster Kharif crop loan disbursals. The state government is also providing seeds free of cost to the farmers. He said that for the first time in the state, Rajasthan State Cooperative Bank (Apex Bank) has earned the highest operating profit of Rs 111.50 crore in a financial year. He informed that apart from Apex Bank, all the District Central Cooperative Banks of the state have also earned operating profits in the last financial year. Anjana said that Tonk Central Cooperative Bank has earned a net profit of Rs 12 crore, which is the highest among all 29 central cooperative banks in the state. He informed that as per the set norms of Reserve Bank of India, the capital adequacy ratio (CAR) of all District Central Cooperative Banks including the Apex Bank, has been more than minimum of 9 per cent. The minister said in the current financial year, many new initiatives to promote digital banking services will be launched. These include mobile banking service, PFMS service, Bharat Bill payment system, Apex Bank’s ATM at railway stations and multi-function kiosks to improve digital payments in cooperative banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kharif-crop-loans-expedited-in-state/articleshow/75335457.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Quiet T Nagar bleeds Rs 135 crore per day, but locals thrive||CHENNAI: Something as simple as a bicycle passing through deserted Vivekananda Street at T Nagar is enough to trigger nostalgia in S Pasupathi. The 76-year-old is immediately transported to the days nearly three decades ago when he would pedal through a traffic-free North Usman Road. “I was working in the marketing sector and made T Nagar my home in 1988. North Usman Road and the streets branching out of the main road were not congested with motor vehicles as they are in 2020. Bicycles moved without any obstructions,” he says. While an eerie silence has fallen over one of Asia’s largest commercial hub thanks to the lockdown, senior citizens like Pasupathi are narrating the past glory of a once noise-free area to the younger generation. After a long time, they are witnessing streets, that are usually victims to unauthorised parking and illegal constructions, empty. Over the past month, deserted roads and closed multi-storeyed buildings of retail giants in the area, that records an annual turnover of Rs 50,000 crore, has made T Nagar a less polluted, less noisy and cleaner cluster. B Kannan has been living on Ranganathan Street since 1974. “The locality was a hub of traditional vegetarian cafes. Rameswaram Street used to be lined up with provision and vegetable shops to cater to locals before a retail major opened in 1989 changing the topography of T Nagar,” he says. The retail major multipled its stores and set the tone for more businesses to set shop at T Nagar. Kannan, who is also secretary of the T Nagar Residents Welfare Association, said the nerve centre of retail textile, gold and other consumer products records an average sale of Rs 135 crore a day. However, after T Nagar became a commercial hub, many residents shifted out as real estate prices shot up and firms were vying with each other to buy every square foot. While heat generated by centralised airconditioner ducts pushed up the humidity, the thousands of customers who thronged the area and the multitude of vehicles gave rise to increasing noise and air pollution. “But the lockdown has had a profound change, allowing residents to lead life with peace of mind. We can rest inside our homes with just a fan on by throwing open the doors whithout fear of suffocation,” he said, adding that sparrows and parrots have returned to the area after several decades. “However, sparrows cannot build nests because the area has lost many trees,” he said. Residents relax on their terrace and interact with each other in the evenings as they would 25 years ago. V S Jayaraman of Motilal Street was delighted he could view the whole of Ranganathan Street, without the bobbing of thousands of heads, from Usman Road. “Thanks to lockdown,” he beams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quiet-t-nagar-bleeds-rs-135cr/day-but-locals-thrive/articleshow/75334358.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Legislator gets flak for tractor rally||Vijayawada: YSRC MLA K Sanjeevaiah has come under flak for holding a rally with 30 tractors under the guise of distributing essential supplies across Sullurpet area in Nellore district on Wednesday. The incident came to light on Thursday after the videos of the rally went viral on Twitter resulting in widespread condemnation. In the video, several YSRC cadres are found sitting in the tractors under the guise of distributing grocery for the poor. YSRC Rajya Sabha MP V Prabhakar Reddy too was present in the rally. The grocery distribution programmes in Andhra Pradesh have become a potential crisis waiting to erupt as huge gatherings defying the lockdown have become a common sight across the state. Earlier this month, another YSRC MLA from Kovur, Prasanna Kumar Reddy, was booked for violating the lockdown after his grocery distribution programme led to a massive gathering of 4,500 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/legislator-gets-flak-for-tractor-rally/articleshow/75331159.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra minister tests positive for Covid-19||THANE: A state minister who was under treatment at a private hospital for fever, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. He is the first member of the Maharashtra cabinet to be hospitalised for the infection. The minister was initially admitted to a private hospital in Thane on Tuesday and later shifted to Mumbai, where he was kept in ICU. Earlier this month, 16 people working at the minister’s bungalow had tested positive. Following this, the minister put himself in home quarantine though he had tested negative then. Also, two of his associates—a former corporator and an ex MP—and the MP’s wife have tested positive. Minister’s kin in home quarantineOn Tuesday, the minister was admitted to a private hospital in Thane with symptoms including fever and later shifted to a hospital in Mulund. His reports came positive on Thursday. “The cabinet minister has tested positive and is taking treatment in Mumbai. His family members are in home quarantine. We suspect he might have got the infection from the positive patients he was in contact with,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation. Milind Narvekar, Shiv Sena secretary and a friend of the minister, said he was responding well to treatment. “His health has improved. He spoke to his wife and daughter on Wednesday and Thursday over phone and spoke with me as well,” said Narvekar. (Inputs by Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maha-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75335467.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Dist admin to use two-wheelers for disaster management in Walled City||Jaipur: A motorbike company has gifted 20 two-wheelers to the district administration to strenghthen its efforts to spread awareness among people about Covid-19 especially in disaster management and helping the poor during the crisis mostly in Walled City area. District collector Joga Ram while expressing gratitude to the company said the two-wheelers will be useful in spreading information about the virus and for quick access in the narrow lanes of Walled City area. The collector said 17 motorcycles and three scooties have been provided by Heromoto Corp to the district administration. “These vehicles will be helpful in disseminating information about ways to prevent spread of infection, about getting tests done if there are symptoms and other information with regard to the lockdown in virus-hit areas and Walled City by placing loudspeakers on these vehicles,” he added. “The civil defence personnel and other people working in the field will carry out publicity work related to disaster management,” he added. General manager of the company's Kukas plant, G P Raju, said 30,000 masks and about 500 litres of sanitisers have also been provided to the district administration by the firm. “Along with this, cooked food is being made available to 2,000 poor people in Aamer area for about a month now,” he said. Box MLA urges MP to write to Centre for aid Jaipur: Adarsh Nagar MLA Rafiq Khan on Thursday wrote to Jaipur city MP Ramcharan Bohra and urged him to request the Centre to release foodgrains from FCI godowns for the poor and also write to the Centre and help in getting relief package demanded by Rajasthan government. He also urged him to sanction money from MP-LAD fund for purchasing food items for the poor. The MLA also requested Bohra to accompany him on a visit to the city to understand the situation better. The MLA donated Rs 60 lakh to the CM Covid-19 relief fund on Thursday. so far, he has donated Rs 1.66 crore. Social justice and empowerment minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal also sanctioned Rs 20 lakh from MLA-LAD fund to prevent virus spread in Churu district. Box Jaipur: Ajitabh Sharma, nodal officer for prevention of COVID-19 infection, met the five-member central team and briefed them about the efforts taken so far for its prevention and management in the district. The team members including Sanjeev Kaushik, Dr. Harshal Salve, Bindu Tiwari, S K Jena and Devendra S Uike, were on a visit to the city to take stock of the situation. Graphics State government’s disaster management fund allocation for March and April Total amount released: Rs 312.17 crore Funds released to collectors: Rs 63.80 crore Medical and Health Department: Rs 248.37 crore #Ventilators and other medical equipment March: Rs 62.15 crore April: Rs 149.12 crore #Masks, PPE kits and other materials March: Rs 2.10 crore April (rapid testing kits): Rs 35 crore #For temporary accommodation, food, clothes, medical facility and screening and screening of migrant workers living in quarantine centers and shelter homes and for PPE kits of health workers, policemen and safai karamchari. March: Rs 8.70 crore, untied fund: Rs 4.10 crore April: Rs 51 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dist-admin-to-use-two-wheelers-for-disaster-management-in-walled-city/articleshow/75335469.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||IIT Roorkee professor develops software to detect Covid-19 in 3-5 seconds, files for ICMR review||DEHRADUN: A professor at IIT-Roorkee has claimed to have developed a Covid-19 test software that can detect the virus infection in 3-5 seconds. Professor Kamal Jain of the civil engineering department claimed over 60,000 chest x-rays were analysed to create an artificial intelligence database for the software, which detects presence of the virus on the basis of chest congestion, similar to how tuberculosis is detected. He has approached Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for its review. Talking to TOI, professor Jain said it took him over 40 days to develop the software, which he alleged can not only save time, as it will give the result in seconds, but also reduce costs, like that of traditional testing kits, manpower used in testing, as well as deployment of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. “This kind of software is first-of-a-kind in the country. I’ve approached ICMR to get it ratified. To develop the software, I analysed over 60,000 chest x-ray images that include those of Covid-19 patients, bacterial pneumonia, normal chest x-rays, as well as the chest x-ray database of NIH Clinical Center in the US,” Jain said. He added, “The usual cause of death in the sample cases I have analysed were severe pneumonia. Most types of pneumonia we know of, for which patients need hospitalisation, are bacterial in origin, and respond to antibiotics. Pneumonia caused by Covid-19 is particularly severe, and tends to affect all of the lungs, instead of small parts. Identifying bilateral opacities, pattern of fluid build-up in lungs, nature of clumps and its overall arrangement is the main source of identification, but it takes time and experience for physicians who know how to look at the data. But with our AI-based app, we can quantitatively classify such patterns in no time, and that too for thousands of patients.” Using the app, Jain said, doctors can simply upload or click the picture of a patient’s x-ray, and the app will process it to classify whether the patient has any sign of pneumonia, classify whether it is induced by bacteria or Covid-19, and measure the severity of the infection. “The main advantage of this app is that it is able to process lakhs of x-ray images in a matter of minutes, and classify a patient according to the level of coronal infection, to help hospital administration decide which patient needs to be put on ventilator first. Thus, with this app, we can not only identify which patients is corona-infected, but also determine the severity of infection with visualisation of those parts of the lungs that are infected, and add a level of smart management by automatically arranging patients who need to be ventilated in a queue,” added the professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-roorkee-prof-develops-software-to-detect-covid-19-in-3-5-secs-files-for-icmr-review/articleshow/75333063.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||Met predicts rain, thunder in Uttarakhand from April 26||DEHRADUN: The regional meteorological centre on Thursday issued a weather forecast stating that a fresh spell of rain and thunderstorm will hit Uttarakhand from April 26 and is expected to continue till the end of this month. Met office also issued a yellow-colour warning of hail and lightning at isolated places in the hills of Uttarakhand during the period, while plains are likely to witness thunder squall. Giving details, Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, said, "After witnessing prolonged dry spell, weather is going to change in the hill state from April 26 onwards. On April 27 & 28, widespread light to moderate rain activity accompanied by thunderstorm is likely to occur at most of the places in Uttarakhand."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-predicts-rain-thunder-from-april-26/articleshow/75333049.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 24, 2020||Vijayawada||As virus spreads, district officials struggle to track source of infection||Amaravati: District administrations in Guntur and Kurnool are puzzled as they are yet to ascertain the source of virus in good number of positive cases. They are worried that an unknown source is crippling their efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19. Identification of the exact source of the virus is very crucial for containment as it helps officials bring all primary and secondary contacts to quarantine facilities and screen them. Officials are grappling with multiple new cases coming from unknown and unidentified sources, making it very difficult to break the chain. This is believed to be the prime reason for both Kurnool and Guntur are reporting a high number of positive cases. According to a document presented to the chief minister on Wednesday, officials noted that source of virus in about 34 positive cases in Kurnool district is yet to be ascertained. Similarly, Guntur district has around 18 such cases where officials could not establish the source of the virus in the positive cases. Officials are worried that unknown carriers are spreading Covid-19 without actually knowing that they have already contracted the virus. Initially, officials thought that quarantining of all the Delhi returnees, their first and secondary contacts and suspected cases in foreign returnees would automatically help them contain the virus. While they succeeded in a majority of the cases, a few cases from unknown carriers are making their job very difficult. Officials are on their toes as more and more people are needed to be shifted to quarantines in Guntur and Kurnool districts as and when the new positive cases are reported. For instance a 23-year old pregnant woman from Nakirekallu village near Narasaraopet in Guntur district died of Covid-19 at Covid-19 dedicated hospital near Mangalagiri. None from her family are found to be in contact with either Delhi returnees or foreign returnees. Expecting the baby next month, the woman had been staying with her parents for past few months. Now, police are investigating whether her father—a mason—had met any of the positive patients. This unknown source has prompted the authorities to shift nearly 30 people from the village to quarantine as a precautionary measure. Even before the police zero-in on the source, the chain is spreading to new areas and people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-virus-spreads-district-officials-struggle-to-track-source-of-infection/articleshow/75331185.cms||Samdani MN
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Colleges relax admission rules, deadline for UG and PG courses||LUCKNOW: Some prominent colleges associated to Lucknow University have relaxed rules regarding filing of forms for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Aspirants for UG seats can skip the column on ‘Class XII marks’ in the online forms as results of most secondary education boards are likely to get delayed. The last date for submitting UG/PG forms has either been extended or no date has been fixed as of now due to lockdown. JNPG College principal SD Sharma said, “Our online application process started on April 1, but no deadline to submit the forms has been fixed. Class XII percentage can be updated after the declaration of results. Candidates will be given sufficient time to complete the details before drawing the merit list.” AGDC principal Upma Chaturvedi said, “The application process started on April 17. Candidates can apply online and update the form later, attaching their class XII marksheet as and when results are declared. We will give relaxation to candidates for final submission if the situation continues.” Officials of the National PG College, Lucknow Christian College and Isabella Thoburn College, where the admission process is yet to begin, said candidates will be given time adequate time. “We will open online forms in 10 days and give candidates relaxation to complete forms once Class XII results are declared,” said NPGC principal Nirja Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/colleges-relax-admission-rules-deadline-for-ug-and-pg-courses/articleshow/75335476.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Machavaram and Gunadala on high alert||Vijayawada: Machavaram and Gunadala areas are on high alert after 13 coronavirus cases were reported there. The district administration and police have ramped up surveillance to ensure that the lockdown is not defied. Colonies on the Gunadala hilltop from Chuttugunta to Christurajapuram are densely populated. VMC authorities demarcated Karmika Nagar near Machavaram as red zone after the first Covid-19 case was reported there ten days ago. A 28-year-old foreign returnee tested positive first, followed by seven of his close contacts. Tension prevailed in Machavaram for a while as the family runs a small eatery. Later, two more positive cases were registered at Gunadala, following which all routes leading there were blocked. Shops and other establishments in the area are closed and officials are using drones to disinfect the area. “We are taking all necessary measures as per the protocol. Sanitation staff are working round the clock. Fogging machines are being used to spray sodium hypochlorite. The public should support us and confine themselves to their homes,” VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said. The civic body is supplying vegetables, fruits and other essential commodities to residents in the red zones through markets on wheels. Special check-posts have been set up to seize vehicles violating the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/machavaram-and-gunadala-on-high-alert/articleshow/75331198.cms||Venu Lanka
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Online education will be the new normal: JNU VC M Jagadesh Kumar||Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, educational institutions are comparing notes on online examinations and classes on the internet. M Jagadesh Kumar, vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, revealed that he was planning to introduce online degree programmes in JNU, believing that India could no longer resist education going online.  What is your forecast for post-Covid higher education?Educational institutes that fail to use online systems as delivery mechanisms will lag. Education is not only a fundamental right of every human being, but it is essential for sustainable development. So, adopting “anywhere-anytime” education will help every individual to get quality education and enable them to contribute to the economic prosperity and social welfare of the country..  But critics say we do not have the required infrastructure for online education.Universities like JNU are already planning to offer degrees in online mode with the aim of reaching out to students from across varying socio-economic backgrounds. During the lockdown, institutions have demonstrated the ability to continue the teaching-learning process through online resources. In the post-Covid era, we will be more open to online education’s compatibility with classrooms. Some may think online education is for the future, but the biggest plus of the lockdown is the digital revolution in higher education. It is time now to plan what part of the teaching-learning process need be in the classroom and what can be offered online.  Are we ready for online examination/assessment?Technology is already available for online examinations as the National Testing Agency’s entrance exams show. The other option is to write the tests on your computer at home while being monitored by a human proctor online. India has the technical competence to develop such exam tools.  What about accessible and affordable broadband connectivity in India?The National Broadband Mission is already making fast progress on giving broadband access to every village by 2022. This mission is expected to provide all rural and remote areas of India with equitable and universal broadband access through 30 lakh kilometres of optical fibre cables and augmented towers, enabling speeds of up to 50 mbps. As it is, Indian mobile data charges are at least 30 times lower than the global average.  But won’t we require laptops and computers?Unlike laptops required for gaming and business applications, one can use low-cost laptops for education. Smartphones are the best choice for those who cannot afford a laptop. The post-Covid period will be a great opportunity for entrepreneurs to invest in R&D for low-cost laptops and smartphones while keeping pace with technological advances.  What about digital content?We already have a large reservoir of video lectures and study materials on platforms such as Swayam, NPTEL, Swayamprabha, DIKSHA and NISHTHA. The Union HRD ministry and University Grants Commission are encouraging universities to establish facilities on their campuses to prepare the necessary digital content and to train faculty members for this task. This effort, of course, needs to be scaled up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-education-will-be-the-new-normal-jnu-vc/articleshow/75335513.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports a fresh Covid-19 positive case||DEHRADUN: With one more Covid 19 positive case reported here on Thursday, the total number of novel coronavirus patients in Uttarakhand reached 47. The new case is a native of West Bengal who was admitted to institutional quarantine on April 11. Additional secretary (Health), Yugal Kishore Pant confirmed that the new positive case is a 55-year-old man who was residing in Azad Nagar colony area of Dehradun. The area has already been sealed after four Covid-19 cases were reported from here in last week. "The patient will be moved to Doon hospital," Pant said, adding that samples of two people who have died at the hospital, a 75-year-old Dubai returnee and a 25-year-old cook, were reported negative on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-a-fresh-covid-19-ve-case/articleshow/75333083.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||After cure, she signs up as plasma donor||Ahmedabad: She was panned as one of the people who brought Covid-19 to the city. The 21-year-old fashion design student said she was hurt for being trolled on social media but holds no bitterness. In fact, she says she is committed to doing her bit for helping critically ill Amdavadis recover from the viral illness that has the world in its grip. “I signed the consent form to become a plasma donor. As I have recovered from Covid, the antibodies in my blood can be used to treat critically ill people fighting coronavirus. It will be my privilege to help the society in any way I can to win the war against the virus,” says Niyomi who is a third-year fashion design student a New York University. Niyomi was one of the first Covid-19 patients to be admitted in SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad. She says her parents asked her to return home when coronavirus started spreading in NY as she is an asthma patient. “After landing in Ahmedabad on March 14, I was aware I might be carrying the virus, so did not even hug my parents. Four days later, I developed symptoms mainly high grade fever and sore throat and my worst fear came true. After battling the virus for 32 days in the hospital, I came home but still refrained from touching any family member. I long to hug my parents,” says Niyomi. Niyomi says that despite being an asthma patient, she suffered only high fever and sore throat for the first seven days. “Contrary to the fears, I did not suffer any complicated symptoms of corona. However, the prolonged hospitalization took a toll on me and I even had anxiety attacks,” says Niyomi. The young fighter says that corona is nothing to be scared of but prevention is definitely better than cure!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-cure-she-signs-up-as-plasma-donor/articleshow/75335530.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation to run shelters for the homeless till lockdown is lifted||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Thursday said it will continue shelters for the homeless and the destitute till the lockdown is withdrawn completely. VMC estate wing has accommodated 1,836 persons in the 17 shelters in the city. It has served around 1.10 lakh meals in the last one month during the lockdown. Special relief camps for the homeless are continuing since the first day of the lockdown at CVR High school Governorpet, Sundaramma High School One Town, Vehicle Depot, Andhra Loyola College, Kandukuri Function hall, VR Siddhartha College and other locations in the city by VMC. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh has kept special focus on these shelters and has provided necessary essentials to the people in them. Special medical camps were organised in these shelters so that people get treatment. St Ann’s Hospital monitored the health camps. Vijayawada Jain Samaj, Seva Bharati and other voluntary organisations are playing a key role in providing essentials and food for the people at the shelters. The VMC estate wing has provided soaps, towels, bedsheets, pillows, lungis, toothpaste and other items to the inmates with the support of donors. “We are working with a motive that no homeless person suffers during the lockdown. Our teams worked hard to identify the homeless and shift them to the shelters. We have arranged a control room for supervising the arrangements at these shelters. We are ensuring that no inmate from the shelter goes out. The support of donors has helped us to run these shelters for one month. We will continue these shelters till the lockdown is lifted,” said VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-to-run-shelters-for-the-homeless-till-lockdown-is-lifted/articleshow/75331217.cms||Venu Lanka
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||DK district to recruit doctors on contract to fight Covid-19||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada health department will appoint more doctors and paramedics at the Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital in the district. As the district continues to grapple with Covid-19, the health department has decided to appoint specialists, nurses, lab technicians and other staff on a temporary basis to deal with the crisis. They will serve exclusively at the Covid Hospital for the next six months. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said additional staff will be appointed directly. “A walk-in interview will be held at the office of district health and family welfare department on April 28. We will appoint eight specialists (Rs 60,000 per month), 14 nurses (Rs 20,000), five lab technicians (Rs 15,000) and nine Group D employees (Rs 12,000). More staff required for the Covid Hospital in the wake of increase in the number of cases,” Dr Bairy said. With one death and 12 recoveries, the district has four active Covid-19 currently. Supervised isolation centre Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh on Thursday declared the First Neuro Hospital located at Padil in Kannur village in the city outskirts as an active containment zone after P-432, a 78-year-old female patient from Bantwal, was reported to have undergone treatment there. She was tested positive for Covid-19 later and is undergoing treatment at Wenlock District Hospital. Restrictions have also been imposed on buffer zone of an additional 5-km radius, she said. For effective implementation of Covid-19 control measures, tahsildar and taluk magistrate of Mangaluru taluk have been appointed as incident commander, who will be overall in-charge of containment zone. In another official memorandum, the DC has also declared First Neuro Hospital as a supervised isolation centre for the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-district-to-recruit-doctors-on-contract-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75331195.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Overflowing drain makes policemen’s Covid-19 duty tougher||CHARMINAR: Police personnel on duty at Noble Chowrasta, which falls under Habeebnagar police station limits, are having to endure insanitary work conditions. Overflowing drains and foul smells pose a serious health hazard to the personnel deployed near the checkpost. Despite multiple complaints by the cops to the officials concerned, no action has been taken besides a few inspections. “The problem has persisted for past several days now but no initiative has been taken. This is a matter concern for us. The stench has become unbearable at this passage. The conditions pose a serious health risk if it is not addressed immediately,” said sub-inspector K Yadagiri who has been deployed at the junction. “We have realised that there are some issues related to water seeping on to the roads. We will consult with different agencies to identify how it happened and rectify the problem as soon as possible,” said a GHMC official. Even in other localities across Old City, locals have grown frustrated with the prevailing unsanitary conditions and the resultant mosquito menace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/overflowing-drain-makes-policemens-covid-duty-tougher/articleshow/75335120.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Industries slow to restart work, rules too stringent for most||NAGPUR: After the government allowed partial relaxation in lockdown, 780 industries out total some 3,000 units in Nagpur district have applied for restarting their operations, said an officer from MIDC. However, not all have resumed work. The actual number of units that have started is much lesser, with majority of big players preferring to keep the operations closed, said sources in the local industries’ associations. The tough conditions put up by the government are discouraging, say industrialists. In some units, workers were seen reaching the factories on their own, even as the conditions call for the employers to arrange for their transport. At NECO Limited, which is among the big players in Nagpur, an officer said, “The company prefers to understand the situation first. We do not want to take any chances as even a small mistake can lead to a disaster. Even if we start, it will be in staggered manner,” said the company representative. NECO has around 2,500 workers and no pay cut has been implemented yet, said the source. Kirit Joshi of Spacewood Industries, a furniture unit with Japanese FDI, said the company plans to wait for some more time before starting operations. Joshi, who said the conditions laid down are tough, added that there are plans to revamp the salary structure. Some of the fixed components in the salary may be made part of variable pay. Chandrashekhar Shegoankar, president of MIDC Industries Association (MIA), said according to the latest information received by the district collectorate, even workers coming from rural areas will have to be put up at the factory or nearby. This has further discouraged industrialists. “Except 2-3, rest of the big units have not started till now,” said Shegaonkar. Nitin Lonkar of the Butibori Manufacturers’ Association also agreed that a majority of the large-scale units in Butibori have not started yet. “Only a small number of small and mid-scale operations are expected to start operations. After making all the arrangements it may take a day to start,” he said. Vishal Agrawal of RC Plasto, which is among those running their units, said he is carrying on with 15% staff. The ordnance factory at Ambajhari, to which a number of units provide ancillary services, too has started operations. Dassault Reliance Aviation Limited and Reliance Thalles too have started work in Mihan. Dipen Agarawal, former president of Vidarbha Steel Chamber, said a majority steel units have not begun as procurement of raw material and mobilization of work force remains a challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/industries-slow-to-restart-work-rules-too-stringent-for-most/articleshow/75334405.cms||Shishir Arya
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||NGO plea to resume immunisation services at village level||Jaipur: Jan Swasthya Abhiyan Rajasthan, an NGO working in the healthcare sector, has appealed to the government to immediately resume immunisation and ante-natal care (ANC) services at the village level which had come to a standstill last month because of the pandemic. In a memorandum to chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the NGO said halting these services at the village level was leading to a large number of women and children being deprived of it. “Suspending these services any further would lead to an abnormal rise in maternal and child health related morbidities and mortalities in the long run,” the memorandum said. The memorandum said, “It is estimated that as of March and April, more than 2.5 lakh pregnant women have missed their ANCs and more than 4 lakh children have remained deprived of immunisation in Rajasthan.” The government claimed that though they continued to provide these services, the pandemic has prevented people from availing it due to commuting issues and fear of visiting hospitals because of fear of infection. “A large number of people are not aware enough about the importance of these services and hardly bother to seek it on their own unless it’s delivered close to their vicinity. This factor has been one of the major reasons why the governments across the country had mandated these services to be delivered as outreach services,” said the memorandum. The NGO suggested that in districts where not even a single case has been reported or which are out of hotspot zones, these services can easily be provided at the village level by following social distancing measures and by equipping frontline health workers with the protective equipment. In other districts, the government could take a door-to-door approach for delivering these services by taking extra care that health workers are adequately trained and protected with PPEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngo-plea-to-resume-immunisation-services-at-village-level/articleshow/75335485.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt brings back 300 students from Kota||Ahmedabad: Gujarat government on Thursday brought back around 300 students who were stranded in India’s coaching hub at Kota, Rajasthan, due to the nationwide lockdown. These students, some of whom were accompanied by their parents, were transported using 15 state government buses, said sources. In all, around 341 persons were ferried in these special buses to Ahmedabad’s Gota area, where they underwent screening using thermal guns and other apparatus, sources added. “None of the 341 persons, which included a few parents, showed any signs of Covid-19 and so they were not made to undergo further tests,” said an official close to the development. After the screening process at Gota, the students and parents were allowed to leave for their homes across the state. Of the 300-odd students, 29 are from Ahmedabad, 85 from Surat, 30 from Jamnagar and 27 from Junagadh. They were sent to their respective places by state transport buses. Where less than 10 students belonged to an area, the government arranged private vehicles. Kota, more than 525 km from Ahmedabad, has hundreds of coaching institutes. Many students left Kota in the run-up to the lockdown, however some were left behind when it was announced on March 24. These students stayed in hostels and guesthouses and the extension of lockdown worsened their plight. The students stranded at Kota had started a social media campaign #SendUsBackHome, seeking help from their respective state governments. Even parents used the hashtag to appeal for a safe return of their children. The students were brought back from Kota to Gujarat due to the collective efforts of Gujarat State Road Transport Corp (GSRTC), state tourism department and the district collectorate’s office, government sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-brings-back-300-students-from-kota/articleshow/75335523.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Promote energy conservation: BEE||Vijayawada: Highlighting the critical role of electricity during the ongoing crisis, the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has urged state governments to aggressively promote energy efficiency. In a communication to AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) on the occasion of 50th anniversary of Earth Day, the BEE said energy security remains a major area of attention and the crisis highlights the critical value of electricity. “As the governments are facing the economic impact of the corona crisis, they are focusing on strategies to stimulate economies and create employment once the present crisis is brought under control. The energy efficiency offers several opportunities in boosting economy,” said Abhay Bhakre, director general of BEE. In the present times, people can manage without many things, but they can’t manage without electricity. “In such a case, electricity security is the foundation of prosperity and stability. But ensuring that security requires action from governments,” the BEE said. Responding to the communication, secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli said that the state government is committed to enhancing energy efficiency activities in various sectors with the support of all government departments. He said the government was giving utmost priority to energy security and environmental protection. As Andhra Pradesh is proactive in implementing energy efficiency, the BEE is requested to lend more help to the state to intensify activities in the field of energy conservation and energy efficiency, the APSECM requested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/promote-energy-conservation-bee/articleshow/75331250.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bareilly||Fresh from leaves, 55 policemen quarantined in Bareilly||Bareilly: As a precautionary measure, as many as 55 policemen who returned from their leaves to Bareilly from other districts were quarantined on Thursday. Their samples were also taken and sent for Covid-19 tests. Senior police officers said that it is a precautionary measure taken by them to ensure that the pandemic doesn’t spread in force. Additional director general of police (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandra inspected the security on district borders of Rampur and Bareilly. He gave instructions to the officials in the zone to quarantine every suspected person who is travelling from other states. The policemen who went home on leaves before lockdown was announced were asked to report to the Reserve Police Lines of their home district in UP. Several policemen from Bareilly were serving in other districts and performing their duty since then. On Thursday, all of them returned Bareilly and reported to Police Lines, after that they were sent to quarantine centre. Additional SP (crime) RK Bhartiya told TOI, “The policemen who went on leaves before lockdown were asked by the ADG to perform duty at the district where they were. Now 55 policemen have returned to Bareilly. We have sent them to quarantine centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fresh-from-leaves-55-policemen-quarantined-in-bareilly/articleshow/75331247.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Extend protection ordinance: TJUDA||Hyderabad: The Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) demanded that the central ordinance to protect doctors and healthcare workers from violence should be extended beyond six months. The ordinance has made any attack on doctors and healthcare staff a non-bailable offence with up to 7 years jail. “While we welcome the Centre’s ordinance regarding the Epidemic Disease Act 2020 Amendment, the ordinance exists only for a period of six months. This should be extended for the entire year. If that is not possible, doctors and medical professionals should be covered under National Security Act,” said TJUDA vice-president, Dr Arjun Raj. A few instances of attacks on doctors been reported in the state during the coronavirus crisis. “Under the current circumstances, the morale of healthcare professionals is at the lowest. The ordinance has come at the right time but attacks have been on the rise for the last few years and hence protection to doctors need to be made permanent,” said a resident doctor, who was previously assaulted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extend-protection-ordinance-tjuda/articleshow/75335151.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Kondapochamma: 55 families get Rs 11 cr||Hyderabad: Putting a stop to the litigation over the quantum of money to be paid to 55 families who lost their houses in Mamidyala and Bailampur in Siddipet district, the Telangana high court on Monday ensured 55 cheques worth a total of Rs 11 crore were handed over to the counsel for the displaced people who lost their houses for Kondapochamma reservoir construction. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy also made the state to hand over house pattas for the new houses built for the families in the rehabilitation colony. As it is difficult for the 55 families to reach Hyderabad to receive the cheques and pattas, the bench directed advocate general BS Prasad to arrange passes and transport for four persons from the two villages to reach their counsel in Hyderabad and collect their cheques and pattas. The bench directed the state to make transport and other arrangements to facilitate the shifting of the villagers to their new residences in the rehabilitation colony by May 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kondapochamma-55-families-get-rs-11-cr/articleshow/75335207.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Butterflies swarm Bannerghatta, thanks to lockdown-induced quiet||BENGALURU: Thousands of butterflies are descending on Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) on the outskirts of Bengaluru. The brief stopover is part of their annual mass migration from Western Ghats to Eastern Ghats. The last time the park saw such an extensive migration was several years ago. According to a BBP entomologist, this is the migratory period of some butterfly species like blue tiger, dark blue tiger, glossy blue tiger, striped tiger, double branded crow and common crow, which are attracted by host plants that are in abundance in the zoo. Lokanath V, entomologist of the butterfly park at BBP, said, “Sometimes when it is breezy, we get to see thousands of butterflies swooping down at the same time.” He added, “The main reason for the increase in numbers this time is the lockdown as there’s a lot of silence. Noise tends to scare away these delicate insects.” The migrating butterflies are only trying to escape the southwest monsoon due in June. After their long journey to Eastern Ghats, most of them die after laying eggs and completing their life circle. The colourful insects then return to Western Ghats post October and November. These butterflies were last seen in the park in November when they were on their way back home from Eastern Ghats. They fly for about 350km between Western and Eastern Ghats and usually thrive in temperatures ranging from 26 to 28 degrees Celsius. “One important thing is this year we have seen Painted Lady, a variety of butterfly, in large numbers, something which has not been witnessed before,” Lokanath added. A senior BBP official told TOI, “Butterflies have a special position in the insect world due to their attractive appearance. They narrate the story of health and sustainability of the surrounding eco system. They are the best ecological indicator of wildlife as their presence indicates a pollution-free natural environment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/butterflies-swarm-bannerghatta-thanks-to-lockdown-induced-quiet/articleshow/75332821.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||‘Azan’ may be allowed as per NGT norms: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police would permit azans during the holy month of Ramzan if they were done in accordance with the guidelines by National Green Tribunal (NGT). In a notice, police asked people to stay indoors and have Sehri at home only. The notice was issued after a video of two cops involved in an argument with a group of people over offering namaz on road went viral. In the video the cops were heard saying that offering of namaz had been banned by an order from lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. Senior officers of Delhi Police later clarified that no such orders were issued. However, people had been advised to offer their prayers from their houses. A clarification was also issued by the LG regarding this. In a social media post, Police clarified that while observing roza and prayers everyone was expected to follow the lockdown guidelines. Azaan could be carried out in accordance with the NGT guidelines and namaz could be offered while staying indoors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/azan-may-be-allowed-as-per-ngt-norms-police/articleshow/75362852.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Ranganayaka Sagar set for inauguration||Hyderabad: In yet another milestone in the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP), Ranganayaka Sagar reservoir, which caters to the water requirements of Siddipet district, will be inaugurated on Friday. Over 70,000 acres of land will be irrigated under the water reservoir apart from providing drinking water and also filling the water in tanks. Finance minister T Harish Rao said the reservoir would resolve the water problem in the united Medak district. He said the state government has provided compensation to the affected people under relief and rehabilitation package. Meanwhile, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed satisfaction over the arrangements being made by the electricity department to draw water from Ranganayaka sagar to Kondapochamma Sagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ranganayaka-sagar-set-for-inauguration/articleshow/75335132.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Vadodara||12 gather at a dargah, booked||Vadodara: Twelve people were booked by police for assembling at a dargah in Godhra on Thursday. The incident took place at Saiyedi Ismailji Shahid Dargah where the accused had gathered. Police received a tip off regarding the gathering. The accused were detained from the dargah. Those detained included six men and six women. The men included the secretary and another person taking care of the dargah. The offence registered against the accused stated that the accused had violated a notification that prohibited such gatherings. The notification was brought out in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-gather-at-a-dargah-booked/articleshow/75330967.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||After Centre, Karnataka may suspend DA for its staff||BENGALURU: The cash-starved Karnataka government is expected to stop payment of the Dearness Allowance (DA) instalment to its employees on the lines of the Centre. Sources said chief minister BS Yediyurappa held hectic parleys with officials on Thursday soon after the Union government announced the rollback of DA payable to central government employees and pensioners from January 1 this year. The meeting also discussed the Kerala government’s move to cut employees’ one-month salary in six instalments. While senior officials are in favour of either deferring a portion of salaries or rolling back DA, the CM, who holds the finance portfolio, is said to be reluctant given his pro-employee image. “We have not taken any decision yet,” said a senior official from the finance department. Earlier, the state was on the verge of deferring a part of salaries for three months owing to virtually nil monthly tax collection in April. However, the government didn’t go through with it after the Centre released Rs 1,678 crore as the first tranche of tax devolution and assured to pay special grants of Rs 5,495 crore as per the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendation. “It was almost decided not to hold back salaries in any manner, but the chief minister is now under pressure with the Centre freezing DA of its employees. I will not be surprised if the CM decides to roll back DA,” said a source close to him. The state government had hiked DA from 6.5% to 11.3% last October and sources said officials are advising the CM to roll back the hiked portion. The state has about 6.5 lakh employees from various departments and aided institutions, and the government spends about Rs 5,500 crore per month towards salaries and pensions. Including debt servicing, interest payment and aids and subsidies, its monthly committed expenditure amounts to around Rs 8,500 crore. While the monthly target is pegged at Rs 10,407 crore as per the 2020-21 budget estimates, the tax collection in April is hardly expected to touch Rs 500 crore. “We have not been told about DA rollback or salary deferment. We want to wait for the CM’s decision,” said CS Shadakshari, president, Karnataka State Government Employees Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-centre-state-may-suspend-da-for-its-staff/articleshow/75333406.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||Pune techie’s wife kills baby, jumps to death in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A techie’s wife allegedly smothered their 11-month-old daughter to death when he was working from home, and then jumped off the third floor of their house in Bhopal’s Bairagarh locality on Thursday afternoon. Her husband, who works with a global IT major in Pune, says she was clinically depressed and used to skip medication despite having similar episodes in the past. A forensic team investigated the crime scene and sent the bodies for autopsy. The techie is from Bhopal, and his wife from Indore. They lived in Pune, where he worked, and had come to Bhopal to celebrate Holi with his parents. With Pune going into lockdown due to Covid-19, they couldn’t return and he started working from a room on the terrace of their three-storey house, said Bairagarh subdivisional police officer Deepak Nayak. He has told police that he was working on Thursday, when he heard a knock on the door at 3pm and opened it, only to find his baby daughter lying on the ground. “I picked her up and realized she was unconscious. Then, I saw my wife talking the stairs to a gallery built above the terrace and ran after her. Before I could understand anything, she jumped off the building,” goes his statement to police. He ran down to where she had fallen, but she was already dead, he says. He called police, who sent a team along with forensic experts. The techie says his wife was under treatment for depression and has had such bouts in the past. He has told police that she went into severe depression after suffering a miscarriage and that her medical documents are in their Pune house, Nayak said. The baby girl was born after the miscarriage. Her parents, who came over from Indore, have told investigators that she was under treatment. FSL officer Dr Manish Saini told TOI that there were no signs of strangulation on the baby’s neck. “She was probably smothered. As for her mother, her dupatta was wrapped around her neck three to four times and she had head injuries. The cause of their deaths will be clear after receiving the post-mortem report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pune-techies-wife-kills-baby-jumps-to-death-in-bhopal/articleshow/75335488.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Millers delay purchase, Sircilla ryots burn paddy||HYDERABAD: Farmers in Laxmipur village of Thangallapalli mandal in Sircilla district on Thursday set a portion of their paddy ablaze to bring to the notice of the state government that the produce they had brought to the market was not being procured and rice millers were imposing conditions of their own on farmers. Pouring a bottle of petrol on a heap of paddy, the farmers burnt a portion of it and threatened to destroy the entire lot if their produce was not procured. Local police and officials intervened and prevented the farmers from carrying on with their protest. “We are being neglected. We want chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to take note of our problems. We also want minister K T Rama Rao, who represents our constituency, to visit us and understand what the situation is,” said M Malla Reddy, a farmer. The complaint of the farmers is that they had been waiting for millers to procure the paddy but the millers were imposing conditions on taking the paddy. The millers said they would calculate the quantity by discounting 5-6 kg of rice per bag as farmers had themselves dried the ‘wet’ paddy. Since the millers kept delaying the process citing different reasons, the farmers resorted to the extreme protest .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/millers-delay-purchase-sircilla-ryots-burn-paddy/articleshow/75335099.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre: Make use of China disinvestment||HYDERABAD: The Centre has asked Telangana and other states like Gujarat to take advantage of the post-Covid scenario as many countries are likely to shift their investments out of China and look for opportunities elsewhere. BJP national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao in a Zoom conference with the media on Thursday said some states were told to work on this. “Five days ago, we had told the states to start working on this (getting investments) and they had begun working on it,” he said. Rao said the lockdown may not be as strict as now, but any large public conglomeration would not happen for next one year. He also said the HRD ministry would come up with guidelines on how to run educational institutions in next one week and added that the Centre was keen to revive the economy post coronavirus crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-make-use-of-china-disinvestment/articleshow/75335104.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Nine industry bodies to file petition in SC||JAIPUR: As many as nine industrial associations have come together to file a petition in the Supreme Court expressing their inability to pay wages to the workers. They said that in such a difficult time, the government should pay the workers from the funds available in PF, ESI, and CES for giving relief to the traders. Suresh Agarwal, president, Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry (Forti) said the entire industry and businesses have been closed since March 22 due to lockdown. “We would be required to pay interest on our loans, fixed electricity, and water charges for the lockdown period. Many industrial premises, godowns, offices are also taken on rent by the factory owners. Those expenses will have to be incurred, even as there is no income. Given the situation, we want the government to help the industry in paying labour by tapping into funds like PF, ESI, and CES,” Agarwal said. He said associations including Rajasthan Steel Chamber, Vishwakarma Industrial Area Association, Ucori, Bearing Association, Foundry Association and Bhiwadi Rolling Mills association and Forti will file a petition before the Supreme Court on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9-industry-bodies-to-file-petition-in-sc-seeking-relief-on-labour-pay/articleshow/75335501.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Has the state govt reduced daily tests?||Ahmedabad: The state health department has stopped giving daily test figures from April 22, citing ‘discrepancies’ in the data including duplication of the data over 24-hour cycles and multiple tests for a single patient. However, based on the cumulative figures, on April 23, the daily tests were 2,963 compared to 2,592, 3,513, 4,212 and 3,002 on the previous four days, respectively, shows the health department data. From April 14, the health department bulletin doesn’t have figure of pending results – implying that all the samples collected were processed within a 24-hour cycle. On April 13, the figure was 709. The state currently has 13 government-run labs for processing Covid-19 samples and permission for two is pending. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Wednesday stated that there is no issue of hiding the figures or reducing the numbers of tests. The state had come under scanner for jumping four spots nationally in Covid-19 positive cases tally to reach the second spot only after Maharashtra and recording 2,000 cases in the shortest time. Ravi said, “We have capacity of 3,000 tests daily which is utilized fully as our technicians are working round the clock.” But data on the state’s Covid-19 dashboard reveals that apart from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara, other districts have recorded less than 1,500 tests so far. Out of data available for 33,316 tests, 12,611 were carried out in Ahmedabad which is 38% of total tests, followed by Surat’s 9,117 (27%) and Vadodara’s 1,810 (5%). Cumulatively, these three districts account for 70% of the tests conducted in Gujarat. Compared to these figures, Anand, which currently has fifth-highest positive case count of 33, has had 310 tests. Bhavnagar with the same number of cases has carried out 1,471 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/has-the-state-govt-reduced-daily-tests/articleshow/75335508.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||NGO sanitizes Bopal, Ghuma societies, houses||The work began from the old Ghuma villageAhmedabad: Realizing that the nagarpalika was operating on limited resources and government machinery cannot cater to the needs of each and every citizen, the Bopal Ghuma Sangh, an NGO floated by Mahesh Patel, has taken up the task of sanitizing societies and individual houses in the Bopal-Ghuma area and nearby villages. Patel, who was the former standing committee chairman of the nagarpalika, said “Since I was the first standing committee chairman of the nagarpalika, I know how the finances are acquired and the expenses. Hence we met and first decided to help the nagarpalika by giving food to the labourers in nearby areas. Then we decided to sanitize the societies and help the administration.” “The chairmen of some societies also called me up to ask if I knew of someone who could sanitize their societies. The idea was implemented and the work began from the old Ghuma village where all houses were sanitized,” said Patel. The Thakore Vas, and the Patel Vas in the area, among others, were sanitized. “The word spread and we began getting requests from housing society members and chairmen. So far, we have sanitized close to 200 societies in Bopal and Ghuma,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngo-sanitizes-bopal-ghuma-societies-houses/articleshow/75335526.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: No late-night outings in Old City, Ramzan to be different in lockdown||LUCKNOW: The hustle and bustle of lanes leading up to Old City with inviting aroma of delicacies at Akbari Gate and Aminabad, the markets of ‘chand raat’ (night of moon sighting for Ramzan and Eid) and people carrying ‘iftari’ to neighbourhood mosques amid prayers and merriment will be missed this year, with Ramzan beginning during the lockdown period. The city is set to have a quiet Ramzan with not just Muslims but also some Hindus who observe the fast set to stay inside their homes instead of visiting Old City for Ramzan’s charms. Clerics have already asked everyone to follow the lockdown protocols completely and to pray at home. Ramzan in Lucknow is a favourite time of the year for foodies who like to have Tunday Kebabs, Raheem’s nahari, Mubeen’s pasandey, Azhar Bhai’s paan and the pink flavourful Kashmiri chai. Though the month is for prayer, reading the Quran and noble work, it has a second side to it where from dusk to dawn, people from all faiths are out on the streets enjoying the night. However, this year will be different. Arrangements are being made by clerics and moon committees for April 24, the expected date for the crescent sighting but people have been asked to not congregate and send information over the phone if they have sighted the moon. “Many of my friends and colleagues from all religions would come along to Akbari Gate during Ramzan nights and we would eat so many dishes exclusive to Lucknow,” said Muzammil Sheikh, a Lucknow resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-late-night-outings-in-old-city-ramzan-to-be-different-in-lockdown/articleshow/75335499.cms||Yusra Husain
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||DD to telecast classes for students||Dehradun: Public service broadcaster Doordarshan has finalised its plans of telecasting classes for Uttarakhand school students. In an agreement between the Uttarakhand education department and DD Uttarakhand, the educational programme named ‘Gyandeep’ programme will be broadcasted from 1 pm to 2.30 pm, instead of 10 am in the morning as proposed earlier, daily from Friday onwards. Three classes of 30 minutes each will be broadcasted daily. The programme will be meant for students of classes IX, X and XII and will focus on five subjects namely physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics and English. Keeping in mind many students residing in the border areas of the state, the programme will be telecast on DD Uttar Pradesh as well. Apart from the DD Free Dish and private cable networks, the programme will be available on all major private DTH connections as well. Those who missed the telecast of a particular class can get it through DD Uttarakhand’s YouTube channel. "This step has been taken after we found that there is a considerable population for whom it is very difficult to continue their studies through online mode. Several students reside in the remote hilly areas of the state where internet connectivity is very poor. Therefore, we have got into an agreement with DD because they have a good reach and connect to even those people who reside in the remote areas of the country," said Arvind Pandey, state education minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dd-to-telecast-classes-for-students/articleshow/75333100.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 24, 2020||Mysuru||3 walk from Kasaragod to Nagenahalli, quarantined||Mysuru: Three people who came to Nagenahalli on Thursday morning, by walking, have been home quarantined . Locals alerted the taluk health department regarding their arrival in the village. They are reported to have come to the village, by walking from Kasaragod in Kerala, via Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada. As both these areas are Covid-19 hotspots, locals alerted the health department about their arrival. Taluk health officer Dr T Ravikumar came to the village, after being intimated by locals. Even though the three individuals appeared to be healthy, the authorities asked them to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-walk-from-kasaragod-to-nagenahalli-quarantined/articleshow/75331265.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||Faith leaders urge people to observe Ramzan at home||Dehradun: An online session titled “Ramzan, Jaan aur Jahan” was organised on Thursday by Parmarth Niketan ashram of Rishikesh, which was presided by Swami Chidanand Saraswati, head of the ashram. Several prominent Muslim leaders of the country participated in the session and urged their followers to observe Ramzan from their homes during the lockdown. Among those who participated were Imam Umer Ahmad Ilyasi, President, All India Imam Organisation, Maulana Kalbe Sadiq, vice-president, All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Maulana Khalid Rashid Firangi Mahali, chairman, Islamic Centre of India, Haji Syed Salman Chisthy, Gaddi Nashin, Ajmer Dargah Sharif, Maulana Yasoob Abbas, general secretary, All India Shia Personal Law Board, Maulana Kokab Mujtaba, president, Ulema Foundation of India, Maulana Luqman Tarapuri, Global Imam Council, and Mufti Nasihur Rahman, general secretary, Darrang Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, Assam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/faith-leaders-urge-people-to-observe-ramzan-at-home/articleshow/75333105.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Patna||Araria DAO among 2 booked for ‘insulting’ chowkidar||PATNA: An FIR was lodged against district agriculture officer (DAO) of Araria Manoj Kumar and district agriculture coordinator (DAC) Kumar Rajiv on Thursday for forcing a police chowkidar to do sit-ups for 50 times. The DAO has been charged with criminal intimidation, causing obstruction in discharge of official duty, defamation and assault or using criminal force besides violating the provisions of National Disaster Act. Earlier, an assistant sub-inspector of police, Govind Singh, was suspended in connection with the case. Araria SP Dhurat Sayali Sablaram said since some sections were non-bailable, the question of granting bail to the accused doesn’t arise. The matter snowballed into a major controversy when a video showing Tatma doing sit-ups and falling on the feet of the DAO went viral on the social media on Monday. State agriculture minister Prem Kumar had asked senior officers of the department to issue a show cause notice to the DAO. A joint director of agriculture department posted in Purnia was asked to submit a detailed report on the incident. In addition, the state government had sought a separate report from Araria DM Prashant Kumar CH. The DM said he has already sent his report to the state government. “It’s up to the government now to initiate further action,” he said. SHO of Araria town police station Kundan Kumar said the accused have been booked under sections 353, 355, 500, 504, 506 of IPC and section 51 of National Disaster Act. Meanwhile, DGP Gupteshwar Pandey reiterated that nobody in the state administration would be allowed to repeat such acts in future. “Our personnel are fighting coronavirus risking their lives. Being the ‘mukhiya’ (head) of the state police force, it’s my responsibility to take care of their health and dignity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/araria-dao-among-2-booked-for-insulting-chowkidar/articleshow/75331306.cms||Ramashankar
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||More distress calls from women during lockdown||DEHRADUN: The department of women empowerment and child development (WCD) said the distress calls have been rising ever since the lockdown was imposed on March 21, as 157 complaints were registered via 181 number till April 20, compared to 124 complaints in March and 84 complaints in February. According to an official in the WCD department, among the complaints filed by distressed women, majority of them have been related to domestic violence, followed by food security and transport issues. According to the data of the WCD, 27 cases of domestic violence were recorded in February, which soared to 40 in March. And till April 20th, 17 cases of domestic violence have been reported. Citing lockdown as the trigger for rising domestic violence cases, Manish Chhetri, supervisor of 181 helpline service in Uttarakhand, said, “Ever since lockdown was imposed, we have been witnessing majority of cases related to domestic violence. Lockdown has had an adverse impact on the lives of women, be it, professionals or housewives.” The data further states that 181 helpline number received 71 calls from women seeking food while 22 calls related to repatriation services and one linked to health service under Covid-19 case type category. “In some cases, we received calls from women seeking information on ration, and also from those women who are migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh. These calls came mostly from Haridwar district, which is an industrial area and in proximity to Uttar Pradesh,” said Akhilesh Mishra, district program officer, WCD, Dehradun. With Uttarakhand witnessing a surge in calls from distressed women over the last three months, the WCD department has launched a WhatsApp number (9411314257) for them to register their complaints. Officials said despite the already active 181 national helpline number, the new number was introduced to help the women, who were finding it difficult to lodge their complaints at the help centres because of the restrictions due to lockdown. Speaking to TOI, Jharna Kamthan, director, women and child welfare department, said, “As per protocols, a woman in distress has to walk-in at one of our help centres after calling 181 to give a written complaint. But now, they can send a voice record or write a message to this number (9411314257) to register their complaint. We hope that this number will provide a huge relief to the women who were otherwise having trouble to lodge a complaint due to movement restrictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/more-distress-calls-from-women-during-lockdown/articleshow/75333113.cms||Shivani Azad
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Companies asking employees to give up leave for lockdown period||NAGPUR/CHANDRAPUR: Amid calls by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that workers’ salaries for the lockdown period will be protected, companies have come up with ingenious ways to cut their liability indirectly. Some of the companies were seen asking the employees to apply for leave during absence due to lockdown. In case the employees did not have enough leave balance, it could also lead to pay cut. TOI has a copy of one such electronic communication by the management of a leading manufacturing company that has a unit in Chandrapur. The letter says all employees working from home from April 1 to 7 shall be paid in full. Those not present at the base location will be deemed to be on leave, except for the cases where employees have left with a proper permission. The letter further says that the period from April 8 to 14 will be entirely considered as leave, except the weekly off. However, here there is no pay cut for those workers who do not have leave balance. The communication says “those not having any leave to their credit will be given additional leave to be adjusted later. The rule applies to all management staff till the MD & CEO.” Union leader Naresh Pugalia has raised the case with the Chandrapur district collector, alleging it to be violation of the directives by ministry of home affairs (MHA) for the lockdown. An official who refused to be named said this does not amount to violation of any MHA guidelines. He also said that the communication referred by TOI has only been addressed to employees of management cadre, but excludes industrial workers. The collector Dr Kunal Khemmar who confirmed that a complaint was received said he has directed the assistant labour commissioner to conduct an inquiry into the matter. Staffers of an IT company in Mihan-SEZ said that they have been asked by their human resources department to apply leave for the lockdown period. Those not assigned work from home have to apply for leave, said a staffer. In this organization salaries will be cut for those not having enough leave balance, said the employee requesting anonymity. An employee of a US-based IT company showed a letter which says that senior management employees have either forgone their salaries or taken a 50% cut. The source said the deduction has been practically applicable to all in this group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cos-asking-employees-to-give-up-leave-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/75334421.cms||Shishir Arya
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar becomes 1st dist with loudspeaker-free shrines||Rudrapur: Rudrapur: Udham Singh Nagar has become the first district in the state where loudspeakers in over 1,100 shrines have been removed. “The move has been implemented in the wake of an order issued by the High Court almost two years back. The result was achieved after sessions of meetings with representatives of all religious organisations. Notably, no force was used to implement the order and nobody resisted to it,” said Barinderjit Singh, district’s SSP. In an order issued in June 2018, the court told the government that the use of loudspeakers, even during the day, will be contingent on the user giving an undertaking that the noise level will not exceed five decibels. The noise level of a pin falling on the ground or of a person breathing is ten decibels. “The religious organisations responded well and with their cooperation and willingness, we are able to get all the loudspeakers removed without any punitive action taken. However, on special occasions they can be permitted to use the loudspeakers complying to the norms of the sound intensity, only after obtaining prior permission,” the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-becomes-1st-dist-with-loudspeaker-free-shrines/articleshow/75333125.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 24, 2020||Jaipur||76 fresh infections in Rajasthan, total count at 1,964||JAIPUR: The state recorded 76 fresh Covid-19 infections and a death on Thursday. A 75-year-old man of Laxmangarh in Sikar district died of the infection on Wednesday, but his report was issued on Thursday. He was brought to the district hospital with complaints of breathlessness on April 16. The doctors diagnosed him with bilateral pneumonitis, said a health department official. It was Sikar’s first death due to the virus and the state’s 28th. According to the health department report, 1,964 people have so far been infected with the virus. Among the districts which reported cases were Jodhpur (23), Nagaur (18), Jaipur (15), Kota (8), Ajmer (3) and Bharatpur (3), Hanumangah (2), Sikar (2), while one case each were reported from Barmer and Jhunjhunu. In Jaipur, out of 15 cases, 10 were from Ramganj area (Futa Khurra, Char Darwaza and Top Khana), while three cases were from Shastri Nagar and one case each was reported from Mansarovar and MD Road. The good news is that 451 patients have recovered in the state so far, out of whom 132 are from Jaipur. Among them are 25 persons who were airlifted from Iran and kept in isolation facilities in Army Wellness Centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. So far, 158 people have been discharged after treatment. In Jaipur, samples of 118 journalists were taken on Thursday for Covid-19 test. A camp was organised at a government dispensary at Sardar Patel Marg for journalists and photojournalists who are covering the outbreak, said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur I). He said social distancing should be followed and advised them to work from home. Health minister Raghu Sharma said they were expanding Covid-19 testing facilities as RT-PCR machines have been provided in Bharatpur, Dungarpur, Pali and Barmer. He said they were also targeting to increase the capacity of testing up to 10,000 per day, up from 4,000 per day in the state currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/76-fresh-cases-in-state-1-death-in-sikar/articleshow/75335511.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Deceased tests +ve after funeral, 30 kin quarantined||Kolhapur: A total of 30 family members and relatives of a deceased man were shocked to learn that he was Covid-19 positive only after performing his last rites in Kheradi Wangi village, 70km from Sangli, on April 18. According to the Sangli district administration, the man, aged 35, used to work as an autorickshaw driver in Mumbai and had died following a heart attack at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College and General Hospital in Sion, Mumbai, early in the morning on April 18. On April 17, he was admitted to the hospital with complaints of cardiac issues. The relatives of the deceased in Kheradi Wangi village, who had participated in the cremation, have been kept under institutional quarantine. The man’s swab samples had been sent for testing, and the report showing him Covid-positive arrived on April 22. Questions are now being raised about the Mumbai hospital hurriedly sending the body to his village. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said that it cannot be denied that it was a lapse on the part of the Mumbai-based hospital and that the body should not have been handed over to the relatives. “However, there is a possibility that the hospital staff might have been overworked, which lead to the lapse,” he said. Chaudhary said the man’s swab sample was taken as a precautionary measure at the said hospital. The family members, after contacting the hospital officials, got to know about the Covid-positive report on April 22, following which they alerted the administration. “Ideally, the body should not have been handed over to the relatives until the swab results were received,” he said. It is mandatory to perform the last rites of Covid-19 victims as per the central government’s guidelines. Chaudhary said that the swab samples of the 30 people have been sent for testing and the results are likely to come by Thursday midnight. “We are also tracing the low-risk contacts of the deceased. The village has been sealed and vehicular movement stopped.” According to Chaudhary, the deceased’s death certificate had no mention of Covid-19 or anything else that could have alerted the administration, when the body was being transported. Hence, the ambulance carrying the body was not halted anywhere during its journey from Mumbai to Kheradi Wangi village. State health minister Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar told TOI that he would look into the matter. “Ideally, the body should not have been handed over to the relatives,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/deceased-tests-ve-after-funeral-30-kin-quarantined/articleshow/75333122.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Modi seeks blessings of party veterans||Mangaluru: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has his hands full in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, but this has not stopped him from calling senior functionaries of the party, who gave their youth and time, and weathered many adversities, to ensure that the BJP is the political force that it is today. Modi, in a series of calls to these senior party functionaries, not only enquired about their health, but also sought their blessings and discussed ideas with them, to govern the country better. Tweets by state BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel revealed this facet of the Prime Minister’s working style. He said that Modi had called up Ram Bhat in Dakshina Kannada and D H Shankar Murthy, who was the former chairman of the state legislative council. Ram Bhat, and chief minister B S Yediyurappa, were the only two MLAs that the BJP had, when the former was elected for the first time from Puttur, underscoring his seniority and contribution to the party, said Nalin. Describing this facet of the Prime Minister, as an ethos that the RSS imbibed in its rank and file, Nalin tweeted that the BJP never forgets its seniors, even in the worst of times. “The Prime Minister has been calling party seniors who were jailed during the Emergency and former MLAs like Ram Bhat, who have a unique role in the party’s history, and is seeking their blessings,” Nalin said, adding this personal touch of the Prime Minister, sends a rejuvenating message to the party cadre, that their sacrifice is not forgotten. Nalin said that the Prime Minister surmised from Ram Bhat’s voice, that he was keeping in good health and spirits. An elated Shankar Murthy said that his 2-minute chat with the Prime Minister left him pleasantly surprised. “The Prime Minister calling a karyakarta in these times is not a joke,” he said. Their talk was about Murthy’s personal health and how he was spending time at home, and they also discussed about the pandemic. It was a general conversation, but coming from the Prime Minister, it meant a lot, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/modi-seeks-blessings-of-party-veterans/articleshow/75331324.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||3 factories, found flouting lockdown norms, to be shut down||Rudrapur: Shutdown notices are being served on three industries whose owners were booked for flouting lockdown norms, according to district police officials. Udham Singh Nagar’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Barinderjit Singh said on Thursday that the three factories include two rice mills in Sitarganj and a seed plant in Rudrapur. Talking to TOI, SSP Singh said , “When a team of city police was patrolling the Lamba Bagad area on Gadarpur road on Wednesday, they found three migrant labourers working in the Hemkund seed plant, where social distancing protocols were also not practised. The owner of the seed plant and the contractor who supplied these labourers were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and the Disaster Management Act, section 51.” Similarly, Sitarganj police, after being tipped-off, raided Shanti rice mill and Shivshakti rice mill, where two and four labourers from Uttar Pradesh, respectively, were found working and that too without any permission. “The owners and the labour supplier were also booked under the same sections,” added Singh. The police official said that during interrogation conducted by them, it was found that these labourers had come to the border on bikes and made their way to these establishments through fields and farms, dodging the police.” “ The labourers were sent to the police stations of their respective hometowns to be quarantined. “We are now taking strict actions against these industries and will be issuing them shutdown notices. The district magistrate has given his consent for the same and they will be served notices in a couple of days,” the cop added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-factories-found-flouting-lockdown-norms-to-be-shut-down/articleshow/75333121.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Two special officers to be posted in districts with 20 plus cases||LUCKNOW: Intensifying government intervention in districts with a high number of Covid-19 cases, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed one administrative officer and another from the health department each to spend at least a week in districts which have 20 cases of more. UP currently has 15 such districts where coronavirus positive cases have climbed to 20 and above, including Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that the decision was taken by the CM during the daily review meeting held on Thursday morning. “The CM is especially concerned about these districts and we have already started the process of deploying additional administrative officers in these districts. These officers will camp there for at least seven days and review the situation there, including implementation of the lockdown, state of medical and administrative preparedness, sanitation, condition of quarantine centers, community kitchens and shelter homes,” he said. The CM has added that if no senior police official has been deputed to such districts, a DIG level officer should also be sent there. Meanwhile, after a few cases of goods vehicles carrying people illegally through UP came to light, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that if any truck or goods vehicle is now caught with unauthorised persons, the vehicle will be impounded. Similarly, if a person is caught entering UP at any of its borders, he or she will be put into quarantine. “Nobody should be allowed to violate the lockdown and strict action should be taken against offenders,” the CM said. Awasthi said that the rule would be enforced very strictly now. “If a goods vehicle is returning empty from the mandi or market place, even then it is not allowed to take passengers. If anyone other than the driver and cleaner are found in the vehicle, it will be impounded,” he said. Chief Secretary RK Tiwari also held a meeting with senior district officials and said that as directed by the CM, DMs and SSPs or SPs should carry out inspection of the lockdown implementation early in the morning, before the mandis open. They have been asked to review mandis and places with high population every morning to ensure that people are following the lockdown rules. The CS added that the district administration should prepare a list of all hospitals providing emergency services and ensure the availability of personal protective gear there. He also said that to promote telemedicine, a list of IMA doctors should be published, along with their numbers and days on which they are available for consultation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-spl-officers-to-be-posted-in-dists-with-20-plus-cases/articleshow/75335531.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 24, 2020||Kolhapur||200 struck by gastro in Kolhapur village||Kolhapur: While the entire Kolhapur district is focussed on combating the spread of Covid-19, the Yamage village is facing a major gastroenteritis challenge. Over the past few days, the village has reported over 200 gastroenteritis cases. Lack of proper health services has led to the spread of gastroenteritis in the village. The water-borne disease is likely to have spread due to the consumption of water from the unused public water tank, which is believed to be the source of contaminant, said Kolhapur district health officer Yogesh Sale. “The Yamage village has a population of around 3,000. One area in the village has an old water tank. Locals usually use water from the tank for non-drinking purposes. However, lately, due to the scarcity of clean water from the other tank, residents of a particular block in the village have started consuming water from this old tank. This has resulted in the rise in gastroenteritis cases.” He said water sample has been collected from the tank and it will be tested in the laboratory to check if it is fit for consumption. “Meanwhile, we have started a chlorination drive across the village. We have done a door-to-door survey to find out if there are more patients and if the water they are consuming is chlorinated enough,” he said. The old and the new water tanks in the village have been thoroughly chlorinated and depending on the lab results, water from the old tank will be allowed for use or banned for consumption, said Sale. According to Sale, 90% of the patients are at home and are recovering fast. Those who have a severe form of gastroenteritis are being treated at a rural hospital in Murgud village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/200-struck-by-gastro-in-kolhapur-village/articleshow/75333139.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||‘Only 2 months to control Covid; rains, low temperature, high humidity will increase spread’||Nagpur: Many have been conjecturing on the inter-relation between weather conditions and Covid-19 virus. In his latest study, Sharad M Dhanvijay, deputy director of Industrial Safety and Health, Nagpur, and a chemical engineer, reveals how the deadly coronavirus and different weather conditions are related in an interview with TOI. Is the rate of spreading coronavirus related to weather conditions?Yes. The Covid-19 virus survives for longer in cold and humid conditions. To be specific, when the temperature is below 15 degree Celsius and relative humidity is above 35%. Why is it so?When you breathe, your body takes in oxygen from the air. When you breathe out, carbon dioxide is release into the air with moisture because your mouth and lungs are moist. When you exhale in cold conditions, the water in your breath gets condensed into tiny droplets of liquid, which lie on the surface. This condensation is a major cause behind spreading of the disease. Also, a sneeze produces 40,000 droplets and the drying rate of these droplets is very low, so is that of the virus. Why are ‘not-so-cold’ cities like Mumbai witnessing high number of Covid-19 cases?Even though Mumbai is not cold, the relative humidity there is very high. The virus takes moisture from the air to survive and hence spreads more. Apart from cold places like Russia, Italy etc the virus can also survive at places with high humidity like Dubai and coastal areas like Mumbai. Even if a coronavirus patient talks, he can spread the virus though air at such places. What is the risk of spreading of virus in Central India?Places like Nagpur, Akola, Chandrapur etc have dry atmospheric conditions, and hence the risk of spreading the virus is comparatively low. Here, the relative humidity is lower and the temperature is above 35 degree Celsius. The spread of Covid-19 is low as the drying rate of the virus is very fast. So does that mean people living in the region should not worry?No. We just have April and May to control the situation. Once June comes, the relative humidity in the air will begin to increase with the rains, temperatures will go down, and thus the spread of the virus would increase. Despite the lockdown, the number of positive cases is on a rise. What can be an effective solution to curb the pandemic?All Covid-19 patients should be treated in an isolated space like a stadium. The atmospheric condition of that enclosed space should be low humidity (below 33%) and high temperature (above 35 degree Celsius) so that the rate of virus spread will be low, and patients will recover faster. Doctors and nurses should be present there 24x7 and all essentials should be provided from outside, without any person entering the premises. Once a patient recovers, he should be kept in quarantine for 14 days. We only have two months to act when the climatic conditions are favourable for us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-2-months-to-control-covid-rains-low-temp-high-humidity-will-increase-spread/articleshow/75334445.cms||Manka Behl
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||Woman attacked by leopard in Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: Pithoragarh: A 35-year-old woman was injured in a leopard attack at Khatigaon on Thursday. She was admitted to the district hospital at Pithoragarh. “Pushpa Devi, resident of Khatigaon, went into a jungle in the morning along with some other women when a leopard attacked her and she fell on the ground,” said Dinesh Joshi, forest ranger, Pithoragarh. “Pushpa had a sickle in her hand with which she hit the leopard. Meanwhile, the others made loud noises after which the leopard ran away.” Villagers reached the spot, gave her first aid and admitted her to the district hospital. “Pushpa Devi has sustained injuries on her face and the back of her head. She required seven stitches. She is now out of danger,” told Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-attacked-by-leopard-in-pithoragarh/articleshow/75333137.cms||Prem Punetha
April 24, 2020||Chennai||TN minister denies irregularities in BharatNet project||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu minister for revenue and information technology R B Udhayakumar has refuted charges of irregularities in the implementation of BharatNet project, which will connect all the villages in the state through optic fibre network. Changes in tender norms are permitted under the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act and companies with higher turnover and better financial strength can help speedy implementation of the project to comply with the Centre’s deadline, Udhayakumar said in a statement. “Implementation of BharatNet project, which will connect 12,524 village panchayats through optical fibre, becomes important not just for addressing the needs of the people in health, agriculture, education, social welfare and public distribution, but it is also essential during national calamities like Covid-19 as faster and efficient communication becomes the key,” Udhayakumar said while responding to allegations from the DMK and others. According to him, TANFINET, the implementing agency for the project, had floated the online tender on December 5, 2019, and held a pre-bid meeting with prospective bidders on February 21, 2020. “Meanwhile, the Union ministry for communication, in its letter on March 4, 2020, informed the states that the project has to be completed by December 31, 2021,” he said. Following this development, the state government issued a corrigendum to the original tender on April 15. The tender inviting authority has the powers under the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act & Rules to issue revised tender. “One has to consider the lockdown due to Covid-19, the ensuing south west monsoon from June and north east monsoon from October, while finalizing the timeline to implement the BharatNet project. Moreover, only the tender has been floated. Neither technical bids nor financial bids have been received,” Udhayakumar said, wondering on what basis the DMK and others are alleging irregularities in implementation of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/it-min-denies-irregularities-in-bharatnet-proj/articleshow/75334441.cms||D Govardan
April 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Stranded Odias to undergo 13-step registration process||Bhubaneswar: People from Odisha stranded in other states, who want to return home after May 3, will have to go through a 13-step registration process on a web portal to be launched on Friday. They can start registering themselves on the portal from Friday itself. They will have to give details such as category of traveller — migrant workers, students, professionals, tourists and others — their name, age, gender, cellphone number and 12-digit Aadhaar number, current address (state, district and city), number of family members who want to return and their details, address in Odisha and contact persons in the state. “Those who cannot register online can submit a form with the same details at the gram panchayat or ward office through a local contact. The panchayat and ward nodal officers will enter the details in the portal,” said official sources. The detailed guideline was issued by works secretary Krishan Kumar. Around 7.5 lakh people are expected to travel back to the state. “Nobody will be allowed to return without registration. Details have been sought through the registration process to make arrangements for their stay, food and health check-up by the administration,” said a senior government officer. The project directors (PDs) of district rural development agencies (DRDAs) have been designated as the nodal officers to oversee the registration process. To accommodate the people in rural areas, the state government has set up more than 7,045 temporary medical camps with 2.22 lakh beds, which will be used as a state-sponsored quarantine facility. Since the number of beds is inadequate, the panchayati raj department has asked collectors to set up more temporary medical camps in schools, college buildings, cyclone shelters and kalyan mandaps, on the outskirts of villages and habitations. In urban areas, kalyan mandaps have been converted into temporary quarantine facilities, while people can also avail themselves of paid quarantine facilities in hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/stranded-odias-to-undergo-13-step-registration-process/articleshow/75331354.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Stringent action helps keep motorists away from roads||Kolhapur: The strict action being taken by police against those violating the lockdown has started showing results as on Thursday only five two-wheelers were seized from those caught roaming on the streets without any valid reason.However, action against as many as 38 two-wheelers was taken on Thursday for not having valid documents. The police also collected Rs 7,500 as fine from the errant motorists."We seized five two-wheelers from people found roaming in the city without any valid reason. We attribute the reduction in number of vehicle seizure to the strict action being take for the past few weeks. Effective supply of vegetable and essential commodities has also helped in keeping the people indoors," a senior police officer said."People do not need to come out on their two-wheelers for buying essentials. The reasons that we used to get from many people was that vegetable or other essentials were not available in their locality. We had to confirm their claim and book them if they were found lying," he added.The officer said that policemen are continuously patrolling major roads and streets to ensure stricter implementation of the lockdown. "We will continue to take strict action against those found violating the rules," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/stringent-action-helps-keep-motorists-away-from-roads/articleshow/75333161.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Being targeted by cops in Delhi, allege wastepickers||NEW DELHI: Ramesh Kumar (name changed) has been picking waste from doorsteps in south Delhi for the past two decades, but now he’s in a quandary about doing his job as police have rejected the ID card given by the civic body. He has been asked to get an e-pass if he intends to continue with his task. “I was stopped by policemen in Tughlaqabad. Four of my fellow workers were slapped and beaten by cops a couple of days ago,” said the 40-year-old. However, Kumar is not the only one facing trouble at police pickets across the city. In increasing level of high-handedness by police, wastepickers are being denied entry in many localities. Senior officials from SDMC’s department of environment management services said that wastepickers are increasingly being harassed and identity cards are not being honoured by police. A senior official from central zone said it’s not possible for all wastepickers to get e-passes. “My staff members say they are being asked for an e-pass or a pass from the district magistrate. Service cards should be enough. Policemen should realise even this is an essential service,” he added. A supervisory officer from the sanitation department said wastepickers work only in the morning at a fixed time. “If police find them roaming around in the evening, then they can question them. But they should not be stopped till 3pm,” the official added. Chitra Mukherjee, head of advocacy and policy at NGO Chintan, said wastepickers are doing a very tough job at this critical time and their ID cards should be recognised. “We have been getting complaints from waste collectors who have been facing problems despite having a pass issued by NDMC. Even those with curfew passes sometimes get stopped by police,” she added. Moreover, all wastepickers haven’t been given ID cards by the municipalities despite several requests from Chintan. “We provided them the list of wastepickers six months ago, but no action was taken,” said Mukherjee. There are an estimated 1.5 lakh people in Delhi involved in recycling through collection and segregation of different forms of waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/being-targeted-by-cops-allege-wastepickers/articleshow/75335553.cms||Paras Singh
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cops probe accounts of Tablighi Jamaat||NEW DELHI: The Crime Branch allegedly came across 11 bank accounts of Tablighi Jamaat in which large sums of money had been deposited and immediately withdrawn. Police also came across 18 mobile numbers that were linked to these accounts. When cops tried to contact these numbers, they were found to be non-functional. Police would share the details of these bank accounts with the Enforcement Directorate. Sources said that they would also question an employee of Nizamuddin Markaz, identified as Javed, who used to look after the finances. It was found that a bulk of money used to be deposited to an account and then immediately distributed into the other books of accounts. These transfers would go on through the year and peaked in March. Bank officials had sought a meeting with Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhlavi in this regard, but were asked to meet Javed for clarifications. The officials were told that in order to meet Kandhlavi they would have to come through the proper channel since he only met people through appointments. The accounts in which the money was transferred belonged to other maulanas attached with the Markaz. Meanwhile, Kandhlavi said that he was open to questioning by Delhi Police, who are aware of his whereabouts. He further claimed that the medical tests that the cops had asked him to get done from a government hospital were completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-probe-accounts-of-tablighi-jamaat/articleshow/75362874.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||2 more test positive in Hubballi, 1 in K’buragi||Dharwad/ Kalaburagi: Two more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Hubballi on Thursday. With this, the total number of positive cases in Dharwad district has gone up to nine. According to the district administration, the latest cases pertain to a 29-year-old woman from Mulla Oni and a 13-year-old girl from Azad Nagar in Keshwapur of Hubballi, and they are being treated at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi. While Mulla Oni has already been declared a containment area, the authorities on Thursday declared areas coming in 100m radius of Azad Nagar as containment area and have sealed them down. Vittal Tubake has been appointed as the incident commander of Azad Nagar. They are contacts of P-194 and P-263 and belong to their respective families. Meanwhile in Kalaburagi, a 32-year-old man was infected with the coronavirus. He (P-445) had a direct contact with P-413 in Kalaburagi. The latest patient is a resident of Umar Colony in Kalaburgai city, and he has been shifted to the isolation ward at ESIC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2-more-test-positive-in-hubballi-1-in-kburagi/articleshow/75331370.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Two get 1-month rigorous imprisonment for breaking home-quarantine rules||KOLHAPUR: A local court in Jaysingpur convicted two people for breaking home-quarantine rules and sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment for a month. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 2,000 on each of them, failing which both will have to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven more days. Police said that the conviction of the duo would serve as an example for other people who violate home-qurantine rules and make them stay at home. The court, presided over by judicial magistrate first class A B Redkar, convicted Nikhil Mohan Kalse (28) and Ganesh Kumbhar (34) under sections 279 and 280 of the IPC for violating home-quarantine rules. As per the court order, despite being given the stamp of home-quarantine, the accused wilfully disobeyed directions of the health authority. While Kalse was arrested on March 28, Kumbhar was nabbed on March 30 by the respective police stations in Jaysingpur division. Kishor Kale, deputy superintendent of police, Jaysingpur said, “Even after the two were advised home-quarantine, they were found loitering on the streets and violating quarantine rules. Hence, we registered cases against them and produced them in court.” Kolhapur police have registered cases against as many as 134 people for violating quarantine rules. The cases are registered with various police stations in the district. “The concerned police officers are doing the documentation work of these cases and are in the process of taking these cases to the respective courts. The cases will come up for hearing soon, depending on the workload of the respective police stations,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-get-1-month-ri-for-breaking-home-quarantine-rules/articleshow/75333175.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||As migrants return, no labour crunch during harvest in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: For the first time, Uttar Pradesh did not face labour crunch during harvest of wheat and sugarcane, thanks to the return of hundreds of migrants after nationwide lockdown came into force. More than 80% wheat crop and the entire sugarcane crop has been harvested with reinforced labour strength, additional chief secretary home, Awanish Awasthi said. More than 36,000 quintal of wheat has already been bought by 4,000 of 5,200 purchase centres in the state. The second phase of foodgrain distribution under public distribution system (PDS) will commence from May 1. Awasthi said, all ration card holders will receive 20kg wheat and 15kg rice. And 3kg wheat and 2kg rice per person will be given to daily wagers, rickshaw pullers and hawkers, who don’t have ration cards. In the first phase, foodgrain has been distributed to 3.14 crore of a total of 3.56 crore ration card holders. Officials said, foodgrain distribution will carry on till June-end under universalization of PDS programme to ensure everyone has access to food. He said, 53,000 fertilizer sale points, 37,000 pesticide sale points and 36,000 for seeds are functional. Zaid crop plantation has also begun and 8.12 hectare has been sown. Crushing of sugarcane has been completed in 28 mills and work is in progress at 92 mills. Awasthi said, Rs 16,418 crore sugarcane dues have already been paid. The IT department has made 23,000 common service centres functional across the state. Another 7,022 industrial units have begun functioning, where currently 1.26 lakh workers are employed. With the CM giving his nod to resumption of work in large infrastructure projects, construction has begun in Purvanchal, Bundelkhand and Gorakhpur Link expressways. At least 4,800 workers are engaged in construction work of Purvanchal Expressway and another 4,481 in Bundelkhand expressway. For the Gorakhpur Link Expressway, 428 labourers have been deployed. PWD also initiated 161 projects of Rs 2,858 crore. The Panchayati Raj department on other hand has begun work at 43,313 projects across 15,612 gram sabhas. Over 3.36 lakh skilled and unskilled labour has been employed for these works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/as-migrants-return-no-labour-crunch-during-harvest-in-up/articleshow/75335544.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Premeditated conspiracy in Palghar lynchings, says VHP||Lucknow: A week after two sadhus of Juna Akhara and their driver were lynched in Palghar district of Maharashtra, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Thursday called it a premeditated conspiracy against Hindus. In a statement, VHP secretary general Milind Parande demanded a thorough probe and swift justice. “Despite lockdown, who called people in large numbers to come armed with clubs and stones at midnight from nearby villages? Who misled and incited mob to lynch sadhus,” he asked. He said, “premeditated conspiracy” is clearly stated in the FIR and the top 5 accused are all activists of major Left parties in that region, including the local MLA. Parande said, hundreds of people are killed every year in ultra-Left pockets. Even in Palghar, apolitical organizations with Left leanings have carried out violent attacks on Hindus of Vaishnava community. Parande said, realizing the barbarity of the crime the Maharashtra government must arrest killers of the saints and take all crucial steps to ensure severe punishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/premeditated-conspiracy-in-palghar-lynchings-says-vhp/articleshow/75335564.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC to focus on senior citizens||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has shifted its focus on senior citizens in the city as they are in the vulnerable group prone to Covid-19 infection. AMC commissioner Vijay Nehra said that over 3,000 teachers of the AMC were have been assigned with this special task. “We have sought details from the state government to procure the data of pensioners and senior citizens so that they can be monitored,” said Nehra. Nehra also urged the senior citizens to stay indoors and requested the young members of families to go out to fetch things, instead of sending the senior citizens out of their houses. Cluster quarantined areas open Nehra said that seven out of nine cluster quarantined areas in the Walled City have been open now as people have completed their 14 days of quarantine. “However, the end of quarantine period doesn’t mean slackening of precautions. I request the residents of these areas to strictly adhere to safety norms, not move without masks and follow the curfew rules,” said Nehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-focus-on-senior-citizens/articleshow/75335563.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolhapur||6 more test positive in Solapur, 3 in Satara||Kolhapur: The number of positive Covid-19 cases being reported from Solapur is increasing each day with the city recording six more fresh cases on Thursday. Of the six patients, four are men and two women. District collector Milind Shambharkar said that of the six patients, two were from Bapujinagar area in Solapur city, which has already been declared a containment zone after two positive cases were reported from there. Atleast one positive case has been reported from Shastri Nagar, Kurban Husain and Indiranagar areas among others. On Thursday, Shambharkar had issued an order stating that Solpaur city be sealed in the light of the rise in the number of positive cases. Commissioner of Solapur Municipal Corporation Deepak Taware said that they have formed 10 containment zones across the city. As many as 144 teams have surveyed the areas for identification of possible Covid-19 suspects. He added that they were also planning a survey across the whole city, for which 200 additional teams from the Solapur zilla parishad have been formed. With Thursday’s addition, the number of total cases has gone up to 39 in Solapur, of which 36 are active. Meanwhile, Satara district reportedthree more cases on Thursday, taking the total count of positive patients to 21. All the three cases identified on Thursday are among the close contacts of a positive patient who was undergoing treatment at Krishna Medical College. A 43-year old woman, a 65-year-old man and a 27-year-old male are among those who confirmed positive for the contagion and are being treated at the same hospital. District civil surgeon Amod Gadikar said the total number of active cases now stands at 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-more-test-positive-in-solapur-3-in-satara/articleshow/75333180.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||NMC examines all TB patients, finds four unwell||NAGPUR: To contain deaths and spread of Covid-19 cases from one connection like in Satranjipura case, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) examined 2,246 persons suffering from tuberculosis (TB). City’s first and only Covid-19 death so far, the 68-year-old Satranjipura resident, was a TB patient. So far his 56 family members and close contacts have tested positive. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and his team including chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, additional medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and others have already covered 25 lakh of 30 lakh population of the city under door-to-door high risk patients’ survey. Mundhe told TOI, “Our team will regularly monitor TB patients. We can easily isolate them if needed as we have their address and phone numbers. Next step is to reach out to all persons suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). TB and COPD patients are high-risk persons for Covid-19. We have witnessed the impact in Satranjipura case,” he said. Dr Savai said, “Our drive covered 2,246 TB patients in last nine days. 1,245 TB patients are registered with government and remaining 1,001 are private registered patients. Our teams reached the homes of all of them and guided them on taking medicines regularly and protection from Covid-19. Four patients were found suffering from fever and cough. We advised them to get treated immediately which they are doing.” Dr Savai added, “NMC will begin drive to reach out to COPD patients from Friday. We have identified persons with COPD in our door-to-door survey of high-risk persons.” Dr Savai also said patients of TB and COPD are the ones who will require oxygen in case they get infected with coronavirus, so we are leaving nothing to chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-examines-all-tb-patients-finds-4-unwell/articleshow/75334482.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Curfew in 3 cities ends today||The curfew which was enforced on parts of three major cities of Gujarat — Ahmedabad, Rajkot, and Surat — will be lifted from 6am on Friday. However, the lockdown will continue till May 3. Sources said that in the first phase, curfew was clamped on five police station areas in Ahmedabad from April 14 to April 21. Curfew was also imposed on certain areas of Surat and Rajkot. However, the government extended the curfew in all three cities till April 24 morning. Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja said that the curfew notification was valid till April 24, 6am, and that no further notification has been issued. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curfew-in-3-cities-ends-today/articleshow/75335612.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||3 officials suspended in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi: Kalaburagi DC B Sharat on Thursday suspended three officers on charges of dereliction of duty. Minor irrigation department AEE Narendra Kumar was suspended for not attending to his duties from April 4 to 20. He was appointed as sectoral magistrate of Pattan hobli but did not report for duty. Another officer in the department junior engineer Mallikarjun Patil, who took charge as sectoral magistrate of Pattan hobli without any official intimation, has also been suspended. Village accountant Jagadish Reddy was suspended for failing to stop the village fair which was held at Savalagi village on the midnight of April 7 in violation of the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3-officials-suspended-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75331402.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ready to face guns, FIRs, but will go ahead: Vijay Nehra||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said on Thursday that he was ready to face FIRs or even a person coming at him with a gun, but the administration will go ahead as decided in the interest of the society and Ahmedabad city. Speaking of the multiple videos being circulated on social media critical of the administration, Nehra said that apart from the video of a protest at a Covid care centre on SG Road there were two videos of Samras hostel. About the protest, Nehra criticized the locals and said that such selfish mentality of the residents of SG Road was not expected from the educated class. He said the residents demand the best arrangements from the corporation, but do not want such a facility when it’s in their backyard.  About the two videos of Samras hostel he said that one cannot expect the administration to regulate everything. “If patients are playing cricket that means they are in good health despite being positive. I only request them to act in accordance with their health as it can deteriorate their condition,” he said. The second video, also from the same hostel shows garbage was not cleaned and food in the afternoon was served at 2pm. Nehra said, “The AMC daily gives black bags for disposal of their personal garbage and if someone throws it out and makes a video the corporation has no role. Also, the patients are given free food five times a day, and if the lunch comes at 2pm there’s no need to create a video. This is unwanted as it demoralizes the staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ready-to-face-guns-firs-but-will-go-ahead-nehra/articleshow/75335569.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Six Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha, all tested positive post-death||NAGPUR: With two women who died in Amravati on April 20 testing positive for Covid-19 on April 22, death toll due to coronavirus in Vidarbha has gone up to six. These include three from Amravati and one each from Buldhana, Nagpur and Akola. There are several things common in these six deaths. None of the deceased had any known travel history. All died as Covid-19 suspects and were tested as confirmed positive case after death. All the diseased had comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, kidney problems or TB. All were above 40 years of age and died before test reports of their swab samples arrived. In other words, they died as Covid-19 suspects and not as confirmed patients. None of them was shifted to isolation. This also means that no Covid-19 patient has died till date in the region during treatment in isolation wards. The only exception to this is a 30-year-old youth, who committed suicide in Akola isolation ward after he came to know that he was detected Covid-19 positive. But, he committed suicide and had not died of Covid-19. Five out of the six deaths are from Amravati division. “Three deaths are in Amravati and one each in Akola and Buldhana. Most of them were earlier treated in private hospitals,” said Dr Riyaz Faruqui, deputy director (health services), Amravati division. “Our focus is on tracing high risk contacts of the deceased and detect positive patients at the earliest. Moving them to isolation wards will not only help breaking corona’s chain, but also ensure their condition remains stable and chances of recovery are more,” he added. Vidarbha has 125 active Covid-19 cases at present. No Covid-19 patient has ever died after being admitted in isolation ward for treatment. According to officials, more than 70% active cases in Vidarbha are asymptomatic and have all chances to recover. Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha 1. BULDHANA | Schoolteacher (45) | Patient of diabetes and hypertension | died of pneumonia on March 28 at Buldhana Govt hospital | tested positive on March 29 | was admitted in a private hospital for three days 2. AMRAVATI | Motor rewinding technician (45) | patient of hypertension | died of viral pneumonia on April 2 at Covid-19 hospital in Amravati | tested +ve on April 4 | was admitted in local private hospital for two days 3. NAGPUR | Real estate agent (68) | patient of TB | died of pneumonia on April 5 at IGGMCH Covid-19 ward | tested +ve on April 6 | got himself admitted to IGGMCH as his regular clinic was closed due to lockdown 4. AKOLA | Businessman (45) | patient of uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension | died of respiratory illness at govt hospital on April 13 | tested +ve on April 15 | was admitted directly to government hospital as he was a resident of locality from where positive patients had already been reported 5. Amravati | Woman (60) | resident of Hyderpura area which is already sealed | patient of hypertension | died at private hospital on April 20 | samples taken post death | tested +ve on April 22 6. Amravati | Woman (70) | resident of Kamela Ground which is sealed | patient of sugar and BP | died at home due to old age on April 20 | samples taken post death | tested +ve on April 22 Akola | One person committed suicide in isolation ward on April 11 | was tested Covid-19 positive on April 10||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/six-covid-deaths-in-vid-all-tested-ve-post-death/articleshow/75334487.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Another patient who infected none recovers, discharged||NAGPUR: If there is a case of one Covid-19 patient passing on infection to more than 50 in city, there are also cases of those who did not pass on infection to even one person. One such 35-year-old man recovered and was discharged on Thursday. He is third patient in city not to infect even one other person, not even his wife and children. Earlier, two associates of a software company, among the earliest detected cases in city, had also not affected a single person. “I think I am blessed. I am a devotee of Lord Krishna. I prayed all the time during my isolation that no one should get infected by me. About 40 people in my close contact were tested and no one was found positive,” said the man who reached home after 28 days’ isolation because his 14th day samples had also tested positive. “I was feeling a bit low and feverish even on 14th day. Doctors were treating me but viral load was still high on14th day. It was disappointing. My 13-year-old son asked me to go ahead and kill the virus. His video call was quite inspiring,” the man said. He claimed regular Yoga, having lukewarm water with honey, general Ayurvedic remedies like turmeric and ginger helped the course of modern medicines. Being an active member of International Society of Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), he used his free time for meditation and religious activities. According to doctors, the lifestyle and food habits may have played a role in this. Coronavirus is known to spread more aggressively in densely populated localities and areas where personal and hand hygiene etiquettes are not followed. The patient who got discharged today lives in a posh housing comlex near Gandhisagar lake where every family-member has plenty of space. Earlier two patients were the residents of West Nagpur and they were also living in separate houses with small families. “Sharing food in one platter, having water from same bottle is not the practice in our house. I think that must have protected my family from infection even though I lived with them for more than 10 days after returning from Delhi in Telangana Express. I got infected during this train journey,” said the recovered patient who will now spend further 14 days in home quarantine. Patients who affected none 1. 45-yr-old colleague of 1st patient from Nagpur | Detected on March 13 | discharged on March 28 | more than 22 close contacts tested | no one found affected 2. 43-yr-old colleague of 1st patient from Nagpur | Detected on March 14 | discharged on March 28 | more than 30 close contacts tested | No one found affected 3. 35-yr-old resident near Gandhisagar | Detected on March 29 | Discharged on April 23 | More than 35 contacts tested | No one found affected||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/another-patient-who-infected-none-recovers-discharged/articleshow/75334480.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Rural livelihood and migrants’ rehabilitation gets big push||LUCKNOW: In what could lend further traction to UP government’s move to employ migrants and halt exodus to other states, the Centre has released over Rs 132 crore under National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) that aims to create efficient and effective institutional platforms for rural poor, enabling them to raise household income through sustainable livelihood enhancements and improved access to financial services. The released funds are part of Rs 806-crore allocation earmarked for the state under NRLM for 2020-21 fiscal. The scheme envisages 60% funding by the Centre while remaining 40% would be ploughed in by the state. This comes just days after the state government decided to engage migrants in MNREGA following the lockdown. NRLM, which was rechristened Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana (DAY) in 2015, a year after BJP stormed to power at the Centre, also aims to facilitate poor in achieving increased access to rights, entitlements and public services, diversified risk and better social indicators of empowerment. The funds released by the Centre would be managed by rural development commissioner (RDC) K Ravindra Naik, who will decide how funds would be used for providing employment in rural areas. According to a letter sent by the rural development department to RDC on April 22, it will be the duty of commissioner and mission director, NRLM, Sujit Kumar to ensure proper utilisation of funds allocated under the head. The funds released by the Centre, will, however, not be utilized in one go, but in instalments, the rural development department said. Officials said, funds would be utilized as per central guidelines and the rural development commissioner/mission director (NRLM) will issue funds utilization certificate. If funds are deposited in bank accounts, the interest accrued will be used as per directions of the rural development commissioner. The fund will also not be kept under Personal Ledger Account and its utilization would be done as per Centre guidelines in a letter dated April 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rural-livelihood-migrants-rehabilitation-gets-big-push/articleshow/75335589.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||NK industrialists disappointed over no relaxation in lockdown||Hubballi: Industrialists from North Karnataka, who were expecting the lockdown to be relaxed, so that certain select industries could function in areas which are not Covid-19 hotspots, are now disappointed over the cabinet’s decision of not allowing the movement of two-wheelers. They are still hoping that the government will ease restrictions, in the interest of the economy of the region. Mohan Koti, former president, Gadag District Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that 30% relaxation in lockdown norms was the need of the hour in the region. “We understand the government’s situation in the current health emergency. However, the government should understand that sudden withdrawal of the lockdown is dangerous in the region or district. Ensuring that the economy does well is important. So, we were expecting phase-wise withdrawal of the lockdown. Government has said it will permit industries in villages and special economic zones or industrial townships in urban areas, however, it has not clarified how labourers will be able to come to work,” he said. Most employees of medium, small and micro enterprises ride two-wheelers, and they are not allowed to go to work. Due to these circumstances, government should start phase-wise relaxation of the lockdown, starting with relaxing 10% of the lockdown norms. Instead of continuing the lockdown, it should impose norms like social distancing, make masks compulsory, and ensure hand sanitisers are available at workplaces. It should also strengthen the system of trace, test and treat to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nk-industrialists-disappointed-over-lockdown-not-being-relaxed/articleshow/75333212.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 lab in Kolhapur gets approval for testing||Kolhapur: Guardian minister Satej Patil said on Thursday that the Covid-19 testing laboratory set up at the Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College campus in the Shenda Park area in Kolhapur had received the green signal from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Patil added that the laboratory was likely to start testing throat swab samples of Covid-19 suspects from Friday onwards. According to Patil, the laboratory can test 16 samples within 45 minutes. “Considering this capacity, we can very well test around 160 samples everyday in a span of 10 hour,” said the minister. On Thursday, Patil, along with district collector Daulat Desai, municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti, Kolhapur zilla parishad CEO Aman Mittal and dean of the Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj government medical college Minakshi Gajbhiye, inspected the laboratory. Patil said that the funding of the laboratory has been approved from the District planning and development committee (DPDC) and that it would save the district administration a lot of time and also help them in making quick decisions. He added that they have got around 200 cartridges for the testing and would be demanding for more in the future. Previously, the Kolhapur health department used to send their throat swab samples to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. After the establishment of the testing laboratory in Miraj, the throat swab samples were sent there. However, the current capacity of the Miraj lab is not up to the mark resulting in delaying of test results. So far, Kolhapur has recorded 10 Covid-19 cases. Of this tally, two have been discharged, while a few more are on their way to recovery. At present, the number of active cases stands at 8. Meanwhile, the confirmed Covid-19 positive patient from Kasba Bawda has tested negative for the contagion in the tests conducted post the isolation period and is likely to be discharged on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-lab-in-kolhapur-gets-approval-for-testing/articleshow/75333208.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Business||US to undertake review of non-immigrant visas||Bengaluru/Mumbai: US president Donald Trump has sought a review of the non-immigrant visa programmes, including the popular H-1B work visa. The executive order signed by him on Wednesday that temporarily banned some immigration — notably, those who were waiting for a green card outside the US – also demands a review of the non-immigrant visa programmes within 30 days. This will put H-1B and L visas (used for intra-company transfers) under another round of stress test. Trump wants the secretaries of Labour and Homeland Security to review these programmes and recommend ‘other measures’ appropriate to stimulate the US economy and ensure prioritisation, hiring and employment of US workers. US-based immigration attorney Ashwin Sharma told TOI that section 6 of the proclamation “is deeply concerning as it leaves the door open to a future attack on the H-1B and other work visas.” He says the US will need its skills gap filled by H-1B and other professional workers during the long recovery from the ravages of Covid-19. IT industry body Nasscom made a similar point to the US government, arguing that the knowledge sector and not just healthcare workers are essential and critical to helping the American people and the US economy recover during these difficult times. Shivendra Singh, VP & head - global trade development, at Nasscom, said they hope those developing recommendations regarding these programmes will consult broadly and accept inputs from a wide variety of sources in their deliberations. US-based immigration attorney Rajiv S Khanna believes a ban on non-immigrant visas is highly unlikely. “In any case, any bans or restrictions will be effective only during the period of the national emergency. Even a president cannot override laws already written by Congress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-to-undertake-review-of-non-immigrant-visas/articleshow/75334510.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||After eight new positive cases, total curfew in Yavatmal for next three days||YAVATMAL/AMRAVATI/AKOLA: Eight people, including three women, tested positive for Covid-19 in Yavatmal on Thursday, taking total number of positive cases here to 24. The patients were already admitted at institutional quarantine facilities. With 10 patients recovered and discharged, Yavatmal now has 14 active Covid-19 cases. The district administration has traced all 102 persons who were contacts of the eight new positive patients. They are now admitted in the isolation wards. The eight who tested positive on Thursday are from localities that were sealed and put under active surveillance after seven positive patients were detected there on April 8. “All the eight positive patients belong to same locality which was already sealed. There will be strict curfew from 12 noon on Friday to Monday midnight,” said district collector MD Singh. Barring hospitals, medical shops, veterinary clinics and cattle food shops, no other activity will be allowed. Milk distribution will be done from 6am to 8 am daily. The rest of the district will function as per the existing guidelines. In Amravati, the administration continued to grope in the dark about the source from which four families, including a suspected case, from different localities here contracted the infection. In a bid to curb further spread of the coronavirus, collector Shailesh Naval has asked Amravati Municipal Corporation to withdraw permission given to some shops and businesses and revert to pre-April 20 situation. He has also asked police commissioner to ensure curfew is enforced strictly. The decision was taken after throat swabs of two women, who died on April 20, tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday (April 22). In a welcome development, seven Covid-19 patients from Akola recovered and discharged on Thursday. They hail from Patur village near Akola. All were connected to the single source event. All recovered in 14 days and sent home. Now, out of 168 patients from Vidarbha, 41 have recovered. No new patient was reported from any other part of the region on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-8-new-positive-cases-total-curfew-in-yavatmal-for-next-three-days/articleshow/75334493.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Plea in Delhi high court claims lockdown violations in CWG Village||NEW DELHI: A resident of upscale Commonwealth Games Village (CWG) flats has moved Delhi high court complaining that locals are violating the lockdown norms. He has claimed that the residents are regularly going out for walk in the park, not maintaining social distancing and also not wearing mandatory masks. The high court agreed to examine the plea next week. The application was filed in a pending petition relating to RWA elections and the high court had earlier appointed a retired district judge as the nodal officer who was permitted to act to the limited extent of making payment of essential service charges. In the latest plea, the resident has sought direction to permit the nodal officer to close the access gate from CWG village to the adjacent DDA park and to take all measure to ensure strict compliance of lockdown directives. He says due to severe violations by certain residents of the village, an e-circular was issued by the finance management services agency, which is managing the operations and maintenance of the colony, directing the residents to stop visiting DDA parks and walks in the area, but it did not yield any results. The plea said since complete grocery shops are not available within the village, residents have to go to nearby markets at Mayur Vihar, Pandav Nagar and Ganesh Nagar for buying essential items. “Many of the areas in proximity to these places have been declared corona hotspots. In such circumstances, the village residents visiting public places like parks in large numbers and mingling with each other is a serious threat to the safety and security of all residents,” it alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-in-hc-claims-lockdown-violations-in-cwg-village/articleshow/75335635.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Bombay HC to hear newspaper delivery case on June 5||NAGPUR: Two days after Maharashtra government relaxed restrictions on newspaper delivery to homes, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday adjourned the plea challenging the state decision till June 5. The HC was hearing petition by Maharashtra Union of Working Journalists (MUWJ) and Nagpur Union of Working Journalists (NUWJ) challenging legality of the government’s April 18 notification banning door-to-door delivery of newspapers across the state. Aurangabad bench of the HC had also taken suo motu cognisance of media report on the government’s move and appointed Satyajit Bora as amicus curiae to draft petition. Earlier, collector Ravindra Thakre, in an affidavit through government pleader Sumant Deopujari, justified the ban on distribution contending that newspapers can’t be considered as an essential need unlike food items and there are chances of spread of the contagion through its delivery. He argued that the petitioners shouldn’t impose their policies and perspective on the government in such unprecedented crisis. The petitioners through counsels — Deven Chauhan and Nikhil Kirtane — objected to the government’s claims arguing that it was undermining concept of freedom enshrined in the Constitution and suppressing media’s fundamental rights. While adjourning the hearing, Justice Nitin Sambre stated that the main grievance raised by the petitioners was redressed. He also directed Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) counsel Sudhir Puranik to supply a list of containment zones declared by it in the city. Earlier, the petitioners demanded directives to the government to reconsider its decision to totally ban distribution of newspapers, even from stalls, in Mumbai and Pune, as the situation improves. They sought respondents’ response on fundamental rights of the citizens and constitutional guarantee enshrined in Article 19. While demanding dismissal of the petition, the government had earlier pointed out that it had put reasonable restrictions due to spread of coronavirus pandemic and readers are getting e-paper, hence it can’t be said that there is total ban on circulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-to-hear-newspaper-delivery-case-on-june-5/articleshow/75334515.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kochi||Lakshadweep begins inter-island transportation||Kochi: The administration of Lakshadweep has initiated special inter-island transport services to move its residents stranded in various islands to their home islands. Ships and other vessels are used to transport the residents. Passengers would be transported between Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Chetlat, Agatti, Amini, Bitra, Kadamat, Kiltan, Minicoy and Andrott. As per an order of the Lakshadweep administration, the decision was taken as the Lakshadweep Islands come under one district, and as the restricted movement within a district was not in violation of the MHA guidelines. "..the MHA guidelines do not mention any restriction for movement of passengers within the district, except limiting no of passengers for ensuring social distancing to 30%-40% passenger capacity,” an order dated February 15, issued by the Port Shipping and Aviation department of the Lakshadweep administration states. An Island-level committee has been set up at each island, which will determine the genuineness of being stranded and issue tickets accordingly. Patients, followed by mothers with infants will be prioritised, an official source said. Ships including MV Kavaratti, MV Corals, MV Arabian Sea, MV Lakhsadweep Sea, MV Valiyapani, and High-speed crafts such as Blue Marlin, Black Marlin and Skipjack are deployed to undertake the mission. Sources said that special services are scheduled between April 21 to 27. “There are several persons who had gone to other islands for teaching or for studying. Also, some patients had gone to hospitals in islands like Kavaratti,” said a source with the administration. The last passenger ship from the mainland reached Lakshadweep on March 25. However, cargo vessels are continuing service. Sources said that the crew of the Cargo vessels stay inside the ships and a permanent team is engaged in off-loading essential items. These persons are strictly monitored for their health status. Two doctors and a bureaucrat, who were airlifted from Kochi few days ago, are in home quarantine at the islands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lakshadweep-begins-inter-island-transportation/articleshow/75331651.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||CM briefs advisory panel of steps taken to fight Covid-19||Bhopal: In his first meeting with the advisory panel of eminent personalities, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday discussed the Coronavirus situation in MP and apprised the members with the steps taken by the government to contain the pandemic.The chief minister also sought suggestions from the members to effectively deal with the situation.Nobel laureate child rights' activist, Kailash Satyarthi, said the chief minister was working sincerely to control the pandemic and hoped the situation would soon be under control. He said public awareness must be created on how to protect themselves against Coronavirus, but it should be done in a manner that it does not create stress and panic among them.Former chief secretary, Nirmala Buch, said if the pandemic stretches long, some mechanism will have to be worked out for testing of people who would go out to work daily. She said "social distancing" should become a way of life, now.Retired IPS officer, Sarabjeet Singh, said that there was a need to pay greater attention on "containment areas" and availability of essential goods to people while social worker, Ramendra Singh said that cash being deposited in the accounts of Bhariya, Sahariya and Baiga tribes by the state government has come handy to them in this crisis period. He said that committees should be formed at mohalla level to deal with stress and fear among people about Coronavirus.Naval Kishore, who represents Sewa Bharati said that attention should be paid to keep isolation centres clean and well-equipped.The doctors in the panel also made valuable suggestions with Dr Deepak Shah emphasizing on proper disposal of masks and other protective gears and Dr Nishant Khare stressing about infusing positivity among people during such stressful times to fight the pandemic.Dr Mukesh Gaud was of the opinion that hone quarantine for COVID-19 patients was better than hosoitalisation in majority of cases while Dr Rajesh Seth said that spurt in Coronavirus cases in Raisen and Hoshangabad districts must be looked into and reasons explored for the same.Dr Abhijeet Deshmukh said ther should be no let-up in attempts to eliminate the menace even after situation improves, while Dr J P Dubey stressed that microbiologists and ENT specialists could be of great help in treating the Coronavirus pandemic. Dr Mukul Tiwari said telemedicine could be of great help in treatment of Coronavirus patients of MP.Chief minister thanked all the participants in the discussion and said their valuable suggestions would definitely help the state government deal with the pandemic more effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-briefs-advisory-panel-of-steps-taken-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75333249.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Women cops answering calls 24x7 seeking food, b’day nods||Nagpur: ‘Please, send us some food. We are hungry’. The city police’s control room’s lines are flooded with such requests these days. Around 20 women constables are handling around 2,500-3,000 such calls round-the-clock during the lockdown.Each of the cops, most of them in early years of their career, is answering around 150-200 calls or more daily from unknown callers to ‘100’, also known as the Distress Call Response Management System. The issues reported range from running out of ration to people breaching the lockdown norms to even requests for permissions to celebrate birthdays. Fighting fatigue and severe stress, the cops ensure every caller is attended to and grievances addressed in manner most feasible at their level.Senior inspector Ashok Bagul, also the control room officer (CRO), said these cops are showing maturity and tenacity defying their age or experience. “We have seen these cops bleeding from the ears due to being constantly on calls. They have been rendered help immediately,” he said. He said continuous training sessions are conducted for the call receivers, under guidance of CP BK Upadhyay, Jt CP RK Kadam and DCP Vikram Sali. The city police’s control room has registered 18,922 calls related to Covid-19 and lockdown till April 22, the second highest after Mumbai police’s with 19,715 such calls.In addition, city police’s dedicated helpline number too has been receiving calls related to lockdown and Covid-19. Women constables like Sheetal Vishwakarma and Baljit Kaur said most of the calls are related to permissions or passes to visit other districts or states, followed by complaints regarding lockdown violation and also for various helps like food or ration. Vishwakarma said that several citizens have called after getting nervous on seeing someone coughing and having fever but not taking medical assistance. “We also get calls from informers who alert us and share locations about Covid-19 suspects hiding from police and NMC,” she said.Kaur said they have also been receiving calls from distressed labourers who have not received payments. PI Bagul also said that these call receivers are also kept abreast of all the important government decisions regarding lockdowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-cops-answering-calls-24x7-seeking-food-bday-nods/articleshow/75334538.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Kho kho captain strikes gold, lands in penury||NEW DELHI: When she struck gold at South Asian Games (SAG) in 2019, Nasreen, the 23-year-old Indian captain of the kho kho team, felt that fortunes would favour her family. But the joy of the victory was short lived. The Covid-19 pandemic brought despair for Nasreen and her family. She landed a contractual job with Airports Authority of India (AAI) last year, but she’s been unable to go to work because of the lockdown. She had written to AAI about her condition and some funds were released, but that wasn’t enough for the family of 13. Her father, Mohammad Gafoor, who used to sell steel utensils in Jahangirpuri, was left with nothing when the lockdown restrictions were put in place. “He was fending for us seven sisters and four brothers. The lockdown has forced him to stay at home resulting in financial crisis for our family,” said Nasreen. “The kho kho federation helped get my sister treated when she got really sick, but it was not enough,” said Nasreen. The family is currently short of rations. With no source of income, life is turning worse for them with each passing day. “I’m planning to approach Delhi government. My appeals have now been circulated on social media,” the kho kho player said. Her pleas were heard by Old Delhi-based Delhi Youth Welfare Association (DYWA), known for running a library in Matia Mahal. The organisation, which provides free books and holds special classes for girl students, reached out to Nasreen’s family. DYWA member Abu Sufyan said, “When we went to her house to give rations, we found the family living in a very poor condition. We also found out that there other Good Samaritans who had heard about Nasreen’s plight and wanted to help her family. We collected some money and gave it to her.” Mohammad Naeem, another DYWA member who had gone to Nasreen’s home on March 24, said, “We were worried about Nasreen’s health as she is a sportsperson and requires a good diet. Seeing that she wasn’t getting any help, DYWA members and a few anonymous donors collected a considerable sum to help the family tide over the crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kho-kho-captain-strikes-gold-lands-in-penury/articleshow/75362916.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||M’luru violence probe report likely next month||Mangaluru: Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, who is heading the magisterial inquiry into the alleged police firing in connection with the violence that took place in the city on December 19 last year, will submit his report to the government by May 23. With the coronavirus outbreak and lockdown, the DC had asked the government for an extension. Following the violence and death of Nauseen Kudroli, 49, and Jaleel Bengre, 23, due to alleged police firing, the state government commissioned two probes, one magisterial and the other CID. As per the government order, a report on the inquiry was to be submitted before March 23. However, the DC had requested the government for more time as the documents and videos had to be examined. A total of 176 policemen will depose before the magistrate. “One more sitting has to be held, which will be followed by record verification. Police have to submit a few documents,” Jagadeesha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-violence-probe-report-likely-next-month/articleshow/75331451.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 36 temporary jails for 156 foreign Tablighi jamaatis, contacts||LUCKNOW: Following the UP government's directives, 36 temporary jails have been set up in the state for arrested Tablighi Jamaatis and their contacts. In all, 295 people, including 156 foreigners and 139 Indians, have been shifted to these temporary jails. Of the 156 foreigners, 54 are Bangladeshis, 41 Indonesians and 23 Kyrgyzs. All of them are being screened for Covid-19. Saharanpur tops the state for keeping maximum number of foreigners with TJ links in temporary jails. In all, 54 foreigners are languishing in temporary prisons in Saharanpur. On Tuesday, the state government had directed officials to keep the arrested members of TJ in temporary jails. DG, prisons, Anand Kumar said: “Initially, a few buildings were earmarked for converting them into temporary jails. Later, prison officials were directed to verify if these building would serve the purpose,” he added. SSP Saharanpur Dinesh Kumar told TOI that a two-layer security has been maintained for foreigners kept at a juvenile jail which has been turned into a temporary prison. “First layer is being manned by the jail staff, while the second one is secured by district police and PAC,” he said. In Bulandshahr, 45 prisoners are lodged in a government intermediate college in Dibai area. ADG, law and order, PV Ramasastry, said all 156 foreigners were booked under charges of violating Foreigners Act, indulging in religious activity on tourist visa and relevant sections of Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/36-temporary-jails-for-156-foreign-jamaatis-contacts/articleshow/75335661.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Women cops answering calls 24x7 seeking food, birthday nods||NAGPUR: ‘Please, send us some food. We are hungry’. The city police’s control room’s lines are flooded with such requests these days. Around 20 women constables are handling around 2,500-3,000 such calls round-the-clock during the lockdown. Each of the cops, most of them in early years of their career, is answering around 150-200 calls or more daily from unknown callers to ‘100’, also known as the Distress Call Response Management System. The issues reported range from running out of ration to people breaching the lockdown norms to even requests for permissions to celebrate birthdays. Fighting fatigue and severe stress, the cops ensure every caller is attended to and grievances addressed in manner most feasible at their level. Senior inspector Ashok Bagul, also the control room officer (CRO), said these cops are showing maturity and tenacity defying their age or experience. “We have seen these cops bleeding from the ears due to being constantly on calls. They have been rendered help immediately,” he said. He said continuous training sessions are conducted for the call receivers, under guidance of CP BK Upadhyay, Jt CP RK Kadam and DCP Vikram Sali. The city police’s control room has registered 18,922 calls related to Covid-19 and lockdown till April 22, the second highest after Mumbai police’s with 19,715 such calls. In addition, city police’s dedicated helpline number too has been receiving calls related to lockdown and Covid-19. Women constables like Sheetal Vishwakarma and Baljit Kaur said most of the calls are related to permissions or passes to visit other districts or states, followed by complaints regarding lockdown violation and also for various helps like food or ration. Vishwakarma said that several citizens have called after getting nervous on seeing someone coughing and having fever but not taking medical assistance. “We also get calls from informers who alert us and share locations about Covid-19 suspects hiding from police and NMC,” she said. Kaur said they have also been receiving calls from distressed labourers who have not received payments. PI Bagul also said that these call receivers are also kept abreast of all the important government decisions regarding lockdowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-cops-answering-calls-24x7-seeking-food-bday-nods/articleshow/75334558.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Grant NABL nod to private VRDL centres in Vidarbha: HC to centre||NAGPUR: Paving the way for private medical hospitals in Vidarbha to start Covid-19 testing facilities, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday sternly directed the central government to expedite their accreditation process and also set up a dedicated website for the process. Since city-based AIIMS is designated as mentor institute for coordinating and facilitating setting up of Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) centres for Vidarbha, the HC added it to the list of respondents. Any private VRDL centre needs accreditation from National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), which works under the Government of India, due to stringent norms. From Vidarbha, Orange City Hospital and Research Centre (OCHRI), NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences (NKPSIMS), Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences (DMIMS), and Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College (PDMC), Amravati, have applied for opening of such centres on their premises. Their proposals are pending with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for NABL accreditation. “It’s expected that the central government should expedite VRDL centres’ accreditation of private colleges. The NABL may consider setting up devoted portal, only for the purpose of expeditiously dealing with such requests,” justice Nitin Sambre said. Agreeing to the HC’s directives, assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar informed that if such pending proposals with NABL are brought to notice, their accreditation would be expedited. “It’s expected that VRDL facilities can be made operational at private colleges armed with proper academic staff, provided such staff is given training of testing. If contingency arises, samples can even be allocated to these colleges,” justice Sambre added. Earlier, AIIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, who is nodal officer for granting approvals to VRDL centres, informed that Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS) at Sevagram in Wardha district is likely to get approval to start Covid-19 testing within two days. “The samples from Wardha and Yavatmal can be tested at MGIMS laboratory,” he informed the judge. The software developed for facilitating video conferencing between judges and lawyers during court hearings from the comfort of home, developed a technical snag on Thursday, said lawyers. It forced them to rush to the HC premises in Civil Lines to argue their cases, where the judges were already present. The lawyers were made to argue from an adjacent room via video conferencing while pleading for case related to Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grant-nabl-nod-to-pvt-vrdl-centres-in-vidarbha-hc-to-centre/articleshow/75334500.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Women cops answering calls 24x7 seeking food, b’day nods||Nagpur: ‘Please, send us some food. We are hungry’. The city police’s control room’s lines are flooded with such requests these days. Around 20 women constables are handling around 2,500-3,000 such calls round-the-clock during the lockdown.Each of the cops, most of them in early years of their career, is answering around 150-200 calls or more daily from unknown callers to ‘100’, also known as the Distress Call Response Management System. The issues reported range from running out of ration to people breaching the lockdown norms to even requests for permissions to celebrate birthdays. Fighting fatigue and severe stress, the cops ensure every caller is attended to and grievances addressed in manner most feasible at their level.Senior inspector Ashok Bagul, also the control room officer (CRO), said these cops are showing maturity and tenacity defying their age or experience. “We have seen these cops bleeding from the ears due to being constantly on calls. They have been rendered help immediately,” he said. He said continuous training sessions are conducted for the call receivers, under guidance of CP BK Upadhyay, Jt CP RK Kadam and DCP Vikram Sali. The city police’s control room has registered 18,922 calls related to Covid-19 and lockdown till April 22, the second highest after Mumbai police’s with 19,715 such calls.In addition, city police’s dedicated helpline number too has been receiving calls related to lockdown and Covid-19. Women constables like Sheetal Vishwakarma and Baljit Kaur said most of the calls are related to permissions or passes to visit other districts or states, followed by complaints regarding lockdown violation and also for various helps like food or ration. Vishwakarma said that several citizens have called after getting nervous on seeing someone coughing and having fever but not taking medical assistance. “We also get calls from informers who alert us and share locations about Covid-19 suspects hiding from police and NMC,” she said.Kaur said they have also been receiving calls from distressed labourers who have not received payments. PI Bagul also said that these call receivers are also kept abreast of all the important government decisions regarding lockdowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/women-cops-answering-calls-24x7-seeking-food-bday-nods/articleshow/75334550.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 24, 2020||Dehradun||Pregnant woman kin in Haridwar claims govt hospital refused admission for delivery unless Covid-19 test done||Haridwar: The family of a 23-year-old pregnant woman who was due for delivery has alleged that she was refused admission in the district female hospital in Haridwar whose doctors asked her to first get a Covid-19 test done and sent her to an isolation centre. The family members of the woman further alleged that doctors told them that Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued guidelines about testing of pregnant women (although this guideline is only for women who are likely to deliver in next five days and residing in containment zones or living in large migration gatherings/evacuees centres in hotspot districts).The woman’s family alleged they were refused admission even though they are not in any containment zone or part of a migratory group. They further said that even though the woman was sent to the isolation centre, there was no testing facility there. The woman, who is a resident of Ghosiyan Mohalla, under the jurisdiction of Jwalapur police station, was asked to reach the district female hospital for delivery on Thursday. Her husband, a daily wager, told TOI, “After reaching the hospital and completing the paper work, my wife was ready to enter the operation theatre, but suddenly doctors asked us to get a Covid-19 test done for her.” He added, “I requested doctors to do the test in the hospital itself since my wife’s delivery was due but they refused to hear me and told me that without testing, they cannot even touch the patient. I brought my pregnant wife to the isolation centre at Rishikul Ayurvedic College — where we had been told to go for testing — but we were not allowed to enter the premises and told by staff there that there is no facility to collect samples of outsiders.” When queried about the matter, chief medical superintendent of the district female hospital, Dr Shikha Jangpangi told TOI, “We got an order from ICMR regarding Covid-19 testing of pregnant women. Accordingly, we are referring patients to the centre at Rishikul Ayruvedic College for testing.” Meanwhile chief medical office (CMO) of Haridwar district Dr Saroj Naithani said, “I don't know why medical staff of the hospital referred the pregnant woman to the Rishikul isolation centre without consulting with senior officers. We are providing facility to collect samples of pregnant women according to their convenience and I have asked the doctors to follow the guidelines of ICMR in this regard.” Notably, ICMR guidelines issued on Tuesday had stipulated that asymptomatic pregnant women should be tested in the health facilities where they are expected to deliver and adequate arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pregnant-woman-kin-in-haridwar-claims-govt-hospital-refused-admission-for-delivery-unless-covid-19-test-done/articleshow/75331425.cms||MS Nawaz
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||804 people held for lockdown violation in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The rural police have intensified vehicle checks and registered 718 cases for violating the lockdown on Wednesday. Police arrested 804 people and collected a fine of Rs 1.88 lakh for violating traffic rules. Since March 25, police have registered 10,770 cases for violating the lockdown and arrested 12,097 people. As many as 9,999 motorcycles and 405 four-wheelers have been seized and a fine of Rs 17.03 lakh has been collected. In an advisory, the rural police have advised the general public to co-operate and not to venture out of their homes without a valid reason. To help farmers and traders to transport vegetables and other essential commodities, office of the Inspector General of Police (west zone) has issued a list of mobile numbers of inspectors in the west zone Farmers and traders from Coimbatore district can reach inspector Yamuna Devi on 9498173173 and 9842530382. Erode farmers can contact inspector Nagamani on 9498175478. Farmers and traders can contact the following numbers – Tirupur (inspector Murugesan -94438 81000), Nilgiris (inspector Sujatha – 9159271426), Salem ( DSP Lakshmanakumar- 9498169169, 9965261073), Namakkal (inspector Periyasamy – 9498158881), Dharmapuri (Vijayalakshmi – 94981 78825) and Krishnagiri (DSP Ramamurthy – 9445129531). The officials will monitor movement of vegetables, fruits, provisions, milk, LPG cylinders and medicines in their respective districts. They would take necessary steps for hasslefree transportation of the essential needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/804-people-held-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/75333241.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||10 Covid cases reported in Bhopal every day||BHOPAL: The state capital averages 10 corona positives per day. On March 22, the first corona positive case was reported in Bhopal. On Thursday afternoon, around a month since the first Covid-19 case was reported, the total corona count of the city has reached 323. Seven people have lost their lives due to the virus so far — which means one death is reported every fifth day. Thirty police personnel, 95 health employees and workers, apart from doctors have been affected by the deadly virus. The city has been declared a Covid-19 hotspot and as many as 143 areas have been declared as containment zones. The process of screening, sampling and quarantining the people is underway in areas declared as hot spots. As many as 12 people were stated to be ‘serious’ as of Thursday, on the other hand 73 corona patients have recovered from the infection. Lockdown would continue in Bhopal, Indore, Ujjain and Khargone after May 3. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had also hinted the same while talking to mediapersons on Wednesday. Officials informed that the city’s condition is improving and the testing capacity is also being increased. Besides, it has been directed that persons, whose samples of corona test have been taken, should not go anywhere. They must remain in quarantine. If they go anywhere, action will be taken against them. The government has also directed the district administration to cancel licences of private hospitals if they are not kept open. The government has instructed that the collector should form a team and find out whether private clinics are working or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/10-covid-cases-reported-in-bhopal-every-day/articleshow/75333311.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Pregnant wife dies in UP, man stuck in Nagpur hopes to attend last rites||NAGPUR: Thursday seemed like any other day at the Agrasen Bhavan shelter home for 23-year-old migrant Shivram Khushwaha from Uttar Pradesh (UP), till his phone rang around noon. Inconsolable wailing was the only reaction the Hardoi district resident could give after learning that his pregnant wife had passed away while he was stuck almost a thousand kilometres away. Khushwaha’s memory raced back to February when he had last waved her goodbye and hoped to return whenever the ‘new member’ in the family arrived. But fate, and the lockdown, had something else in mind which led to him being stuck in the city since third week of March when state’s border was closed. Fortunately for him, caretakers of the shelter home resolved to not deny Khushwaha the opportunity to be in his village in Hardoi district for the last rites of his wife and unborn child. Going beyond the call of duty, Livewell Foundation’s Devendra Kumar and Deepak Pasarkar coordinated with the authorities to get the necessary documentation for Khushwaha’s journey back home. Kumar said, “He was inconsolable since the news came and pleaded to go back home. We are thankful to authorities for issuing the necessary documentation for him.” Since Khushwaha cannot afford it, the NGO is in the process of arranging a vehicle for the long journey. If all goes according to plan, then Khushwaha may start from Nagpur after midnight. Khushwaha was employed in Hyderabad and was on his way back to UP when he was stopped in the city. “He was brought to the shleter home on April 2,” Kumar said. Before starting on the documentation, the NGO verified the information through various sources. Kumar said, “We also saw the photos on the phone. Wife had developed some abnormal swelling in the body, which might have caused the death. Funeral is set for Friday and we are praying that Khushwaha can reach on time.” If he doesn’t, then the February memory of a smiling wife will be the last one he will have of her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pregnant-wife-dies-in-up-man-stuck-in-city-hopes-to-attend-last-rites/articleshow/75334583.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Two more positive patients booked for giving wrong information||NAGPUR: The Shanti Nagar police on Thursday registered an offence against a Satranjipura couple, who tested positive for Covid-19, for hiding their children and giving wrong information to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) medical team. With the latest action, the number of Covid-19 positive patients booked has increased to four in the city. Assistant commissioner of NMC Satranjipura Zone Vijay Humne lodged a complaint against the couple on Thursday following directives of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. The man (32) and his wife (28) are residents of Kachra Gully, Lal Nagar, Shanti Nagar, have been booked under Section 182 (use lawful power of public servant), Section 187 (intentionally omits to give assistance), Section 188 (disobedience to public servant), Sections 269, 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), Section 290 (public nuisance), all under IPC, and Sections 2, 3 and 4 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. In the complaint, Humne stated that the man is nephew of 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, district’s first and only death from Covid-19. “Man and his wife were quarantined and when NMC medical team asked them about details of family members, especially children, the couple did not reveal it. The NMC team found out that the couple had hidden their boy and girl with wife’s maternal home at Bhaldarpura. “The two children, along with wife’s parents and other relatives, were traced and quarantined. One of two children has tested positive. We could have controlled Covid-19 in more effective manner had the couple given correct information. It also created panic among people in the area,” he said. Few days ago, another nephew of the deceased was booked under the same charges. Cap seller from Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura, was booked for violating home quarantine norms after getting discharged and giving wrong information in an interview on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-ve-patients-booked-for-giving-wrong-info/articleshow/75334566.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Once flights resume: Reach early, mind gap||NEW DELHI: Wondering how the boarding process will change at the Delhi airport once the air services resume after the Covid-19 lockdown? No final decision has been taken yet but maintaining social distancing norms may mean you will have to reach the airport earlier than usual. The operator of the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), said it was yet to get any guideline from the civil aviation regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). But basic work has already started — putting up social distancing markers and reminders at each step of the boarding process, an official said. Other measures include additional seating arrangements near check-in areas with alternate seats marked with coloured tapes to main safe distance. “The Delhi airport will follow DGCA’s guidelines. The measures may include reminders at entry gates, check-in counters, security and immigration inspection areas, food and beverage establishments, boarding gates and other passenger amenities,” said a DIAL spokesperson. Passengers will also be encouraged to wear masks. “To make social distancing more effective among passengers, DIAL has planned to use visually impactful designs at various places. For instance, signage in coloured tapes have been placed at various points urging flyers to maintain safe gaps,” the spokesperson said. Passengers will also be encouraged to check-in from home or use self-service facilities, including self bag-tag and scan-and-fly options, to avoid crowding at counters, he added. “UV machines may also be installed to sanitise checked-in baggage. Sanitisers will be kept for passengers and a team of 500 professionals will be deployed to sanitise each surface area,” said DIAL. Queue managers will be placed at kerb sides, check-in halls, security check areas and boarding gates to streamline the crowd. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), in charge of security at IGIA, said it had arranged for masks, sanitisers, gloves and PPEs for three months to resume the operations. Social distancing will have to be maintained to make frisking safe, said a CISF official. “The life of a mask is around eight hours, so is the shift of each staffer. We have sent our recommendations to the civil aviation ministry. The option of contactless mechanical frisking is also being explored. A pat-down will then be carried out only if necessary,” the official said. Shrikanth Kishore, CISF deputy inspector general (IGI), said those coming in contact with the passengers directly would be provided with PPE kits. Others working behind the scenes will use masks made by CISF itself. “The boarding process may take longer, but nothing is final yet,” said Kishore, adding they were waiting for instructions from the civil aviation ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/once-flights-resume-reach-early-mind-gap/articleshow/75362949.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||When medical aid becomes a luxury||COIMBATORE: The lockdown has left the people who have been on regular medical consultations and visit to hospitals in the lurch. From pregnant women to people who recently underwent surgeries or completed chemotherapy sessions to people who had scheduled elective surgeries to solve certain health problems, there are a whole lot of people who are struggling to access medical facilities. While many hospitals are refusing to perform scans or do regular consultations, reaching the healthcare facilities itself is a mammoth task for many. Vandhana*, a resident of RS Puram, was scheduled to undergo her 38th week scan at a private fertility clinic near Hopes on Avinashi Road on April 4. However, the centre cancelled her appointment, stating they have been closed due to the lockdown. Incidentally, she went into labour three days later, something the scan might have detected. Another scan centre on Avinashi Road that had collected a woman’s blood for Down’s syndrome screening, never sent the sample for testing as the clinic was closed two days later. “As a first-time pregnant woman, I am anxious to know if everything is alright. The thought that the Down’s syndrome test has not been done yet is stressing me out,” she says. “If the lockdown is not over by May 3, I don’t know if the centre will do my 20th week anomaly test, which has to be done in the third week of that month.” Other patients, who have completed chemotherapy or undergone elective procedures for surgeries, too have faced cancellation of consultation appointments. R Shanmugam, who has to undergo a surgery to remove some screws put into his hip following a massive hip fracture last year, has been asked by a private hospital in Tirupur to come for the surgery after June. “Now, living and moving around with the screws is extremely painful. I have begun swallowing multiple painkillers to bear with it. I consider my surgery an emergency,” the senior citizen said. Some hospitals, like the one on Pollachi-Palakkad Road, are adamant about patients getting tested for Covid-19 to be allowed in. Panicked by the spread of Covid-19 in Pollachi government hospital and town, the hospital is not sparing delivery cases either. Rini*, a patient, said, “We fear getting infected when we go for Covid-19 test. Finally, the hospital has made arrangements to test us on its premises itself.” While the district administration has arranged the 1077 helpline for all emergencies, callers from far flung rural areas say it takes a long time for an ambulance to reach them or help to come through. The 108 ambulance coordinator for the district said, “We have 102 ambulances to bring patients coming in for chemotherapy or dialysis. But we are getting calls from people who want to reach hospitals for regular treatments, as public transport is not available. We get calls from villages such as Annur, Anamalai and Karamadai, etc.” The joint director of medical services has, meanwhile, instructed all the hospitals not to force every patient to undergo the Covid-19 test. They have also been asked to keep the emergency services open and not to turn away any patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-medical-aid-becomes-a-luxury/articleshow/75333308.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Release Azam Khan from jail during Ramzan, says SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Accusing BJP of creating an atmosphere where a “particular section of society is feeling terrorised”, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said senior party leader and sitting MP Azam Khan, his wife and son should be released from jail so that they can observe fast and pray during Ramzan. “The conduct of the BJP government has left a section of society terrorised. A sense of insecurity is growing among them. BJP is giving communal colour to everything. To maintain harmony, it’s important that justice is meted to all,” Akhilesh said in a statement. He claimed the government was acting against Azam Khan with vendetta. “Azam Khan is a victim of revenge,” he said, adding he should be released from prison along with his wife and son so that the family can conduct their religious responsibilities during Ramzan. Khan, a Lok Sabha MP from Rampur parliamentary seat was sent to jail on February 26 along with his wife Tazeen Fatima, MLA from Rampur and son Mohd Abdullah Azam who was elected MLA from Suar. The three were sent on judicial remand after their bail application in a case related to forgery of age-proof documents of Abdullah Azam were rejected by a local court. Akhilesh said Azam Khan is a respected politician and was MLA and minister in Uttar Pradesh government. He is presently a sitting MP from Rampur Lok Sabha seat. A centre for higher education like Maulana Mohammed Ali Jauhar University is a result of his efforts. His wife is a sitting MLA and their son has been a legislator. “The manner in which the government has been treating the family by jailing them in baseless cases is nothing short of vendetta,” the SP national president said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/release-azam-from-jail-during-ramzan-akhilesh/articleshow/75335698.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 65 positive cases reported from two sealed areas||NEW DELHI: Forty six people living in the containment zone in Jahangirpuri in north district, besides seven Asha workers engaged in the area, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. In a similar development, 12 people belonging to two families, including a two-month-old baby, living in a containment zone near Jama Masjid tested Covid-19 positive. A vegetable hawker in ward number 3 of Mehrauli in south district was also found positive. The new positive cases were detected during screening operations. The development has sparked alarm in the neighbouring areas and authorities have intensified sanitisation. A few days ago, 26 people of one family in Jahangirpuri had tested positive for novel coronavirus. The north district authorities created a containment zone in H-3 Block of Jahangirpuri on April 14 after a person was detected positive. The entire area was barricaded and policemen were deployed to ensure that people didn’t venture out of the sealed areas. Sanitisation was carried out and, later, people were screening for Covid-19. “Samples were collected from three streets within the containment zone. In all, 46 people were found positive and taken to the Narela Covid care centre,” said an official. The source of infection is yet to be known, but the authorities hinted that the first positive case may have passed it on to the others. An individual who had returned from Uzbekistan is suspected to have infected 12 people near Jama Masjid in Chandni Mahal containment zone, which was created on April 10. All patients have been shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital for treatment. “The 12 people belonging to two families lived in the same building,” said a source. The entire area has been barricaded. The contacts of those found positive would be traced and screened to check if they have spread it to more people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/65-ve-cases-reported-from-2-sealed-areas/articleshow/75335741.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Nest away from nest for abandoned chicks||COIMBATORE: With more time on their hands to look around and observe the surroundings, city residents are rescuing abandoned baby birds and handing them over to Animal Rescuers, a voluntary organization assisting the district forest department in rescue and rehabilitation of birds. The organization has received chicklets of kites, eagles, owls, cuckoos and crows, which people had rescued from around their residences. People either bring them to the facility of Animal Rescuers at the district forest office in the city or inform their volunteers, who collect the younglings and take care of them. Once they are healthy enough, the birds are released into the wild. Since the lockdown came into force, the facility has received 32 birds, of which 18 were chicks, said a member of the team. March-April is the breeding season of kites, common mynahs, owls, common crows, jungle crows and cuckoos, he said.  “While the residents are doing a service by rescuing and bringing the birds to us, they should not rush to rescue chicklets as the mother bird might be nearby and come back to take care of it. They should wait till they are sure that the chicks are abandoned.” Many a time, abandoned chicks can be found in nests near lofts, awnings and holes in walls. “If people find a disturbed nest, they should try to replace it,” said the member. “They are doing us a help by rescuing the birds. But they have to take it up as the last resort and wait till the parent bird returns. We can care for the chicks, but no one can replace its mother.” Those who find abandoned chicks or injured birds should first take them to a vet rather than waiting for the district forest department personnel to reach the spot, assistant conservator of forests M Senthil Kumar said. “They can inform us after consulting a vet. Our men will come to your place and bring the birds to our facility,” he told TOI. Animal Rescuers can be reached at 9626011011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nest-away-from-nest-for-abandoned-chicks/articleshow/75333368.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Miner’s song on virus goes viral||Hyderabad: A worker of Singareni Collieries has taken upon himself to spread the word on social distancing and precautions to be taken against the novel coronavirus in the coal mines. Kattoji Naresh (31), an electrician in PVK No. 5 incline mine in Kothagudem, has recorded a video song with action and dance on social distancing. The video has gone viral among the 48,000-strong Singareni miners’ community. He also alerts the workers on the precautions they should take in the underground mines. “In some of the districts, a few coronavirus cases have been reported and I decided I should let the coal miners know about the dangers of Covid-19 and how to take precautions,” Naresh told TOI. The spread of Covid-19 made him think about what more he could do to let the miners know about the pandemic. He chose the most popular song of the season composed and sung by Ram Miriyala of Chowraasta band to convey the message of social distancing. When his daughter Muktika was born a few years ago, he bought a camera and that came in handy now. He followed instructional videos on Youtube and created his song. He even presented himslef as a miner in the video. “Ideally, I would have loved to perform in front of them and convey the message but because of the current situation, I chose to bring out a video,” he said. “I have also shown other workers in the video and tried to convey the message,” Naresh said. He has also come out with another video praising the services of doctors, police and municipal workers. Naresh, who has done his MBA, joined Singareni Collieries in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/miners-song-on-virus-goes-viral/articleshow/75334725.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya MLA gives away spl Ramzan kits||Ayodhya: On the eve of the holy month of Ramzan and amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, Ayodhya BJP MLA Ved Prakash Gupta distributed special ration kits among Muslims in the temple town on Thursday. Adhering to social distancing norms, Gupta along with district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha and SSP Ashish Tiwari went to the Muslim-dominated Chowk and distributed Ramzan kits in presence of clerics. Talking to TOI, Gupta said, “The state government doesn’t discriminate against anybody and we are with our Muslim brothers in this difficult time. The administration also decided to provide facilities to Muslims during Ramzan, keeping lockdown curbs in mind. DM Anuj Kumar Jha said, “We will ensure door-to-door delivery of special food items, including fruits for sehri and iftar.” The distribution ceremony was organised by the Ayodhya unit of Jamiat Ulema Hind. “We have been assured by the DM that the administration will provide enough ration during the holy month for poor Muslims. And we will observe Ramzan in keeping with lockdown norms,” said Hafiz Irfan Ahmad, general secretary of Jamiat Ulema Hind, Ayodhya. SSP Ashish Tiwari appealed to Muslims to offer prayers in their homes and follow lockdown guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-mla-gives-away-spl-ramzan-kits/articleshow/75335729.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||Over half of Indore's corona cases are from 20 containment zones||INDORE: Less than 10%of over 200 containment zones in the city reported a little over half of the Covid-19 cases detected till April 22, revealed an analysis of area-wise data from CMHO office. Only 20 areas have 473 cases out of 954 detected till April 22. These areas include Khajrana, Tatpatti Bakhal, Udapura, Ahilya Paltan, Moti Tabela, Manik Bagh and others. The first few cases of Covid-19 infection were detected in Khajrana, Chandan Nagar, Daulatganj area on March 25. A community medicine department faculty member of MGM requesting anonymity said, “The first few cases were detected through testing of swab samples collected for testing of swine flu in some of patients with Serious Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) admitted to different hospitals in city.” Those cases belong to areas including Khajrana, Chandan Nagar, Daulatganj and others. After detecting those few cases, health teams began backtracking primary and secondary contacts of them, he said. They were tested positive and this cycle never stopped since then. It is still going on. Meanwhile, samples of persons with influenza like infections were also collected at dedicated hospitals and some of them also tested positive. All those were the resident of the same locality, added faculty member. Dr Amit Malakar, district in charge of sampling team said, “We have worked according to guidelines of Union government in backtracking and sample collection for Covid-19.” All symptomatic patients along with primary and secondary contacts of those positive ones were tested for infection and many of them despite being asymptomatic were found positive, said Malakar. This led to concentration of cases in few pockets of city, added Malakar. There are around 60% Covid-19 positives patients without symptoms in city, who have been either treated or getting treatment. The severity of symptoms and condition is only found in five per cent of the cases, said Dr Ravi Doshi of SAIMS, one of the Covid-19 facilities of city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-half-of-citys-corona-cases-are-from-20-containment-zones/articleshow/75333393.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Tribal artisans modify Chhau masks to fight coronavirus||The festival they look forward to the most may have been scrapped due to the pandemic, but that hasn’t taken away from the zeal and spirit of the tribals of West Bengal and Jharkhand. Hundreds of Chhau masks that they had prepared for Chaitra Parab, which usually starts from mid-March, are now being transformed into safety masks with necessary alterations to its design and materials in a bid to fight Covid-19. With the pandemic putting a halt to their beautiful tradition meant for welcoming spring, more than 20,000 people have been rendered unemployed. Around 11,000 tribals are actively involved with making masks and costumes for Chhau dance. Since preparations start from January, hundreds of masks and costumes were ready by the time coronavirus was declared a pandemic. The artisans were clueless about what to do with the masks until they met Amitava Ghosh, a social worker from Jharkhand, who was there for an inspection project. “Since I could not help them in any other way, I gave them the idea to make safety masks from the ones they had already produced,” said Amitava, adding, “Chhau is regarded as one of the most auspicious traditions by the tribals and they are usually not keen to make changes. I was really happy when they readily accepted this idea.” The gorgeous masks take over a month to be made by artists of the Sutradhara community who use 8-10 layers of soft paper and glue. Along with other rituals of Chaitra Parab, more than 40,000 people from Purulia, Medinipur and Birbhum in West Bengal and East Singbhum, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ranchi in Jharkhand perform Chhau dance within and outside the villages. Since the dance is traditionally performed by all-male troupes, masks play a significant role in portraying the female characters. On Thursday, Amitava — who recently came up with a prototype of the Chhau safety mask — met doctors to understand how it can be made more secure. “They suggested not to seal the nostrils and use three layers of clothes — cotton, fiber and cotton — there to improve filtration. They even asked me to produce masks in smaller sizes for children, who’ll be thrilled to see their favourite heroes from Indian mythology on the masks,” said Amitava, adding he’ll incorporate these changes in a week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tribal-artisans-modify-chhau-masks-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/75329926.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Social mainstreaming of autistic kids has to wait||Vaaruni (name changed) and her husband, who have a three-year-old autistic son, are a worried lot. The couple have been planning to mainstream him by putting him in a playschool in June as he has been showing considerable improvement following the applied behaviour analysis therapy for the past nine months. With the therapy coming to a grinding halt, the toddler has regressed in terms of behaviour and socializing. Now, they are planning to delay mainstreaming him till Vijayadashami. This is not an isolated case. Hundreds of autistic children and their parents, who have been completely dependent on therapy for even smallest improvements, are struggling without help toady. “It is heartbreaking to see them regress to socially unacceptable behaviour like spinning, random jumping and running around in circles. This will make many play schools reject them saying they are not sociable,” says Vaaruni. Many parents and trainers are afraid that the 40-day lockdown will put the children back to square one with speech, social and behaviour regression, and that they will have to start from scratch, further delaying development or mainstreaming by a year. Singanallur-based D Akhilesh, who has a four-year-old autistic son, says, “Handling an autistic child at home 24x7 can be traumatizing, because these children can’t communicate. You never know why they are crying, what is disturbing them or even how to calm the situation down when they resort to repetitive, aggressive behaviour like hitting, hand slapping, head spinning etc.” Occupational therapists and trainers agree that autistic children are severely affected by the lockdown that began a month ago. Saranya Rengaraj, who runs Third Eye, says many autistic children are regressing without therapy. “This is because parents find it hard to engage the children 24x7. In these circumstances, they can’t take the child out for a walk or to a park to get used to different atmospheres or expose them to other children to practice socializing. Parents also find it hard to go out to a shop and pick up new toys or material to engage them. While we do videocall sessions with parents once a week and give them activities and ways to engage their child and goals to achieve, it is difficult to engage a child 24x7, especially those with sensory issues,” she says. Another city-based occupational therapist, Dr Karthik Rajaram, of Steps Groups, says all their trainers have begun fulltime online classes for parents and children. “We have begun demonstrating activities for parents to follow at home and conducting sessions for children in the evening so that they can see us and follow our commands. We also do videocalls to help parents interact with each other, discuss issues they face and share worries. Parents are equally traumatized.” However, some parents say the lockdown has helped them understand their autistic children better. “Earlier, we used to drop our son at the therapy centre and go to our schools, where my wife and I teach. In the evenings, we just did the work my son was assigned to. But now, we solely concentrate on our son and it has helped us understand his cues and triggers better. And shockingly, he has begun pronouncing two-letter words clearly with a base voice. This is the first time we are hearing his voice,” says an overjoyed father of a five-year-old autistic boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/social-mainstreaming-of-autistic-kids-has-to-wait/articleshow/75333401.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU begins use of TB diagnostic machine for Covid-19 testing||LUCKNOW:Giving a boost to the fight against global pandemic Covid-19 in UP, the King George’s Medical University began the use of CB NAAT – the diagnostic machines used to test drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) -- for conducting Covid-19 tests. Use of CB NAAT (or Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test) is part of ICMR’s larger plan to have options for testing when the pandemic peaks in India. A decision in this regard was taken in the first week of April by an empowered group constituted by the home ministry for planning and ensuring implementation of Covid-19 response activities. ICMR also issued a detailed guidelines for the same on April 19. According to a union ministry official, “the availability of experts and machines so far used for TB will increase the testing capacity in the country. This needs tweaking the cartridge based NAAT for which kits were ordered and sent to probable centres. This can increase Covid-19 testing capacity by 5,000-6,000 per day.” Head of Microbiology department, KGMU, Prof Amita Jain said: “following recommendations from ICMR, we have begun the work. It is a new thing and it will take some time to prove the utility of the machine in terms of SARS-CoV-2 (the official name of coronavirus).” Chairman, UP State Task Force for Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme and head of pulmonary medicine department, KGMU, Prof Suryakant said, “if the worth is proven, CB NAAT will really ramp up testing in UP.” He added that the biggest advantage of CB NAAT is that it can be used by even as class XII pass individual after a two hour long training. But since the state has 141 such machines with at least one in every district headquarters, the staff is also in place. “We just need to train the staff to speed up the work. Also, since both CB NAAT and SARSCoV2 require the same level of bio-safety standards, investments in this directions may not be needed. The authorities will however need to provide the testing reagents and cartridges,” he said. He also said that depending on CB NAAT was better than relying on the rapid tests. “Like Elisa test, the CB NAAT extracts the genetic material of the virus through the polymerase chain reaction. The rapid tests, on the other hand are dependent on development of antibodies in the human body. The test looks for two antibodies – immunoglobulin M (IGM) and immunoglobulin G (IGG) – which take seven and 14 days to surface in the blood. So the chances of missing out on detection are high in rapid test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tb-test-kit-to-boost-ups-corona-battle/articleshow/75335760.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Virology laboratory at Wenlock Hospital off to a flying start||Mangaluru: It was established but three weeks ago, and set up in response to the exigencies of the situation, but the Mangaluru Virology Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at the Dakshina Kannada District Wenlock Hospital has, in this period, tested 1,770 samples for Covid-19. The laboratory has steadily been picking up pace in terms of the number of tests being performed every day. Unlike the other existing facilities across India, the laboratory at Wenlock Hospital was set up from scratch . However, efforts are under way to increase its testing capacity by procuring the latest machinery, and the laboratory is expected to function round-the-clock soon, said Dr Sharath Kumar Rao J, the principal investigator and nodal officer of the laboratory. Dr Rao expressed his gratitude to the unstinting support of the Dakshina Kannada district administration for the success of the laboratory. “The district surgeon and panel of doctors too have been working hard since the laboratory started functioning. In fact, those working at the laboratory are staying there since returning home is fraught with risk. There is a lot of risk associated with the job, which is challenging in itself. Most of the doctors are working around 15 hours each day. We are happy that we have been able to conduct 160 tests every day on average. Many established laboratories are testing 500 samples every day,” he said. The core team at the laboratory comprises Dr Madhusudhan E, chief microbiologist, Dr Ashok, chief technologist and two professors from the College of Fisheries - Dr Girish and Dr Girish, who are in turn assisted by a research scholar at the college Nithin. Of all the samples that have been subjected to medical examination at the laboratory, four have tested positive. Dr Rao said that both Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh and zilla panchayat chief executive officer Selvamani had promised to help them procure the latest machinery to increase the capacity. “With better equipment, we can test up to 96 samples simultaneously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/virology-laboratory-at-wenlock-hospital-off-to-a-flying-start/articleshow/75331601.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Give loans to MSMEs, says Pollachi MP||COIMBATORE: Member of Parliament from Pollachi K Shamnuga Sundaram has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking interest-free working capital loans for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector. “Amid the lockdown, the sector has been financially constrained without any concrete revival package from the government. As many as 63.4 million MSME units throughout the country contribute around 33.4% of the manufacturing output. The Centre should increase liquidity in MSME sector by direct bankers to grant interest-free working capital in the form of term loans, with a holiday period of 12-month and 36-month instalments,” Sundaram said. He said the existing borrowers could be given 20% of the outstanding loan balance without insisting on additional security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/give-loans-to-msmes-says-pollachi-mp/articleshow/75333420.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Forced to pay rent, migrants can dial 100||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has issued an order asking landlords not to demand rent for one month from migrant workers who have been devastated by the lockdown. Any landlord found violating it will be booked under Disaster Management Act, 2005. The order issued on April 22 states that action would also be taken if landlords forced students for immediate payment of rent and threatened them with eviction. The government has urged migrant workers and students to dial 100 if they are being forced by their landlords to pay the rent. Chief secretary VijayDev has directed officials to take strict action against landlords who are found demanding house rent from migrant workers. The coronavirus crisis has caused huge financial distress to migrant workers and students among others because of business establishments, trade centres, construction activities, etc., coming to a halt during the lockdown. The landlords demanding rent from the tenants could add to their woes and may force them to move out of the house and the city in the hour of crisis. The chief secretary has directed all district magistrates to hold awareness campaigns on the issue, particularly in areas having higher density of workers, migrants and students. The affected persons will be advised to lodge complaints against the erring landlords by calling 100. A government official said: “Even during the lockdown, instances of landlords demanding house rents have come to the knowledge of the government. During this crisis, the workers who have been the worst hit need the support.” The chief secretary has asked the deputy commissioners of police to forward weekly reports about such complaints lodged by the tenants and the action taken to the DMs every Monday from April 27 onwards. Earlier, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had requested landlords to show compassion and postpone the house rent or take it in instalments from the tenants who were unable to pay. In response to it, many landlords had even waived off the rent for a month. However, many landlords in the city are dependent on the house rent for a living. Not asking for it could cause financial distress to them as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forced-to-pay-rent-migrants-can-dial-100/articleshow/75335773.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop to the rescue of elderly couple stranded at RML Hospital||NEW DELHI: A septuagenarian couple stranded at RML Hospital since the beginning of the lockdown found a guardian angel in a head constable posted at North Avenue police station. The senior citizens had come to the central Delhi hospital for a check-up, but couldn’t return as their tickets were cancelled. Since then, the couple had been staying in a shed outside the waiting room of the hospital. Head constable Satender decided to help them when he found them begging for money and food. “I bought them food for a few days. Later, senior officers started contributing. It’s now become a part of my duty to serve them food and medicines. I’m like a family member to them now,” said Satender. Vikas Mandal (78) used to work in Delhi with the central government in the early 2000s. Later, when his son got a job at Rishikesh, he moved there with his wife Pratima. However, he used to visit Delhi every 2-3 years for a check-up at RML. “Their son was also stranded in Delhi and couldn’t reach them. We got in touch with him and helped him shift to a shelter with his parents,” said the policeman. “We couldn’t have asked for more from a policeman. Initially, when he approached us we thought he was going to evict us. But he turned out to be an angel. He meets us every day to ask about our well-being,” said Mandal. Fortunately, the shelter had a toilet and a place for the couple to lie down. “My wife has been suffering from a heart ailment that requires us to travel to Delhi. I had never imagined that we would have to stay in a temporary shed for a month,” Mandal said. Police are now trying to make arrangements to shift them to a better place. Relatives of the couple in Delhi have been contacted to offer them refuge till the lockdown ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-to-the-rescue-of-elderly-couple-stranded-at-rml/articleshow/75335786.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||Professors Colony in Bhopal hangs on to minimalist lifestyle||BHOPAL: After living in a containment area for nearly 30 days, residents of Professors Colony seem to have adopted a minimalist lifestyle. Being confined within the four walls of home, many of them admit that they have realised that “home is the safest and most secure place in the world.” The colony, situated on the banks of Lower Lake, was the maiden containment area of Bhopal after the first coronavirus-positive patient, studying law in London, was detected on April 22. This was followed by the second positive case of Bhopal – the father of the student. After a delayed reaction by the state government, this colony was declared a containment zone on April 27, five days after the first positive case was detected. Since then, the colony continues to be barricaded, despite an order issued by the additional district magistrate to remove the hurdles. During this containment period, residents also realized there were hardly any sanitization operations carried out in the colony. Two important issues – sanitization and presence of health workers at entry and exit points of the colony – were found missing throughout the containment period. As there was hardly any supply of essentials during these 27-28 days, people understood the importance of minimalist lifestyle. “ The most important lockdown lesson that I have learnt is — to be grateful for what I have. The ups and downs notwithstanding, life has still been very kind. I am glad to have a home to lock myself into”, said Anusha Sharma , a student who had returned home from Pune over a month ago. “ And Home sweet home is the best place in the universe”, she added People also learnt to cooperate with one another during the crisis. “ Though these are small things, they did matter”, said Ramesh Thakur, a resident, adding “Whenever there is a sabziwalla spotted in the colony, people would call one another to inform them about his presence”, he said. But there are others who had some bitter experiences. KK Agnihotri, another resident of the area, had ordered some life-saving medicines but they were not allowed inside the containment zone.“ I learnt about it when the police stopped the delivery boy and sent him back”, he lamented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/professors-colony-hangs-on-to-minimalist-lifestyle/articleshow/75333438.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Surviving on savings, unable to send money back home||We are a joint family. Four of us stay here in the city to earn and try to feed the remaining nine members at our native place in Uttar Pradesh. Three of us here used to earn 15,000 a month by selling tea, snacks from our stall in Shankar Nagar and my son is a cook at a restaurant as a daily wager and everything was going on smoothly. Since the lockdown in March, we had to close our stall and are at home. My son too has not earned any money since then. Initially, things were managed but the extension is making life difficult. Earlier, I used to go to the bank to deposit money and transfer some amount for my family members in Uttar Pradesh. This month, however, I went to withdraw money to pay house rent. I don’t exactly remember when was the last time I had withdrawn cash from my bank account. With no earnings since the lockdown, we have to scrape by on the savings which too have dwindled and I am eager to see an end to this lockdown and start my business. I do not have a below poverty line (BPL) card in Nagpur and make all the purchases for ration, essentials and vegetables at market rate. This month, I was unable to transfer any amount to my family back in town. Since we have our own house in Uttar Pradesh and a small farm to go with, my family members are somehow surviving on their own. Hope we will be allowed to open our stall after May 3 and we would be able to earn something. I know our earnings will not be the same as there will be fear among the customers to visit the stall and consume tea and snacks. Still, we will be able to earn as something is better than nothing. (As told to Amit Sampat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surviving-on-savings-unable-to-send-money-back-home/articleshow/75334731.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Running out of essentials, elderly couple calls Karnataka chief secretary for help||KOLAR GOLD FIELDS: An elderly couple in quarantine in KGF had a harrowing time when they ran out of essentials on Wednesday morning. Unable to get in touch with anyone in the neighbourhood or the task force, they contacted state chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar who responded immediately and made arrangements to help them. Thomas, 72, and Vinutha 65, (names changed) had been to Sydney in March last year. After spending a year with their son, they returned to India. On arrival in New Delhi on March 23, they were quarantined for 17 days. Having tested negative for Covid-19, they were allowed to return to their hometown. With no flights or trains available, the elderly couple travelled in an Innova. They left New Delhi on April 9 midnight and arrived at KGF on April 12. As per the norms in force in the district and the guidelines in the transit pass issued by authorities in New Delhi, Kolar district administration decided to put the couple in home quarantine for 14 days. Thomas, a retired engineer of BEML and Vinutha, a retired teacher, were holed up in their house in Sumathinagar Extension under Robertsonpet police limits. The couple found it difficult to get all they needed since neighbours were not willing to come near their house. A friend of their son, however, provided them with some groceries which lasted for about a week. Though they had money to purchase daily essentials, they were unable to go out because of the restrictions. They managed with what they had for a couple of days and when it got too tough, Thomas managed to get the chief secretary’s number and called him. The chief secretary advised the Kolar deputy commissioner to address their grievances. The DC later ordered KGF tahsildar K Ramesh to visit the couple. Ramesh said steps have been taken to deliver essentials to their doorsteps and the nodal officer of the area will visit their house at regular intervals to enquire about them and check if they need anything. Vinutha told TOI they are happy that the chief secretary responded to their call and helped procure all the essentials for their daily needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/running-out-of-essentials-elderly-couple-calls-chief-secy-for-help/articleshow/75333456.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops ease restrictions in severely affected Covid-19 areas||PUNE: The additional restrictions imposed on severely affected Covid-19 areas in the entire jurisdiction of Khadak, Samarth, Faraskhana and Kondhwa police stations and in select parts of six other police stations would be relaxed from Thursday midnight, said the city police. “All shops selling essential commodities like groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products, chicken, meat and eggs will remain open from 10am to 12noon in the severely affected areas, while the same in the less affected areas would remain open from 10am to 2pm,” joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve told TOI after issuing the latest order under Section 144 (1) [3] of the Code of Criminal Procedure Code on Thursday night. He said, “Delivery boys of e-commerce sites will be allowed to operate from 10am to 6pm, while those working for online food delivery platforms will operate from 10am to 3pm and 6pm to 10pm. Medical stores will remain open for 24 hours.” Shisve said, “The additional restrictions have been relaxed to enable people have a fair time to purchase essential commodities like vegetables and grocery from the local market.” Kondhwa resident Akbar Pathan said, “The relaxation in the restrictions is a welcome move as it will enable Muslim community members to purchase essential commodities in bulk before the holy month of Ramzan, which is likely to begin from Saturday.” Another resident, Tanaji Lonkar, said, “The police should give two days’ time to people to make purchases and then close all shops for few more days for effective implementation of the lockdown because Kondhwa is one of the hotspots for positive cases.” The police had first imposed several restrictions on April 7 in areas under the Faraskhana, Samarth, Khadak, Swargate and Kondhwa police stations, declared as containment zones. On April 14, the restrictions were extended to many other containment zones under 15 police stations across the city. On April 19, the Pune Municipal Corporation declared the entire city as containment zone and sealed all exit and entry points to the city. It prompted the police to issue fresh orders on April 20, imposing curfew across the city to contain the spread of coronavirus. Only essential commodities’ shops, medicine and milk outlets were allowed to operate in prescribed timing. On April 21, the police imposed additional restrictions in the severely affected areas under 10 police stations from 6am on April 22 till the midnight of April 23 by allowing only milk outlets to operate for two hours and medical shops for 24 hours. It had led to anxiety among residents in the severely affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-ease-restrictions-in-severely-affected-covid-19-areas/articleshow/75335783.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Mixed bag: New Covid-19 cases cross half century, recovery hits a century in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The highest number of Covid-19 cases — 58 — were reported on Thursday. But there was a silver lining as well with the count of patients discharged after Covid treatment crossing the century mark. “Kolkata remains a challenge for us,” chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said during the evening briefing on Thursday as several cases were reported from the city. The Kolkata figures came from different containment zones under the KMC, making it difficult to identify spots where the virus has hit hard. “The Covid cases in Kolkata are scattered. We are trying to trace the contacts and isolate them,” Sinha said. The remaining fresh cases come from Howrah and North 24-Parganas. The chief secretary held that all these three districts — Kolkata, Howrah and North 24 Parganas — have a high density of population and also a high mobility. The redeeming feature in this grim situation is that the number of Covid patients released after cure has crossed the century mark, taking the total number of released patients to 103. As many as 24 Covid patients were released on Thursday. According to Sinha, five of the total 150-odd containment zones under KMC haven’t reported any Covid case in last 14 days. The scene is slightly better in Howrah and North 24 Parganas. “As many as 10 of the total 60-70 containment zones in Howrah haven’t reported Covid cases since April 12. Eight of the 40 containment zones in North 24 Parganas didn’t report a Covid case since April 14,” he said. The state has ramped up trace and test, particularly in the Red Zones. The state had performed only 58 tests till March 16. It has vigorously increased tests in the last one month taking the total test figures to 953 on April 23. “The state has already placed orders for 50,000 Viral Transport Medium (VTM) kits, 14,000 RNA extractors. But we have to get the Real Time-PCR kits from the Centre only. The supply from the Centre is far below our requirements. We began with one ICMR approved laboratory during the initial days of testing and have added 11 more laboratories including the private. Chittaranjan Cancer Institute laboratory at Rajarhat, a new addition to the list of laboratories, has performed 23 tests today. RG Kar laboratory is likely to begin tests from tomorrow,” the chief secretary said. Sinha will talk to the Union health ministry on Thursday seeking its help on supply of kits. Sinha reassured doctors and health workers that the health department has adequate protective equipment. “We have distributed 4.3 lakh PPEs to hospitals when the number of health workers, including safaiwallahs, diet boys is 20,000. Of them, 3,000 are frontline health workers attending to Covid patients. We salute them. The state will make all necessary arrangements to protect them,” the chief secretary said. The state health department is also providing food to the health workers including those who are on a seven-day leave in medical hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mixed-bag-new-cases-cross-half-century-recovery-hits-a-century/articleshow/75333436.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Thunderstorm and rain likely in next four days, says IMD||HYDERABAD: The state is likely to witness thunderstorm over the next four days (till April 27), the India Meterological Department, Hyderabad, has warned. Thunderstorm, accompanied by lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph), can occur at isolated places across the state. Light to moderate rains are likely to bring relief from the soaring temperatures. Maximum temperature in Hyderabad has already crossed 40 degree celsius and the highest temperature of 42.3 degree celsius was recorded at Adilabad. Meteorologists have attributed it to an upper air cyclonic circulation that lies over west Vidarbha in Maharashtra and its neighbourhood, and a trough/wind discontinuity from the above cyclonic circulation to Comorin area across Marathwada, interior Karnataka and interior Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thunderstorm-and-rain-likely-in-next-four-days-says-imd/articleshow/75334742.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhopal||Future tense as hunger looms large||Bhopal: The month-long lockdown is having its impact in the state capital with hunger turning out to be a major issue particularly among the homeless and daily wagers who are left with no work and wages. Notwithstanding the administration’s claims of feeding more than a lakh people daily, the CM helpline is flooded with complaints of hunger and request for food. “I had requested on 181 helpline for food for an elderly woman in Karond. They registered the complaint, but the food never came her way,” said Loiuse, who helps in distribution of food to the hungry. Loiuse is not the only one complaining about “unresponsive” helpline nos., there are many like him. They get the message promptly “Apki complaint darj kar li gayi hai aur age karyavahi ke liye agreshit ki ja rahi hai” (Your complaint has been registered and is being forwarded for further action). “It seems as if I am asking for repair of streetlight, which could be done in a day or two,” said Prabhavati, a resident of J P Nagar. “It is a matter of life and death for the hungry,” she adds. However, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) nodal officer Vinod Shukla, entrusted with the task for free distribution of food in the city, differs. “We receive calls on 104, 181 and0 our own helpline nos. or even on mobiles of BMC officials and we try to send food packet for everyone.” “BMC is running seven kitchens in the city, from where BMC vehicles pick up food packets and distribute among the hungry. Although, BMC only prepares food for 6,000 people, NGOs and socio-religious groups pitch in and about 25,000 food packets are distributed by us. Besides, there are several other organisations that are doing this work independently. Our estimates suggest more than one lakh people are getting free food in the city daily,” he said. When asked about food quality, he said, “It is usually khichdi in lunch and poori-sabji in night. We keep it simple so that people do not eat anything stale or contaminated or adulterated,” Shukla said. Food safety department helps BMC get raw material for food through donation from businessmen or big retail chains. “On behalf of the administration and BMC, I would appeal to all to donate even in small quantities of atta, oil, vegetables. My mobile no. is 7748879,” he said. Food rights activist Sachin Jain told TOI, “Hunger is a very serious issue, especially in a state which has 1.12 lakh children with severe acute malnutrition (SAM). Districts with migrant labour population like Satna, Sidhi, Rewa and districts in Bundelkhand region and Sheopur are worst-hit and in urban areas, construction workers are affected the most.” The Government should immediately change the supplementary nutrition programme (SNP) with 500 calories nutrition to the children and lactating mothers, into complete nutrition programme with 1700 calories, he said. Hardeep Singh Saini of Gurudwara Shri Tej Bahadur Saheb, told TOI, “In normal days, around 200 people eat lungar of our gurdwara, but presently about 5,000 food packets are distributed daily. We have been doing it for a month, now. We start preparation of food in early hours and around 25 women are helping me and my wife.” The Akhila Bharata Ayyappa Seva Sangham is running a community kitchen at the Ayyappa temple complex at Bairagarh. Sangham president MNG Pillai and secretary TG Anil Kumar said that 2,000 food packets are distributed with the help of district administration daily. The kitchen is running since March 24, they said. “We are running a kitchen where residents of our society contribute and prepare food for nearly 300 people every. We have been doing it for the last 20 days,” said Mahendra Raghuwanshi, resident of Guari Shankar Kaushal Awasiya Parishar, in Katara Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/future-tense-as-hunger-looms-large/articleshow/75333452.cms||Amarjeet Singh
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||1 fatality each in Nandurbar & Dhule; Jalgaon deceased too +ve||Nashik: Two confirmed Covid-19 patients, one each in Dhule and Nandurbar districts, who were being treated in isolation wards succumbed to the infection, officials said on Thursday. Meanwhile, the swab sample reports of a person who had died in Jalgaon on Tuesday, came on Thursday to confirm that the patient had Covid-19.A 35-year-old from Shahada, who had tested positive two days ago and was being treated in the isolation ward, succumbed to the illness, the Nandurbar district administration said on Thursday.Nandurbar recorded its first Covid-19 positive patient on April 17. Within a couple of days, the number rose to seven. The patients were from Nandurbar, Shahada and Akkalkuwa talukas.In the first case, officials said the Nandurbar resident had visited Malegaon. In the second case too, a teacher from Akkalkuwa who tested positive was actually a resident of Malegaon. After the lockdown, she had gone to Malegaon, but had later returned to Akkalkuwa for the mid-day meal ration distribution.In Dhule, a person who tested positive on Monday, succumbed while being treated in the isolation ward. The person is an office-bearer of a political party.Dhule district recorded seven new Covid-19 cases taking the total numbers of patients to 15. Three of them have died so far.Meanwhile, in Jalgaon, the total number of patients has touched six with three deaths. The swab report of the person who died on Tuesday arrived on Thursday to confirm that the deceased patient had Covid-19. The health teams have started contact tracing.In Ahmednagar, six more persons tested positive for Covid-19 taking the total to 37.“We have six more persons detected positive for the illness. Two are from Jamkhed and four are from Sangamner talukas,” the administration said.Malegaon assistant medical officer tests +veAn assistant medical officer (AMO) of Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. All those who have come in contact with the officer will be quarantined.“We have an assistant medical officer who has tested positive. He is among 14 positive cases reported in Malegaon city,” Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare said. The swab samples were sent to Government Medical College and Hospital, Dhule laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-fatality-each-in-nandurbar-dhule-jalgaon-deceased-too-ve/articleshow/75331708.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 24, 2020||Pune||Pet owners allege cops’ high-handed behaviour||Pune: Several citizens have alleged harassment by the police while taking their pets out for a walk during the lockdown. The issue has come to the fore when on Thursday morning, a man walking his dog in Mohammadwadi alleged that he along, with others like morning walkers and grocery shoppers, were hit on the hand with a whip-like cord by the police. “They told me to tie my dog to a pole. We were taken to the police station where all of us were made to stand in a line and hit once on each hand with a whip-like chord. I was later booked under IPC section 188 for walking my dog,” he said. Police, while denying these allegations, have stated that walking pets was not allowed during the lockdown. “Those areas in red zones like Handewadi and Mohammadwadi have been given only two hours, 10am to noon, to buy essentials. Morning walks and walking pets has been disallowed,” sub-inspector Ankush Dombale of the Wanowrie police station. DCP Suhas Bawache declined to comment. TOI had earlier reported that police were booking pet owners for walking their dogs for a toilet break. Citizens have asked the police for relief for a few minutes in the day for a toilet break for their pets. “Dogs are used to relieving themselves during particular times in a day and they cannot be expected to hold or defer the nature’s call. They could develop serious health conditions. Dogs are specially trained by owners to defecate outdoors. We are requesting the police to allow pet owners to walk their dogs for a few minutes,” Vineeta Tandon, president of Voices for India’s Voiceless Animals, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pet-owners-allege-cops-high-handed-behaviour/articleshow/75335790.cms||Neha Madaan
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Free eggs at Amma canteens from Saturday||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation will serve boiled eggs free-of-cost with lunch at the 11 Amma canteens in the city for three days from Saturday. The scheme will be extended if the corporation can find sponsors to back the initiative. The urban local body through the district administration received 10,000 eggs sponsored by Musiri based KKRV poultry farm on Thursday. Musiri revenue division officials, who were approached by the sponsor, had diverted the eggs to the corporation office. The civic body was instructed by the district administration to serve the eggs in all the 11 Amma canteens for three days from Saturday (April 25). The Amma canteen in Kalkandarkottai was allotted 400 eggs, while the remaining 10 Amma canteens were allotted 960 eggs each. Officials said that the eggs will be boiled and served with lunch. “The eggs received will meet the demand only for three days. Since the lockdown, the footfall in Amma canteens has been on the rise as free food is being provided,” a senior official in the corporation said. Madurai and Salem corporations are providing boiled eggs at their Amma canteens since the first week of April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/free-eggs-at-amma-canteens-from-sat/articleshow/75334745.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 24, 2020||Lucknow||Four new districts join Covid-19 list as UP tally crosses 1,500||LUCKNOW: Four districts, including Ayodhya, joined the ‘affected list’ as 66 new cases took UP’s Covid-19 tally to 1531 on Thursday. The state also recorded four deaths, taking the overall toll to 25. Besides, 33 patients were discharged on the day. With this, 206 patients have recovered so far. Three of the four deaths were reported in Kanpur. Kanpur CMO Ashok Shukla said that all three cases were confirmed after patients' death. The list includes 72-year-old father of a Covid-19 patient in Quli Bazaar, a 45-year-old garment trader in Tikuniya Park area referred to LLR Hospital and a 50-year-old native of Roshannagar area who died on Monday. The district also recorded 15 new cases, taking the overall number of cases to 96. The fourth death was reported in Meerut. Dr RC Gupta, principal, LLRM Medical College, said, “A 50-year-old man - who tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday - died at LLRM Medical College on Thursday. This is the fourth death in Meerut. He is the father of Meerut BJP Mahanagar president’s assistant, who, too, had tested positive on Wednesday. He was diabetic and acute pneumonia.” With eight, three and one cases each respectively, Bahraich, Shravasti and Balrampur were the new entrants to the list of affected districts. Bahraich CMO Suresh Singh said: “The list of patients included a Nepalese resident who had been quarantined at a shelter home in Rupaidiha.” Saharanpur recorded 13 cases. In Agra, nine new cases were reported taking the district tally to 336. Out of these, the list of fresh cases included one patient is provisional store shop-keeper while another is a ward boy of SN Medical College. The third patient is a vegetable vendor while the fourth is a female lab technician at a private dialysis centre. The driver of a government officer also tested Covid-19 positive. The remaining patients were contacts of previous cases. Four cases were reported in Lucknow, taking its overall total to 178. Three patients were reported from Moradabad. Aligarh and Mathura, too, reported one case each, taking the tally of the two districts to 7 and 8 respectively. Mathura CMO Sher Singh confirmed that one more person from Lal Darwaja tested positive. He said, “The patient’s age is 67. He works as an accountant and has been admitted to a private hospital.” Ayodhya DM Anuj Jha said that one pregnant woman, aged 25 years, who was sampled on Wednesday by a private hospital through private lab tested positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-new-dists-join-covid-listas-up-tally-crosses-1500/articleshow/75335796.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 24, 2020||Bareilly||Pool testing of 72 Nepalese labourers in Kheri after asymptomatic tests Covid +ve in Bahraich||Bareilly: After a Nepalese labourer was tested positive for Covid-19 in Bahraich district, local administration in Kheri has decided to send the samples of 72 Nepalese labourers, who are under quarantine at a school in Dhaurahra area of Kheri which is adjacent to Bahraich district, for pool testing. Though all the four Covid-19 positive patients here have recovered, the district administration doesn't want to take any chances and sending regular samples for testing. Earlier, three Covid-19 patients detected here were asymptomatic and the possibility of more asymptomatic carriers still loom large in the district.So, in another step, Dhaurahara SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran has sealed a village, on Thursday, where one of the Covid-19 positive patients from Bahraich, had stayed for nearly a week, earlier in the month. Sixteen people, who reportedly came in contact with him, are also quarantined and their samples would be sent for testing on Friday.Sudhakaran told TOI, “We are conducting pool testing of all the Nepalese labourers to ensure that none of them is infected of Coronavirus. We have also quarantined 16 people who came in contact with a man who recently tested positive in Bahraich. We have sealed the entire village and no one is allowed to move out until the test reports of quarantined people are available.”He further said, “The vigil on the district border has been heightened and we are doing thermal scanning of every person, entering with permission. We are taking every step to keep the area safe.”The swab samples of doctors and other officials, who had come in contact with several migrants in recent past, have also been sent for Covid-19 tests and report is expected by Saturday.Explaining the concept of pool sampling, CMO Manoj Agarwal said, “One pool contains 10 samples. If a pool is tested negative for Covid-19 then it means that all 10 people whose samples were in the pool are tested negative. However, if a pool is tested positive, all 10 people have to undergo individual testing for Covid-19 tests. We can only send 25 samples every day from our district and pool sampling would help us in testing more people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pool-testing-of-72-nepalese-labourers-in-kheri-after-asymptomatic-tests-covid-ve-in-bahraich/articleshow/75331739.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 24, 2020||Nagpur||Mominpura shops shut for Ramzan, half annual earnings gone||NAGPUR: The ongoing lockdown is likely to lead to loss of half of annual income of petty vendors, shopkeepers, wholesalers and retailers who eye a quick buck during the 30-day Ramzan period by selling a variety of items from clothing and footwear to traditional goodies like sewai (vermicelli) and dry fruits. Mominpura Trade Welfare Association (MTWA) secretary Javed Ansari told TOI, Ramzan accounts for a whopping 50% of their annual income which is as good as lost now. “We keenly await the holy month when footfalls are the highest on Jama Masjid Road. Traditional kurta pyjama, pathani, or latest patterns of salwar kameez, burkas make for a brisk business besides other products,” he said. He said eateries facilitating take away may get exemption from the lockdown but crowding of customers won’t be allowed by administration. As Mominpura is one of the Covid-19 hotspots in city, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed the area. Safety concerns have taken precedence over financial loss. Amjad Hussain, who runs two ready-made garment shops, said right now it was more important to stay indoors and maintain social distancing. “We are seeing this situation for the first time. It was unexpected. Mominpura is one-stop point for all Ramzan and Eid shopping but all of us also need to ensure the virus doesn’t spread. New cases are daily coming to fore so we can’t say who is a carrier,” he said. Garment sellers had piled up stock worth lakhs in anticipation of marriage and Ramzan shopping. “Fabric worth Rs35 to Rs40 lakh went unsold. The marriage season and Ramzan both are lost. As trend changes every three months, we don’t know if same would remain saleable later,” said Aslam Belawala, a wholesaler and retailer of women’s wear. Unsold products used in religious practices too have dealt a blow to many here. Mohammad Shoeb (50), who runs a hosiery and garment business, said there was no business at all. “We also sell janamaz (matts used in masjids). We had procured stock but all is now lying idle. It will sell next year only. It would have fetched a business of Rs20 lakh,” he says. In addition to this overhead, paying salaries too has become difficult. “I have eight workers. We will pay them from our own savings,” said Shoeb. Some like Mohammad Rizwan Ansari are forced to switch profession. Ansari used to work as cook on a fixed payout at masjids. “All bookings have been cancelled. I didn’t get any work so I started home delivery of biryani and keema samosa in small quantities. Around Rs50,000 earning from Ramzan days is gone,” he said. Restaurant owner Mohammad Sayeed said the night time business would help multiply profits but that is gone. Kaleem Ansari, a confectioner, is hoping the police would allow stalls at Muslim football ground where he could sell some items. MTWA secretary Ansari said, “Ramzan used to recover all investments and bring profits. But, we are not the only ones as entire country is suffering.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mominpura-shops-shut-for-ramzan-half-annual-earnings-gone/articleshow/75334762.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 24, 2020||Pune||PMC takes action against illegal vegetable vendors||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken action against vegetable vendors, who were not following restrictions and guidelines issued to contain the spread of Covid-19. Action was taken against 500 roadside vendors in a week. PMC has allowed 68 vegetable markets across the city and all other vendors are considered as illegal. According to PMC officials, the decision not to allow sale of vegetable at every nook and corner was taken to ensure that the spread of the coronavirus is controlled. The administration has given a green signal to some vegetable vendors to set up shops at the weekly markets. It is mandatory for vendors to follow social distancing norms. Vendors operating illegally will be fined and criminal offences will be filed against them. “The civic administration had warned the vendors. They were told not to sell vegetables and other products on the street without proper authorization but many did not follow the orders. So, action was taken against them,” said a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-takes-action-against-illegal-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/75335803.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala hospitals see a nearly 50% drop in heart attack cases||KOCHI: Four weeks into the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, hospitals in the state have seen a 30-50% drop in patients with heart attacks. Cardiologists, surprised by the trend, believe that this could probably be because two main triggers of heart attack – stress and pollution – have reduced since the lockdown. Prior to March 25, each hospital with advanced cardiology units in the state used to get around 10 to 15 heart attack cases every day. Following the lockdown, there has been a reduction in the reporting of more common yet serious heart attack, STEMI, the less damaging NSTEMI, and even left ventricular failure cases. “We are surprised by the reduction in numbers. Majority of our patients suffered a heart attack while doing intense physical activity or while driving a car. Now with physical activity reduced, heart attacks are also probably down. But no one knows the reason for sure,” said Dr Rony Mathew Kadavil, cardiologist, Lisie Hospital. This trend is not unique to Kerala. Cardiologists across the country are puzzled, with some well-known experts holding a webinar discussion on the issue last week. Besides reduced stress and pollution, they highlighted the fact that people have improved their diets as junk food consumption dropped; also they are eating and sleeping on time. People are also taking their medicines regularly now. “Heart attacks are also triggered by infection, but now overall infections have come down and as a result people are taking lower amounts of antibiotics,” said Dr A George Koshy, cardiologist with Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, who was also part of the discussion. But there are concerns that people may be avoiding going to hospitals, because of the coronavirus outbreak or lack of transport (heart attack patients in the state rely on private vehicles or taxis rather than ambulances to travel to hospitals). Doctors point to the case of an elderly Kochi man who delayed his hospital visit by two days despite intense chest pain. When it became unbearable, he reached the hospital and on being asked why he waited, said, “I was afraid that I may get coronavirus at the hospital.” Following divergent views, the Cardiological Society of India is now planning a countrywide study by comparing data during the lockdown period with that for the same period last year. A similar study from cardiac catheterization labs in US found a 38% drop in patients being treated for STEMI. Cardiologists, however, are concerned about a spike in the number of cases once the lockdown is over. “It could either be because of people, who are now ignoring symptoms, would later come to hospitals with total heart failure or it could be due to stress that will slowly build up in people in the post-lockdown period as financial woes increase,” said Dr Harikrishnan S, cardiologist with Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hospitals-see-a-nearly-50-drop-in-heart-attack-cases/articleshow/75331732.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gems in the sky shine brightly in lockdown||NEW DELHI: Heading to your rooftop, or even the balcony, at night during the lockdown period is likely to present to you a very rare sight — clear skies with many more stars shining brighter than seen over Delhi-NCR in decades. While the lockdown has clamped most people to their houses, amateur stargazers and astronomers are having their best time because of great night-sky visibility owing to dramatically improved air quality. Stargazers say not only are they able to view many more stars, even far-away galaxies are now visible through a medium-sized telescope, something which almost seemed impossible for Delhi-NCR. Not just that, astro-photographers have been able to capture faint images of the Milky Way, despite the glare of lights in the region, due to amazing atmospheric clarity during the lockdown period. Sneh Kesari, 35, a science communicator and amateur stargazer, said while 10-12 bright stars would normally be visible through the naked eye prior to the lockdown, around 50-55 major stars can now be seen during the lockdown period. “Two major factors act as a hindrance for stargazing. One is air pollution and the other is the bright lights of the city, which is referred to as light pollution. Pollutant particles create an artificial layer in the atmosphere, which makes it difficult to see stars under normal circumstances. However, the lockdown has meant the city is now almost dormant and the air pollution levels are drastically down,” said Kesari, who is also a member of the Amateur Astronomers Association Delhi (AAAD), a group of more than 1,200 amateur astronomers. Kesari, who uses a telescope to view galaxies and other celestial objects such nebulae and star clusters, said the Orion nebula and the Andromeda galaxy have both been sighted by him, quite a rare sight in Delhi-NCR. “These are visible now through the telescope. Something normally you would not see. A lot of photographers are also clicking pictures now during this period,” said Kesari. Astro-photographer Ajay Talwar recently clicked a picture of the Milky Way from his home in Gurgaon, which would be nearly impossible in the normally polluted atmosphere over the region, as well as the high light pollution level here. “Rare sightings bring the entire AAAD group together. In Delhi-NCR alone, we have around 1,200 amateur astronomers,” said Kesari. Dr N Rathnasree, director at the Nehru Planetarium says there has been considerable improvement in visibility during the lockdown, allowing amateur astronomers to make the most of the situation. “Light pollution which is rampant has gone down. What has worked to make the stars more visible has been the decrease in aerosol and other pollutants, which creates an umbrella around the skies and makes stars fainter.” Amit Sharma, another amateur stargazer from Delhi compared the night-time sky during the lockdown period with the seventies and eighties. “We would sleep on the rooftops during that period and gaze at the sky. During a power cut, the entire city would be plunged in darkness and that is when the skies were crystal clear. One could even see the Milky Way then,” said Sharma, adding that all constellations are clearly visible now. “A star cluster called Pleiades is clear as day through my street,” said Sharma. Ankit Kumar Singh, education-incharge at Astroport India — a tourism based experience based in Delhi and part of the SPACE group of companies says not only is the sky clearer, but this lockdown period is also allowing amateurs to identify stars more easily. Singh points towards a meteor shower currently ongoing as one activity people can easily be on the lookout for. “The Lyrids meteor shower is usually active between April 16 and 25 every year. The best time to look up for these space rocks of fire would be after 10 pm and we can expect 10-15 meteors per hour, raining all across the canvas of the sky.” He also says planets like Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn can also be seen in the night skies, with April the month of Venus. “On 27th and 28th April, Venus will reach its bright for this year, making it easily identifiable in the sky after twilight,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gems-in-the-sky-shine-brightly-in-lockdown/articleshow/75335828.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 24, 2020||Kochi||Six new cases; Kottayam, Idduki turn orange||Kottayam: Kottayam and Idukki were changed from greeznzones to orange zones after positive cases were reported in the districts on Thursday. Two cases have been confirmed in Kottayam while there are four cases in Idukki. In Kottayam, Panachikkad and Vijayapuram panchayats and municipal wards 20, 29, 36 and 37 of Kottayam municipality have been declared as hot spots. The market in the town was closed after a 37-year-old head-load worker contracted the virus. The sample from this person was tested at the general hospital on Wednesday. He likely got infected from a truck driver from Tindivanam in Tamilnadu who brought watermelons to the market. Health officials say the worker had not come into contact with the driver, whose companion had tested positive after he got down at Palakkad. The samples of seven others, including the fruit shop owner, have been sent for tests. A 31-year-old health worker from Panachikkad who works in the private sector in Thiruvananthapuram is the other confirmed case. He was driven home on March 24 by another person, whose results are awaited. The person had been in home quarantine and had contacted health workers after finding symptoms. His samples were taken for a test at the general hospital on Wednesday. Both covid-19 patients have been admitted to the corona isolation ward of the government medical college hospital are are reportedly stable. Meanwhile, efforts are on to identify the persons who have come in to contact, directly or indirectly, with the infected. All the co-workers of the head-load worker will be subjected to medical tests. The disinfection of the market will be done on Saturday. Meanwhile, the 65-year-old woman who was confirmed with covid-19 in Idukki was shifted to Kottayam MCH Wednesday night. The health condition of the woman is stable. FOUR CASES IN IDUKKI Four persons in Idukki, who were under home quarantine have been confirmed positive, informed Idukki district collector H Dinesan. Two of them are in Elappara while the others are from Nedunkandam and Pushkandam. All four will be shifted to Idukki medical college, he said. In Elappara, a 62-year-old mother and her 35-year-old son, who had come home from Mysore on March 25, on a two-wheeler, turned positive. The youth's 65-year-old father, wife and nine-month-old son were with them at the house. The other two confirmed cases are a 35-year-old from Maniyarankudi, who had reached Angamaly from Pollachi in a truck a few days and was taken into police custody while travelling in an auto-rickshaw, and a 30-year-old woman at Pushkandam. She had returned home on March 18 from Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/six-new-cases-kottayam-idduki-turn-orange/articleshow/75331769.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||Stay indoors during Ramzan, offer prayers at home: Admin||Nashik: The district administration has asked people to stay indoors during the month of Ramzan that is likely to begin on Saturday if the ‘chand’ is visible on Friday. The month of Ramzaan is usually observed by day-long fasts, community prayers, Iftaar parties and a rush in the markets of people buying food, fruits, clothes etc. This year, most of these activities will have to be curbed given the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. “Covid-19 can only be controlled by practising social distancing and stopping the spread of the virus from one person to another. That is why everybody has been asked to stay indoors and carry out all of the rituals without stepping out of the house,” a senior officer from the district collector said. The government has already announced the closures of masjids and dargahs till May 3 and the lockdown orders are likely to continue thereafter. Muslim religious leaders have also urged people to remain indoors and cooperate with the administration. “The health and police departments have advised that staying indoors is the key to ensure the safety of one and all. So let us stay indoors till the bad time passes. But that doesn’t mean you cannot worship Allah. All you have to do is follow the same regime, but from inside the house all day,” Shahar-e-Khatib Hafiz Isamuddin Ashrafi said. The Sunni Markazi Seerat committee has also appealed to the Muslims to ensure they go out and buy food only during the time allowed and that too by maintaining social distance. “Sale of dry fruits, food, milk and everything else will be allowed only between 10 am and 4 pm. People can buy things from the market during the stipulated time without overcrowding at places,” the committee has appealed. Shops and establishments, except food vendors, will remain closed till further notices. “Nowhere will people collect as a part of community gathering, especially iftar parties. All rituals, including prayers from early morning to late night, shall be from homes,” the committee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/stay-indoors-during-ramzan-offer-prayers-at-home-admin/articleshow/75331764.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: He ensures you get your cash in hour of need||BENGALURU: With the world under a lockdown, people’s desperation to have some money in hand has only got that much more acute. Ensuring access to money for a significant section of the population are cash logistics employees like 20-year-old Sunil Bharath Patil, who works with Security and Intelligence Services, India. Patil travels for more than six hours every day re-filling 17 ATMs. Every time he steps into an ATM, he courts the risk of contracting the Covid -19 virus, given that ATM screens, keypads and doorknobs are considered high-touch surfaces and potential reservoirs of the virus. While world over, people use gloves and tissue papers to press keys in ATMs and lifts, the same is still not the case in India. Though he loves his job, Patil says the atmosphere of Covid-19 has been anxiety-ridden, especially because he is away from his family. Originally from Jalgaon, Maharashtra, Patil moved to Bengaluru a year ago and lives alone in Anepalya. He sends a major chunk of his monthly salary of around Rs. 11,000 to his home. Patil says his father, a farmer, has told him that they will manage the finances without his income but would want him to be safe. “They want me to go back home and return to work once the situation improves. I assure them that my employers are making sure I am safe and tell them not to worry,” says Patil. “Before we start our work, we thoroughly sanitise the ATM cubicles and the machine and use sanitiser. We end our job by washing our hands and using sanitiser again. There is no lapse in that,” he says, adding that he is taking these things seriously so that he can continue serving people in his own way. Has the lockdown changed the way he used to work? “Not really. We just spend 5-10 minutes more in sanitising the ATM,” he says. Though people fear the infection spreading through currency notes, Patil says there is no need for such panic. “The notes we get are sanitised and even the ATMs are safe,” he says. Patil is pursuing BCom from an open university and is in his second year now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/he-ensures-you-get-your-cash-in-hour-of-need/articleshow/75333485.cms||Farheen Hussain
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||After Covid report leaks, DC orders probe||Hubballi: Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan has ordered an internal inquiry after details of Covid-19 patients were leaked much before the official announcement. Her confidential letter to police commissioner R Dileep, seeking details of patients was widely circulated on social media on Thursday. Deepa said the administration is trying to find out who leaked the information and made public the name of Covid-19 patients. She said appropriate action will be initiated against the guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-covid-report-leaks-dc-orders-probe/articleshow/75322412.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Waqf board holds review meet with officials||Charminar: The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) held a review meeting here on Thursday, in regards to arrangements made for the holy month of Ramzan. The meeting was headed by TSWB chairman Mohammed Saleem and attended by religious leaders and civic officials. Improving amenities for people and making them aware regarding the guidelines issued by the government for the lockdown were some of the issues discussed. Mohammed Saleem notified that all preventive steps have been taken by the state government against Covid-19, including proper medical facilities for patients fighting coronavirus. “The TSWB has asked district collectors, mosque, shrine (Dargah) managements and other religious institutions to follow the lockdown during the holy month of Ramzan. Muslims should gather in congregation for offering prayers. They should offer Taraweeh at homes,” said the TSWB chairman. “The Jamia Nizamia, a prominent Islamic university has recently issued a Fatwa asking Muslims to offer prayers at their homes during the holy month of Ramzaan in the wake of surging Covid-19 cases across the country,’’ he added. During the meeting, the GHMC, HMWS &SB, Transco and police Department officers were urged to ensure all the facilities are seamless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-board-holds-review-meet-with-officials/articleshow/75334767.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Trichy||150 crows, three dogs have rice laced with poison, die in Nagapattinam||NAGAPATTINAM: Around 150 crows and three stray dogs died after eating poison-laced rice in a fishing village near Poompuhar in Nagapattinam district on Wednesday morning. Inquiries revealed that some villagers had kept the poison-laced rice on a roadside to kill stray dogs. Crows too ate them and died. The carcasses of the dogs and crows were found in in a fishing village near the harbour. Two veterinary doctors performed postmortem on the carcasses of the dogs and some crows, which revealed that the dogs and crows died after consuming poison-laced rice. The Poompuhar police have registered a case. The carcasses were buried in a deep pit as per protocol. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/150-crows-3-dogs-have-rice-laced-with-poison-die/articleshow/75334758.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 24, 2020||Trichy||NRCB offers tips to save damaged banana plants||TRICHY: Scientists from the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) have come out with remedial measures for the maintenance of banana plants which were damaged due to gale accompanied by rain in Trichy, Karur and neighbouring districts recently. The lockdown and restricted movement of farm labourers has hampered field operations including harvesting of matured bunches apart from cutting and removal of broken plants. In case of total lodging of the whole plant without detachment of the pseudo-stem from the corm, the plants should be erected to the original position by heaping soil around the base of the plant and supporting it with sticks/poles, NRCB director Dr S Uma said. If the plants are broken at the neck of the pseudo-stem, the damaged leaves should be removed to allow new leaves to emerge, she added. To maintain plants with a totally detached pseudo-stem or stem broken from the ground, if the banana variety is suitable for its leaf such as Monthan, Poovan and Karpuravalli, cut and remove the damaged portion and allow a sufficient number of side suckers to grow as a clump. “For plants that have not fallen but are stressed by the strong wind, give proper staking to the plant with poles. If the plant has fallen with an immature bunch, harvest the fallen immature bunches and use them for preparation of value-added products such as banana pickle, thokku etc. After clearing of the field, farmers can grow suitable inter-crops for getting additional income,” Uma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nrcb-offers-tips-to-save-damaged-banana-plants/articleshow/75334769.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Pune||Scientific disinfectant spray tunnels not harmful: Study||PUNE/NASHIK: Using a scientific design and correct amount of disinfectant inside spray tunnels can actively reduce bacteria and other microbes on clothes and external body, a joint study by the CSIRNational Chemical Laboratory (NCL), Pune, and the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai, has found. The study’s findings come at a time when the state government has asked shutting down of spray tunnels across the state. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday removed five sanitiser booths or tunnels from its hospitals after the government issued guidelines stating that they are harmful for people. The guidelines stated that the disinfecting people with the help of sanitisation booths may affect their nose and eyes. Ashwini Kumar Nangia, director, CSIR-NCL, and A B Pandit, vice-chancellor, ICT Mumbai, said in a joint statement that the report would be sent to the government as well as the health authorities for consideration on merit and immediate implementation. The study suggested that for people allergic to hypochlorite solution, benzalkonium chloride can be used. NCL has also sent the report to the state government. The study said 0.02-0.05% weight concentration did not show any adverse effect on normal skin flora and yet destroyed the standard microbes. “Thus, we recommend using 0.02-0.05% weight concentration sodium hypochlorite solution (200 to 500 ppm) for external body surface sanitization of personnel walking through the mist tunnel by following standard safety precautions,” it said. “Currently, people are not using this scientifically. Either they use a higher concentration of the solution (which makes it unsafe) or dilute it too much, which renders it useless. For people with a high probability of exposure like health workers, police and municipal employees, among others, the solution with 0.05% weight concentration is suggested. For those in normal office spaces, the solution with 0.02% weight concentration is suggested,” Prabhakar Ingle, senior principal scientist and head, publication and science communication, said. The disinfection tunnel designed by the ICT Mumbai recommends the concentration of the benzalkonium chloride of 30 parts per million (ppm). The scientists further recommended the use of face shields or safety goggles for safety purposes during the walkthrough. At Nashik, the booths were set up at Zakir Hussain, Bytco hospital, Indira Gandhi hospital, among others. “We have removed all the five sanitizers booths or tunnels after the government issued guidelines in this regard. We have provided sanitisers and hand wash to our staff at all hospitals, divisional offices and headquarters,” officials said. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has, on its website, clarified: “Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered your body. Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (ie eyes, mouth).” The clarification comes against the backdrop of several recent news reports about government departments as well as private organizations making disinfectant tunnels for personnel involved in Covid-19 management. Under its dedicated section of ‘myth busters’, the WHO replied with a bold “No” to a self-posed question: “Can spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body kill the new coronavirus?” WHO myth buster section adds: “Be aware that both alcohol and chlorine can be useful to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used under appropriate recommendations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scientific-disinfectant-spray-tunnels-not-harmful-study/articleshow/75335824.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pharmacies to help track Covid suspects||KOLKATA: Residents in sensitive zones purchasing over-the-counter drugs for fever, cough and cold have come under the scanner. With not many in intense lockdown pockets voluntarily stepping forward to acknowledge that they have Covid-like symptoms, police and civic authorities have approached pharmacies located either within these areas or just beyond and asked them to note down names, addresses and phone numbers of customers purchasing paracetamol tablets and cough syrups so that they can be traced and monitored. “A KMC health and police team will regularly collect the customer data from the pharmacies in and around containment zones,” a civic health official told TOI. The information, the official explained, would be of help when civic health staffers begin door-to-door fever survey in the containment zones. The teams will check the addresses provided by the pharmacies and see if a resident is suffering from regular fever or has symptoms that are akin to Covid-19. “We have been collecting fever data from Covid-affected zones. Based on our feedback, the state health department is planning mode of treatment and quarantine methods. Once we narrow down to homes that have patients suffering from cough and fever, we will be able to more intensively monitor their conditions and isolate them as soon as they display Covid symptoms,” the KMC official said. Once a person shows Covid symptoms, he or she will be sent to a quarantine centre for isolation and testing. All family members will be stringently quarantined in the house. Police are confident of detecting more Covid suspects once they begin tracking pharmacies. “Many people don’t go to the doctor when they have cough or fever. Instead, they go to the local pharmacy and purchase an over-the-counter drug that can be bought without a prescription. We are asking the pharmacists to suggest to customers who buy paracetamol and other such drugs to visit doctors,” said a police officer. Incidentally, police teams are in touch with all physicians who practice locally in order to get alerts on suspected Covid cases. Police are also encouraging local residents in containment zones to disclose what support they are looking forward from the force. “We need people’s cooperation to be effective. This isn’t a crime but a public health issue,” said an officer. Police are also helping civic workers to deal with hostile situations. “It was agreed that every KMC team will be provided with security after reports of unfriendly and even vocal residents opposing or restricting their entry in to Covid-sensitive areas. Police will also arrange for smooth entry and exit of KMC ambulances for those who have to be removed to hospitals or quarantine centres,” said a senior police officer. The cops are also setting up CCTVs in specific “trouble spots” in central and southeast Kolkata after analysing photographs captured by drones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pharmacies-to-help-track-covid-suspects/articleshow/75333479.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 24, 2020||Pune||Wadhawan brothers now under home quarantine||Pune: A day after their institutional quarantine ended, members of the Wadhawan family and their personal staff were shifted from Panchgani and put under a 14-day home isolation at their farmhouse in Mahabaleshwar on Thursday. DFHL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, who are among those quarantined, are facing multiple cases registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Yes Bank loan scam case. The Wadhawans were quarantined after they travelled from Khandala in Pune to Mahabaleshwar amid the lockdown on April 8. Satara superintendent of police Tejaswini Satpute told TOI the home quarantine order was issued by the district magistrate under the Disaster Management Act. Meanwhile, also on Thursday, Justice Ajay Gadkari of Bombay high court directed Kapil to file a reply to ED’s petition for cancellation of interim bail granted by a trial court in a money laundering case involving the late drug smuggler Iqbal Mirchi. In an other development, ED opposed their anticipatory bail pleas in the Yes Bank case. The Wadhawans had submitted the pleas on Wednesday. The court has adjourned the hearing to Monday and said their interim protection from arrest will continue until then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wadhawan-brothers-now-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/75333501.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Farmers urge Tamil Nadu CM to convene meet||TRICHY: Farmers from the delta districts have appealed to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to convene a meeting to discuss the plights of ryots and their present state, especially after the Covid-19 outbreak. All Farmers Associations’ coordination committee president P R Pandian appreciated the tremendous work done by the state government in battling Covid-19. While appreciating the CM’s continuous effort to flatten the curve in the state by conducting meetings with doctors, officials, Pandian also mentioned the chief minister’s meeting with industrialists. Despite various measures taken by the government through agriculture and horticulture department to help farmers, it has become unavoidable that more than 50% of the agriculture produce going waste due to the lockdown. This apart, agriculture operations in the delta districts have been hit by the erratic power supply for the last few days. Following the frequent power failures, farmers could not execute many of their agricultural activities. Most of the villages in the delta are hit by power cuts affecting the supply of drinking water. At many places, sugarcane farmers unable to send their canes to mills as all of them are shut. Farmers are clueless on what to do and how to proceed during the lockdown period. The chief minister should meet farmers and their leaders through video conferencing. Waiving of crop loans should also be addressed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-urge-cm-to-convene-meet/articleshow/75334785.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||Ruckus at Alamma Bridge in Malegaon||Nashik: Some local residents of Malegaon town, which is witnessing a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases, created a commotion at Alamma Bridge on Thursday while demanding that they be allowed to cross the barricades and move out. Police officers said the situation was, however, brought under control soon without any confrontation between police and citizens. “No FIR will be filed as the crowd withdrew immediately.” Police source said that about 100 people allegedly broke the barricades, chairs and the temporary checkpost around 9 am on Thursday. A police force was sent to the spot and the situation was brought under control. “The incident occurred when the local administration relaxed the lockdown to allow people to go out and buy of essentials. As the relaxation was conditional, police objected to the movement of some youths, which led to an altercation in the Khayabannisa chowk. The crowd immediately dispersed,” said police sources However, people from the Killa slum area moved across the adjoining Alamma Bridge, demanding that the barricades over there be removed, said police sources. State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans were deployed at the spot. Sandeep Ghuge, additional superintendent of police, Malegaon, said the situation was brought under control immediately. “People did create a ruckus at the bridge, but they quickly moved back after the police enforcement arrived. There was neither any attack on police nor confrontation with the forces.” State agriculture minister and local MLA Dada Bhuse has appealed to people to stay calm and cooperate with the health department and police for the safety of all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ruckus-at-alamma-bridge-in-malegaon/articleshow/75331774.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State to use indelible ink to stamp people in quarantine||Bhubaneswar: As the 14-day quarantine period has been made mandatory for every person returning to Odisha from outside after the lockdown restrictions are lifted on May 3, all those who are put in quarantine here will be stamped with a date in indelible ink for better community monitoring. According to the state government’s estimate, around 7.5 lakh people, including migrant workers, professionals, students, stranded pilgrims and patients are expected to return to Odisha after May 3. While around five lakh people are expected to return to the rural areas, nearly 2.5 lakh people may return to the urban areas. Those returning from outside will be stamped on their left hand using indelible ink, which will last for more than 14 days. The state special relief commissioner PK Jena has issued guidelines in this regard. Jena has asked the state panchayati raj department to procure the indelible ink from Mysore. The Election Commission of India has allowed the health authorities the use of the ink to stamp individuals in quarantine. “Since a large number of persons are expected to return to the state after the lockdown curbs are lifted, we need the involvement of the community to ensure that every person coming to the state is put in quarantine, at least for 14 days. The objective of putting the stamp is to mention that a person is in quarantine and the date on which the quarantine period ends. It’s a precautionary measure. The move will ensure that people refrain from stepping outside during quarantine,” a senior government officer told TOI. States like Maharashtra and Karnataka had adopted similar practices earlier to monitor the home quarantine of suspected Covid-19 cases. The state government has made elaborate arrangements, both for the rural and urban areas, anticipating a huge influx of people after May 3. The mandatory registration process of those returning to the state will start on Friday. While home or self-quarantine facilities are not allowed in rural areas, the state government may allow self-quarantine facilities in the urban areas. In many places, hotels have been identified as quarantine facilities on use-and-pay basis. Those who wish to use such paid quarantine facilities will be allowed to do so in the urban areas. The expenditure on such paid quarantine facility shall be borne by the person concerned The authorities should make detailed arrangements for proper monitoring of the quarantined persons, the guidelines issued by Jena said. In case a person is allowed home quarantine in the urban areas, stickers will be affixed on the front of the house, which has already been done earlier. For monitoring of the quarantined persons in rural areas, the state panchayati raj department has decided to constitute committees at the panchayat-level. “The sarpanchs will head the committee that will ensure social distancing, hygiene and monitor the activities of those put in quarantine,” state panchayati raj minister Pratap Jena said. Meanwhile, state health and family welfare minister Naba Das said Odia people stuck in different states should be tested for Covid-19 before they are allowed to return to Odisha after the lockdown is lifted. Demanding an interstate committee of ministers for testing of migrant workers before they are allowed to return, the health minister said he will raise the issue during the video-conferencing of all state health ministers with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-to-use-indelible-ink-to-stamp-people-in-quarantine/articleshow/75330148.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Pockets of 2 Salt Lake blocks sealed off||Kolkata: After two weeks of respite, Salt Lake bounced back on the city’s Covid-19 map with reports of fresh suspects emerging from GC Block, leading to cordoning of a stretch of the main road near FD Block. On Tuesday, a middle-aged businessman who had fever and cough was hospitalized after experiencing respiratory distress. His family members have been quarantined at another facility. Following the hospitalisation, Bidhannagar Police started cordoning off portions of two blocks — GC and HA. The sealing of these blocks has also led to the temporary shutdown of three bank branches that are located there. Medicine shops in the area, though, continue to function. “Salt Lake had reported cases early, all of them with foreign travel history. Thereafter, there was a lull. I thought it was probably because Salt Lake isn’t as congested as the rest of Kolkata and we don’t really have a ‘para culture’ of hanging around near tea shops.But the latest case so close to my house despite the lockdown has everyone worried,” said an elderly resident of GC Block. Cops barricaded sections of the block, and distributed emergency phone numbers. Also, they set up a social networking group with residents of the containment zone. “Residents in the containment zone can communicate with us through the app or call us directly for their daily essentials and we will provide all help. We have also engaged two NGOs to help,” said a Bidhannagar City Police officer. Members of FC Block Abashik Samity, the neighbourhood adjacent to GC Block, have also taken precautionary measures. “We have already handed over masks and hand sanitizers to block residents to be worn whenever stepping out,” said Nilanjan Brahma, assistant secretary of FC block Abashik Samity. The civic authorities conducted a disinfectant spraying drive in GD, GC and FC blocks to thoroughly sanitize the areas. “We are very much scared as the fresh case has come up almost after two weeks. This one was very close to my house. I live with my elderly mother who is diabetic, making us more worried,” said Avik Raychaudhuri, a resident of GD Block. The first Covid-19 case from Salt Lake was reported from AD Block on March 30, following which three more cases were reported from EE Block, DL Block and Karunamoyee. Two more suspected cases were reported from FD Block on April 8. “We are taking all precautionary steps — from thorough sanitisation to spraying disinfectants across the township,” said Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pockets-of-2-salt-lake-blocks-sealed-off/articleshow/75333512.cms||Suman Chakraborti
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||No Iftar, Saher gatherings: UMF||Charminar: The United Muslim Front TS & AP has appealed to the Muslim community to abstain from organising Iftar and Saher during Ramzan due to the ongoing lockdown. The president, Maulana Mohammed Raheemuddin Ansari, and other members have emphasized that people should not offer prayers and Taraweeh in congregation and ensure one’s safety at home by maintaining social distancing. People were also suggested to not venture out without a purpose. “Let us offer Farz prayers in the mosques with not more than 5 devotees and not offer prayers in congregation. Muslims should abstain from organising Iftar and Saher during lockdown. In the light of current situation, one must adopt simplicity while observing the holy month of Ramzaan and follow lockdown imposed by the government,’’ a forum member appealed to the community that is gearing to welcome the month of fasting from Friday or Saturday, depending upon the moon sighting. UMF also demanded Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) to release the Imams and Muezzins honorarium immediately as their pending honorarium has been a challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-iftar-saher-gatherings-umf/articleshow/75334792.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Hubballi||Jawan arrested for assaulting constable||Belagavi: An advice to wear a mask turned nasty with a CRPF jawan in plainclothes assaulting a police constable in Belagavi on Thursday. The jawan has been arrested. The constable spotted a man strolling without a mask. He went up to the man and told him he should be wearing a mask for his own safety. The jawan, identified as Sachin Savant, got into a verbal altercation with the policeman. The jawan later assaulted the police constable. Another policeman who was in the vicinity rushed to the spot and started caning Sachin. Onlookers shot a video which has since gone viral. Belagavi superintendent of police Laxman Nimbargi said the accused was arrested after an FIR was filed at the local police station in Chikkodi taluk. He said all those who assault frontline workers will be dealt with strictly. A state ordinance to this effect has got the governor's nod, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jawan-arrested-for-assaulting-constable/articleshow/75331780.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||Migrants housed at Navelim home offered work||MARGAO: The South Goa district administration has begun to offer livelihood opportunities to the hundreds of migrant labourers housed in the shelter home at Manohar Parrikar indoor stadium at Navelim. While the state forest department has begun engaging their services on a daily wage basis, a Verna-based pharmaceutical firm on Wednesday hired some 20 labourers for its cargo loading/unloading activities. Ajit Panchwadkar, incident commander for Margao of the Covid-19 task force constituted under State Disaster Management Authority, said a couple of private firms have responded to their appeal to engage the labourers from the shelter home for their work. “Breakfast and lunch, besides transportation facility to pick them up from the shelter home and drop them back, will be provided by the firms. We expect more firms to engage more labourers soon,” Panchwadkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/migrants-housed-at-navelim-home-offered-work/articleshow/75334787.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Disabled govt staff say they are forced to report for duty||Trichy: Despite the state government issuing a notification exempting government employees with disability from reporting for duty during the lockdown period considering their safety and security, some disabled employees have alleged that they are being compelled to work by their superiors. Since there is no public transport they have been finding it very difficult to report at offices. According to the circular issued by chief secretary K Shanmugam, disabled employees are exempted from attending office from March 24 to April 14, which was subsequently extended till May 3. “Around 14 disabled persons work at three district central cooperative banks and 70 branches located across Thanjavur district. Despite the absence of public transport, many of us were ordered to come to office every day by our superiors”, one of the staff members lamented. When contacted, T M N Deepak, state president of December 3 Movement, told TOI that this was the case from across the state and that they had already taken up the issue with the government. “District-level officials in various departments as well as the district disabled welfare officers who are supposed to ensure the rights of disabled never bother about such things”, he said. Another employee working with a department dealing with food grains in Thanjavur said this was the condition of disabled employees in all government departments. Abdul Salam, state president of the association for disabled, 'Guide', alleged that he had been receiving such complaints from government departments in Trichy, Salem and other districts too. A senior officer at the district disabled welfare office in Thanjavur denied the allegation, but he refused to come on record. Attempts to contact the Trichy officer went in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/disabled-govt-staff-say-they-are-forced-to-report-for-duty/articleshow/75334776.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 24, 2020||Pune||Talegaon Dabhade residents to observe janata curfew for 2 days||Pune: The residents of Talegaon Dabhade have decided to observe janata curfew for two days from Friday. Except for medical shops and hospitals, groceries and vegetable shops will remain closed on Friday and Saturday. Milk supply will be permitted only for a few hours in the morning. This is the third time that Talegaon Dabhade residents will observe janata curfew since the announcement of the lockdown. The first curfew was observed between April 9 and April 10. The second curfew was for three days from April 16 to April 19. Amarnath Waghmode, senior inspector, Talegaon Dabhade police, said that the police, Talegaon Dabhade municipal council, health department, associations of grocers and vegetable vendors have come together to observe janata curfew from Friday. "All shops, except pharmacies, will be shut for two days. Supply of milk will be allowed for a limited time in the morning," he said. Waghmode said that the decision has been taken to keep Talegaon Dabhade free from coronavirus. People can contact the municipal council on the telephone number 02114-222449 or the police station on 02114-222444 during any emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/talegaon-dabhade-residents-to-observe-janata-curfew-for-2-days/articleshow/75335833.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Hooch accused crowd out department’s move to decongest prisons||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Prison department’s initiative to fight Covid-19 pandemic by granting emergency paroles 1,800 inmates and thus decongesting jails failed as 760 persons were arrested under Abkari Act for brewing illicit liquor between April 1 and 20. The number is on the rise as excise and police officers continue to arrest more people under the Act each day. The activity of brewing illicit liquor skyrocketed after government closed liquor outlets during lockdown. If the persons arrested for other crimes are also added to this list, the total number of inmates at various prisons would become 881. Prison DIG S Santhosh said that most persons, arrested under Abkari Act, belong to poor families and only a few could secure bail. "At present, conditions in prisons are safe. Our troubles will start in the first week of May when inmates granted parole and bail return," he said. Since the initial lockdown was to end in 21 days, inmates were granted an interim bail of 30 days. Of the 884 persons out on parole, 114 are on extension as they were already out when lockdown began. They will also be returning by the end of April, he added. Santhosh said that to prevent overcrowding, fresh admissions are sent to jails that have less inmates. In normal circumstances, remand prisoners would be sent to prison that comes under the jurisdiction of the magistrate who remands the accused in judicial custody. Prison department had taken steps to decongest jails following SC order on March 23 that considered the unprecedented circumstances that existed in India in the wake of Covid-19. Based on the order, the department prepared a list of over 1,600 inmates and they were released in the first week of lockdown. On April 10, state government issued another order stating that the number of inmates released was insufficient to ensure a safe environment in prisons. Following this, 200 more inmates were shortlisted and released by granting interim bails and emergency paroles. Though Kerala was one of the first states to enforce social distancing before Centre declared a nationwide lockdown, its reluctance to close liquor outlets had invited criticism from various corners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/abkari-case-inmates-ruin-decongestion-move/articleshow/75331806.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: In hot pursuit of patient contacts||CHENNAI: Dressed in protective suit and accompanied by four others, P Rani, a sector health nurse of the Karamadai PHC, near Coimbatore, visits close to 100 houses a day. For the last 20 days, she has been touring containment zones, filling up Form 3B, a symptomatic diary for contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. Do you have fever, cough or breathlessness? Are there members over 60 years of age or below five years? Are there pregnant women or a diabetic or anyone with a heart problem, she asks every household in a village. Rani is among thousands of health workers who fan out across Tamil Nadu carrying out the elaborate exercise of contact tracing that is proving a powerful strategy tool to contain the Covid outbreak. When a woman working in a store in a Chennai Mall tested positive late March, the panic buttons in the state’s emergency control room buzzed. A team of doctors, including epidemiologists, took charge, activating several teams across Tamil Nadu. The alert from a Covid-19 testing laboratory set the wheels of the massive 10,000-member contact investigation network in motion. But the Chennai Corporation’s red alert on possible contacts of the two workers of the mall, who tested positive, came late. The reason, officials say, was the government’s reluctance to panic the city. But the delay cost three or four precious days. Contact tracing is a combination of basic health work and old-school investigation, involving health, revenue, corporation, municipality and police teams. Mobile numbers are traced, primary and close contacts identified, advisory for quarantine issued, screening done and the stage set for yet another containment zone. Epidemiologists and health experts are, however, worried about the fallouts of Tamil Nadu and the country refusing to acknowledge community infections. While Kerala has set an example with its aggressive surveillance, testing, contact tracing and its strong ‘break-the-chain’ campaign, the state has also laid huge emphasis on transparent functioning. Kerala health minister K K Shailaja told TOI, “Transparency in reporting is essential as much as good surveillance, contact tracing, testing and treatment.” She confirmed reports that three people who returned to Kerala a few days ago, on cycle or hitchhiking in trucks, from Tamil Nadu tested positive on Tuesday. One of them had attended a funeral in Tenkasi, indicating possible community transmission. “We have a number of patients without known contacts. Community transmission is a fact of life. There is no need for such mystification,” said public health expert and former dean of Tata Institute of Social Sciences T Sundararaman. Emphasising the importance of contact tracing for all chains of transmission, he advocated use of trained community volunteers and anganwadi workers for the process. The Tamil Nadu government calls the 60 or more untraced sources ‘Unlinked Patients’ where probable causes could not be directly established. Health teams toil to trace contacts of the index (original) patients, locate the epicentre, create containment zones and help form the protective ring that would help prevent a second spread. But experts wonder how long such massive workforce could be deployed and the kind of human resources required to sustain contact tracing when people should be practising strict physical distancing and following hygiene protocols. “Social distancing is a huge problem in India. Everyone takes it lightly,” said scientist and deputy director National Institute of Epidemiology-Chennai Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, calling for strict hygiene norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-hot-pursuit-of-patient-contacts/articleshow/75334810.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||MSEDCL begins pruning trees across city to avoid power cuts during monsoon||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has started pruning trees under the overhead electricity lines in the city as part of their pre-monsoon activity. The company is facing shortage of staff and has, therefore, begun the work at the earliest so as to avoid power cut problems during monsoon. At times, during monsoon, the overgrown tree branches sway and fall on the power supply lines due tro strong winds, thereby causing power cuts in the city. To avoid any such situation, the power company has started with the said activity. “This is a regular activity and hence many of the areas will see short power breaks though most of the activities would be carried out on Saturdays,” an MSEDCL officer said. The chances of power breaks are likely to be longer and higher given the unavailability of manpower in view of Covid-19 pandemic. “Generall, we have a group of six to eight men working on a site. There are more than five sites in a single location. At present, the manpower available is very low as the social distancing norms are in place due to lockdown, making it more difficult for them to work on field. We are, therefore, organizing even short power breaks to finish off the things wherever possible,” the officer added. The office pointed out that the activity was essential as the trees tend to grow more than 20% during monsoon and the branches that are already overgrown may mess with the supply lines, causing power connection to snap in some areas. “One reason to trim the branches is that during the start of monsoon — or even during pre-monsoon showers — the branches fall on the wires or conductors and break them. The mending process requires several hours before normalcy is restored,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-begins-pruning-trees-across-city-to-avoid-power-cuts-during-monsoon/articleshow/75331792.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Hooch accused crowd out department’s move to decongest prisons||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Prison department’s initiative to fight Covid-19 pandemic by granting emergency paroles 1,800 inmates and thus decongesting jails failed as 760 persons were arrested under Abkari Act for brewing illicit liquor between April 1 and 20. The number is on the rise as excise and police officers continue to arrest more people under the Act each day. The activity of brewing illicit liquor skyrocketed after government closed liquor outlets during lockdown. If the persons arrested for other crimes are also added to this list, the total number of inmates at various prisons would become 881. Prison DIG S Santhosh said that most persons, arrested under Abkari Act, belong to poor families and only a few could secure bail. "At present, conditions in prisons are safe. Our troubles will start in the first week of May when inmates granted parole and bail return," he said. Since the initial lockdown was to end in 21 days, inmates were granted an interim bail of 30 days. Of the 884 persons out on parole, 114 are on extension as they were already out when lockdown began. They will also be returning by the end of April, he added. Santhosh said that to prevent overcrowding, fresh admissions are sent to jails that have less inmates. In normal circumstances, remand prisoners would be sent to prison that comes under the jurisdiction of the magistrate who remands the accused in judicial custody. Prison department had taken steps to decongest jails following SC order on March 23 that considered the unprecedented circumstances that existed in India in the wake of Covid-19. Based on the order, the department prepared a list of over 1,600 inmates and they were released in the first week of lockdown. On April 10, state government issued another order stating that the number of inmates released was insufficient to ensure a safe environment in prisons. Following this, 200 more inmates were shortlisted and released by granting interim bails and emergency paroles. Though Kerala was one of the first states to enforce social distancing before Centre declared a nationwide lockdown, its reluctance to close liquor outlets had invited criticism from various corners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/abkari-case-inmates-ruin-decongestion-move/articleshow/75348427.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
April 24, 2020||Pune||Fewer joggers out on the streets after one week of action, say cops||Pune: One week of sustained action by the police against recalcitrant morning joggers has begun to show results, with a noticeable decline in the number of cases filed. Since April 16, as a part of the drive dubbed ‘Operation All Out, police started booking morning walkers and joggers for disobedience under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code since April 16.As a part of the action, the offenders were made to sit on the roads or lawns for hours, do push-ups, sit-ups and yoga. Jogging was also forbidden in housing societies. A large number of walkers, mostly senior citizens, were issued notices to explain their reason for being out on the road during the lockdown. All of these measures showed a steady decline These methods started acting as deterrence and the number of joggers on roads has started declining with every passing day.“The action against morning joggers has reduced by 90%,” additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale said. Morale said the steps they had taken acted as deterrent. “We had increased police presence on the roads, intensified patrolling, started registering cases against joggers and seized their vehicles. We also made them do exercise,” Morale said. Police further lectured the joggers on the dangers of coronavirus in an attempt to ensure they stayed at home. “We have used all methods possible to effectively enforce the lockdown,” he said, adding that ‘Operation All Out’ would continue. “Fewer joggers can be seen out on the road now,” deputy commissioner of police Swapna Gore said. “The joggers initially took the lockdown directives not very seriously,” senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawdi, the in-charge of the Swargate police, said. “It was only after we started taking action that they realized the seriousness of the situation,” Naikwadi said, adding that the unrelenting increase in the number of Covid-19 cases also played a role.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-joggers-out-on-the-streets-after-one-week-of-action-say-cops/articleshow/75335841.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 24, 2020||Pune||400 foreigners travel & take off from Mumbai||Pune: The city police provided e-passes to 400 foreign nationals to enable them to travel to Mumbai by road in private vehicles to catch special flights arranged by their respective countries. Countries like Britain, Canada, Germany, Bahrain and others decided to airlift their nationals staying in different parts of India. Many flights were slotted to fly from Mumbai and several foreign nationals were stuck in Pune. Inter-district travel has been banned due to the rapid spread of coronavirus in the state. However, considering plausible emergencies, the Pune had recently police started issuing travel passes to people who wanted to commute within the city or to other cities. A team headed by deputy commissioner of police (crime), Bachchan Singh, received applications from various foreign nationals and embassy officials requesting passes for their citizens who were stuck in different parts of the city. These passes were processed on priority basis and were issued to seven British nationals, four Canadians, 131 US citizens, six Japanese, seven Swedish nationals, three Brazilians, four citizens of Ireland, an Australian and a Romanian, 150 Germans, 16 French citizens and 125 people from Bahrain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/400-foreigners-travel-take-off-from-mumbai/articleshow/75335846.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Now, R G Kar Hospital backyard under scanner||KOLKATA: The Sarkarpara area behind R G Kar Hospital turned into a Covid-sensitive zone overnight after a positive case was reported on Wednesday evening. While multiple cases had been reported from nearby Belgachhia settlement to the east of RG Kar over the past fortnight, the emergence of suspects in Sarkarpara to the west of the hospital has left local residents shaken. Cops have already sealed the area. Areas adjacent to R G Kar came under a threat since the first case was reported from Olaichandi Road on the eastern side of the hospital. Another positive case was reported a few days after that from a settlement near Belgachhia bridge. “A few densely populated pockets in the area have become a cause of concern. The dreaded virus will not take long to spread in that case,” said Animesh Nag, a resident of Sarkar Bagan. While family members of the infected person, a contractual staff working at R G Kar, is at Barasat now, people he had visited in the last few days are also being scanned. “He was seen at a ration shop a few days back. That has triggered fear among the locals who had gone to the same shop,” said Nag. While three cases were reported from Ward 5 under Sarkar Bagan area, two of them have started showing signs of improvement. “Although one Covid-19 patient died little more than a week back, we were hopeful that the virus has not spread into any of the thickly populated areas,” said Nag. The person who was detected positive on Wednesday is a second R G Kar staffer in the area to be infected by the disease. On Wednesday night, KMC started sanitising the entire area. With at least three infected persons in the ward, movement restrictions have been enforced in wards 3 and 5 and the lanes that link the affected areas. “Sanitisation continued even on Thursday morning. While we have not sealed the entire area, movement through some of the lanes has now been restricted. One of the Covid-19 positive patient has come back home on Wednesday and another infected person is also back home. That shows a lower mortality rate of the virus,” said Tarun Saha, councillor of Ward 5 and Borough I chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-rg-kar-backyard-under-scanner/articleshow/75333531.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Two more test positive in central region||TRICHY: People in the central region heaved a sigh of releif, with only two people testing positive for Covid-19, here on Thursday. A 60-year-old woman from Thanjavur tested positive for Covid-19. She is a contact of an infected patient and was undergoing treatment at government medical college hospital in Thanjavur. The new case took the total count of positive cases in the district to 50. The positive case from Tiruvarur district was a 23-year-old male. He was a close contact of a Covid-19 positive patient in the district. He is being treated at government medical college in Tiruvarur. With the latest addition, Tiruvarur district has a total of 30 positive cases so far. In Trichy, seven positive patients including a one year old boy were discharged from Mahatama Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) today. As for Trichy district, a total of 51 people were infected with Covid-19, all undergoing treatment at the isolation wards at MGMGH. As of Wedenesday, 35 of them recovered and went home. On Thursday, seven patients also were found fit to be discharged after they tested negative for the viral disease following the treatment. Totally, 42 patients of Trichy district recuperated from the viral onslaught. Excluding the recovered patients, MGMGH has a total of 17 patients with nine patients from Trichy, three from Perambalur, four from Ariyalur and one from Pudukottai now. Karur district in the central region has a total of 42 cases of positive so far. While treating the patients from their own district, the government medical college hospital in Karur also provided treatment to 74 positive patients from Dindigul and 50 patients from Namakkal districts. On Thursday, a total of 16 patients including five patients from Namakkal and 11 patients from Dindigul were discharged from Karur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-more-test-positive-in-central-region/articleshow/75334808.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Nashik||Clinics in hotspots to check people with symptoms||Nashik: The district administration has set up Covid-19 clinics in containment zones of Malegaon town in order to identify and treat those showing even the slightest symptoms of coronavirus.With nine new people testing positive for Covid-19, the total number of cases in Malegaon has touched 109 — including nine deaths. Hence, in order to put a curb on the spread of this respiratory disease, the administration is trying new ways to reach the sufferers at the earliest so that they can be treated. "Contact tracing is not yielding good results and this is making things difficult. It may be noted that almost every patient is leading to around 7 to 8 news patients and this is the cause of worry over here," Pankaj Ashiya, assistant collector and chief coordinator for Emergency Operation Cell (for Malegaon), said. The administration has therefore started two Covid-19 clinics in the containment zones, through which it will track down every person suffering from fever, cough and cold, and get them tested for coronavirus."These people will be shifted to covid care centers where patients are segregated in three categories — high risk contacts, asymptomatic Covid-19 positive and senior citizens and co-morbids," Ashiya said. The officer added that the administration had got leads from pharmacies about people taking tablets for cough, cold and fever without prescriptions and the administration is now tracking them down. "As per the state govt’s guidelines, we are taking stock from the medical shops about such people and tracking them down on priority. These are the sources that could lead us to hidden cases," the official said. Meanwhile, the administration has also decided to ensure the sub civil hospital is for general ailments and the isolation wards for Covid-19 will be shifted to other two hospitals – Jeevan and Farhan Hospitals. "We have acquired two private hospitals where a 200 bed-facility has been created for Covid-19. Only serious patients will be housed here. Besides, Mansura Hospital has a 100-bed facility for treating patients with moderate symptoms," Ashiya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/clinics-in-hotspots-to-check-people-with-symptoms/articleshow/75331842.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC electrician attacked in Mallepally||Hyderabad: Mild tension prevailed in Gokul Nagar area in Mallepally under Habeeb Nagar police station when a contract GHMC electrician was allegedly attacked by locals. Mohammed Shareef a resident of Vijay Nagar colony is working as electrician in GHMC on contract basis. On April 22, late night Shareef recieved a call from Kamal Kishore to repair the defunct street lights in the area. Around 10 pm, Shareef rectified the street lights and was coming out from Gokul Nagar area. When he reached near the library in the area, some unidentified persons approached him and asked the reason for coming into the area. Despite revealing his identity as an electrician and purpose for repairing street lights, few persons picked up an argument with him and beat him with stick, due to which he received bleeding injury on his nose. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-electrician-attacked-in-mallepally/articleshow/75334821.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka lockdown: Free WiFi puts smile on faces of migrants in camp||BENGALURU: For the first time in weeks Rukmini Devi, a daily wage labourer, had a smile on her face on Sunday. Amidst the pall of gloom that surrounds the migrant labourer camp in Thanisandra, she found a silver lining – in her husband’s smartphone. For the first time in a month, Devi got to see her seven-year-old son Sushil who lives with his maternal grandparents in Gunjhalli, a village in Raichur. Devi and her husband had moved to the city in search of work two years ago, while their son remained with her parents. Normally, she would frequently connect with her son over video chat – to a neighbour in Raichur since her parents don’t have a smartphone. But Devi’s husband Sharanappa ran out of money after the lockdown was imposed and couldn’t recharge his phone. With the lockdown being extended to May 3, Bengaluru north east division police stepped in with a laudable initiative. They ensured two 42-inch televisions and installed eight WiFi hotspots in the camp, providing connectivity and entertainment for over 1,000 migrants housed there. “I saw my son on Sunday and now I’m at peace, said Devi. “We always kept some money aside to recharge data, but we had to use it to buy provisions. Since then, I’ve been very worried. I spoke to him when someone from home called, but to see him was very soothing.” The children in the camp have stopped running around the place and are now glued to the television, for which they vie with the elders, who want to tune into new channels. “We wanted the people here to take their mind off – even if it was briefly –problems on hand. Also, entertainment for the children was another issue which was solved,” said a police source. Now, on an average, 450 users log onto to the hotspots every day. The facility was provided by ACT Fibernet free. Speaking about the initiative, Bala Malladi, chief executive officer, ACT Fibernet, said, “We’ve set up the facility to provide better communication and entertainment for the 1,000 people who are housed there. They can browse the internet with 20mbps speed and unlimited data. We appreciate the care and concern shown by the government and police to these less fortunate people in this situation. We are thrilled to be of service in this situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/free-wifi-puts-smile-on-faces-of-migrants-in-camp/articleshow/75333537.cms||Manuja Veerappa
April 24, 2020||Goa||Two tigers prowling Mhadei sanctuary?||KERI: While the national lockdown sharply curtailed vehicular movement everywhere, in the Mhadei wildlife sanctuary, the relative silence gave tigers an opportunity to move around freely. Drivers carrying essentials at night reported seeing tigers crossing the road heading towards the Anjunem dam reservoir. The reservoir, during summer months, is a watering hole for both herbivores and carnivores. “We have installed camera traps at strategic points where there is movement of tigers,” said Vikas Desai, deputy conservator of forests, wildlife division, North Goa. “But we haven’t yet got any images of tigers. But, the pug marks, scats, and repeated sightings by villagers indicate the presence of a tiger and a tigress in the sanctuary.” The sanctuary was notified as a tiger habitat in 1999. In January, the border village of Golauli witnessed the killing of four tigers, after which it was believed there were none left in the sanctuary. But when authorities investigated, it came to light that big cats continued to kill domestic animals along the Goa-Karnataka border. The four families that owned deceased animals have already been granted interim relief, said range forest officer Vilas Gawas. “The forest department has also forwarded seven other cases to the state government. Our staff is committed to protecting tiger habitats in cooperation with local villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-tigers-prowling-mhadei-sanctuary/articleshow/75334803.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Renga Nagar daily wagers get help from neighbours||TRICHY: When 65 families of daily wagers in Renga Nagar locality of K K Nagar started feeling the heat of joblessness as they were unable to meet even their daily needs due to the lockdown, help came calling from their neighbourhood where many of them work as domestic help. The under-privileged families were offered groceries for at least a month with the promise for more help in case of need. TOI had reported the plight of these families during this lockdown last week. With the majority of people being daily wage labourers, they had exhausted their savings in the last one month due to the lockdown. Left on their own, they had no option but to seek help from people for their food and other needs. E Padmini, correspondent MDS Gurukulam and her husband decided to help them and offered groceries on Thursday. “We offered them with 16 types of groceries and promised them for all possible help,” said Padmini. Though we had come to this locality seeking woman domestic help, we came to know about their plight only after reading reports in the newspaper. Thanking the gesture, a 43-year-old woman from the locality said that it was indeed a timely help for us to meet our daily requirement. We never knew that we will be affected by such pandemic which will virtually leave us handicaps. “We only hope that we get back to work once the lockdown is over so that we don’t have to extend our hands seeking help. But we cannot forget the help extended by Padmini madam and his family,” said the woman. A Ezhil, who extended help to the locality said only after visiting the locality, he came to know basic needs of these families. We will ensure that they also get water connection and toilets built so that they lead a hygienic life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/renga-nagar-daily-wagers-get-help-from-neighbours/articleshow/75334796.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 24, 2020||Business||Government notification will add confidence, says India Inc||NEW DELHI: A notification or announcement that employers will not be held responsible for Covid-19 positive cases will add confidence, Indian industry representatives have told the government and have pointed out the obstacles that need to be removed for restarting economic activity. “Criminal liability of employers in case of finding Covid-positive cases among employees has been mentioned by many industry members across states and needs to be clarified. We have seen the clarification from MHA yesterday,” representatives of CII told home secretary Ajay Bhalla and Gururprasad Mahapatra, secretary, department for promotion of industry and internal trade. Industry representatives said that within red zones, there should be a clear demarcation of hotspots or containment zones as defined by the home ministry and economic activities outside of containment zones may be permitted. The containment zones can be reassessed on a daily basis, it said. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesFrom Monday, the government allowed restarting economic activity in limited sectors and with abundant safeguards but there are several hurdles which have emerged for smooth functioning of plants and manufacturing units. Read AlsoCEOs won’t be punished if staffers test positive: GovernmentDismissing fears of legal action against manufacturing facilities, including imprisonment of the CEO or temporarily sealing of the factory if an employee tests positive for Covid-19 on the premises during lockdown, the Centre on Thursday clarified that there is no such clause in the consolidatedIndustry representatives said no further permission should be required for essential goods facilities from state or district administrations for operations. Information by factories to district administrations should be considered sufficient to operate. They said it was often not possible for workers to stay at the premises, especially for smaller plants. “Workers should be permitted to stay within 10 km and use their own transport. Most states have requested for movement of two-wheelers for workers. MSMEs are not able to afford the requirement of more buses due to social distancing needs,” industry representative said. Factories that are permitted to open should be allowed to issue passes or letters of authorisation for such staff rather than local authorities issuing passes. Telangana has allowed this on the basis of a CII representation, they said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsFor larger plants, it may not be feasible to shut down the entire unit on detection of a Covid-positive employee in one part of the plant. CII has outlined a protocol for segregation which may be considered. Similarly, the requirement of one-hour gap between shifts was not possible in continuous process plants where staggered change of shifts may be allowed. CII has also forecast that GDP growth is estimated to be between -0.9% and 1.5% in 2020-21 and urged the government to unveil immediate measures to revive the economy and save vulnerable sectors. Another industry lobby group, Ficci has said all tax payments including GST should be deferred by six months without inviting any penalty. It said there was a need to provide greater regulatory forbearance including change in NPA definition and loan restructuring. “NPA recognition period to be extended from 90 days to a minimum of 360 days,” Ficci said in its recommendations to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-notification-will-add-confidence-says-india-inc/articleshow/75337707.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Two more men arrested for killing tigers in ATR||COIMBATORE: Two more men were arrested on Thursday for poisoning two tigers in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve two week ago. D Vellingiri, 34 and M Murugan, 32, hailing from Sethumadai near Anamalai, had escaped to Kerala and were hiding in a relative’s house there, forest department sources said. The department’s field staff arrested the duo after they returned on Thursday. They were remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Avinashi sub-jail. Carcasses of a tiger, a tigress and a wild boar were found in the Pothamadai beat of Pollachi range on April 8. A special team arrested P Rasu, 36 and C Karuppasamy, 56, on April 16. They told the officials that they had poached the wild boar and laced pesticide in the flesh to kill the tigers, which had killed their calf in December. The department is trying to identify all those involved in the killing of the big cats, an official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-more-men-arrested-for-killing-tigers-in-atr/articleshow/75334819.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Veggie markets not to open on weekend||TRICHY: The district administration has ordered the closure of temporary vegetable markets at 10 places in Trichy Corporation areas on Saturday and Sunday. In an order, Trichy collector S Sivarasu said the move is part of measures to prevent infection, transmission of Covid-19 and reduce the movement of the general public outside on April 25 and 26. The vegetable markets have been set up at Madhuram ground on EB road, Anna Nagar uzhavar sandhai, Anna stadium, ER higher secondary school ground, SIT ground in Ariyamangalam, Bishop Heber College ground, Chathiram bus stand, temporary uzhavar sandhai at Central bus stand and KK Nagar uzhavar sandhai to prevent people from crowding the Gandhi market after the Covid-19 outbreak. The administration also ordered the closure of the temporary wholesale vegetable markets functioning on the bypass road on Friday and Saturday. People have been advised to buy vegetables in nearby grocery shops for the two days and can also make use of mobile pushcart vegetable vendors. The use of four-wheelers to visit vegetable and grocery shops has already been prohibited in the city. People can use their vehicles only for medical emergencies. The district administration also reminded the people of the existing order of restricting their movement within two km from their homes for buying essentials. Meanwhile, the vegetable markets in the remaining areas in the district have been ordered to be shut only on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/veggie-markets-not-to-open-on-weekend/articleshow/75334832.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Delhi||Doctor couple, Delhi cops help reunite Yemeni with kin||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old Yemen national, who had a history of seizure disorder and was found lying on the roadside in Gurugram on Saturday, was reunited with his family within five days, thanks to the efforts of a doctor couple and Delhi Police. “On April 18, we got a call about a man lying on the road near Kadarpur in Gurugram. He was brought to the civil hospital as an unknown suspected Covid-19 case. During rounds in the wards, I noticed him running here and there. He could not understand our language and remained reserved. He was prescribed anti-psychotic medicines and was sedated. He even tried to run away from the hospital thrice,” Dr Yogender Singh told TOI. On April 20, Singh tried to speak to the man, but could not get any hint about his address. The next day, the doctor handed him a pen and paper. “He wrote something in Arabic. I then decided to give him Google translator. It translated into English his typed words as ‘Yusuf, Yemen, India treatment, passport lost’. I then tried to contact the embassy, but to no avail. Later, I informed my wife about the incident. She is also a doctor at a dispensary in Greater Kailash and knew the local SHO there,” Singh added. Dr Saroj Yadav shared the details with the SHO, Greater Kailash police station and two officers were tasked to track the embassy officials. “The officers reached the Embassy of Republic of Yemen in Vasant Vihar, only to discover that it was shifted to Anand Niketan. The guard present there gave them the number of an official who told the cops that they were also looking for Yusuf. Singh was informed and the Yemen national was reunited with his brother,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP, South.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctor-couple-cops-help-reunite-yemeni-with-kin/articleshow/75335851.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur reaping benefits of testing high-risk category||KANNUR: Though there was a spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, thanks to the decision to test more people in the high-risk category, things are slowly settling down in Kannur and there is not likely to be any major spike now, said district collector T V Subhash, who said the percentage of people tested for Covid here is much higher than the state average. On Thursday, no positive case was reported from the district. “We conducted 2,546 tests, which means 965 per million, which is much higher than the state average of 550 and national average of 331. This way, we were able to identify many positive cases though there was no symptom,” he said. Now the results of 45 people who came from abroad and around 100 primary contacts are awaited and there is not likely to be any major increase in the numbers, said the collector. Of the 111 positive cases reported in the district, 80 did not have any major symptoms. A total of 19 of the 89 people who came from abroad tested positive after 28 days and 14 tested positive between 14 and 28 days, he said. Why they did not show the symptoms should be academically studied, said the collector, adding that there is no possibility of them contracting the disease from here, as they were under home quarantine and also there is no other source of infection. At the same time, the stringent surveillance measures would continue, said the officials. Two days after police strengthened the surveillance and started enforcing triple lockdown in 24 places identified as hotspots, the measures have been streamlined now. Meanwhile, a three-member squad would be deployed to ensure the high-risk cases on home quarantine are adhering to the regulations, said the collector. Apart from the normal lockdown measures, the houses of the Covid patients and their primary and secondary contacts are under special surveillance and they are not permitted to step out. Police have also started installing the Covid safety mobile app in the cellphones of the people under surveillance in the hotspots or Covid containment zones, where there is triple lockdown. “We are in the process of installing the safety app, as we did in Kasaragod, so that we can clearly trace anyone who comes out of their houses and actions can be taken,” said North Zone IG Ashok Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kannur-reaping-benefits-of-testing-high-risk-category/articleshow/75331839.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||2 women test positive, city’s Covid-19 count touches 40||Aurangabad: Two women, both aged 45, contacts of previously confirmed Covid-19 cases have tested positive for novel coronavirus in the city late on Wednesday night. The count of Covid cases in Aurangabad now stands at 40. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said that cluster containment efforts have been intensified with new task force in place. On Tuesday, a 76-year-old woman passed away while undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Her throat swab samples were sent for testing. The deceased woman, a resident of Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura, later tested positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, all close contacts of the woman were tested for the infection. On Thursday, one of her relatives, a 45-year-old woman, also a resident of the same locality, tested positive for the infection, district civil hospital’s Pradeep Kulkarni said. Incidentally, an appalling number of people had participated in the last rites of the elderly woman. More than 100 people had took part in the event despite restrictions imposed by the district administration on large gatherings in view of lockdown. Around 80 of her close contacts were screened at the district civil hospital and throat swabs of certain suspects were also collected, after which one of the relatives was found to be carrying the virus. Meanwhile, a 38-year-old man from Samata Nagar near Kranti Chowk had tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. One of his close contacts, a 45-year-old woman from Pundalik Nagar, too, tested positive for Covid-19. Meghna Jogdand, medical officer of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said that the Pundalik Nagar and Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura areas have been sealed as part of containment plan. “A total of 10 localities in the city are sealed and 113 health teams are conducting door-to-door screening. Patients having symptoms, travel history or contact history are being referred to the Covid Care Centres for further examination,” she said. Of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases, there have been 16 recoveries and five deaths. A total of 19 patients are undergoing treatment as on Thursday. New team formed to contain Covid-19 spread Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey has formed a new team for Covid-19 comprising officials of the AMC, police department and health department to contain the spread of the infection in the high risk areas. The 12-member team will work on massive contact tracing and institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-women-test-positive-citys-covid-19-count-touches-40/articleshow/75331810.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 24, 2020||Pune||Supply of vegetables and fruits to sub-markets surge||Pune: The inflow of vegetables from farmers in rural areas to the three sub-markets — at Manjri, Moshi and Uttamnagar — has gone up by at least by 20% as the wholesale market of vegetables and fruits at Gultekdi continued to remain shut, a source in the Agriculture Produce Market Committee said.“The functioning of the sub-markets on the city’s outskirts brought some relief in suburban areas. About 300 vehicles, including pickup vans and three-wheeler tempos, are supplying vegetables and fruits at these markets. The average inflow of vegetables has gone up beyond 500 tonnes, which is about 20% rise. The farmers are supplying all types of leafy vegetables and potatoes,” an official of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) said.Khadki, the fourth sub-market, is closed from last week as Covid-19 cases were reported from the area. The Moshi market was also shut for two days and would reopen on Friday.The APMC is trying to make additional arrangements at the three operational sub-markets to accommodate and distribute the added stock. But sources in the administration claimed that there was a little scope for these because stricter social-distancing norms were in place.“All the four sub-markets had to be closed for a week recently because social-distancing norms were not being followed. They would have to be shut again if there is unwarranted rush,” said another APMC official.Wholesalers of the Gultekdi market are yet to receive any communication from the APMC about reopening the market. “We have learnt that the area has been closed as it has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. We are ready to resume operations as per instructions from the authorities,” a trader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/supply-of-vegetables-and-fruits-to-sub-markets-surge/articleshow/75335852.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 24, 2020||Goa||Canacona orchid farmers stare at Rs 2.5 lakh loss||POINGUINIM: Orchid farmers of Canacona, who on an average earn around Rs 2.5 lakh every season from the sale of flowers, are facing bleak prospects. The lockdown has stopped all sales for these farmers. One of seven orchid farmers in Canacona, Vishal Desai says his buyers are in Mumbai, Bengaluru and Pune and with the lowdown there was no way to sell the flowers to them. “I cannot even sell them in local markets as with no celebrations happening there is no demand for the flower,” he said. Not even funerals are held, said Desai, whose polyhouse is in Ponsulem, Canacona. “I earn between two and 2.5 lakh every season,” Desai said. This season, however, has been spent watching the orchids go to waste. March, April and May are the flowering months for orchids. Another farmer Damodar Shenvi, whose polyhouse is in Masheval, Poinguinim, said the government should compensate orchid flowers for the losses. Zonal agriculture officer Shivram Naik Gaonkar said his office has assessed the loss and sent a report to the agriculture department. He said each farmer could loose around Rs 2-3 lakh this season due to the lockdown. Farmers Gautam Kamat from Khola, Shamrao Desai from Agonda, Ganesh Gaonkar from Gulem, Daya Gaonkar from Cotigao and Vinay Tubki from Shristhal reiterated that the government should reach out to them in these difficult times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-orchid-farmers-stare-at-rs-2-5-lakh-loss/articleshow/75334834.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bareilly||Health staff of four districts to work in shifts at Covid level hosp in Bareilly||Bareilly: Corona warriors in UP are constantly on the ground at health facilities waging a battle against Covid-19 - working away from home. So, when the community health centre (CHC) in Bithri Chainpur was designated as Covid-19 level one hospital, the health department on Thursday said that after the current 25-member team completes the shift, they will be placed under quarantine, and another team of corona warriors from Pilibhit will take its place. It has been, in fact, decided that health staff, including doctors and nurses, from all four districts of Bareilly division will work here in shifts. At present, 13 patients from Budaun are under treatment here. A Thailand national, who was tested positive for novel coronavirus in Shahjahanpur district, was discharged from here after recovery.According to officials, the state government had earlier directed to create Covid-19 level one hospital in each district for treatment of positive cases. However, the state government later directed the officials that patients from Bareilly division, including Bareilly, Budaun, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur districts, will be treated at Covid-19 level one hospital in Bareilly district.Director (health) of Bareilly division, Dr Rakesh Dubey, said, “At present, two teams with 25 members each are working at Covid-19 level one hospital. Once the shift of one team is completed, in a day, they go to active quarantine [living in a hotel instead of their home as a precaution]. And once their 15-day shift is over on May 3, a new health team from Pilibhit will join here to take care of Covid-19 patients.”Dr Dubey added, “Patients from four districts of Bareilly division are being treated at one hospital in Bareilly to save human resources. The CHC in Bithri Chainpur has 30 beds. And if we need more beds in future, we will designate CHC in Ujhani in Budaun district as Covid-19 level one hospital.”Meanwhile, after six members of a family, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly district, recovered and were discharged, Bareilly has been left with no active positive case. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “On Thursday, 22 reports for Covid-19 were found negative. Even five reports of pool samples tested negative. We have now started random pool sampling in crowded localities of Bareilly for tests by sending mobile medical units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/health-staff-of-four-districts-to-work-in-shifts-at-covid-level-hosp-in-bareilly/articleshow/75330194.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Six arrested for poaching monitor lizard||TRICHY: The forest department arrested six people for poaching a monitor lizard at Manapparai on Thursday. All of them were booked under Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and put behind bars for 15 days. The common monitor lizard is listed in Schedule-I of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 which requires absolute protection. The incident happened in Salaiammapatti village near Manapparai of Trichy district. A group of people captured a monitor lizard on Tuesday and ate it after cooking its meat in an isolated location in the village. The Tik-Tok video they had made after capturing the protected reptile has turned an evidence for their illegal activity. There is decent population of monitor lizard in the region. Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said that they received secret information on the poaching the reptile in the village. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/six-arrested-for-poaching-monitor-lizard/articleshow/75334823.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||‘Yamraj’ cop doles out social distancing advice in Goa||MARGAO: The state has been witness to the resourcefulness of the constabulary in delivering the “stay home, stay safe” message in diverse creative ways during the lockdown. Adding to the talents displayed by the men in uniform, Vijay Sridhar Dessai, attached to the traffic cell of the Curchorem police station, on Wednesday enacted the role of Yamraj, the mythological lord of death and justice, to urge motorcyclists and four-wheeler drivers to adhere to the social distancing rules applicable to vehicles. “Your life is precious. Do not venture out of your homes for no reason. Else here I am, waiting for you outside your doorsteps,” Dessai said, manning the streets of Curchorem dressed as the Hindu god of death. Holding a club in his right hand, he stopped two and four-wheelers violating the lockdown rules and warned them about the lurking threat of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Stay indoors. Don’t become my easy prey.” A diabolic laugh followed every piece of advice delivered by the “Yamraj” — and to marvellous effect. Dessai’s street-theatre performance earned the admiration of many. DGP Goa also tweeted about it on his official twitter handle on Thursday, complimenting Dessai for his ingenuity. Dessai’s obsession with the performing arts is not new to the Goan public. The ever so genial traffic cop has perfected the art of performing living statues and is a familiar performer at mass social events like Shigmo. He is passionate about getting into character by painting himself silver — just for art’s sake. Several years back, Dessai performed a marvellous feat at Big Foot, Loutolim, by sitting motionless in the position of a traditional potter for little over seven hours. On another occasion, Dessai made a bid to enter record books by changing into 20 different living statues in a record time. Dessai has got into the skin of several freedom fighters, people of traditional occupations, religious figures, among other and performed at public events in Goa and neighbouring states with elan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/yamraj-cop-doles-out-social-distancing-advice/articleshow/75334857.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 24, 2020||Pune||Measures to keep cops healthy in time of Covid-19 in Pune||PUNE: Police in the city and Pimpri Chinchwad are focusing much on the health of their officers and personnel with three men in uniform so far testing positive for Covid-19. The Pimpri Chinchwad police have decided to conduct medical tests of their officers and personnel suffering from cough and cold. On the other hand, the Pune police have provided their staffers deployed at various checkpoints with vibration plate machines to stay fit. The Pimpri Chinchwad police have tied up with a private hospital at Thergaon where the tests will be conducted by the doctors. The police commissionerate will bear the cost of the tests. Assistant commissioner of police Pimpri Chinchwad Shridhar Jadhav said, “The focus is on the safety of the entire police team. Keeping this in mind, police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoi has decided to conduct the medical tests on any staffer found suffering from cough and cold. If suggested by the doctors, the Covid-19 test of the police personnel will also be conducted” The Pimpri Chinchwad police have also distributed safety kits to the 3,000 police personnel. Each kit comprises face shield, masks, gloves, goggles, sanitizer, vitamin C and zinc tablets. Personnel of the Pune police deployed at various checkpoints have to stand on the vibration plate machines for 10 minutes a day to remain stress free. “The vibrations stimulate the muscles and improve blood circulation, which ultimately result in relief from stress and joint and back pain,” a senior officer said. “We have provided two machines each at the five zones. One policeman has been deployed to carry the machine to the check points under three police stations daily,” the officer said. Constable Dasharath Sonawane, who used the machine, said, “I felt fresh as the machine relieved the physical and mental stress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/measures-to-keep-cops-healthy-in-time-of-covid-19/articleshow/75335856.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Engineering students join forces with police to supply essential kits in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Realising that the lockdown has been especially tough for those who depend upon daily wages, a few students from the city have decided to lend their hand to migrant labourers and the poor for procuring essentials. Y Mokshith (21) and his engineering classmate P Srinath are volunteering with the Cyberabad cops, driving police vehicle to distribute groceries, sanitizers and other essentials to those in need. If not for Covid-19, the duo would be preparing for the final exams of their course. But as exams have been postponed, they work for around 12 hours every day, procuring goods from donors and distributing them. They came to know about the volunteering opportunity through an NGO. “Initially, I was involved as a volunteer for distribution of food. But later, officials found that there is a shortage of drivers to ply the vehicles for picking up and delivering food/groceries. They cautioned me that it will be intense work. I accepted it since it is the need of the hour,” Mokshith told TOI. He now reports to the Covid-19 control room at 8 in the morning and leaves only after 8.30 pm. “I have been driving a police vehicle for around 200 kms every day, either to pick up food from a donor or to deliver it to the needy. . However, it has been a very satisfying experience,” he said. Srinath, who had initially thought that food distribution is going to be a fairly easy task, said: “It has been labour intensive but satisfactory.” He discovered how to control room makes estimations and plans for the required supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-students-join-forces-with-police-to-supply-essential-kits/articleshow/75334862.cms||Srinath Vudali
April 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nod to resume work in IT zone a non-starter||PUNE: The revenue division’s decision to allow companies in the IT zone of Hinjewadi to operate is a non-starter. In his video address on Wednesday, Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said the companies willing to start in the Hinjewadi IT zone could function, but they will have keep their employees on the campus. He added that the companies could not call employees to work from the sealed areas in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. A senior IT company executive said the permission could have meant bringing back those employees back to work who were not allowed by the clients to work from home or those employed in BPO/KPO operations. “But the need to stay at office clause and no employees from PCMC/PMC meant that the entire plan is a non-starter,” he said. According to IT companies, over 85% of the 1.8 lakh direct and 1.2 indirect staffers working in the $5 billion IT zone stay either in the PCMC or the PMC limits. Few employees have taken homes in some new projects in Hinjewadi. But the human resource executives remained unclear if they would be allowed to come and return unhindered. The move to quickly open offices is important for the BPO and KPO staffers, who are not authorised to work from home and are required to liaison real-time with the clients. “Our office told us to come on April 20. But then the lockdown was made stricter for eight days. We have now been given a new work date of April 27. We are still not sure, if we can attend because the entire PCMC area is under containment,” said Kannan S, a BPO employee. Several IT companies, in the meantime, are sending out feelers to people, who are yet to start remote working, if they can join back next week. “I told them that I am ready. But the police should allow us to go,” said Alok Nair, an IT employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nod-to-resume-work-in-it-zone-a-non-starter/articleshow/75335864.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 24, 2020||Bareilly||Cane farmers hail SC order on UP govt’s right to fix SAP||Pilibhit: Supreme Court's decision that the UP government is empowered to fix the state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane -- which is always higher than the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the central government -- has been welcomed by farmers here. The observation of the apex court on Wednesday brings to a close a 15-year-old civil appeal.One of the key petitioners, VM Singh, who is the national convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said the sugar mills in the state had first challenged the right of UP government to fix the SAP in 1996. The HC had then given a decision favouring the mills.The state government had challenged this order in the apex court.The sugar mills too petitioned the SC against a Lucknow Bench order favouring farmers. Singh had petitioned the HC Bench.“Had the Constitution Bench rejected the right of state government to fix the SAP, more than 50 lakh cane growers in the state carried the liability to refund to sugar mills the difference between SAP and minimum price of sugarcane as announced by the central government because SAP has always been higher by Rs 40 to Rs 70 per quintal than MSP,"Singh explained The farmers said they had the right to get a remunerative price on their produce...||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cane-farmers-hail-sc-order-on-up-govts-right-to-fix-sap/articleshow/75330203.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||More industries started work in Nashik, Bajaj to commence Waluj plant ops today||Nashik/Aurangabad: Factories in the state’s industrial estates are gradually starting their operations after recieving the requisite permissions from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). In Nashik district, after 100 units started work on Wednesday, 150 others became operational on Thursday. In Aurangabad, Bajaj Auto’s Waluj-based plant is expected to start partial operations on Friday. In Nashik, 1,106 units had successfully uploaded the ‘self declarations’ and got online permissions. Of them, 250 units have started operations so far, said Nitin Gavli, Nashik regional officer, MIDC. The units that have become operational include many small factories and a few large industrial units like TDK India Pvt Ltd, Hindustan National Glass, Legrand Switcgear, General Mills etc. However, several other large industries like Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) are yet to start operations even though they have the permissions. M&M’s Igatpuri plant has got a permission, while its Nashik plant will apply for permission on Friday. M&M sources said it will take around three-four days to start operations. “We are checking the availability of supply from our vendors. We will manufacture some vehicles depending on the material we get from our vendors across the country,” said the sources. “On Thursday, 100 units started operations in the district. Some industries have got permission, but they are still working out their transportation plan for workers. We have approached the tehsildars of Nashik and Sinnar talukas to give passes for four-wheelers and two-wheelers, which are yet to work out,” said Tushar Chavan, secretary general, NIMA. TDK India Pvt Ltd, one of the large companies in Satpur industrial estate in electronic component sector, started production on Thursday. “We have started operations in a small way. We will increase the production gradually. We already have export orders, which we are planning to complete gradually. This is a good initiative by the centre, giving a small window for industries to start operations even during the lockdown,” said Harishankar Banerjee, Nashik plant head of TDK India Pvt Ltd. Everest Industries, which manufactures fibre cement roofing sheets and other building products at its plant in Lakhmapur in Dindori taluka, started dispatching the products which it had already manufactured before the lockdown. It has been sending two-three trucks every day over the past two days, said the company sources. CP Tripathi, CSR head of Bajaj Group, said that the Bajaj Auto's Waluj plant will start its operations from Friday with close to 700 workers and all government guidelines will be followed. Subsequently, the ancillary industries, which constitute the vendor network of the automobile manufacturer, will become operative. The Maharashtra government has issued specific guidelines for the operation of the industries during the lockdown. The industries which are situated out of the municipal limits can start their operations according to the guidelines after securing permissions online and by ensuring strict adherence to the conditions laid out by the state government. Giridhar Sanganeria, president of Chamber of Marathwada Industry and Agriculture (CMIA), told TOI that Bajaj Auto will begin its operations with 600 to 700 workers . “In compliance with government guidelines, the workers staying in Waluj area will only be called for the shift,” he said. He added that the start of operations on Friday will set the ball rolling and push the other companies to begin work too. AMC buses to ferry workers It has been decided that none of the factory workers will be travelling by two-wheelers, three-wheelers, four-wheelers or on foot to the manufacturing units. Buses will be used for transportation of staff. “On CMIA’s request and in coordination with district collector Uday Choudhari, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey has offered us Aurangabad Smart City Buses (on rent) to ferry the industrial workers. The member industry requiring buses can contact CMIA and we can fill in the requisition for them,” CMIA president Giridhar Sanganeria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/more-industries-started-work-in-nashik-bajaj-to-commence-waluj-plant-ops-today/articleshow/75331830.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Newspaper hawkers, agents & distributors screened in Mohali||tnnMohali: The administration undertook screening of newspaper hawkers, agents and distributors on war footing in the district to ensure their safety and allay public fears, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.They were screened in Mohali, Zirakpur, Derabassi and Lalru. The process would be carried out in Kharar on April 24. The DC said, “In Mohali, 183 vendors were screened. As many as 40 vendors and newspaper agents were examined in Zirakpur and 12 in Lalru. In Derabassi, 18 vendors were screened, of which 17 were found asymptomatic and one was suffering from mild cold.” Of 15 vendors who underwent screening in Kurali, 14 were found asymptomatic, while one was found with mild fever.In all, 268 vendors were examined.“Nobody was found symptomatic. Besides screening the vendors, the teams of multipurpose health workers made them aware about safety measures like, ensuring social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitizers,” he added.Hawkers were all praise for the drive.“I am thankful to the district administration for undertaking such an initiative. It will mitigate our customers’ fears, if any,” said Harpreet Singh, Phase II hawkers’ association president.“I express my gratitude to the district administration, led by DC Girish Dayalan, municipal corporation and information and public relations department, for this drive. Together we can and we will defeat this pandemic,” said Vijay Pratap Singh, Mohali Phase VII vendors’ association president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/newspaper-hawkers-agents-distributors-screened-in-mohali/articleshow/75333579.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Six-month-old girl with congenital heart disease dies at PGI||CHANDIGARH: The six-month-old girlchild, who had tested positive for coronavirus at PGIMER on Wednesday, passed away on Thursday. Her family members, including mother, father and grandparents, have tested negative. As per doctors, the baby’s condition deteriorated on Thursday and she died at 12.47pm. The cause of death was reported to be refractory shock, pulmonary artery hypertension and Covid-19. Her last rites were coordinated through Red Cross, Chandigarh. The child was suffering from congenital heart disease and was referred to PGIMER from a private hospital in Ludhiana for corrective surgery. After assessment by cardiologists and cardiothoracic surgeons, she was due to be taken up for open-heart surgery at the Advanced Cardiac Centre, where she was admitted on April 9. As per PGI authorities, she was critically ill at the time of admission. “The patient was very sick and not fit for surgical intervention for reported pathologies. She was kept on a ventilator and required medication. Her state deteriorated over the days. She was tested for Covid-19 on April 20 and again on April 22, and the report suggested she was positive,” they said. She was subsequently shifted to the Covid-19 facility in Nehru Hospital Extension on Thursday and received ventilator support till her last breath. The hospital authorities are not certain about how and from where the baby contracted coronavirus. She was cremated at electric crematorium with the consent of her parents. The municipal corporation made all arrangements, said UT adviser Manoj Parida. PGI staff negativeFollowing the child’s report, 54 PGI staffers were quarantined. All have tested negative for Covid-19. Report cardA total of 21 contacts of Sector 18-based Covid-19-positive patient have been sampled and all of them have tested negative. Chandigarh-based contacts of a positive patient from Nayagaon, a PGI worker, who were sampled at GMH-16 on Wednesday, also tested negative Nine more Chandigarh contacts of the Nayagaon patient were sampled at GMH-16 and their report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-six-month-old-girl-with-congenital-heart-disease-dies-at-pgi/articleshow/75333570.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists seek waiver of fixed electricity charges||CHANDIGARH: UT aviser Manoj Parida and UT finance secretary A K Sinha on Thursday interacted with city-based industrialists and traders regarding the problems faced by them during the curfew. The industrialists demanded complete waiver of electricity fixed charges instead of just deferring the payment. Naveen Manglani, president of Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said the UT officials assured that the administration will be extending the date to pay electricity bills without any late fees to April 30. “The UT adviser also assured us that they will actively consider waiving off the fixed charges for the lockdown period,” he added. The industrialists also sought assistance to pay wages to employees for April. Earlier, in a letter sent to both Centre and UT, the industrialists had said since majority of the nearly 20,000-25,000 workers engaged in their 2,300-odd units are migrant labourers, they have been taking care of the financial needs of their families during the lockdown period. But, for paying the wages for April, when no business took place, they need financial assistance, they had submitted. Besides, the traders also demanded that cloth merchants should be allowed to open their shops for two to three hours every day, so that they can sell their clothes. The representative of property dealers submitted that the administration should allow at least registration of three properties in a day. The converted plot owners association submitted that small businessmen should be allowed to operate their offices with eight-10 staff members. The UT adviser assured that their demands will be discussed in a meeting with UT adminitrator V P Singh Badnore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/industrialists-seek-waiver-of-fixed-electricity-charges/articleshow/75333593.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 24, 2020||Bengaluru||112 Padarayanapura violence accused moved to Haj Bhavan||Bengaluru: Fourteen KSRTC buses on Friday ferried 112 accused in the Padarayanapura violence case from the district jail in Ramanagara to Haj Bhavan in north Bengaluru, where they will be quarantined as five of their fellow accused have tested positive for Covid-19. Fifteen employees of Ramanagara Town Municipal Corporation and five district prison officials have been home quarantined. The municipal employees had on Thursday visited the prison to distribute masks and food to the inmates and others. Also, 12 other inmates of Ramanagara prison have been quarantined in their barracks. “Seven accused and three police officials were accommodated in each bus. The drivers used screens to block their cabin to ensure social distancing,” an officer said, adding: “With the news of five accused testing positive, it was difficult to convince the drivers to go till the city.” At Haj Bhavan in Hegdenagar, about 50 locals staged a protest saying their lives had been put at risk by shifting the accused to their area. Bheemashankar Guled, DCP (northeast) said the protesters were convinced and all 112 accused were shifted to the Bhavan. The 24 foreign religious preachers, who were arrested on charges of visa violations and quarantined at Haj Bhavan, were shifted to a hotel. A day after ex-CM HD Kumaraswamy alleged a “premeditated conspiracy” in shifting the prisoners from Bengaluru to Ramanagara district, the state government on Friday defended the move. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the accused were shifted to Ramanagara since the Central Jail at Parappana Agrahara in Bengaluru was crowded and the Supreme Court had barred them from sending more prisoners there. “The government takes certain decisions after a lot of deliberations. When we realised a few miscreants had contracted coronavirus, we immediately decided to shift the rest of them from Ramanagara jail to Haj Bhavan in Bengaluru. There was no ill intention behind the decision to shift them to Ramanagara,” Bommai said. Deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan said opposition leaders were trying to politicise the issue. “If there was any bad intention, we wouldn’t have got the miscreants tested for Covid-19 in first place,” he added. “If the jail at Parappana Agrahara was full, Ashwath Narayan should have provided them shelter in his house or his assembly constituency. Why bring them to Ramanagara, which is a green zone?” said KPCC president DK Shivakumar. Meanwhile, in Mysuru, Kumaraswamy said Alok Mohan, ADGP prisons, misled the government on the issue. “When I was CM, Alok Mohan had twice requested me to make him Bengaluru police commissioner. Since I did not consider his request, he is nursing a grudge. He misled the government to send Padarayanapura miscreants to Ramanagara,” Kumaraswamy alleged. Asked if the government took a hurried decision in shifting the men from Padarayanapura to Ramanagara prison and back to Bengaluru, S Suresh Kumar, Covid-19 spokesperson for Karnataka, said: “It’s a purely administrative decision. The IGP is accountable and he took the decision considering various factors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/112-padarayanapura-violence-accused-moved-to-haj-bhavan/articleshow/75362261.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Valparai MLA’s hubby holds review meeting with officials, kicks up a row||COIMBATORE: AIADMK MLA Kasthuri Vasu’s husband R B Vasu, a retired village administrative officer, has courted a controversy by convening a meeting with Pollachi sub-collector, revenue department staff and Valparai deputy superintendent of police (DSP) to review Covid-19 precautionary measures. Revenue officials are wondering on what authority the Valparai MLA’s husband, who doesn’t hold any government or constitutional post, held the meeting. According to sources, Vasu conducted the review meeting at the Inspection Bungalow in Valparai on Monday. Pollachi sub-collector R Vaidthyanathan, Valparai municipality commissioner Pavunraj, tahsildar Raja and DSP N Vivekanandan attended the meeting that discussed management of containment plan, health and sanitization activities that are being carried out, implementation of government schemes, enforcement of curfew and distribution of relief measures, among others. Also present at the meeting were AIADMK functionaries Hameed and Mayil Ganeshan. T Paulpandi, Valparai DMK secretary, said, “We also came to know about the review meeting. The MLA’s husband doesn’t have any rights to convene a meeting with IAS cadre official, police and revenue department officials. We don’t know whether the meeting was authorized. After the lockdown, we will take the issue seriously and stage a protest.” As photos of the review meeting went viral on social media on Thursday, officials denied having attended any meeting. The sub-collector said he was in Valparai to take stock of Covid-19 precautionary measures that day and had visited the Inspection Bungalow, where he met the MLA’s husband, to take a break. “He did not conduct any review meeting with us. Someone clicked our pictures with him and circulated on WhatsApp for political mileage,” he said. Valparai tahsildar Raja also denied the charges. He said the MLA’s husband had met them, seeking permission to distribute food to the needy. While MLA Kasthuri admitted that her husband was in Valparai that day, she said he was there for some official work. “He did not conduct any meeting with officials.” However, a senior revenue department official said such a meeting had taken place and that the sub-collector and other cadre officials have been advised not to attend such meetings hereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/valparai-mlas-hubby-holds-review-meeting-with-officials-kicks-up-a-row/articleshow/75334865.cms||A Subburaj
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Dairies incur losses due to enforced curfew timing||Aurangabad: City-based dairy owners are having a tough time owing to the curfew being enforced by the administration. As per curfew enforced for stricter implementation of the lockdown, no shop other that pharmacies are allowed to remain open after 1.30 pm. This is leading to huge inconvenience to the dairy owners, who have limited storage facilities, in utilising the stock of evening milk. Due to this many are being forced to sell the milk at throwaway price. According to Rashid Khan, who own a dairy in Aref Colony, he has been asked to shut his shop by 1pm. "Customers visit our dairy all day. But now we can only conduct business till 1.30pm due to which around 50 litre of milk remains unsold. I am left with no option but to use the milk for extracting cream," he said. Shakeeq Lahji, a resident of Aref Colony, said milk in an essential commodity and the dairies should be allowed to remain open in the evening as well. Medina Dairy, near Roshan Gate, is also incurring heavy losses due to the restrictions. "The milk extracted in the evening must be distributed at the earliest. We do not have sufficient space to store milk or the mechanism to preserve it," owner of the dairy said. According to operator of Azim Janata Dairy in Rehmaniya Colony, the buying power of people has also reduced due to the lockdown. "Due to this we are selling the Rs 50 per litre milk for Rs 45," he said. When asked about the issues being faced by the dairies in city, deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Meena Makwana said the dairies will be exempted from the curfew. "The circular related to curfew timings for the forthcoming days is yet to be issued," she said on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dairies-incur-losses-due-to-enforced-curfew-timing/articleshow/75331857.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 24, 2020||Nashik||Police honour Asha workers for their selfless service||Nashik: Senior police inspector Vijay Dhamal, of the Mumbai Naka police station, honoured the Asha workers in the area for their selfless service and presented bouquets and sweets to them. “I see them working in high-risk areas. They go door-to-door to test people for Covid-19 symptoms even in the containment zones, where no one else dares to go. I did not want to miss the chance to honour them,” said Dhamal. The Asha workers have been asked to check if there are people who may have contracted the coronavirus and need treatment. “Many people do not show the symptoms. The virus can be found only after tests. Therefore, the Asha workers have been deployed by the district health officer to go to every house and test people living in the vicinity of confirmed Covid-19 patients,” he added. As a representative of the Nashik police, Dhamal honoured 22 Asha workers at Mumbai Naka and Govind Nagar and gifted flowers and sweets to them on Wednesday. “I will also keep doing this as the Asha also do their work fearlessly every day. I would also tell them to be careful and take precautions amid the crisis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-honour-asha-workers-for-their-selfless-service/articleshow/75331866.cms||pragya jain
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Flyers stuck in lockdown clueless about refund||Aurangabad: Air passengers, whose tickets for March-end and April were cancelled after domestic and international flight operations were halted, are now seeking refund from air carriers, but are facing a difficult time. Nita Indani, a resident of the city, had travelled to Mumbai from Aurangabad in the first week of March. On March 6, she had booked a return ticket to Aurangabad on March 29. However, as the nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25, the flight was cancelled. “I recieved a message stating that the flight has been cancelled. However, there has been no communication about the refund,” she said. The circular from the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) with instructions on refund to air carriers may not provide any relief to the flyers. The circular instructed the airlines to refund the amount paid for tickets booked during the lockdown period. This leaves thousands of flyers like Indani in loss of their ticket amount with no fault of theirs because their ticket was booked before the lockdown period. In addition, the airlines are not even offering full refund to the flyers who had booked their tickets during the lockdown period as instructed by the MoCA. Aviation expert Ahmed Jaleel said, “Instead of refunding the money of passengers, the airlines are telling them that they can use that amount to book tickets in future. However, not all passengers are frequent flyers. So, the offer by airlines is meaningless for them,” Jaleel said. He added that despite of the instructions of the MoCA against starting the sale of tickets after lockdown period, many airline operators are leaving their ticket booking window open which will put people into further inconvenience if the lockdown extends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/flyers-stuck-in-lockdown-clueless-about-refund/articleshow/75331870.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Too many vehicles coming from Punjab and Haryana worry UT||CHANDIGARH: The UT police in the past two days sent back over 600 vehicles from Punjab and Haryana moving without any valid passes. The issue of vehicles coming from Panchkula and Mohali was discussed in the recent review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. Badnore asked UT adviser Manoj Parida to discuss the matter with the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana for strict implementation of curfew. Recently, after the declaration of Chandigarh as a hotspot, the UT administration had asked Punjab, Haryana, the high court and Chandigarh municipal corporation to share details of curfew passes issued by them. The MC has been issuing passes for essential services, the high court registrar to their staff and Punjab and Haryana government department heads to their employees for movement in Chandigarh. Mohali and Panchkula district administrations are also issuing passes valid for movement in the Tricity. The UT administration is compiling details of all these passes and will check how many were issued by the respective authorities, a senior UT official said. The exercise is aimed at minimising entry of people to Chandigarh after the Centre declared it a hotspot. Sources said the UT administration had received information that a large number of Haryana and Punjab government officials were attending their offices in Chandigarh along with their staff. Unlike Mohali and Panchkula, the UT is very strict in issuing e-passes. Till April 23, the UT administration had received around 80,000 online requests for e-passes, but issued only 10,000. Before issuing an e-pass, the UT administration officials check all relevant documents. The UT had introduced the e-pass facility on March 28. A senior UT official said they were issuing passes in cases of medical emergency, last rites and distribution of essential items. They are dealing on case-to-case basis. The UT administration also received inputs that many administrative heads of government departments of both the states have issued “unnecessary” passes. THE ADVISORY UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has advised the district authorities of Mohali and Panchkula to maintain strictness in their areas, so that the entire Tricity remains free of infection Earlier, UT adviser Manoj Parida had written to Mohali and Panchkula administration to issue lesser number of passes Recently, Parida had even requested the Haryana chief secretary not to allow too many government officials to attend their offices in Chandigarh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/too-many-vehicles-coming-from-pb-and-hry-worry-ut/articleshow/75333604.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 24, 2020||Mumbai||Kurla’s L Ward has third most cases at 267||MUMBAI: L (Kurla) Ward recorded 27 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, increasing its total to 267. The ward now has the third highest cases in the city after G-South (Worli) at 507 and E (Byculla) at 368. Two other wards too witnessed a marked rise in cases on Wednesday—F-North (Wadala) and K-West (Juhu, Andheri and Jogeshwari West). Both reported 32 cases each. The rise took K-West’s total to 264, making it the ward with the fourth highest cases in the city. It was followed by F-North with 260 cases. Cases in D (Malabar Hill) Ward rose to 234 with 27 new patients. Till Wednesday, 425 Covid-19 patients across the city were cured and discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kurlas-l-ward-has-third-most-cases-at-267/articleshow/75333658.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||For any problem, Pramoda has a fix||Bhubaneswar: Come rain or shine, this man is always only a phone call away and has a solution for all your problems. Pramoda Kumar Bhuyan is available when your tap is leaking, your fan is not working or your motor pump has developed snags even during this long-drawn lockdown. He fixes taps and repairs fans without taking any labour charges. He only charges for the spare parts. Bhuyan (55), who is a caretaker of a resident welfare association in Nayapalli in the city, acquired the skills to repair different snags over the years. During the lockdown, when shops are closed and plumbers and mechanics are not ready to work, Bhuyan never thinks twice before attending to people’s problems. He says, “I derive immense satisfaction from helping people. I acquired all my skills by dabbling in different works over the years. In the current situation, when people are facing hardships owing to the lockdown, I try and help them so that they can at least have a sound sleep.” At a time when mechanics are ready to fleece you for a minor maintenance work, you can count on Bhuyan for a solution. Sanjita Parida, a homemaker from IRC village of the city, says, “When my gas stove stopped working, I was clueless about how to get it fixed during this unprecedented crisis. My neighbour gave me the phone number of Bhuyan. I called him up and he was there in 15 minutes. He not only fixed the stove but also gave me some tips on how to deal with some minor snags. I offered him money for his labour, but he refused. At this critical juncture, he was like godsend for me. Even if your electricity meter goes kaput in the dead of night, Bhuyan will be right on your doorstep to repair it.” Fans developing snags is a common problem in summer. Souvagya Mohapatra, a Nayapalli resident, says, “My fan conked out and I was sweating profusely owing to the scorching heat. Thanks to Bhuyan, who fixed the fan in half an hour. Because of him, my family could sleep comfortably in the sweltering heat.” Bhuyan is a plumber, an electrician and a motor mechanic, all rolled into one, adds Mohapatra. Money is never a priority for him. “Before the lockdown was imposed, I stocked up on different spare parts anticipating a long corona break,” says Bhuyan while fixing a motor pump in one of the homes. For his selfless service, people donated generously when he married off his only daughter recently. Even during festivals, people come to his house to give him tip. No wonder that in his locality, people know him as a Good Samaritan. “I will continue to help people till my body permits. The good wishes and blessings of people has kept me going,” says Bhuyan, who lives in a two-room house, provided by the association. He has a family of three, including a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/for-any-problem-pramoda-has-a-fix/articleshow/75330247.cms||Pritiman Mohapatra
April 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Of 128 Jamaatis, 122 test negative||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula health department heaved a sigh of relief after 122 Jamaatis staying at two quarantine facilities here tested negative for Covid-19 for the second time. They have now been sent for home quarantine. The civil hospital authorities said, “The reports of the 122 Jamaatis, out of 128, were received from the PGI on Thursday. While they have tested negative for the second consecutive time, six others are still positive and under treatment at the isolation ward.” Of the 122, as many as 55 were staying at Nada Sahib Gurdwara quarantine facility and 67 at Mouli quarantine facility. An administration official said, “It is good news for the Panchkula district and a morale booster for our staff working towards containing the coronavirus spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-128-jamaatis-122-test-negative/articleshow/75333633.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh municipal corporation to issue passes to all fruit, vegetable vendors||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh municipal corporation has started issuing passes to all registered and unregistered vegetable and fruit vendors of the city, enabling all the 550-odd vegetable and fruit vendors to sell their items, said a civic official on Thursday. The official, however, made it clear that the vendors will be able to hawk their stuff only in the assigned areas. Since the Chandigarh Police personnel would be randomly checking their passes, these vendors would not be allowed to move to other sectors or areas, he said. The decision has been taken to keep a record of the vendors moving on the city roads, as also to maintain vendor-resident ratio, so that their number does not exceed the required level in any area. When contacted, municipal commissioner K K Yadav said, “Out of these approximately 550 vegetable and fruit vendors, around 200 are registered vendors holding licences issued by the corporation. Therefore, the process of issuing area-wise passes to them has started from Thursday. As for unregistered vendors, they will be first identified throughout the city and then passes will be issued to them specifying their areas for vending. The move will more streamline the system of vending of vegetable and fruit vending in the city.” According to him, these passes will have all required information about the vendors, including name, address, area assigned to them for vending, timings etc. Police personnel deployed at nakas in sectors or other areas will check the passes of such vendors. As per information, different teams of the enforcement department of the civic body will identify the unregistered vendors, and orders in this regard have already been issued to the department. As a sector-wise survey is going on, after identification, these unregistered vendors will be assigned specific areas across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-to-issue-passes-to-all-fruit-veggie-vendors/articleshow/75333614.cms||Deepak Yadav
April 24, 2020||Mysuru||2 poachers nabbed||Mysuru: The forest department has arrested two people who were allegedly trying to poach animals in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. Hunsur range forest officer Hanumanth Raj said the duo was arrested with a single-barrel gun, one machete, five live cartridges and two head torches from the banks of Cauvery river around 11.30pm on Wednesday. They were identified as Devendra Arun, 26, from Basavanahalli village and Neeran Devaiah, 30, from Chikka Bettageri in Kodagu district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2-poachers-nabbed/articleshow/75331883.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Pune||Volunteers for home delivery||Pimpri Chinchwad: The villages in the Velhe and Bhor taluka have appointed volunteers for purchasing essential goods and its home delivery to avoid overcrowding in the markets. They will home deliver these goods for free of cost. Small villages have one volunteer, while the bigger ones two to four gramdoots. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/volunteers-for-home-delivery/articleshow/75335883.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Can conduct SSLC, HSE exams a week after lockdown: Kerala education department||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State general education department has intimated a high-power committee chaired by chief secretary Tom Jose that it was prepared to conduct SSLC, Plus One and Plus Two examinations a week after government lifts lockdown and if other conditions remain favourable. “This doesn’t mean that government would be conducting the pending examinations immediately after the lockdown, which may be lifted by May 3. The final decision and examination schedule are dependent on many things, of which nobody has any clarity. When discussing about the preparedness of the department, the future course of action is planned on the basis of a hypothesis that lockdown would be lifted on May 3 and normalcy would follow thereafter. But that should not necessarily happen in the same fashion as is planned now,” said a senior official with the department. After discussing the preparedness at a quality improvement programme (QIP) committee meeting on Tuesday in which officials and teachers’ organisations participated, the department shared their plans with the high-power committee. “Several state boards have not yet begun their Class X examination. Since the lockdown is nationwide, any decision about the conduct of any examination would be highly depended on the nature of directives from the Union government. Some clarity might emerge on such aspects in the proposed video conferencing of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers,” another top official said. According to a tentative plan the department has evolved at present, the Plus One and Plus Two examinations can be conducted in two time slots. Considering the examinations, the department had exempted examination centres and valuation camps from running labour camps during the lockdown. The department, in association with NSS units, has taken steps to provide masks and sanitisers for students attending examinations in the post-lockdown period. “In case the Covid-19 situation in the state abates and the intensity of the diseases continue to be unfavourable in Gulf regions where also the Kerala board examinations are held, it has been suggested that on such circumstances permission may be given for online monitoring of the examination in such places,’’ the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/can-conduct-sslc-hse-exams-a-week-after-lockdown-edu-dept/articleshow/75331908.cms||B S Anilkumar
April 24, 2020||Chandigarh||2 booked for violating curfew norms in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Two persons booked for violating lockdown norms in Panchkula at Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) area and Sector 20 on Thursday. According to the police, a man was walking near Bhainsa Tibba village in MDC without a mask. He also could not justify his reason to be outside his house to the patrolling party. The accused was booked under sections 188 and 269 of the IPC by the MDC police. Similarly, in Maheshpur village of Sector 20, another man was booked under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC by the Sector 20 police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-booked-for-violating-curfew-norms-in-pkl/articleshow/75333653.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded university gets Covid-19 testing facility||AURANGABAD: The Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwadad University (SRTMU), Nanded has received the official nod for carrying out testing of throat swab samples for Covid-19. The facility with a capacity to test around 250 samples every day has been set up at the centre for Agro-Bio Innovation and Incubation Foundation at the university. With this, the total number of testing laboratories in Marathwada has increased to two. The first lab was started at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad. Udhav Bhosle, SRTMU vice-chancellor, on Thursday said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — competent authority at the national level — has granted official permission for the university for carrying out the tests. "We have written a letter to district administrations in and around Nanded informing them about the availability of Covid-19 testing facility at our university. Similar communication is being sent to possible beneficiary districts by the government as well. It is one of the major achievements of our university to figure among a very few institutions of higher learning in the country that is enabled with Covid-19 testing facility," he said. Bhosle added that the Covid-19 testing facility at the university will be based on Real time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). “The PCR test is carried out by taking swab samples of suspected patients and confirming the presence of Covid-19 even during early days. The PCR test is the most credible test and potentially different from the rapid test method,” he said.  SRTMU public relations officer Ashok Kadam said the centre for Agro-Bio Innovation and Incubation Foundation got the state-of-the-art infrastructure and facilities due to adequate fund-flow from the government. Currently, swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients from Latur and Osmanabad are sent to Solapur while that of other six districts from Marathwada are tested at GMCH, Aurangabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-university-gets-covid-19-testing-facility/articleshow/75331895.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||No fresh cases, 10 more patients discharged in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The district recorded no new Covid-19 cases for the second straight day on Thursday. Meanwhile, 10 more patients had recovered and were discharged from ESI Hospital in the city, leaving only 36 Covid-19 patients to get cured. Till now, the ESI Hospital had discharged 27 Covid-19 patients who tested negative for the virus twice. Of the 27, 14 were from Tirupur, three from Nilgiris and 10 from Coimbatore. The public health department said that one more patient undergoing treatment in PSG Hospitals had also tested negative ones and is likely to get discharged by the hospital on Saturday. The public health department said with the 10 more patients from Coimbatore getting discharged, it takes the total number of cured patients in the district to 98. Five people had been discharged on Wednesday. “Besides ESI Hospital, the railways engineer admitted in PSG Hospital has recovered and has tested negative once. He will mostly be tested again and discharged either on Friday or Saturday,” said the deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “So, we have around 35 active cases,” he said. Health department officials also confirmed that the personal security officer of deputy speaker Pollachi Jayaraman, who tested positive in the rapid antibody test, tested negative in the PCR antigen test. On Thursday, they tested around 198 people and 162 people on Wednesday. “All the 162 people tested in and around Kinathukidavu and Pollachi were found to be negative. The 198 tested on Thursday include those who came in contact with the Annur SI, who had tested positive two days ago,” Dr Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-fresh-cases-10-more-patients-discharged-in-dist/articleshow/75334883.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||‘Support ryots, focus on food security’||PANAJI: Goa Bachao Abhiyan in a vision document has emphasised the need to prioritise food security in the state by encouraging organic farming, aquaponics, hydroponics and permaculture. It has also expressed the need for “compulsory tilling of all agriculture lands lying fallow before the monsoon season at a subsidised rate of Rs100 per acre or penalties of 100 times the amount and for contract farming options so that immediate farming may commence with the onset of the monsoons”. There should be strictly no land use change of orchard, forest, wetlands and fields where heavy and immediate penalties must be imposed with provisions to revert status with immediate effect. The government must support existing farmers and those wishing to start farming, GBA said. The GBA has suggested mapping and strict protection of natural water bodies where all future constructions must have mandatory water harvesting, sewage treatment plants and composting space on site for every dwelling unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/support-ryots-focus-on-food-security/articleshow/75334909.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Mumbai||Dharavi gets 25 more cases, 2 civic workers in slum pocket test +ve too||Mumbai: Dharavi recorded 25 more Covid-19 cases on Thursday, including a death, taking the slum pocket’s total tally to 214. Meanwhile, in Kalyan and Titwala, two civic labourers involved in cleaning drainage at Dharavi too tested positive for the virus on Thursday. Following the suggestions by a central inter-ministerial team that visited Dharavi on Wednesday, the BMC has created additional 800-bed quarantine facilities for the locality by taking custody of 11 lodges and a Matunga college. Civic officials shifted around 600 high-risk contacts and neighbours of patients to these facilities. They will add 500 more quarantine beds in a few days. Officials said they have decided to shift the maximum number of high-risk contacts to civic-managed quarantine facilities to prevent infection in the congested zone. They admitted it is difficult to trace asymptomatic patients as the BMC tests only those with symptoms. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North Ward, said, “We shifted 600 slum dwellers on Thursday and will move 400 more on Friday. We have provided a separate room to high-risk contacts of patients such as family members and neighbours. The rooms have private toilets, so they can stay there with their families.” Two civic labourers—a 53-year-old Dombivli resident and a 42-year-old from Titwala—got infected in Dharavi, said health officials. Both complained of fever and cough. They were quarantined and tested positive on Thursday. Dharavi, spread over 2.5 square km, is a part of the G-North Ward that includes the Dadar-Mahim stretch. Till Wednesday, the ward recorded 257 Covid-positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dharavi-gets-25-more-cases-2-civic-workers-in-slum-pocket-test-ve-too/articleshow/75333689.cms||Vijay V Singh
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu TJ members quarantined in Delhi seek better care||The death of a 60-year-old Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) member from Coimbatore, who was kept in a quarantine centre in Sultanpuri in New Delhi, on Wednesday has sparked demands from fellow TJ men for better care. Around 500 TJ members from Tamil Nadu are kept in nine quarantine centres in Delhi. Pointing out that the man, who tested negative for Covid-19, was a diabetic, they alleged that he was not given adequate medical attention. A video of Jamaat members arguing with the authorities there in an agitated state after the death of elderly man has also surfaced. With no means to bring his body back, his family has given an authorisation letter to Delhi authorities for burial there. “He was buried on Thursday evening,” a family member said. The Tablighi Jamaat members, who have been quarantined in New Delhi for the past 30 days, have also sought the AIADMK government to impress upon the authorities in the national capital to provide them better care. Ahead of Ramzan, they also urged the state government to ensure additional arrangements. TJ headquarters spokesman Thamin Ansari, who hails from Tamil Nadu, said among the nine places converted into quarantine centres, Sultanpuri seemed to lack proper facilities. “Food is being served very late. For instance, breakfast is given only around 11.30am there,” he said. He is also quarantined in Delhi. Ansari said besides the psychological shock of being isolated and kept away from families for a long time, the Delhi weather, the North Indian food and anxiety were taking a toll on them. He said five TJ members from Tamil Nadu have died in Delhi so far in various quarantine centres. Of them, three were Covid-19 negative, he said. With Ramzan month to commence in a day or two, TJ members sought the TN government to impress upon Delhi authorities to ensure early breakfast by 4am and other facilities. N Thalavai Sundaram, Tamil Nadu’s special representative to New Delhi, said he would look into the issue. “Our officials did take steps to provide food and fruits to quarantined TJ members. But they were told not to do so as a precautionary measure. I will ensure that their requirements are met,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tj-members-from-state-in-quarantine-in-delhi-seek-better-care-facilities/articleshow/75334899.cms||Mayilvaganan
April 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Centre to roll out drone survey||PUNE: The central government has decided to take a leaf out of the state government's drone survey to map habitations in rural areas and replicate it across the country. The first survey of properties in the state using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) was launched in Pune district’s Sonori village last year to map spatial information. The purpose was to give property titles to residential and other properties in around 40,000 villages and help residents gain better liquidity on these assets. “We started the survey in Pune and then planned to replicate the same across the entire state. We were about to form teams to carry out the same, but could not due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The work will continue post-monsoon,” said settlement commissioner S Chockolingam. He said that under the SVAMITVA scheme of the ministry of panchayati raj, the programme will be rolled out to provide integrated property validation solution for rural India. The demarcation of inhabitant land in rural areas would be done using drone surveying technology with the collaborative efforts of the ministry of panchayati raj, state panchayati raj department, state revenue department and the Survey of India (SOI). Mapping of rural habitations in partnership with various state governments viz Maharashtra, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh etc primarily for use as revenue maps to confer ownership rights had been undertaken by SOI in the past one-two years. Based on these maps, property cards have been issued to citizens in Sonari village and in SIRSI village. The pilot phase would be extended to Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand covering one lakh villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/central-government-to-replicate-states-drone-survey-for-property-validation/articleshow/75335891.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 24, 2020||Salem||Dharmapuri reports first Covid-19 case||SALEM: Dharmapuri district recorded its first Covid-19 positive case on Thursday. With this, the number of positive cases across Salem region that includes Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Erode has increased to 155. Dharmapuri district collector S Malarvizhi said the district’s first positive case, a truck driver from Elavadai village near Morappur, had a travel history to Bengaluru, Hosur and Madurai to deliver essential commodities during the lockdown period. The driver had returned to his village on April 19 and showed symptoms of Covid-19. Officials from the health department lifted his swab samples on Tuesday. Following his confirmation, officials have quarantined nearly 50 people, including the driver’s family members. The collector said that the truck driver was the ‘primary’ contact for the district. “We are preparing a list of all the people who came in contact with the driver,” she said. All 50 people have been quarantined at the government engineering college in Chettichavadi. The district administration has completely sealed Elavadai and its surrounding villages. Initially, thedriver was admitted to the government medical college hospital in Dharmapuri, but was shifted to the Salem Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital on Thursday evening. In Salem, the number of Covid-19 positive cases rose to 29 on Thursday. Erode district did not record a positive case for the tenth consecutive sday on Thursday. Of the district’s 70 cases, 66 have been discharged. “We currently have only four cases under treatment,” said, Erode district collector C Kathiravan. In Namakkal, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases rose to 55, including a police constable from Tiruchengode attached to the Coimbatore Pudur battalion, who tested positive on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dharmapuri-reports-first-covid-19-case/articleshow/75334920.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR converts 486 coaches into isolation facility, completes target||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has converted a total of 486 coaches as isolation facility, fulfilling the target set by the Railway Board as a part of the contingency arrangement in fight against the outbreak of Covid-19. Each isolation coach has eight coupes for Covid-19 patients and one coupe for medical staff. The coaches have been modified to have one bathroom, three toilets, curtains in between the coupes and all the necessary electrical and medical equipment, as per the advisory issued by the Railway Board. Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer of SCR, on Thursday said that the railway ministry had instructed all zones to convert around 5,000 non-AC coaches into isolation facility. "Of the 5,000 non-AC coaches planned for conversion across India, the SCR was given a target of 486 coaches. The officers and staff of SCR swung in to action and chalked out the plans for early completion of the target though there is unprecedented lockdown throughout the nation," he said. As per official details, Secunderabad division converted the highest number of coaches (120) into isolation facility, followed by Guntakal (61), Vijaywada (50), Hyderabad(40), Nanded(30) and Guntur (25). The Lallaguda workshop witnessed transformation of 76 such coaches, whereas Tirupati workshop converted 84 coaches into isolation facility. Appreciating the efforts of officers and staff in fulfilling the target of coaches having isolation facilities, SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya specially complemented the mechanical wing for accomplishing the essential work within a reasonable time. Headquartered at Secunderabad, the SCR has total six divisions including Nanded. It serves the states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, parts of Maharashtra including several areas of Marathwada and portions of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. An SCR official said that patients from the areas which are catered by the Zone would benefit from the isolation coaches for admitting confirmed cases of Covid-19 among other target patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-converts-486-coaches-into-isolation-facility-completes-target/articleshow/75331964.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 24, 2020||Pune||Police offer food packets to SRA scheme residents in Mangalwar Peth||Pune: The residents of slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) scheme in Mangalwar Peth were left high and dry after they were denied ration by the PDS shops on "technical" grounds, but the Samarth police came to their aid by providing them with food packets. As soon as sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure and constable Nilesh Sabale of Samarth police came to know about the plight of the SRA scheme residents, they immediately arranged food packets for them. "They are now getting lunch and dinner from the police station," Kapure said. The police station is providing almost 200 food packets to the residents on a daily basis. "We are also providing soaps and hand sanitisers to them," he said. "We have promised to look into the ration card issue after the lockdown period is over. In the meantime, we have requested them to maintain peace," Kapure said. Riyaz Rashid Shaikh, chairman, Sadanand Society, a building developed under the SRA scheme, told TOI, "There was a problem with the supply of dry ration to 46 families. These people have ration cards and they visited three ration shops located nearby. However, the ration shopowners rejected their ration cards, citing various reasons". Shaikh said that these people had not updated their addresses after they shifted to the SRA scheme building from their hutments in the last one year. "This is why they were refused ration," he said. Sakhu Kamble (70) said, "I went to the shop to buy ration, but the shopowner said that there were discrepancies in the ration card and my documents. Thus, I failed to get any ration. I stay with my two daughters and their family members here. I want to complain against the ration shop, but don’t know whom to approach." Jyoti Laxman Samble, a resident of SRA scheme, said, "I work as a watchman. I used to get ration earlier, but I am not getting it now. I had an argument with the ration shopowner. He refused to give me wheat, rice and other grains." Sindhutai Bhosekar (88) said that she and her family members were worried after the ration shopowner refused to give them ration. "I stay with my family members here. I need a little food to survive," she said. The Samarth police have also been providing food and water to many people stranded near the Pune railway station at Maldhakka chowk, the road joining Bolhai chowk and Narpatgiri chowk, and other areas of Mangalwar Peth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-offer-food-packets-to-sra-scheme-residents-in-mangalwar-peth/articleshow/75335899.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Ban all gatherings in Nilgiris for a year’||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris Tribal Solidarity (NTS) has written to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami seeking his intervention in cancelling all social gathering programmes in the hills in 2020 to contain Covid-19. Prof. T.M.Kullan, president, NTS, said, “The Nilgiris harbours a lot of ethnic tribal livelihoods across 350 villages in Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri taluks, which are safely guarded as on date... Therefore we are seeking all possible support from the state government to ensure a desease-free district.” The association asked for cancellation of all flower shows, cultural gatherings and horse racing activities to curb the flow of people into the Nilgiris. Copies of the letter have also been sent to the chief secretary, commissioner of revenue administration, revenue secretary and the Nilgiris collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ban-all-gatherings-in-nilgiris-for-a-year/articleshow/75334911.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Mysuru||Spat with GP worker prompts ASHA worker to attempt suicide||Mandya: An ASHA worker in a Mandya village attempted suicide after she was allegedly humiliated by a local gram panchayat worker, whom she had disclosed as someone who could be a potential Covid-19 patient. Mandya police said that, after a patient tested positive for Covid-19 at a nursing home in Mysuru, the authorities started to trace those who had been in primary contact with the said patient. The health department authorities were keen on ensuring that all those who visited the hospital around the time the infected patient was housed at the institution were quarantined. Avinash, the gram panchayat worker at the centre of the controversy, reportedly told Minakshi, an ASHA worker in Uruli Kyatanahalli in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya, that a resident of the village had been to the hospital in Mysuru, where a Covid-19 patient had been housed. Minakshi subsequently informed the authorities about the development, following which the resident was quarantined. None too pleased with being quarantined, the man sought to know who had provided Minakshi the information. She informed the resident that it was Avinash who had entrusted her with the information. Avinash was evidently not very pleased with what he perceived as Minakshi’s indiscretion, and allegedly insulted her publicly. Deeply upset with the incident, Minakshi attempted suicide. She is currently being treated at a hospital in Mandya, and the doctors have confirmed that she is out of danger. A case has been registered in connection with the incident at the Arakere police station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/spat-with-gp-worker-prompts-asha-worker-to-attempt-suicide/articleshow/75331957.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha shuts 3 dists for 60 hours as cases rise to 89||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Thursday announced complete shutdown of the three districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur for 60 hours after they witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases. The shutdown came into effect from 10 pm of Thursday. Announcing the decision, chief secretary Asit Tripathy said, “It will be like a curfew. Nobody will be allowed to come out of their houses. All shops, barring identified medicine stores, will remain close. The government will use the shutdown to trace contacts of infected persons and test them.” The government move comes hours after six more persons – four from Jajpur and two from Balasore – tested positive for the virus, raising the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state to 89. The decision will ensure more than 55 lakh people in the three districts stay indoors till 10 am on Sunday. As part of the shutdown, all entry and exit points have been sealed while the porous borders with West Bengal have been closed. Twenty-seven platoons of police have been deployed to ensure the shutdown is effective. “We appeal to the people to cooperate in their own interest,” the chief secretary said. Tripathy said the spurt in cases in the three districts has raised concern. “Of the 29 cases reported in the state in the past five days, 28 are from these three districts. The positive cases belong to either those who had returned from West Bengal or their close contacts. We had to review our preparedness in view of the spike,” the chief secretary said. He said all those who returned from West Bengal and their close contacts are being identified with the help of sarpanches and are being quarantined. In total, these three districts have reported 33 cases. While Jajpur has reported 12, Bhadrak reported 11 and Balasore 10. DGP Abhay, meanwhile, asked the people to cooperate or face legal action. “We appeal to residents of Jajpur, Bhadrak and Balasore districts to observe shutdown for 60 hours as announced by the chief secretary. Police will be constrained to prosecute and take legal action against those violating the shutdown,” the DGP said. The DGP said movement of goods on the national highway will continue even during the shutdown. The government decision to impose shutdown comes from its earlier experience of a similar situation in Bhubaneswar. “The capital city has not reported any positive case since April 14 after three of its affected localities were put under complete shutdown for two to three weeks,” Tripathy observed. The new cases reported on Thursday include that of a 55-year-old woman and a 36-year-old man from Balasore besides three women aged 48, 70 and 80, as well as a 21-year-old man, from Jajpur. All of them are family members of those who had returned from West Bengal and tested positive. The government appointed three senior IAS officers – S K Lohani (Bhadrak), Pramod Meherda (Jajpur) and S K Vashisth (Balasore) – to help the district administrations in Covid-19 related arrangements. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-shuts-3-dists-for-60-hours-as-cases-rise-to-89/articleshow/75330326.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||Villagers roped in to keep watch on Goa borders||PANAJI: Goa police has roped in villagers from border areas to keep a strict vigil for people trying to enter the state illegally during the lockdown. TOI on Wednesday reported that people from the neighbouring states appear to be finding internal roads and routes via jungles to enter Goa despite its borders being sealed. Speaking to TOI, inspector general of police Jaspal Singh said that law enforcers cannot reach everywhere , and so they have called on residents of border villages to be their eyes and ears, to keep a watch on the borders, like those in other states do as well. Goa police said that people should immediately inform the police if they see anybody attempting to cross the state borders through the lesser known shortcuts or jungle paths. Those entering the state without the requisite permission from Goa government authorities will be arrested and placed in paid quarantine, said chief minister Pramod Sawant. The government has placed five people (two who entered walking along the railway tracks and three by sea) who had entered the state from the Karwar coast, Karnataka, with the connivance of nine boat owners, under paid quarantine. The last case of Covid-19 was detected in Goa on April 3. Goa had sealed its borders before the Janata Curfew was imposed on March 22. The state government does not allow anyone to enter the state except drivers of trucks with essential commodities with the necessary permits, as a precautionary measure to stop the spread of coronavirus in the state. The state government has decided to install sanitiser tunnels at eight different border checkposts across the state and also intends to conduct Covid-19 tests at the borders and will allow people to enter the state only if they test negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/villagers-roped-in-to-keep-watch-on-state-borders/articleshow/75334919.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Theft at DSK properties in Phursungi||PUNE: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Pune police on Thursday registered a case with the Hadapsar police in relation to the theft of costly electronic appliances, furniture and construction material from the premises of DSK Global Education and Waterfall Residency projects in Phursungi. The two establishments are among jailed developer DS Kulkarni alias DSK, his relatives and business group’s total 463 immovable properties that have been attached as per government orders to facilitate police investigation into the multi-crore rupees economic fraud registered against DSK and his group. Apart from the theft, most of the rooms in the buildings of these two establishments were found ransacked and 10 four-wheelers in the basement parking area were found damaged, the police said. “We are assessing the total worth of the theft. The culprits have taken away the CCTV cameras. This has made our assessment a bit difficult,” inspector Sunil Gavali told TOI. Assistant commissioner of police (EOW) Shivaji Pawar said, “The two establishments were completely sealed by the police after the case of an economic fraud was registered. No one was allowed to venture inside the area.” During a periodical inspection of the DSK Global Education premises, ACP Pawar, inspector Gavali and their team found that the doors and windows of classrooms were broken. Air condition units, ceiling fans, television sets, cupboards, tables, chairs, computers, CCTV units and other electronic appliances were stolen. The police are not ruling out the possibility of the theft being the handiwork of people who had a fair knowledged about the entire premises of the two projects and are investigating this angle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/costly-appliances-furniture-stolen-from-dsk-properties-in-phursungi/articleshow/75335894.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Aurangabad||JDS asks govt to provide ration from fair price shops to all those in need||Aurangabad: Janata Dal Secular’s state president Sharad Patil and other office-bearers want the state government to provide ration from fair price shops to everyone who has been forced to face difficult times due to the deadly Covid-19and the lockdown. They said everyone needs grains, and instead of helping only below poverty line (BPL) families, the government should extend this facility to all those in need. Patil said the entire country has been under lockdown for over a month, businesses have shut down and people who were till-recently working at these establishments are suddenly finding themselves in a tough spot. Patil and others, including national general secretary B G Kolse Patil, state vice-president P D Joshi Patedkar and state general secretary Ajmal Khan, have said that treatment of the pandemic-affected people is necessary, but attending to other needy people is also important. They said the central government had declared the lockdown all of a sudden, due to which, many families could not buy essentials. More importantly, they were not in a position to buy things and store them for the days to come. With no jobs in hand and not being officially below the poverty line has affected these people adversely. In a statement issued on Thursday, the JDS office-bearers also demanded that irrespective of the official status, all people should be provided grains under the Antoday Yojana. They also pointed out that though the government has made some announcements, they are yet to be implemented. They said not everyone can go to Shiv Bhojan thali centres. The JDS functionaries said they have made a similar request to civic supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jds-asks-govt-to-provide-ration-from-fair-price-shops-to-all-those-in-need/articleshow/75331985.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Pune||PMPML bus driver drops couple, child at hospital||(Picture mailed if at all needed. Putting it in Cue too) Pune: A Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus driver on Thursday came to the rescue of a couple taking their two-year-old cancer-stricken child to hospital for check-up. After failing to find any transport, the couple from Narhe were walking along Sinhagad Road with their child when the driver of a PMPML bus, on way to Deccan from Nanded City, pulled up on spotting them near Abhiruchi Mall. When driver Akshay Kumar Bhosle and conductor Vishal Masule asked the couple as to where they were going, they said they were taking their child, suffering from leukemia, to Dinanath Mangeshkar Hospital in Erandwane for a check-up. They said they tried to look for an ambulance or any other mode of transport, but failed to find any. Bhosle then called up the Swargate depot manager and sought his permission to drop them at the hospital. "He was advised to take them immediately to the hospital," a PMPML official said. "They driver dropped them at the hospital and then proceeded towards his destination. We have asked all drivers and conductors to be on alert and come to the aid of people stranded on the road due to lack of transport," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-bus-driver-drops-couple-child-at-hospital/articleshow/75335903.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 24, 2020||Goa||Zuari restarts production of fertilizers after a month||PANAJI: After exactly a month-long shutdown, Zuari Agro Chemicals Ltd (ZACL) on Thursday restarted manufacturing of fertilizers at its NPK-A fertilizer plant. The resumption of production comes after the state government allowed industrial units in rural areas to commence operations and as raw material for the plant continued to arrive. “We have to inform you that NPK-A plant has resumed operation effective April 22,” said company secretary Vijayamahantesh V Khannur. The company had shut down its plant on March 24 after the Goa government announced a complete lockdown, much ahead of the nation-wide lockdown. In an intimation to the stock exchanges, Zuari Agro had informed investors and stakeholders that the NPK-A plant was being shut down “considering the prevailing unprecedented circumstances caused by the Covid-19 and ongoing advisories by the Goa State Government on complete lockdown.” Zuari’s NPK plants use ammonia and phosphoric acid to prepare NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium) fertilizers. Even though the NPK plants were shut down during the lockdown period, the urea fertilizer plant remained operational, a senior official at Zuari Agro said. “Fertilizers being an essential commodity, Zuari Agro’s urea plant remained operational and fertilizer is being manufactured. In our case, we transport the fertilizers through rail so that is going on smoothly and there are no problems. There may be some delays in last mile transport but that will not affect us,” said the senior officer. Under the new guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) for the extended lockdown period up to May 3, the government, private industries and industrial establishments operating in rural areas outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities have been allowed to run from April 20 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zuari-restarts-production-of-fertilizers-after-a-month/articleshow/75334927.cms||---
April 24, 2020||India||Covid-19: Private hospitals slash doctors’ salaries||KOLKATA: Several private hospitals in Kolkata have either enforced, or have asked senior doctors and other staff to voluntarily go for, pay cuts in order to offset an unprecedented dip in post-Covid revenues, and to ensure regular salaries for the junior staff. While the pay cut ranges between 15% and 33% for some, others are yet to effect a slash, but are contemplating it next month. The hospitals pointed out that the cuts will be restricted to senior medics on payroll and top-level administrative officers, while the rest of the staff — including consultants, who work on a ‘pay-for-service’ contract — will not be affected. While there is no official figure available on this, a number of private hospitals in the city that are treating non-Covid ailments reported that their patient count has dropped to “a fourth” of their usual intake. One of the hospitals here, which has around 200 doctors on payroll, has decided to slash salaries of its senior medics and administrative officials this month. “We have not yet fixed the percentage… It’s being worked out,” the CEO told TOI. “We are still trying to minimize the slash by exploring every other avenue to augment our earnings. But salaries of our junior doctors, officials and doctors working on pay-for-service basis will not be affected.” Another private hospital has asked its senior doctors and directors to “donate” a part of their salary to make sure other staffers can be paid. A donation of 20%-33% has been suggested, depending on their pay package and designation. The doctors have reportedly agreed to it. Here, too, junior administrative staff and health workers have been spared. A senior cardiologist said he has been expecting something like this. “With the pandemic still raging, it could take months more for things to normalize. In these circumstances, a salary slash was perhaps inevitable,” he said. Another private hospital is planning a “variable slash” —bigger cuts for medics whose patient counts have dropped more sharply. “It’s the only way we can bail us out financially, to an extent,” said an official. Some pay-for-service doctors, who are not on the payroll but receive a part of the consultation fees charged by the hospital from their patients, said they have not been paid in full this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-private-hospitals-slash-doctors-salaries/articleshow/75337732.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 24, 2020||Kolkata||A month on, north Kolkata, central still worry cops||KOLKATA: Sealing of Ballygunge Place a couple of days ago after a resident showed Covid-19 symptoms and similar cases at Shahid Smriti Colony off EM Bypass the day before may have drawn attention to south Kolkata, but north and central Kolkata continue to be the city’s Covid hotspots a month into the lockdown. With more cases being reported each day from neighbourhoods that are densely populated, health experts are getting wary that the situation may spiral out of control and lead to community spread if urgent measures aren’t adopted to break the chain. Though several areas are sealed and locked, authorities are finding it difficult to keep people at homes at neighbourhoods steeped in para culture. Frustrated by the lack of discipline among residents, Kolkata Police brass has asked all police stations to submit a list of lanes and bylanes that require more close monitoring. “Allocation of fresh CCTV cameras is being done for installation in these problem areas so that they can be monitored 24X7 and violations spotted so that police can move in and take action. These are dingy lanes where patrolling is not always possible. It is an additional heath hazard. We have also opened hotlines through Lalbazar control room with both Swasthya Bhawan and KMC, where we are reporting any news of fever that we are coming across through our sources,” said a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar. Sources said areas around Phalpatty, Jorasanko, Amherst Street, Narkeldanga, Entally, Belgachhia, Karaya and Topsia have been identified as zones requiring greater CCTV surveillance. Besides deploying combat forces, Lalbazar has drawn up a schedule for using drones. Chief secretary Rajeeva Sinha has, two days in succession, drawn attention to Kolkata’s alarming situation. On Thursday, 80% of 58 fresh cases reported were from the city, a majority of them from the northern and central parts. On Friday again, 51 new cases were reported. Of these, 51% were from Kolkata, 18% from Howrah and 13% from North 24 Parganas. “There is no doubt that Kolkata with 150 containment zones is the biggest challenge in combating the virus,” said a public health official. Sources said about 60% of the new Covid cases reported in the past week were from north and central Kolakta.. The administration, both Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police engaged in on-field operations to contain the virus spread, have decided to scale up efforts even more to convince people to stay indoors and cooperate with KMC health workers who are going house to house to carry out fever surveys. According to a KMC health department official, the civic body was particularly worried about areas like Belgachhia, Narkeldanga, Jorabgan, Jorasanko Beadon Street, Burrabazar, College Street, Bowbazar Taltala and Park Circus as almost 50% of fresh cases were being reported from these places. “We are worried about the slums and thus intensified our activities in these areas,” said a civic official. KMC teams in PPE gear with cops in tow are going door-to-door to collect information on Covid symptoms. Police and KMC are also evaluating a more stringent entry and exit parameter in some of these new areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-paras-in-north-and-central-a-major-concern/articleshow/75362287.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 24, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK gives Rs 8.6 lakh to give free food||MADURAI: Minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji handed over Rs 8.60 lakh on behalf of the AIADMK to the Virudhunagar district administration to distribute free food through Amma canteens during the lockdown. Ever since the lockdown was announced, free food is being distributed to the needy through the eight Amma canteens functioning in Virudhunagar district. In order to provide three meals a day through the canteens, about Rs 78,000 is required every day. Bhalaji handed over the amount to district collector R Kannan. Similarly, minister for khadi and village industries board G Baskaran handed over the money on behalf of the AIADMK to provide free food to through the Amma canteens in Sivaganga district till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-gives-rs-8-6-lakh-to-give-free-food/articleshow/75334934.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||To sow interest in agriculture, Mardol man mails seeds to families||PANAJI: When life gives Rajendra Desai lemons, he takes the seeds and grows a tree. Keen on encouraging others to take up agriculture during their free time, this Mardol-based citizen has been posting seeds of various plants to families under lockdown. In just about a week, he has managed to mail seeds of plants like red amaranth (tambdi bhaji) and papaya, among others, to about 100 people in Goa. “People are stuck inside their homes wondering what to do with their time. Instead of wasting it, they must utilise it to help make the environment better. This is the perfect opportunity to inculcate interest in green activities among children,” Desai said. The 57-year-old said he receives multiple messages and phone calls through the day pertaining to the type and quality of seeds he has. His advice is also sought on how to go about growing them. Though he and his wife are carrying out the drive, the couple hopes that this minuscule effort will go a long way in reviving the interest of Goans in agriculture. “Growing one’s own food is the need of the hour. Involving children in this activity will help us appreciate agriculture all over again,” he said. So far, the couple has managed to dispatch seeds of plants that grow in a matter of weeks and yield quickly. These are lady’s finger, raddish, brinjal, red amaranth and hybrid chillies. Slow growing crops like papaya and tomato, and herbs like coriander have also evoked good response, Desai said. He however warns that the cultivation of these crops must not be limited to being a hobby of kitchen gardening. “Growing of crops must be done with love and the practice must continue even after the lockdown ends,” he said. The 57-year-old is optimistic that the act of growing one’s own food will also help people become self-sustainable once the crops yield produce. “As soon as news of the Covid-19 outbreak came in, people didn’t rush to buy a house or other materialistic possessions. They purchased food. If people grow and reap their own food, they will be self-sustained,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-sow-interest-in-agriculture-mardol-man-mails-seeds-to-families/articleshow/75334930.cms||Nida Sayed
April 24, 2020||Varanasi||Corona impact: Banarasi silk, fabric industry seeks stimulus||Varanasi: The hardships of silk yarn traders and textile industry of Varanasi, who started facing the impact of novel coronavirus outbreak in China as early as in December 2019, have further increased with the lockdown and is now looking up to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, their MP, for respite. The Banarasi textile industry has sought PM’s help and demanded interest waiver on EMIs, extension in moratorium period, relaxation in fixed rental charges on electricity bills and reimbursement of part of labour wages. UP Vyapari Kalyan Board member and leading silk yarn trader Harshpal Kapoor has sent a charter of demands to the PM on April 13, and Bharatiya Janata Party MLC, Ashok Dhawan, who is also the patron of Banarasi Vastra Udyog Association (BVUA) has been pursuing it. Kapoor said the Banarasi textile industry is facing a crisis since imports have plummeted as the Covid pandemic has hit the economies of the importing countries from Europe, America and other continents. “There is impact on domestic market too due to lockdown. There is no hope of orders from importing countries in near future while marriages are being postponed. The revival of our industry is not possible by the year end. So, we have urged the government to support the industry,” he added. “After setbacks during demonetisation and GST launch, the Banarasi silk and textile industry has been hit by the pandemic. Over 20 lakh people are directly and indirectly dependent on our industry in Varanasi region,” Kapoor said. Apart from the cost of raw material, labour, bank interest and electricity add to the cost of textile. Due to complete stoppage of commercial activity in lockdown there is zero revenue earning, hence we are seeking relief, he added. The traders have sought six-month moratorium on monthly instalments, waiver of bank interest and bank charges also for six months. The industry is paying salaries, but if government doesn’t provide economic stimulus, the possibility of large scale unemployment in the sector in coming months can’t be denied. BVUA’s yarn coordination committee vice chairman Vaibhav Kapoor said the Rs 5,000 crore industry started facing problems in December 2019 as China halted silk yarn export till February. When China opened export in March, the lockdown started in India, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/corona-impact-banarasi-silk-fabric-industry-seeks-stimulus/articleshow/75303971.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 24, 2020||Pune||Minimum temp climbs up to 23.2°C in Sivajinagar||Pune: The minimum temperature in Shivajinagar shot up overnight to a hot and humid 23.2°C on Thursday morning from Wednesday’s 17.5°C — three degrees below normal — and in Lohegaon, it was 24°C. The minimum temperature of the city was below 20°C for a couple of days, making the summer nights bearable. But the scorcher seems to be around the corner. The maximum temperature is expected to be around 40°C and the minimum may remain more or less the same as Thursday’s over the next few days. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said there might be no large change in maximum and minimum temperatures during the next couple of days. “But the maximum temperature may go up to nearly 40°C from April 25. The night temperature would range between 22-23°C. The humidity levels in Pune have also been moderate, but coupled with the heat, they have been playing a part in pushing up the heat index,” he said. On Thursday, the maximum temperature in Shivajinagar was 38.6°C and in Lohegaon it was 39.6°C. Though these temperatures were near-normal to slightly above-normal, the moderate humidity levels were pushing up the real-feel temperature. Both days and nights are feeling warmer than they are because the humidity is pushing up the city’s heat index — the measure of how hot it really feels when the relative humidity is factored in with the actual air temperature. It is also referred to as the “real-feel” temperature. Kashyapi said the minimum temperature had dipped significantly on April 21 and 22 to 19.1°C and 17.5°C, as the city experienced northerly wind component. These winds coming from the north India triggered a slight fall in the minimum temperature temporarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minimum-temp-climbs-up-to-23-2c-in-sivajinagar/articleshow/75335917.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Goa||‘Pray at home this Ramzan, feed poor instead of iftar parties’||PANAJI: With the state under lockdown, this year’s Ramzan fast, which begins on Saturday, is expected to be a quiet one. The culinary delights associated with this period outside the Jama Masjid at Panaji as well as the distribution of delicious iftaar meals will not be a sight this year. As per the guidelines issued by the Association of the All Goa Muslim Jamats for the month of Ramzan in lockdown, only the staff of the masjid will perform the prayers inside the mosque. “Do not allow any third person to enter the masjid for prayers,” a letter issued by the association read. People have also been requested to perform daily namaz, taraweeh and iftaar at their respective homes. The letters also adviced them to maintain social distancing norms and feed the poor instead of hosting iftaar parties. “Do not arrange any taraweeh namaz by even calling your neighbours to your home or organise it in your locality. Do not arrange any iftaar parties in your house or locality,” the letter read. Muslims observe a fast from dawn to dusk for 30 days during Ramzan. The fast begins with a pre-morning meal and culminates by dusk with a meal called iftaar. The nightly prayers offered post-iftaar, Taraweeh, are held in mosques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pray-at-home-this-ramzan-feed-poor-instead-of-iftar-parties/articleshow/75334936.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ranchi||Covid effect: Competitive exam aspirants in a fix||Ranchi: The rising number of Covid-19 cases has put aspirants of competitive examinations in a spot. When many national- and state-level competitive examinations have already been postponed, some students are struggling to cope with online learning. A civil service aspirant, Swati Choubey, said, “There is an uncertainty over when the civil services exam will be conducted. Interviews for the last year were stopped midway, so it becomes difficult to gauge when the preliminary exam will be held this year.” Talking about her preparations, Choubey added, “Initially, I faced problems as I couldn’t get hard copies of study materials, but now I am slowly adapting to online classes.” Akanksha Pallav, an LLM in corporate law from HNLU and a judicial service aspirant, said, “I have applied for judicial services in Jharkhand as well as neighbouring states but the recruitment processes have been postponed till further orders. I now fear that those exams will be conducted simultaneously and I may not be able to appear in all of them.” Another aspirant, Harsh Kumar, who was preparing for the NDA examination for the last one year, said, “The test was scheduled to be conducted on April 19 but was called off owing to the lockdown. I do not know when the exam would he held. I fear that owing to the delay, I may not be able to sit exam as age bar is likely to be crossed and all my preparations would go to waste.” Students of other competitive examinations like banking and SSC have also been left in the lurch. “I had returned home for Holi but soon after that lockdown was imposed. All my study materials are in New Delhi. Some of my friends forwarded me soft copies of study materials and I’m currently preparing for the exams with the help of those notes,” said Rahul Kumar, a banking job aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-effect-competitive-exam-aspirants-in-a-fix/articleshow/75331107.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 24, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum to keep track on cough, cold medicine buyers||Jamshedpur: After the sudden spurt in sale of medicines for cough and cold in East Singhbhum district during Lockdown 2.0, the East Singhbhum district administration issued an advisory to medicine stores in the district to keep a record of people buying them. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, the district’s civil surgeon, Dr Maheshwar Prasad, said, “In the past few weeks, we found that sale of drugs related to cough and cold has gone northwards.” In view the rising coronavirus cases in Jharkhand, this trend may be an alarming sign, hence, the state health department was informed of the matter, Prasad said, adding, “Acting on the department’s direction, the district authorities had issued an advisory all pharmacies to note down names, addresses and mobile numbers of people buying such medicines.” He said private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics run by individual doctors have been directed to inform the civil surgeon’s office of new cases related to fever, cough or cold. Prasad said, “Since the state has limited resources, we have to take precautionary steps like tracking people who have cough, cold or fever, which are all symptoms of Covid-19. If we do not, there may be a sudden jump in coronavirus cases and may prove to be difficult to handle at that time.” He added, “As testing is still limited here, there may be many people who may have the virus but suppressing it by taking medicines bought from local stores. Hence, keeping a track on persons buying these drugs will help the department track possible coronavirus carriers.” State health department sources confirmed that all district administrations have been instructed to keep a track on the consumers buying cough and cold medicines from stores across Jharkhand. Vikash Singh, who owns a chain of medicine shops in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas, said the sale of medicines like paracetamol and cough syrups of various brands have gone up, which is not normal as compared to this season last year. He said the drug inspector of the district was informed of the development by many medicine shop owners after which necessary steps have been taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-to-keep-track-on-cough-cold-medicine-buyers/articleshow/75332060.cms||---
April 24, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City mosques raise money for poor||Jamshedpur/Garhwa: This Ramzan, the hustle and bustle in the markets with food joints busy doling out savouries are going to be missing, all thanks to the lockdown. While the month of prayer and community gathering will begin later this week, the restrictions are going to remain in place at least until May 3. Earlier this week, minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had appealed to Muslims to strictly follow social distancing during Ramzan. He also urged people to offer prayers and perform other religious rituals in their homes. Muslim organisations, clerics and scholars have issued statements asking people to stay at home, be responsible, avoid throwing Iftar parties and venturing out for prayers. Many campaigns on the need for charity have started, asking people to spend more on feeding the poor, while hoping that by Eid the situation improves. Steel City’s mosque committees and seminaries have started raising funds for poor Muslim families to help them carry out rituals during the lockdown. “We have sent out messages to the wealthy in the community to identify the financially vulnerable families in their areas and help them with funds to purchase vegetables, fruits and groceries for breaking their fast during Ramzan,” said Maulana Mohamed Afizuddin of Madarasa Faizul Ulum Dhatkidih, a recognized seminary of the community. Azhar Ahmed, a maulvi at a Bistupur mosque, said, “Urging top businessmen, contractors and people earning high salaries to donate generously, we have explained to them that it is the responsibility of the rich to see that the poor in their rneighborhood doesn’t miss out Ramzan for lack of money.” There are close to 20 social outfits, including Tahrik Paigham-e-Islam, Tanzeem Ahle Sunat Jamaat and Anjuman- e- Islam, that have taken responsibility to seek donations from the wealthy. “Social outfits are preparing Ramzan kits for distribution among the poor,” said Kazi Mustak Ahmed, the maulvi at a mosque in Jugsalai. The Ramzan kit consist of dry ration items, fruits and money, explained schoolteacher Arshad Ali, who is associated with the exercise to generate funds. The fund seekers are using WhatsApp and SMSes for communication. Kafil Ahmed, a 51-year-old employee of Tata Steel, said: “I have received such a message and I will certainly donate.” In Garhwa, deputy commissioner Harsh Mangla urged the Muslims observing Ramzan to offer their prayers at home. “All of us need to be cautious about the coronavirus. In view of Ramzaan, essential commodities will be delivered to the homes in densely populated areas of the town through volunteers,” Mangla added. He urged people to maintain social distancing during sehri, iftaar and taravih and frequently use sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-mosques-raise-money-for-poor/articleshow/75332437.cms||---
