April 25, 2020||Bengaluru||I was called a murderer for not quarantining on my return from Europe: Diya Naidu||I probably contracted the virus on my way back to Bengaluru from Geneva in early March. I was there for a dance project, and none of the other cast members had reported any symptoms. This leads me to believe that I contracted it only after I left them. The trouble with this disease is that you never know. I returned to India on March 9 and tested positive on March 16 (before this, the directive only allowed tests for those returning from Iran, China, Italy and Singapore). I was picked up in an ambulance by the BBMP and taken into isolation on March 18. ‘I had completely lost my sense of smell and taste’I had basically been asymptomatic, except for the complete disappearance of my sense of smell and taste. We now know that this a symptom quite common in younger members of the population. But at that time, even doctors were saying it is either sinus or unrelated to COVID-19. I think this is a key aspect of the Coronavirus phenomenon – ‘at the time’. With this virus, we are learning day by day, moment to moment. No one knows for certain what a post-COVID world will look like or how far away it is. This is key in how we perceive other people’s behaviour, government reactions and protocol from all over the world. ‘The empathy I received from health workers made me surrender to the system’I know from being in hospital for 20 days that initially everybody was scrambling to make and execute decisions. I also saw the protocol emerge and be executed effectively. What made me surrender to the system and decide to focus on being cooperative and calm was witnessing the dedication, empathy and courage of health and state surveillance workers, who were tirelessly taking care of the patients, stringently tracking all primary and secondary contacts of those infected – from every cab or auto-rickshaw one had taken to a grocery store one had visited to people one had met as well as scouted the area of 5 km radius around my home for samples and symptoms. Six of my primary contacts were taken for testing and quarantined at a government facility till they were confirmed negative. Finally, I was shifted from isolation into a sharing room with another recovered patient. And only three negative tests and about eight days after testing negative, I was discharged. ‘Everyone enveloped me with their blessings’During this time, I witnessed utmost kindness from people – my community (the artistes of Bengaluru) offering me their homes, sending prayers and before the lockdown my friends managing to get across food to me, which kept me nourished. People who had become strangers over the years, reconnected and enveloped me with their blessings. The nurses, ward boys and doctors were available to us at all times of the day or night and a psychiatrist from the state was assigned to check on our mental state. On the other hand was the opposite spectrum of human behaviour – I was trolled on social media and called a murderer for not quarantining on my return. I knew I had gone to a doctor and approached authorities in the airport and helpline to ask what to do. There was no official protocol at that time. My colleagues who had returned to Australia and France weren’t asked to isolate either, so it wasn’t just India. I checked so I would have guidance on what to do. Like I said – if we knew then what we know now. Eventually, of course, quarantine became mandatory for travellers and lockdown a global reality. ‘Shaming people who have tested positive will only lead to resistance’When you are in isolation you constantly worry about anyone you may have infected. Luckily, all my contacts had tested negative but the fear of the disease was enough to rattle my landlord and a stressful situation arose around my coming home. Here, too, the BBMP doctors compassionately intervened. I request everyone out there to not add to the problem at hand by causing stigma around the disease and reacting from fear and panic. Shaming people will only result in positive cases not being open about their condition, resisting state directives and non-cooperation. This is already happening, I know from the doctors who were constantly on call with me. ‘We can replace fear with alertness and courage’I found that I was more symptomatic or unwell on days when there was too much stress around me. By panicking, spreading hate and targeting others, we are not doing ourselves any favour. Our immunity does best when we are calm, positive and self-aware. Perhaps, our love can extend to the entire community and not just our own families. We can replace fear with alertness and courage. Most of us are privileged and not worrying much about the next meal. Perhaps, we can extend our help to those who have built our cities and homes. I pray that we get through this with grace and emerge not with the defensive kind of protectionism that causes us to displace COVID-19 recovered people from their homes or lynch someone from another community. But instead manifest the expansive love of the health worker, who separates from their family in order to continue being of service – the inclusive kind of love that sees all humans as their own. Courage to us all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/i-was-called-a-murderer-for-not-quarantining-on-my-return-from-europe-diya-naidu/articleshow/75356943.cms||Reema Gowalla
April 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru teens spearhead movement to feed 3,000 people||In the face of adversity, humanity always shines through and finds a way to help those in most distress. Seventeen-year-old Shlok Mittal and his bunch of pals have been doing just that. Since the lockdown forced daily-wage labourers out of work and, therefore, out of a livelihood, these teenagers have been doing their bit for a section of them. While Shlok started the initiative on a modest scale of 100-150 meals to be distributed and floated an Instagram page to get people to join in, he soon enough had his friends, Sunethra Wadhwa, Palavi Mehta, Avni Deshpande, Simran Hinduja, Krish Bihani and Tanmaiy Mohta, among others, join in. Mission: Feed the hungryThe idea was to collaborate with the Halasuru Police Station and send out meal packets to slum dwellers in the vicinity. “I began with a target of 100-150 meals. While I do not get involved in the actual cooking, and have a cook who takes care of that, planning the menu with him, procuring the required rations and setting the distribution in motion is my job,” says Shlok, adding, “Every morning we begin by 7 am, and have the meals ready to be loaded into cars by 10.30-11 am. The menu is simple but rice-based to ensure a wholesome meal.” Social media to spread the wordOnce he got started, Shlok set up an Instagram account detailing when, where and how the meals were being distributed. “We got a lot of response from people willing to donate money, but we were keen on collaborating with those who would actually cook for the hapless. Even if someone could donate only 10 meals we would accept that,” he says, adding, “After my friends also got involved, we began to increase the number of meals day-by day. Today, apart from the core group, there are contributions from people in the age group of five years to 50. Recently, an expat group also began volunteering for the cause and are cooking Indian meals.” From a 100 to a 3,000 meals a dayIn the 30 days of the lockdown, these teenagers have gone up to a 3,000 meals a day, and will continue to distribute as many, if not more, till early May. “By 11 am latest, all meals are collected from their respective pick-up points and then taken to the Halasuru Police station, from where with the help out of the officers, the meals are distributed in labourer settlements and slum areas in the vicinity,” Shlok signs off. Watch City teens start initiative to feed the needy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-teens-spearhead-movement-to-feed-3000-people/articleshow/75360888.cms||Prathibha Joy
April 25, 2020||India||Mobile apps come to help of truck drivers to find food, repair shops & resting places||NEW DELHI: Now truck drivers and helpers can not only get the details of dhabas, repair shop and resting places using a couple of mobile apps but they can also earn little by uploading a photograph of such facility for updating the information. A couple of Gurgaon-based technology start-ups have come to the help of truck drivers and helpers who have been struggling to find out the places where food and water is available and which repair shop is open. In the past three weeks, at least two apps have been launched and they are getting traction. To make it more user-friendly, one of the apps is available in eight languages including Hindi, Marathi, Bangla, Telugu, Tamil and Malyalam. “While a major part of the information is available in public domain to the community of truckers, it is not easily accessible to everyone as it is scattered across a variety of channels, at times further inhibited by language barriers. Our app makes that information and relevant resources easily available in a structured form while the community catalysts are rewarded with incentives for their contributions,” said Tabrez Alam, founder of Gurgaon-based Intents Mobi. TOI found that there is another mobile app which provides similar information to drivers and another website updates the truckers and their owners about the latest development. The road transport ministry recently uploaded the details of dhabas, fuel outlets and NHAI toll plazas where food is available and the repair shops that are open to help the truck drivers and helper. Though the contact numbers of relevant persons have also been provided, it’s a difficult task for drivers and helpers to carry the long list with them or to visit the ministry website every time they need help. Alam said drivers who have downloaded their app get alert of any facility that is near their location. For example, if there is a dhaba serving food within a 5-km radius the driver gets an alert for it. Meanwhile, a major truckers organization, AIMTC has flagged how in some districts such as Rayagada in Odisha and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, drivers are not being allowed to move despite the home ministry guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mobile-apps-come-to-help-of-truck-drivers-to-find-food-repair-shops-resting-places/articleshow/75362834.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 25, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 doesn’t stop buying of goods for National Games||PANAJI: The coronavirus pandemic has brought the world to a standstill but work on the 36th National Games to be held in Goa later this year should not stop. That is the message that the state government has relayed to its departments through a circular on Thursday. There have been numerous postponements since the National Games were allotted to Goa in 2008. While the coronavirus pandemic could be the latest reason to seek another postponement – not Goa’s fault for the first time – procurement of goods and services will continue. “Given the dilemma (surrounding the hosting of the National Games), the functional area heads as active stakeholder are required to cooperate and as practical as possible invite (request for proposals and expression of interests) RFPs/EOIs that have been approved, which is entirely independent to the dates of the hosting, so that there is no further delay in procurement of goods and services. Further, other planning and processes may also continue and the RFP/EOIs yet to be drafted may be proceeded with,” states a circular issued by National Games CEO J Ashok Kumar on Thursday. Last week, representatives of 14 national sports federations had a conference call with union sports secretary Radhey Shyam Julaniya where it was made clear that not even camps can be staged until June-July. Sporting activities will be the last to resume when normalcy returns. The state government, however, is hopeful. “The government at present is much concerned about the Covid-19 pandemic’s effect to people’s lives, livelihood and the economy. The government also observes that in a number of states with the measures implemented at present, the situation is being controlled, if not entirely overcome. “Considering the scenario, at this juncture, it may be impulsive to think on a postponement, as the duration of this fight against the virus is unknown or unpredictable,” states the circular. According to the circular, the government is holding discussions with concerned stakeholders and a “positive resolution would evolve in about five weeks from today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-doesnt-stop-buying-of-goods-for-national-games/articleshow/75362853.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Curbs may have to stay till mid-May in Delhi: Panel chief||NEW DELHI: In a firm indication that Delhi is likely to further extend the lockdown, a top official in the state government’s Covid-19 committee has said that the current restrictions will have to be continued till mid-May for the coronavirus infection curve to start flattening. “The lockdown will have to be continued till May 16 because that’s when the epidemic curve is expected to start declining. At present, it is on the rise. There is no flattening of the curve in Delhi,” Dr S K Sarin, chairman of Delhi government’s panel on Covid-19, told TOI. On how the May 16 date was arrived at, Dr Sarin explained that Delhi recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 3 and mathematical modelling of the epidemic from China suggests that it takes 10 weeks for the curve to decline. The curve of an epidemic is considered to be on the decline when the number of secondary cases generated by one primary case reduces to less than one. In the last one month, since the lockdown was imposed in Delhi, the daily count of Covid-19 crossed the 100-mark only eight times. Of this, only four instances were caused by increase in local cases. In the other four instances, the spike in cases was caused by discovery of a large number of Covid-19 positive patients among Tablighi Jamaat members who were in the city to attend a religious congregation. At present, the experts say, there is no herd immunity and if the lockdown was to be eased suddenly an infected person can transmit the virus to many others, leading to sudden spike in cases. Lockdown imposed during an outbreak serves two purposes: first, to reduce exposure to the virus and second, to reduce the number of deaths. As on April 24, Delhi has recorded 2,514 Covid-19 cases. The number of persons who have succumbed to the disease is 50, nearly 2% of the positive cases. Officials from the public health division of the Delhi government said mortality has been highest (6%) among patients aged 60 years and above. The mortality rate among those aged between 50 years and 59 years was 3% and 0.61% in persons who were less than 50 years old. “Most of the deceased suffered from co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes and kidney disease,” said an official. Before the lockdown, Delhi didn’t have a hospital designated facility for Covid-19. But, in the past 30 days, several hospitals and their standalone centres have been turned into designated centres for treating Covid-19 patients. Delhi, however, continues to lag behind in testing. So far, only 33,672 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state which is 0.3% of the total population in the state. More than 89 areas where positive cases were detected have been declared as containment zones but, local authorities say, screening and testing of persons living in these hotspots yet to be ramped up. “The rapid kit tests given by the Centre were to be used for screening purposes in containment zones. But this had to be stopped midway because some of the states complained the testing kits were faulty,” an official said. Many hospitals in Delhi have turned into Covid-19 hotspots. If this trend is not arrest soon, the doctors say, the battle against the epidemic may become difficult to win. “If situation worsens further, the need for ICU beds and ventilators will go up. The government will have to be prepared,” said one of the doctors at Lok Nayak hospital which is designated for Covid-19 treatment. It has only 65 ventilators at present and, the authorities said, order for 60 more of these machines has been placed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/curbs-may-have-to-stay-till-mid-may-in-city-panel-chief/articleshow/75364332.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 25, 2020||India||Covid-19: Doubling rate of coronavirus slows down further, now it's 10 days||NEW DELHI: Timely imposition of a lockdown after a ban on international air traffic helped India limit Covid-19 cases, which otherwise could have ballooned to over one lakh by now, the government said on Friday, highlighting that the situation was under control with close to 25,000 positive cases and the doubling rate now touching 10 days over the last three days. The lockdown and early measures such as travel restrictions and active screening of international passengers at airports, followed by surveillance and contact tracing which covered close to 9,50,000 people, was the result of a strong network coordinated by the National Centre of Disease Control with states, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said. He added that while the full effects of the lockdown became evident from April 6 onwards, they will continue to be seen till mid-May. Citing data analysis by independent researchers as well as official data of the health ministry, Dr Paul, who also heads an empowered committee on emergency response, said there were two key turning points — March 23 and April 6 — when the impact of the measures taken by the government started showing. The first date was just ahead of the lockdown coming into force after the March 22 janata curfew. Some of the charts have been placed on Twitter by Shamika Ravi, former member of the PM’s economic advisory council. Coronavirus pandemic: Live updatesDr Paul said the big decision of imposing the nationwide lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi "proved to be very timely and beneficial" as shown by the change in the growth trajectory of India's Covid-19 cases. "The curve has begun to flatten. Had we not taken the decision of clamping the nationwide lockdown, we would have had around one lakh Covid-19 cases by now, as per a reasonable estimate. Now, the outbreak is under control," he said. "If we go back to March 21, cases were doubling in around three days. An important turn came on March 23... The direction changed and the doubling rate increased to around five. By then, we had already put in place travel restrictions and had created an environment of social distancing. So, the results were led by these measures," Dr Paul said. He, however, did not spell out the measures that would be in place after May 3 when the lockdown is scheduled to end. In an apparent reference to the movement of migrant workers immediately after the imposition of lockdown and the spread caused by members of the Tablighi Jamaat who dispersed across the country, Dr Paul said there were some disturbances in between and India went back a little. "But from April 6, the doubling time started improving again. This was when the impact of the lockdown started showing after taking into account the incubation period of 14 days," he said. According to data presented by the NCDC, the doubling time of positive cases moved from 5.2 days during March 24-30 to 4.2 during March 31-April 6 and to 8.6 during April 14-20. Dr Paul said in the last three days, the average doubling rate had improved further to 10 days. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsMeanwhile, many districts have joined the list of areas without any fresh Covid-19 case in 28 days and 14 days, respectively. Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said in the last 28 days, as many as 15 districts had no new case, whereas 80 districts had not reported any new coronavirus case in the last 14 days. He also said in the 24-hour period since Thursday morning, 1,684 Covid-19 positive cases were reported, taking the total of confirmed cases to 23,077. "A total of 4,748 people, which is 20.57% of the total number of cases, have been cured so far," Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doubling-rate-of-coronavirus-slows-down-further-now-its-10-days/articleshow/75364560.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 25, 2020||India||A month of lockdown: Covid growth falls from 22% to 8%||When PM Modi announced a total lockdown of the country exactly a month ago, there were around 500 Covid-19 cases in India. But there were clear signs that the numbers were going to shoot up. The average daily growth in cases was 21.6% on March 24, which since dropped to 8.1%. Had we continued to grow at that rate, the number of cases would have crossed 2 lakh by now. But a growth rate of 8.1% three days into the fifth week of lockdown is still higher than what the worst-hit countries achieved after locking down for the same period. While Germany brought down the growth rate to 2%, the US was at 4.8%. If India continues to grow at the current rate, we will have close to 40,000 cases by the end of next week, which would swell to almost 70,000 in a fortnight, and near 2.5 lakh by the end of May. But given how some states have managed to lower their growth rate (Kerala is growing at 1.8%, lower than Germany), the average growth rate could well fall in the coming days. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsEven a small drop makes a huge difference to the total numbers. For instance, if India manages to bring down its growth rate to 6%, a month later, we would have to deal with about 1.3 lakh cases; at 5%, the total number won’t even cross one lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-month-of-lockdown-covid-growth-falls-from-22-to-8/articleshow/75363990.cms||Atul Thakur
April 25, 2020||India||Covid-19: Confusion over names leads to discharge of 2 from quarantine||BAREILLY: In a scary move that could have potentially led to more people coming in contact with Covid-19 positive cases, the health department in Moradabad on Thursday evening mistakenly discharged two Covid-19 patients from a quarantine centre as their names were similar to two other persons, who tested negative, in the same ward. On Friday, after realising their mistake, a medical team brought the two individuals back to the quarantine centre. Meanwhile, district magistrate RK Singh said that no action was initiated against the doctors as the incident was a “human error that was timely rectified.” Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said, “It was indeed a mistake, and an enquiry headed by the additional director of health has been set up. Appropriate action would be taken after the enquiry report comes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-confusion-over-names-leads-to-discharge-of-2-from-quarantine/articleshow/75365237.cms||---
April 25, 2020||India||UP plans to get back 5 lakh migrant workers in 10 days||LUCKNOW/ BHOPAL: Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh chief ministers, Yogi Adityanath and Shivraj Singh Chouhan, announced on Friday that they would bring back migrant workers of their respective states who have been stranded in other places. The workers would be allowed to go home only after a quarantine period upon reaching their native place. The UP government is looking at bringing back more than 5 lakh people in the next 10 days. The evacuation process would start from Haryana, a government spokesperson said. “We will help such workers from UP, who have completed 14 days in quarantine in these states, to get back to their homes. I have directed officials to prepare a list of such people,” the UP CM tweeted. The workers would be put in institutional quarantine for two weeks and subsequently sent for another two weeks of home isolation after being provided with a ration kit and Rs 1,000 in cash, the CM added. Officials said the workers would be brought to UP borders in collaboration with various state governments. MP CM Chouhan said while bringing back workers to their home state, his government would also allow labourers from other states who are stranded in Madhya Pradesh to leave. He said he has spoken to the CMs of various states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-plans-to-get-back-5-lakh-migrant-workers-in-10-days/articleshow/75365372.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 25, 2020||Patna||Nature’s fury, lockdown hit fruit and tea growers in Bihar||PATNA: More than the lockdown, fruit growers in the state have been hit by unseasonal rains and storm, hailstorm as well as the continued easterly winds in the past one week that has affected litchi and mango farming, while the lockdown itself has hit tea and pineapple growers in Kishangaj. Mangoes and litchis will hit the market after May 20. Due to the lockdown, tea growers had to skip the first plucking season, which happens in March and April after the winter pruning of leaves. This plucking also known as first flush yields the best produce which commands higher price. “While a tea grower gets Rs 10 to Rs 14 per kg for his produce, for first season he gets around Rs 20 per kg. This is the best quality tea. However, due to lockdown it could not be plucked for almost 15 days,” said Raj Karan Daftari, who owns a tea garden and is also the first to introduce tea business in Kishangaj. Plucking began from April 5 onwards. With tea gardens spread over 20,000 acres in Kishanganj and adjoining areas, it is estimated that farmers have incurred a loss of around Rs 20 crore. “Forget plucking, we have to now spend extra to prune largely useless grown leaves,” Daftari added. Even pineapple growers of Kishanganj have suffered a huge loss as they are not able to sell their produce. Dulaljeet Singh, who grows the fruit over 10 acres of land, said, “We used to sell our produce in Patna, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Today, there are no buyers of pineapple.” He added that farmers had invested around Rs 1 lakh per acre of land. In contrast, those growing litchi and mango have been hit by nature’s fury with storm and hailstorm hitting on April 21 and April 23. “We are completely destroyed. I had invested Rs 44,000 on labour and spraying of litchi to protect from pests and also keep them healthy. But rain, storm and hailstorm have destroyed all my hopes,” said Sunil Kumar Singh Raja Babu of Nawada village in Mushahari block. Chandan Kumar Singh of Purnia, whose family has mango orchards spread over 24 acres, faced a similar fate. “Due to rains, storm and easterly winds, mangoes, which are still not of big size, have started falling off the trees. The dry westerly wind strengthens the twig and also helps in the maturity and ripening of mango,” he said. Nonetheless, Sunil also known as Raja Babu has been in touch with traders to take the Shahi and China varieties of litchi to cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow and those in Punjab, while mango farmers in general, by way of traditional practice, have leased out their orchards to the traders on a three-year lease term. Litchi is grown in 0.36 lakh hectares of land mainly in north Bihar, while various varieties of mango is cultivated in 1.58 lakh hectares of land in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/natures-fury-lockdown-hit-fruit-tea-growers/articleshow/75361112.cms||Abhay Singh
April 25, 2020||Patna||NITI Aayog’s letter: Patna HC seeks Centre’s reply on NGOs’ help||PATNA: The Patna high court has directed central government to reply if NITI Aayog’s letter issued on March 30 for involving civil society organizations (CSO) and non-government organization (NGOs) in relief works amid lockdown for Covid-19 is binding or just a guideline. In Bihar, district administrations are directly involved in all relief works. A PIL was filed by advocate Parul Prasad urging the HC to order the state government for following NITI Aayog directions and guidelines for allowing CSOs and NGOs to work with administration in food distribution and providing shelter to needy and poor people. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar would hear the matter again on Monday. Additional solicitor general SD Sanjay, appearing for the Centre on Thursday, submitted that the Aayog’s letter is binding for state government and it must involve and engage civil society in dealing with the present problem. He also submitted that present situation calls for coordinated relief work by the Centre, state and civil society without any advertisement. State government’s additional advocate general PN Shahi submitted that Aayog’s letter may not be binding on state as it was not issued by the central government. In the same PIL, Prasad had also sought relief for orphanages, old-age homes and centres for disabled persons to ensure supply of food and other essential items. TOI had highlighted the hardships being faced by the orphanages and old-age homes amid the lockdown after which an order was passed for setting up a dedicated toll-free helpline number for such institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/niti-aayogs-letter-hc-seeks-centres-reply-on-ngos-help/articleshow/75360106.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Patna||Jump in Covid-19 cases sets alarm bells ringing in Munger||PATNA: The sudden rise in coronavirus positive cases at Sadar Bazar under Jamalpur sub-division in Munger district has set alarm bells ringing in the district headquarters. On Friday, 31 people were tested positive for deadly virus, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to 62 in the district at the time of going to press. While one person had died earlier, six others were discharged from the hospital after their test reports came negative. Several people from Sadar Bazar locality had contracted the virus from a man who had participated in a religious congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi last month. The residents Sadar Bazar, the hotspot of Covid-19 in the district, have been directed not to venture out of their houses which have been sanitized. They have been asked to maintain social distancing at all costs. The officials have also warned that FIRs would be lodged against those defying the lockdown. Munger divisional commissioner Vandana Kini reviewed the preventive measures taken by the district authorities for the fourth consecutive day on Friday. She asked DM Rajesh Meena to complete the door-to-door survey work in blocks within two days. The DM later told media persons that localities in the radius of 5km from Sadar Bazar have been sealed and movement of residents completely restricted. “Strict vigil is being maintained in and around the hotspot,” he said, adding additional personnel have been deployed in the area. DIG of Munger range Manu Maharaaj said 50 jawans of women’s battalion, 22 personnel of quick response team and around 1,200 policemen have been deployed to maintain round the clock surveillance in containment zone in Munger district. Special focus is on Sadar Bazar area, he said. Sources said the first case was reported from the district on March 22. However, the number of positive cases again started increasing from April 15. Altogether 21 cases — eight men and 13 women — were reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jump-in-covid-19-cases-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-in-munger/articleshow/75360309.cms||Ramashankar
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Locals oppose Covid-19 victim’s cremation in Guntur||GUNTUR: Tension prevailed at a burial ground in Guntur when people pelted stones at the ambulance in which a Covid-19 victim was brought for cremation. The locals insisted that Covid-19 victims should not be cremated in their area. The incident took place at Gujjanagundla Hindu burial ground late on Friday. According to information, a 23-year old pregnant woman of Nakirekallu village near Narasaraopet died of Covid-19 at NRI Hospital (dedicated Covid hospital) near Mangalagiri on Thursday. Although the local officials should have performed the final rites of the victim there itself, they shifted the body to the mortuary at Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur late on Thursday night. District collector Samuel Anand Kumar directed Guntur tehsildar to complete the final rites in Gujjanagundla burial ground where an LPG crematorium is available. Recently, another Covid-19 victim was cremated in the same area. The police who escorted the ambulance tried to pacify the locals but they failed to control the situation as the locals pelted stones at the ambulance and raised slogans against the officials. Sensing trouble, the police rushed additional forces to the area and brought the situation under control by canning the agitators. The cremation was completed with full police security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/locals-oppose-covid-victims-cremation/articleshow/75360860.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Forex kitty grows $3 billion to $480 billion on rising dollar, gold||MUMBAI: India’s forex reserves rose by $3 billion during the week ended April 17 to $479.6 billion. Half the increase was because the value of gold held by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) appreciated in dollar terms, while the other half came from an increase in the value of foreign currency assets, which rose to $441.9 billion. Meanwhile, RBI data showed that during the first 10 days of April 2020, bank credit decreased by Rs 31,562 crore to Rs 193.3 lakh crore, while bank deposits increased by nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore to Rs 137.1 lakh crore. During the week ended April 10, currency with public rose by a record Rs 49,554 crore to a new high of Rs 23.9 lakh crore, partly because of withdrawal of government transfers made to Jan Dhan Yojana accounts to alleviate distress. Overall, foreign exchange reserves are still only $7 billion below the all-time high of $487 billion as on March 6. In the week ended April 10, reserves rose by $2 billion to $476 billion. Forex reserves include foreign currency assets, gold and drawing rights with multilateral institutions. Gold reserves increased over $1.5 billion to $32.7 during the week as prices soared with the yellow metal being a safe haven in the market turmoil after Covid-19. While the RBI has been using its reserves to defend the rupee, the reason for the latest increase is not known. The RBI holds foreign currency assets in dollars and other hard currency like the euro and yen. The central bank uses a host of instruments to intervene in the foreign currency markets, including transacting in the spot, forward and, more recently, in offshore markets. Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/forex-kitty-grows-3bn-to-480bn-on-rising-gold/articleshow/75362823.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Bored at home, students go back to hobbies||KOLKATA: A month into the lockdown and schoolchildren stuck at home are bored stiff despite online classes and efforts to keep busy with other activities. Some are just about managing, but for others, the morale seems to be waning. But some older students, those in college for instance, have found time to cultivate hobbies. “Weekends and weekdays are the same. There’s nothing do. We don’t have online classes on Sundays, so there’s a slight difference. During online classes, I sit on the bed, take assignments from the teacher and watch the power-point presentations. The classes happen thrice a week and barely last an hour. For the rest of the day, I am bored,” said Kasshvi Doshi, a Class-VII student of Modern High School for Girls. Her sister Harshieka is in Class XII of the same school. “I have too many online classes. It’s so tiring. After the classes, I only sleep,” the 16-year-old said. With an unfinished ICSE exam, lack of in-person contact with classmates, jostling for personal space at home and no outdoor activity, Harshieka seems to be under a lot of stress. “I have also started taking commerce tuitions, so I am staring at the laptop for eight or nine hours a day,” the teen said. Ishan Dasgupta of Class VI, Heritage School, said he has started gardening to keep spirits high. “When the online classes started in the first week of April, I was happy to see my friends. But now the novelty has gone. There’s very little communication between us and the teachers,” he said. Salt Lake resident Aditya Mundhra’s daughter Swara studies in Class VI of La Martiniere for Girls. “This lockdown is a learning experience. Much as I am encouraging Swara to engage in internet-based activities, I am also trying to help her develop new interests,” Mundhra said. College-goers accustomed to socializing between and after classes are also cooped up at home. Some have even left the city and moved back in with their parents in the districts. All of them, however, are trying to keep busy while attending classes online. Richik Ganguly, a second-year economics student at Jadavpur University, has gone back to his family in Coochbehar. “Our classes are being held online. We are mailed the relevant study materials. We have to study and keep ourselves up to date so that immediately after normal classes resume, examinations can be held,” he said. He added he can play musical instruments and was earlier involved in theatre. “But ever since I relocated to Kolkata, I could not find much time to devote to my passion. Now, both activities are keeping me busy. I can now practice for hours without any guilt of missing my studies. I am also rehearsing for some plays,” he said. Shinjini Mukherjee, a resident of Parnashree, is a PG-I student of JU. “I’ve mastered the art of making perfectly round rotis. Also, I’ve started doing household chores. My parents always reprimanded me for not keeping my room clean. But during the lockdown, I’ve been able to make them proud. My room is very tidy now,” she giggled. Her hobbies include recitation, elocution and reading. “I have opted for a subject which stresses on mathematics and practising graphs. Now I finally have some time to get back to my hobbies,” she said. Both Ganguly and Mukherjee felt that this prolonged period of staying indoors has also improved their bond with their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bored-at-home-students-go-back-to-hobbies/articleshow/75362390.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Four more jailed under PASA for attacks on frontline warriors: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While curfew was lifted from all three cities on Friday morning, four more persons were held under PASA and sent to jails for their involvment in assaults on police, medical staff and government officers. DGP Shivanand Jha, while addressing a press conference said that on April 6, a case of assaulting a medical officer had been registered at Tankara in Morbi district. “The accused has been caught and sent to Vadodara jail,” the DGP said. “In another incident on March 25, a case of assault on cops was lodged in Patdi of Surendranagar. Two accused were detained under PASA and sent to Surat jail. Similarly, on Wednesday, police were attacked by a mob in Palanpur. One accused was arrested from the spot under PASA and sent to Jamnagar jail,” added Jha. Jha said that in three incidents which took place after the implementation of lockdown, a total of 26 persons were detained under PASA and sent to different jails in the state. “No one who attacks a person involved in fighting against Covid-19 will be spared and will be detained under PASA,” Jha warned. The DGP said that though curfew has been lifted, strict implementation of lockdown will be ensured across the state, especially in areas declared as Covid hotspots by the administration. Those exiting homes during lockdown must maintain social distancing while buying essential commodities, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-more-jailed-under-pasa-for-attacks-on-frontline-warriors-dgp/articleshow/75372464.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Companies see cash as king, cut capex plans||MUMBAI: Bogged down by the coronavirus-related lockdowns, India Inc has decided to adopt a strategy of financial prudence for the new fiscal year. As costs remain constant while incomes decline, companies across sectors are revisiting their capital expenditure (capex) programmes. ‘Cash is king’ is the new mantra corporates are strictly abiding by, as they delay heavy investment plans, revise their sales budgets and bring their cost plans to a new realistic Covid-19 normal. JSW Energy director (finance) Jyoti Kumar Agarwal said the company is revisiting all its plans, operational as well as strategic, in light of the pandemic. “Much like non-essential travel, we have decided to put off any non-essential, discretionary expenditure for the moment. We are also redrawing our strategic road map in the near term while keeping a nimble approach given the rapidly evolving circumstances. While we do have sufficient liquidity to last through a prolonged dislocation, we would nevertheless prefer to conserve as much capital as possible given the unprecedented nature of the situation.” Some industries, like cement, move in tandem with the GDP growth numbers. “We expect this quarter of fiscal 2021 to be a damper for the industry and hope to see strong signs of revival in the third quarter,” said Birla Corporation COO Sandip Ghose. Normalcy could return only in the fourth quarter. “Costs that are postponable, will be postponed. When we are not selling anything, we don’t need to spend on on-ground marketing activities,” said Ghose. Power and transportation form high costs for the cement industry, while labour runs in single digit rates. “If plants are not run at optimal capacity, production costs will go up. With the market not able to pay higher prices for the cement bags, players, which operate on thin margins, will be in a bind,” said Ghose. TCS, which saw a dip in its fourth quarter profit of fiscal 2020, sees margin contraction in the short term. It is looking at costs across the board, which includes slashing travel expenses and suspending salary increments. Rajesh Gopinathan, CEO of India’s largest IT services player TCS, expects the peak impact of the virus outbreak to reflect in the current quarter’s earnings and sees TCS’s financial performance returning to normalcy in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. The FMCG sector too has been impacted by the Covid-induced lockdown. Godrej Consumer Products managing director & CEO Vivek Gambhir said, “Ensuring sufficient liquidity and a strong cash position is an important priority. Major capital expenditure decisions will get deferred by companies till there is more clarity in the evolving environment. Maintenance and capital expenditure for incremental capacity expansion and lines for new products launches will continue.” Although food is an essential commodity and there’s increased demand, factories are functional only partially as there are constraints on raw material, packaging and labour. Mother’s Recipe-Desai Foods executive director Sanjana Desai said, “We would need to revise our sales budgets and purchase forecasts for at least the next few months, as we expect the global recession to hit hard.” But largest biscuit-maker Parle Products plans to stick to its capacity addition plans this year. Executive director Arup Chauhan said, “We are currently in excess of 75% of our production levels with 50% worker strength. Production is ramping up every day. Stocks in the pipeline are moving really fast now and we believe, given that nutrition is going to be key for consumer health, we will increase our capacities by 20% this year.” Costs that companies will target could include fresh hiring, rentals, training & development budgets and salaries. Valuations in M&As (mergers & acquisition) may also decline. Executive Access India managing director Ronesh Puri said, “Hiring will take a back seat and that will hit our industry. Some companies are struggling to pay salaries, and some are even thinking of vacating large rental places and shifting to smaller ones to save on costs. Salaries are either being staggered, or cut, or employees furloughed.” Chauhan of Parle Products, however, said, “Even if working capital is impacted, we are not cutting salaries or jobs. On the contrary, we are motivating our workers and employees and assuring them of benefits as well.” The impact on M&A activity would be mixed. Singhi Advisors managing director Mahesh Singhi said, “Most companies will start re-assessing their business portfolios and de-leverage their balance sheets by selling off assets generating returns below certain threshold level. The increase in availability of assets will enable well-capitalised buyers to cherry pick these and structure transactions with staggered payouts and, in turn, lower risk-adjusted valuations.” Lower valuations will be expected by most strategic buyers since their own valuations would have dropped in the falling markets and risk perceptions would have changed. “We can expect increased PE-backed M&A transactions for companies building up capacities through acquisitions to meet increased traction and areas where global de-risking will be required where China has a monopolistic position,” said Singhi. According to Gambhir, this will be a good opportunity to scout opportunistically for M&A. “Companies that have strong balance sheets could find interesting companies to consolidate their presence in existing categories or enter new categories. Some of the smaller players could find the terrain more challenging over the next few quarters and may look to sell,” said Gambhir. Enhanced M&A activities will be seen in growth sectors like speciality chemicals, electronic manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, healthcare services and medical consumables. “We may also see need-based/compulsive deals in beaten down sectors like auto components, commodity packaging and metal processing. However, finding a buyer in such situations will be equally difficult,” said Singhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-see-cash-as-king-cut-capex-plans/articleshow/75362580.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 25, 2020||Business||Money not lost forever, may take some time to come back||NEW DELHI: Investors were worried after Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, late on April 23, announced winding down of six of its schemes -- low duration fund, dynamic accrual fund, credit risk fund, short term income plan, ultra short bond fund and income opportunities fund -- together managing nearly Rs 25,900 crore. The investors, with money in Franklin Templeton and other fund houses, had several questions relating to their MF investments. Here we try to answer some of the commonly asked the questions: Are all of Franklin Templeton’s MFs closed?No. Only six schemes (listed earlier) have been closed. This means you can’t invest or take your money out from these six schemes. SIPs, STPs or SWPs are also not allowed from these six funds. All other Franklin Templeton schemes will continue as usual. If I have invested in any of these funds, is my money lost forever?No. It’s just that the fund manager has put all the money and investments in these funds under one administrator who will try to sell all its investments and then pay back the money to every investor. Though the chances of getting back all the money is high, it can’t be guaranteed. Will I get all the money in one go?The funds will come in a staggered manner, in tranches. As and when the administrator is able to sell the funds’ investments, investors will get their money. However, the payment may not be on a regular — weekly, fortnightly or monthly — basis since the administrator can’t predict when the investments will be sold to realise funds. By when can I get my money back?The fund house has not given any timeline. It could take from a few months to a year or more for the money to be returned. Are all debt funds as risky as these six funds?No. Financial advisers say schemes like overnight funds, liquid funds, gilt funds, banking & PSU bond funds and corporate bond funds are less risky than others. Should I stop my SIPs?Most top fund house officials say this was an isolated incident. Thus, financial advisers are saying investors should not make a decision in haste, based on one incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/money-not-lost-forever-may-take-some-time-to-come-back/articleshow/75362791.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS doctors test PPE kits before using them||Hubballi: Many cases of substandard quality personal protection equipment (PPE) kits being supplied to doctors, paramedical staff and group D staff have come to the fore across the country. The Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), in order to allay fears, has asked doctors and medical staff to wear the PPEs supplied to them and judge their quality before using them. It is the first such move by any government medical college, that the quality is being tested by doctors of medicine, anaesthesiologists, microbiologists, ENT specialists and postgraduate medical students in these departments, as well as paramedical staff and group D workers. Dr Ramalingappa Antartani said, “We want to be doubly sure about the quality of the PPEs received. Hence all postgraduate medical students, doctors and staff have been asked to check the quality of their PPEs,” he said. Sources in KIMS said that the PPE kits will be checked by a quality assurance team first, and they will then be handed over to the doctor and staff of the Covid-19 ward, who in turn will give feedback over the respective PPE. Those who have checked the quality of the PPE kits are yet to give their feedback to the director. The tender for PPE kits will be finalised only if the feedback is positive from doctors and health staff. Low quality irks doctor Recently, a doctor in North Karnataka raised concern over the quality of PPE kits supplied to his hospital. The PPE kits were of a very low quality, despite being ISO certified. The doctor said the kit he received was not fluid resistant, and stitches on some of the equipment were loose. Meanwhile, doctors have urged the government to ensure that manufacturers produce PPE kits of the highest quality, as it is a question of life or death for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-doctors-test-ppe-kits-before-using-them/articleshow/75359331.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 25, 2020||Varanasi||IMS-BHU to upgrade infra on par with AIIMS||Varanasi: The Institute of Medical Science (IMS) of BHU, which had received the status of AIIMS equivalent institution in 2018, is now gearing up to upgrade its infrastructure and facilities. Speaking to TOI, BHU vice chancellor professor Rakesh Bhatnagar said, “We have received a fund of Rs 256 crore from the ministry of human rersource and development for the upgradation of old buildings and facilities of IMS under a project called ‘Kayakalp’”. As per the records of BHU, the total grant of Rs 616 crores that was released by the government in 2018 for upgradation of IMS into an AIIMS-like institution, includes Rs 256 crores for Kayakalp initiatives such as Sir Sunderlal Hospital, IMS, medical hostels, quarters of medical pool, power substation, computational facility, essential equipment of super speciality block and intramural grant for research. Apart from that, Rs 160 crore will be spent under salary component of faculty members, technical and non-teaching staff. The grant also includes a budget of Rs 200 crore for the project of super specialty block. “The Kayakalp project has begun and will require a period of five years for completion,” said Bhatnagar. For further requirements such as new buildings and facilities, the institute had prepared another detailed project report of Rs 600 crore had and forwarded it to the government, demanding sanction in 2020-21 financial year. Besides the upgradation process, the institute is undergoing a change in criteria of the appointment of its director. “So far, the directors of IMS were appointed on the basis of seniority. But now the appointment will be based on merit and competency to ensure that the most eligible candidate gets to run the institute,” said Bhatnagar. “Insiders can also apply for the position. The appointment process has already begun,” he added. Unlike AIIMS, which are autonomous bodies, IMS will be the first super specialty hospital that will be governed by the BHU Act and not the AIIMS Act to provide top-level medicare to patients in and around Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ims-bhu-to-upgrade-infra-on-par-with-aiims/articleshow/75360872.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 25, 2020||Business||Cos see cash as king, cut capex plans||Reeba Zachariah & Namrata Singh | TNN Mumbai: Bogged down by the coronavirus-related lockdowns, India Inc has decided to adopt a strategy of financial prudence for the new fiscal year. As costs remain constant while incomes decline, companies across sectors are revisiting their capital expenditure (capex) programmes. ‘Cash is king’ is the new mantra corporates are strictly abiding by, as they delay heavy investment plans, revise their sales budgets and bring their cost plans to a new realistic Covid-19 normal. JSW Energy director (finance) Jyoti Kumar Agarwal said the company is revisiting all its plans, operational as well as strategic, in light of the pandemic. “Much like non-essential travel, we have decided to put off any non-essential, discretionary expenditure for the moment. We are also redrawing our strategic road map in the near term while keeping a nimble approach given the rapidly evolving circumstances. While we do have sufficient liquidity to last through a prolonged dislocation, we would nevertheless prefer to conserve as much capital as possible given the unprecedented nature of the situation.” Some industries, like cement, move in tandem with the GDP growth numbers. “We expect this quarter of fiscal 2021 to be a damper for the industry and hope to see strong signs of revival in the third quarter,” said Birla Corporation COO Sandip Ghose. Normalcy could return only in the fourth quarter. “Costs that are postponable, will be postponed. When we are not selling anything, we don’t need to spend on on-ground marketing activities,” said Ghose. Power and transportation form high costs for the cement industry, while labour runs in single digit rates. “If plants are not run at optimal capacity, production costs will go up. With the market not able to pay higher prices for the cement bags, players, which operate on thin margins, will be in a bind,” said Ghose. TCS, which saw a dip in its fourth quarter profit of fiscal 2020, sees margin contraction in the short term. It is looking at costs across the board, which includes slashing travel expenses and suspending salary increments. Rajesh Gopinathan, CEO of India’s largest IT services player TCS, expects the peak impact of the virus outbreak to reflect in the current quarter’s earnings and sees TCS’s financial performance returning to normalcy in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. The FMCG sector too has been impacted by the Covid-induced lockdown. Godrej Consumer Products MD & CEO Vivek Gambhir said, “Ensuring sufficient liquidity and a strong cash position is an important priority. Major capital expenditure decisions will get deferred by companies till there is more clarity in the evolving environment. Maintenance and capital expenditure for incremental capacity expansion and lines for new products launches will continue.” Although food is an essential commodity and there’s increased demand, factories are functional only partially as there are constraints on raw material, packaging and labour. Mother’s Recipe-Desai Foods executive director Sanjana Desai said, “We would need to revise our sales budgets and purchase forecasts for at least the next few months, as we expect the global recession to hit hard.” But largest biscuit-maker Parle Products plans to stick to its capacity addition plans this year. Executive director Arup Chauhan said, “We are currently in excess of 75% of our production levels with 50% worker strength. Production is ramping up every day. Stocks in the pipeline are moving really fast now and we believe, given that nutrition is going to be key for consumer health, we will increase our capacities by 20% this year.” Costs that companies will target could include fresh hiring, rentals, training & development budgets and salaries. Valuations in M&As (mergers & acquisition) may also decline. Executive Access India MD Ronesh Puri said, “Hiring will take a back seat and that will hit our industry. Some companies are struggling to pay salaries, and some are even thinking of vacating large rental places and shifting to smaller ones to save on costs. Salaries are either being staggered, or cut, or employees furloughed.” Chauhan of Parle Products, however, said, “Even if working capital is impacted, we are not cutting salaries or jobs. On the contrary, we are motivating our workers and employees and assuring them of benefits as well.” The impact on M&A activity would be mixed. Singhi Advisors MD Mahesh Singhi said, “Most companies will start re-assessing their business portfolios and de-leverage their balance sheets by selling off assets generating returns below certain threshold level. The increase in availability of assets will enable well-capitalised buyers to cherry pick these and structure transactions with staggered payouts and, in turn, lower risk-adjusted valuations.” Lower valuations will be expected by most strategic buyers since their own valuations would have dropped in the falling markets and risk perceptions would have changed. “We can expect increased PE-backed M&A transactions for companies building up capacities through acquisitions to meet increased traction and areas where global de-risking will be required where China has a monopolistic position,” said Singhi. According to Gambhir, this will be a good opportunity to scout opportunistically for M&A. “Companies that have strong balance sheets could find interesting companies to consolidate their presence in existing categories or enter new categories. Some of the smaller players could find the terrain more challenging over the next few quarters and may look to sell,” said Gambhir. Enhanced M&A activities will be seen in growth sectors like speciality chemicals, electronic manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, healthcare services and medical consumables. “We may also see need-based/compulsive deals in beaten down sectors like auto components, commodity packaging and metal processing. However, finding a buyer in such situations will be equally difficult,” said Singhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-see-cash-as-king-cut-capex-plans/articleshow/75362596.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 25, 2020||Business||Cos see cash as king, cut capex plans||Reeba Zachariah & Namrata Singh | TNN Mumbai: Bogged down by the coronavirus-related lockdowns, India Inc has decided to adopt a strategy of financial prudence for the new fiscal year. As costs remain constant while incomes decline, companies across sectors are revisiting their capital expenditure (capex) programmes. ‘Cash is king’ is the new mantra corporates are strictly abiding by, as they delay heavy investment plans, revise their sales budgets and bring their cost plans to a new realistic Covid-19 normal. JSW Energy director (finance) Jyoti Kumar Agarwal said the company is revisiting all its plans, operational as well as strategic, in light of the pandemic. “Much like non-essential travel, we have decided to put off any non-essential, discretionary expenditure for the moment. We are also redrawing our strategic road map in the near term while keeping a nimble approach given the rapidly evolving circumstances. While we do have sufficient liquidity to last through a prolonged dislocation, we would nevertheless prefer to conserve as much capital as possible given the unprecedented nature of the situation.” Some industries, like cement, move in tandem with the GDP growth numbers. “We expect this quarter of fiscal 2021 to be a damper for the industry and hope to see strong signs of revival in the third quarter,” said Birla Corporation COO Sandip Ghose. Normalcy could return only in the fourth quarter. “Costs that are postponable, will be postponed. When we are not selling anything, we don’t need to spend on on-ground marketing activities,” said Ghose. Power and transportation form high costs for the cement industry, while labour runs in single digit rates. “If plants are not run at optimal capacity, production costs will go up. With the market not able to pay higher prices for the cement bags, players, which operate on thin margins, will be in a bind,” said Ghose. TCS, which saw a dip in its fourth quarter profit of fiscal 2020, sees margin contraction in the short term. It is looking at costs across the board, which includes slashing travel expenses and suspending salary increments. Rajesh Gopinathan, CEO of India’s largest IT services player TCS, expects the peak impact of the virus outbreak to reflect in the current quarter’s earnings and sees TCS’s financial performance returning to normalcy in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. The FMCG sector too has been impacted by the Covid-induced lockdown. Godrej Consumer Products MD & CEO Vivek Gambhir said, “Ensuring sufficient liquidity and a strong cash position is an important priority. Major capital expenditure decisions will get deferred by companies till there is more clarity in the evolving environment. Maintenance and capital expenditure for incremental capacity expansion and lines for new products launches will continue.” Although food is an essential commodity and there’s increased demand, factories are functional only partially as there are constraints on raw material, packaging and labour. Mother’s Recipe-Desai Foods executive director Sanjana Desai said, “We would need to revise our sales budgets and purchase forecasts for at least the next few months, as we expect the global recession to hit hard.” But largest biscuit-maker Parle Products plans to stick to its capacity addition plans this year. Executive director Arup Chauhan said, “We are currently in excess of 75% of our production levels with 50% worker strength. Production is ramping up every day. Stocks in the pipeline are moving really fast now and we believe, given that nutrition is going to be key for consumer health, we will increase our capacities by 20% this year.” Costs that companies will target could include fresh hiring, rentals, training & development budgets and salaries. Valuations in M&As (mergers & acquisition) may also decline. Executive Access India MD Ronesh Puri said, “Hiring will take a back seat and that will hit our industry. Some companies are struggling to pay salaries, and some are even thinking of vacating large rental places and shifting to smaller ones to save on costs. Salaries are either being staggered, or cut, or employees furloughed.” Chauhan of Parle Products, however, said, “Even if working capital is impacted, we are not cutting salaries or jobs. On the contrary, we are motivating our workers and employees and assuring them of benefits as well.” The impact on M&A activity would be mixed. Singhi Advisors MD Mahesh Singhi said, “Most companies will start re-assessing their business portfolios and de-leverage their balance sheets by selling off assets generating returns below certain threshold level. The increase in availability of assets will enable well-capitalised buyers to cherry pick these and structure transactions with staggered payouts and, in turn, lower risk-adjusted valuations.” Lower valuations will be expected by most strategic buyers since their own valuations would have dropped in the falling markets and risk perceptions would have changed. “We can expect increased PE-backed M&A transactions for companies building up capacities through acquisitions to meet increased traction and areas where global de-risking will be required where China has a monopolistic position,” said Singhi. According to Gambhir, this will be a good opportunity to scout opportunistically for M&A. “Companies that have strong balance sheets could find interesting companies to consolidate their presence in existing categories or enter new categories. Some of the smaller players could find the terrain more challenging over the next few quarters and may look to sell,” said Gambhir. Enhanced M&A activities will be seen in growth sectors like speciality chemicals, electronic manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, healthcare services and medical consumables. “We may also see need-based/compulsive deals in beaten down sectors like auto components, commodity packaging and metal processing. However, finding a buyer in such situations will be equally difficult,” said Singhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-see-cash-as-king-cut-capex-plans/articleshow/75362638.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 25, 2020||Patna||14.5 lakh people not getting ration benefits: Chirag Paswan||PATNA: NDA ally and LJP president Chirag Paswan on Friday took a dig at the Nitish Kumar government saying over 14.5 lakh people in Bihar are unable to get ration benefits during the lockdown as the state government is yet to provide them ration cards. In a series of tweets and statements to mediapersons, Jamui MP Chirag accused the state government of not sending the list of eligible people, whose names are not in the list of ration card holders. “The central government asked states to send a list of beneficiaries who do not have ration cards. There are approximately 39 lakh such people in the country, including 14.5 lakh in Bihar. The state government has not sent it despite repeated efforts by the Centre. Consequently, there are problems in providing rationed food to these 14.5 lakh people in Bihar. …I am hopeful that Nitish Kumar Ji will take immediate steps on this issue,” Chirag tweeted. Incidentally, Chirag’s father Ram Vilas Paswan is Union food and consumer affairs minister and he too had issued a similar statement on Thursday. “There should be 8.71crore beneficiaries in Bihar under the National Food Security Act, but 8.57 crore people have been brought under the ambit of the Act so far. Accordingly, I brought the remaining 14 lakh beneficiaries to the notice of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi,” Ram Vilas had tweeted. He stated in another tweet that the Bihar government has sent the names of 7.4 lakh beneficiaries but requested to distribute free food to these people only under PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY). “I immediately approved the list and additional food was also allocated for distribution of free food under the scheme,” he tweeted. He added: “I request CM Nitish Kumar to take steps to bring all 14 lakh beneficiaries, including the 7.4 lakh people being given food under PMGKAY, under the ambit of the National Food Security Act, so that they get rationed food and other relief material.” Chirag had made critical statements against Nitish government earlier too during his “Bihar First, Bihari First” Yatra launched in mid February and cancelled around mid-March owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. He had also cornered the state government over the agitation of Niyojit teachers, health facilities as well as law and order and lack of industries in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/14-5l-people-not-getting-ration-benefits-chirag/articleshow/75360965.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 25, 2020||Patna||Patna residents in containment zones a worried lot||PATNA: The state capital is now in the ‘red zone’ after 24 Covid positive cases. A sense of fear is lurking in the minds of residents, especially those staying in Khajpura locality, which has registered 17 coronavirus cases in the last five days. The area on Bailey Road, from Ashiana Mor to Jagdeopath, has been barricaded and sealed. District magistrate Kumar Ravi said there are two containment zones in Patna — Khajpura and Sultanganj. People are not allowed to leave their houses. “Every person in the containment zone has been tested for Covid-19 and even drones are being used to keep a strict vigil in the area. We are arranging for vegetable and fruit carts and vendors are being allowed to move in the lanes during certain time period with precautions,” Ravi said. A private hotel near Khajpura was converted into a quarantine centre on Friday. “The hotel has 50 rooms and eight people have been shifted there. Our two other quarantine centres, Hotel Patliputra Ashok with the capacity to accommodate 47 persons, and Patliputra Sports Complex with the capacity to accommodate 68 people, are now full,” said Ravi. Talking about the fear his family has been passing through, Punil Singh of Khajpura said: “I don’t think I will come out of my house for another two or three months. My house is 500 metres away from that of a person whose family members have tested positive for the virus. What worries me is that they were all asymptomatic.” A resident of Ashiana Nagar wishing anonymity said: “Since my house is within 3km radius of Khajpura, my family is in panic. We first wash fruits and vegetables before bringing them inside our kitchen.” Even roadside vendors at nearby Ramnagri have been stopped from selling vegetables and fruits. However, what gives a sense of relief to the residents is the fact that five of the 24 corona patients in the city have recovered. But out of the 19 active cases, 17 are from Khajpura, including one from nearby Jagdeopath. Another case is from Sultanganj where one person was tested corona positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-residents-in-containment-zones-a-worried-lot/articleshow/75360244.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 25, 2020||Business||Slow business forces companies to withdraw offer letters||MUMBAI: A grim scenario on the economic front has impacted lateral hiring with companies either deferring or withdrawing offer letters issued earlier, leaving mid to senior executives in a lurch. Not only is there a freeze on fresh hiring, companies are not keen on onboarding senior executives too. Executive search firms said this trend has become more visible over the last week to 10 days. Executive search firms said companies are either withholding hiring offers or withdrawing them altogether. Executive Access India managing director Ronesh Puri said in the last one week, he has seen at least half a dozen cases where offer letters were withdrawn. Antal India managing director Joseph Devasia said, “In 10 days, the scenario on the business front has become scarier. Overall we have seen five such cases. What’s sad is two of these were candidates who had already joined the company and were on probation, and the company decided to pull the plug.” Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesAn Indian tech company, said Devasia, which is facing dwindling revenues since the lockdown, couldn’t honour one such hiring contract. “They themselves didn’t have any visibility of whether they will be able to raise more funds. In a lot more firms, the number of vacancies has dropped drastically and companies are shelving hiring plans,” he said, without naming the company. BTI Executive Search managing director James Agrawal said, “I have been speaking to a number of companies and they are saying they are deferring new offer letters by a few months. I hear 30-40 such offers have been deferred.” However, Agarwal said all is not grim. There is demand for talent emerging in sectors such as cyber security, legal, finance, compliance, digital and automation, he said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsBut the situation has impacted revenues of hiring agencies. “Every day I get intimation from clients saying payment is delayed or extended. What’s worrying is that the delays could run into 4-6 months,” said Devasia. Given the uncertainty surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic and difficult road map of recovery post-lockdown revocation, Care Ratings has estimated GDP to grow 1.1-1.2% for the full fiscal year ending 2021 under certain assumptions. “This estimate is based on the assumption that after June 2020, the activities would restore very gradually and may not even attain 50% of normalcy for certain sectors for the entire year,” the rating agency said in a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/slow-biz-forces-cos-to-withdraw-offer-letters/articleshow/75362740.cms||Namrata Singh
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Now, Gujarat high court notice through WhatsApp||AHMEDABAD: In a first, the Gujarat high court has permitted a litigant to serve notice on another party through WhatsApp, because serving hard copy of the notice might be difficult during the lockdown. Because of the lockdown in place to check the spread of Covid-19, the HC has for the first time started e-filing of petitions and affidavits. It has been hearing cases through video conferencing and even accepted virtual production of corpus in habeas corpus cases. The instant case involves a labour contractor, Jaysukh Bavarava from Morbi, who is facing rape charges levelled against him earlier this year by a labourer working on contract at a ceramic unit. Since the complainant belongs to SC/ST community, Bavarava has also been slapped with charges under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Moreover, Bavarava and a friend of his were also booked under the Information Technology Act for making viral objectionable photographs of the rape survivor. Denial of bail by a lower court brought Bavarava to the HC. When the bail plea came up for hearing before Justice A Y Kogje, he admitted the case on Thursday and ordered issuance of notice. The court permitted the applicant to service the notice to the rape survivor through WhatsApp when the latter said that he has got her mobile number and his advocate requested for this mode of service citing the extraordinary situation due to the nationwide lockdown. Applicant’s advocate Ashish Dagli said, “In a criminal matter, where the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act is invoked, the law provides for serving a notice to the complaint before deciding the bail application. The mode of service of the notice is usually through police. But because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it will be difficult to get physical copy to the police and forward it. Therefore, such order has been passed for the first time to find a way to serve the notice so that the provisions of the law are complied with.” The HC, however, has permitted Bavarava’s lawyer to send the HC notice to the complainant’s mobile number though either WhatsApp or other message service, but for this he will have to obtain her consent first. Further hearing is now on May 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hc-permits-serving-of-notice-through-whatsapp/articleshow/75371196.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||Now, Gujarat high court notice through WhatsApp||AHMEDABAD: In a first, the Gujarat high court has permitted a litigant to serve notice on another party through WhatsApp, because serving hard copy of the notice might be difficult during the lockdown. Because of the lockdown in place to check the spread of Covid-19, the HC has for the first time started e-filing of petitions and affidavits. It has been hearing cases through video conferencing and even accepted virtual production of corpus in habeas corpus cases. The instant case involves a labour contractor, Jaysukh Bavarava from Morbi, who is facing rape charges levelled against him earlier this year by a labourer working on contract at a ceramic unit. Since the complainant belongs to SC/ST community, Bavarava has also been slapped with charges under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Moreover, Bavarava and a friend of his were also booked under the Information Technology Act for making viral objectionable photographs of the rape survivor. Denial of bail by a lower court brought Bavarava to the HC. When the bail plea came up for hearing before Justice A Y Kogje, he admitted the case on Thursday and ordered issuance of notice. The court permitted the applicant to service the notice to the rape survivor through WhatsApp when the latter said that he has got her mobile number and his advocate requested for this mode of service citing the extraordinary situation due to the nationwide lockdown. Applicant’s advocate Ashish Dagli said, “In a criminal matter, where the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act is invoked, the law provides for serving a notice to the complaint before deciding the bail application. The mode of service of the notice is usually through police. But because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it will be difficult to get physical copy to the police and forward it. Therefore, such order has been passed for the first time to find a way to serve the notice so that the provisions of the law are complied with.” The HC, however, has permitted Bavarava’s lawyer to send the HC notice to the complainant’s mobile number though either WhatsApp or other message service, but for this he will have to obtain her consent first. Further hearing is now on May 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hc-permits-serving-of-notice-through-whatsapp/articleshow/75371198.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s air has never been so clean in recent memory||KOLKATA: The rainbow arc that appeared in the eastern sky on Thursday evening was the brightest that one could recall witnessing in Kolkata. It also lasted longer than any rainbow had in recent memory. Atmospheric scientists say there hasn’t been any difference in the rainbow formation. What’s changed though is the city’s air quality. A month into lockdown, Kolkata’s ambient air quality has undergone a radical change, making it the cleanest and healthiest in recorded history of air quality measurement. “Naturally, the sky looks more blue, the rainbow more colourful. And there is no smog to obliterate it,” a weather scientist explained. Times ViewMaintaining such AQI levels may not be possible when all sectors are working at full throttle. But this pause has given us reason to think and introspect on what we can do to make our air cleaner even when we work full-time.Though air has appreciably cleaned up minus the buses, trucks, cars, autos and two-wheelers that constantly spew smoke and the construction activity that generates dust, the bigger challenge will be to retain the fresh air when the lockdown ends and the economy sets rolling again. The Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) analyzed the real-time data of Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) online portal and found that weekly city average of PM2.5 dropped by 58% between weeks ending March 22 and April 19. In case of nitrogen oxide (NO2), weekly city average dropped by 74% in the same period. PM2.5 is the tiniest of particulate matter that is about 3% the diameter of a human hair and can travel straight into the blood stream. Noxious chemicals riding piggyback on these particles play havoc with human lives. Nitrogen dioxide, on the other hand, inflames the lining of lungs and can reduce immunity to lung infections. This can cause problems such as wheezing, coughing, colds, flu, bronchitis and even cancer. In PM2.5, the station-wise highest drop was noted at Rabindra Bharati University (63%) and lowest at Bidhan Nagar (46%) between weeks ending March 22 and April 19. The PM2.5 level seems to have settled around 20ug/m3 across all stations with negligible variation among stations (in relation to pre-lockdown scenario), indicating local pollution sources have almost disappeared and stations are reporting urban background of the city, said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, air quality expert and executive director, CSE. Station-wise highest drop of NO2 was noted at Victoria (86%) and lowest at Rabindra Sarobar (62%) during the lockdown period. Unlike PM2.5 level, NO2 levels have not settled around similar levels across all stations, they still show considerable variation among stations but lesser in relation to pre-lockdown scenario, indicating local pollution sources are still active but have been drastically minimized, CSE analysis shows. NO2 pollution can contribute to aerosol formation and is formed from the burning of coal, oil and emissions from vehicles and off-road equipment, which can increase the risk of respiratory conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citys-air-has-never-been-so-clean-in-recent-memory/articleshow/75362381.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four more jailed under PASA for attacks on frontline warriors: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: While curfew was lifted from all three cities on Friday morning, four more persons were held under PASA and sent to jails for their involvment in assaults on police, medical staff and government officers. DGP Shivanand Jha, while addressing a press conference said that on April 6, a case of assaulting a medical officer had been registered at Tankara in Morbi district. “The accused has been caught and sent to Vadodara jail,” the DGP said. “In another incident on March 25, a case of assault on cops was lodged in Patdi of Surendranagar. Two accused were detained under PASA and sent to Surat jail. Similarly, on Wednesday, police were attacked by a mob in Palanpur. One accused was arrested from the spot under PASA and sent to Jamnagar jail,” added Jha. Jha said that in three incidents which took place after the implementation of lockdown, a total of 26 persons were detained under PASA and sent to different jails in the state. “No one who attacks a person involved in fighting against Covid-19 will be spared and will be detained under PASA,” Jha warned. The DGP said that though curfew has been lifted, strict implementation of lockdown will be ensured across the state, especially in areas declared as Covid hotspots by the administration. Those exiting homes during lockdown must maintain social distancing while buying essential commodities, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-more-jailed-under-pasa-for-attacks-on-frontline-warriors-dgp/articleshow/75362050.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nashik||6-year-old leopard killed in accident||Nashik: Carcass of a six-year-old female leopard was found on the railway tracks at Lahvit — around six kilometre from Nashik city — on Friday. According to a forest department official, the animal must have been hit by a freight train while trying to cross the railway tracks. "Due to the impact, the head of the animal got separated from its body. The incident took place around 3am," the official said. "The carcass was sent for autopsy following which the cremation was carried out on Friday afternoon at the forest nursery near Gangapur Road," he added. Recently, number of leopard spotting incidents are being reported from various parts of the district. A five-year-old male leopard was rescued a few days ago by the forest department from Darna Sangvi village in Niphad taluka of the district. The forest department had installed a cage to trap the big cat after requests were made for the same by the villagers. On Sunday, a 12-year-old boy was killed by a leopard in a sugarcane farm in Hinganvedhe village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-year-old-leopard-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75360885.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||PG medical: 1,371 seats allotted in 1st round||Ahmedabad: The first round of admissions for postgraduate (PG) medical courses has been completed with the allotment of 1,371 seats for MD, MS, and PG diploma courses. In the case of the postgraduate course in dental surgery, 291 seats have been allotted. With this, the Admission Committee for Professional Post-Graduate Medical Courses has successfully completed Round 1 of admissions, according to a media statement.Given the prevailing situation where a nation-wide lockdown has been imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the admission committee has made certain changes in the admission procedure. For the form filling process, the selected candidates are required to pay only a part of the admission fees. The deadline to pay tuition fees has been extended to May 2 and candidates can use online payment mode or through Axis Bank branches. Also, the deadline for reporting at a nearby helpline centre for producing original marksheets has also been extended till May 4, according to the press release. Keeping in view the lockdown situation, the committee has taken permission from the home ministry to allow the candidates to travel with one guardian and a driver to the college designated for them. The district collectors have been informed by the home minister about this decision. Using the Digital Gujarat portal, candidates can apply for travel passes. To ensure that a large crowd does not gather at the venues, only 10 students will be allowed every hour by appointment. Strict norms for social distancing will be followed at the helpline centres. The admissions are for PG medical and dental courses are conducted based on the scores obtained in National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) PG 2020. The examination, held in January this year, saw 4,800 candidates from Gujarat clearing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pg-medical-1371-seats-allotted-in-1st-round/articleshow/75362078.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Nippon MF, HDFC MF stocks crash||Mumbai: The troubles at Franklin Templeton MF also took a toll on the stocks of two fund houses, with Nippon India MF crashing 17.5%, on the BSE while HDFC MF closed 6% lower. Top executives said most were awake on Thursday night, trying to salvage the situation that arose because of the closure of the six schemes by the fully foreign owned fund house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nippon-mf-hdfc-mf-stocks-crash/articleshow/75362821.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Silver lining: Amid layoffs, edtech and healthcare cos look to hire fresh talent||Chennai: Companies witnessing a business swell due to Covid, be it edu tech or healthcare startups, are going a step further and recruiting more hands to meet the demand. Common roles include tech and content development, to propel the marketing for the companies that are looking to capitalise on the increase in demand. The demand is high in edtech, OTT and gaming that seehigh uptake since staying at home became the norm. Fintech firms are trying to make the most of the jump into digital payments. Raj N Phani, founder and chairman of Zaggle, a payments company with 100 employees, said it will hire over 65 employees by July. While, XPay.Life, which facilitates digital bill payment service, has started the hiring process for 50-100 people its CEO Rohit Kumar said. Telemedicine portal iCliniq which currently has 30 employees is looking to add another 70. “The company has an urgent need for engineers. Choosing them is a difficult task, because a lot of them have been recently laid off and checking their mettle is a challenge,” said Dhruv Suyamprakash, CEO, iCliniq. Telemedicine saw a sudden jump in people signing up for online doctor consultations. Some of the apps also forged corporate partnerships, pulling up the need for tech and sales roles. Staffing firms add that the sectors that are hiring currently are the healthcare vertical, pharma companies, besides the employers which are categorized in essential services. “We feel with the gradual opening up currently with manufacturing opening up in Non-containment zones) and IT / ITES upto 50%, the hiring will be gradual,” said Lohit Bhatia, president, Indian Staffing Federation. Edtech company upGrad will recruit 30-50 people for its tech and content strategist roles by this quarter. “We are already hiring and would need more in the second half of April,” said Mayank Kumar, CEO, upGrad. “For engineers, an experience of 2+ years is ideal and for mid-level non tech roles 4 years is the bar and for architects we are looking at those with 10+ years of industry experience,” said Saurya Sinha, co-founder, Recko, a fin tech firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/silver-lining-amid-layoffs-edtech-and-healthcare-cos-look-to-hire-fresh-talent/articleshow/75362316.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 25, 2020||Patna||Poultry farmers in Bihar scared of bird flu menace||PATNA: Poultry farmers in Bihar are afraid of resurgence of bird flu amid Covid-19, after a sample collected from Nawada district recently tested positive for avian influenza. The farmers are fearful also because it surfaced again after one month of the last two positive cases reported on March 26 from Ashok Nagar (Kankarbagh) in Patna and Saidpur under Katarisarai block in Nalanda district. Bihar has around 1,200 big and medium-sized poultry farms. Besides, the state also has more than 2,000 backyard poultry farms where 10 to 100 chickens are kept, an agriculture department official said. According to a state’s animal and fisheries resources department (AFRD) data, six samples collected from different places in March were tested positive for bird flu. The first bird flu case this year was reported from Kankarbagh on March 6. Three other positive samples were reported from Saidpur, Patna high court area and Bazar Samiti in the state capital on March 17. Again on March 26, two more bird flu cases were reported from Patna and Nalanda districts. “The bird flu cases in Nawada’s Rajhat village and subsequent culling of 9,000 hens of the private farm has sent a shock wave among the poultry farmers,” said Rahul Kumar, who runs a poultry farm near Koelwar in Bhojpur district. “We are now taking preventive measures as suggested by the state government to save our chickens,” said Rabindra Sharma, another farm owner. Taking the Nawada case seriously, the AFRD has asked its district animal husbandry officers to collect samples from all poultry farms to ensure timely detection of bird flu. “The department is alert. All district and division level officers have been asked to maintain close vigil on poultry farms. The department has so far collected 1,841 samples as a preventive measures and sent them to lab at Kolkata and Bhopal,” state agriculture, animal and fishery resources minister Prem Kumar told TOI on Friday. He said the poultry farmers do not need to be panicky as the state government has taken all preventive measures to check bird flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poultry-farmers-scared-of-bird-flu-menace/articleshow/75361053.cms||Madan Kumar
April 25, 2020||Patna||CM: Provide job cards to migrant workers in Bihar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday asked officials to provide employment under the MGNREGS to even those migrant workers who have returned from other states in the lockdown and don’t have job cards. Holding a meeting through videoconferencing to review the ongoing works to provide maximum employment opportunities to the workers, Nitish said, “First, provide them job cards so that they could be entitled to get employment.” He also asked the officials to increase employment opportunities for workers in the rural areas. “The social distancing norms should be strictly followed at the workplace. Mask, sanitiser and soaps shall be provided to workers free from the contingency fund,” the CM said and asked the officials to give priority to digging of new ponds, renovation of existing ponds and plantation work on the bank of the ponds. Earlier, rural development department’s principal secretary Arvind Kumar Choudhary informed the CM about different employment generating works undertaken under the MGNREGS in 7,761 panchayats. “Total 3,00,757 works began on April 20 and their number has increased to 3,40,339. A total of 5,14,165 workers have been provided jobs in the state,” Choudhary said. Minor Irrigation department’s principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena said total 1,783 employment generating works were already approved in his department. Of them, 1,400 were in progress before the lockdown and 231 new works had been started on April 20 and nearly 1,200 works would be completed by June 15, Meena said. Rural development minister Shrawan Kumar and minor irrigation minister Narendra Narayan Yadav and several senior officers joined the meeting through videoconferencing. Trace chain of all Covid patients: CM Reviewing the status of Covid-19 spread in the state, Nitish asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure immediate tracing of the chain of all positive cases and quarantine all suspect people. He also asked him for sanitising all hotspots and neighbouring places to break the Covid chain in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-provide-job-cards-to-migrant-workers-in-state/articleshow/75360355.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Patna||Drones being used to disinfect affected Biharsharif localities||BIHARSHARIF: Sakunat and Sheikhana localities in Biharsharif, from where 27 people have so far been tested positive for coronavirus, have turned containment zones to prevent spread of the deadly disease. The district administration has completely sealed these two localities and barred people from leaving the areas without prior permission from the officials concerned. Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh said the two localities were being sanitised with the help of drones. “National Disaster Response Force personnel have also joined the sanitisation drive in these localities,” the DM added. Imteyaz Ahmad, a resident of Sakunat locality, said the entire vicinity was sealed on Sunday. “Even medicine shops are closed. Essential commodities and medicines are being provided by the district administration. The officials are also providing dry ration to several needy people in the locality,” he said. Mohd Irteza Ahsan of Sheikhana locality said there is a complete lockdown in the area. “The entire neighbourhood was sealed from all sides. Police personnel have been deployed everywhere to stop people from coming out of their homes. People are placing orders for essential items through the WhatsApp number provided by the district administration,” he said. The DM said apart from Sakunat and Sheikhana localities, Khasganj area has also been sealed as it is the place from where the carrier of all 31 positive cases for Covid-19 in Biharsharif came. He said the carrier has recovered from the disease. “Several of his contacts who were quarantined are also doing well and would be released soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drones-being-used-to-disinfect-affected-biharsharif-localities/articleshow/75360268.cms||Farrukh Nadim
April 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Register online for PG medical courses till today||PATNA: In a surprising development, the Bihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board (BCECEB) has preponed its schedule of counselling of students for admission to postgraduate medical and dental courses in different institutions of the state. According to the revised schedule announced by the board, the last date for online registration of candidates seeking admission to MD, MS and MDS in government and private medical and dental colleges of the state is April 25 (till 11pm) instead of April 28 as announced earlier. Similarly, the last date for payment through challan after submission of online application ended on Friday. Earlier, the same was to end on April 29. However, the last date of payment through netbanking and debit/credit card is April 25. According to the BCECEB examination controller, the postgraduate medical admission counselling (PGMAC)-2020 schedule for admission in all the government and private medical and dental colleges in the state has been revised in the light of a recent notification of directorate of health services, government of India. These admissions are to be made against 50% of state quota seats of MD, MS and PGD (dental) courses based on merit list of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET- PG)-2020 and NEET (MDS)-2020. The online editing of online application forms submitted by candidates, according to the revised schedule, will be done on April 26 and the merit list will be published on April 28. The dates of online choice filling are April 30 and May 1, and the result of seat allotment will be published on May 2. Selected candidates can report through web portal from May 3 to May 4, the controller added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/register-online-for-pg-med-courses-till-today/articleshow/75361003.cms||B K Mishra
April 25, 2020||Patna||Kota students’ parents move court, Patna HC seeks state’s response||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday directed the state government to respond to writ petitions filed by two individuals seeking the return of their daughters who are stuck in Kota, Rajasthan, due to the lockdown. A bench of Justice Hemant Kumar Srivastava and Justice Rajendra Mishra directed government to file its reply by Monday for the next hearing. In a separate hearing on a PIL filed on Thursday on the issue of bringing back stranded students from across the country, including Kota, the bench of Justice Srivastava and Justice Mishra directed the central and state governments to respond on the issue. The bench gave the directions while hearing advocate Ajay Thakur’s PIL filed on Thursday evening hours after the high court on its administrative side received the state government’s response sought earlier that it was not desirable to get back students from across the country in the current scenario as it would be a violation of the Centre’s guidelines on lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 virus. Thakur had submitted a representation via WhatsApp on April 21 before the Patna high court seeking directions to bring back stranded students just as UP, Assam and other states have done. On Chief Justice Sanjay Karol’s direction, a reply was sought from the state government by the HC’s administrative side. The writ petitions heard on Friday were filed by Prakash Tiwary from Muzaffarpur and Nelam Deo from East Champaran and were filed on April 22. The bench will now hear both matters with another writ petition by another parent Pawan Kumar on Monday. Kumar’s daughter is also stranded in Kota. His petition was turned into PIL during Thursday’s hearing. He had filed application before Patna DM for issuance of pass which was not acted upon. Additional advocate general Anjani Kumar submitted before the bench that under the current circumstances, only the Centre can direct states in such matters while the National Disaster Management Act is in force. He also submitted that since lockdown is not under challenge, the high court didn’t have the jurisdiction to issue mandamus in such matters. Counsel Amrendra Kumar appeared for Tiwary while Ansul appeared for Deo before bench. Tiwary in his petition urged that a direction be issued to the state government for issuing pass to bring his daughter back if the authorities are not capable of evacuating stranded students. He pleaded that his daughter is facing mental and physical health issues and she felt abandoned and unsafe as most students from other states had returned. The petitioner also pointed out that an MLA was allowed to bring back his ward from Kota using personal resources and influence. Petitioner Deo made similar pleas. Tiwary and Deo had applied before respective DMs of Muzaffarpur and East Champaran for pass, but no action was taken following which they moved court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kota-students-parents-move-court-hc-seeks-states-response/articleshow/75360080.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 25, 2020||Patna||Prices of essential items stabilise as supply eases in Bihar||PATNA: A month into the lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic, people in Patna and other parts of the state seem to be gradually adapting to the new normal of restrictions in movement and social distancing. Work from home and online classes have become the order of the day and difficulties in supply of food items and other essentials have also been resolved to some extent. Prices of essential commodities, including grocery items and vegetables which had skyrocketed in the initial days of lockdown, have stabilised a month later. For instance, onion prices have decreased from Rs 50 to Rs 20 per kilogram. Similarly, potato prices have reduced from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 20 per kg, tomato prices from Rs 60 per kg to Rs 20 per kg, cabbage from Rs 60 per piece to Rs 29 per piece and cauliflower from Rs 80 per kg to Rs 40 per kg. Vegetables apart, prices of 5kg of packed flour, which had surged to Rs 300 during the initial days of lockdown, have come down to Rs 180. Vendors and shopkeepers said there has been an increase in supply of essential commodities. Sharma Nand, a vegetable vendor at Kadamkuan, said the lockdown impacted movement of trucks. “Due to the disruption in movement of trucks and other vehicles, we were not getting sufficient vegetables, including potato and onion. However, things have improved now,” he said. Bihar Truck Owners’ Association president Bhanu Shekhar Prasad said the truckers have got some relief following lockdown relaxations and supply of essential commodities has finally eased. Shopkeepers said panic buying has finally slowed down in the city. “The situation had gone out of control for some days as people were buying foodgrain and spices as if the world was going to end,” said Pintu Das, owner of a wholesale shop on Gola Road. He added stocks of most products had vanished due to panic buying. “Milk powder, sattu, pulses and some other products had gone out of stock for some days, forcing us to increase their prices. Now that panic buying has stopped, we are selling the products at normal prices,” he said. Several residents, on the other hand, have started adapting to the modern way of buying grocery and other items. “Even though online grocery services take a week to deliver products, they ensure hygiene and safety,” said Smita Verma, a resident of Kankarbagh. Digha Danapur Canal road resident Sanjay Kumar, who bought mutton from a vendor selling it on cart in his colony, said he never thought buying non-vegetarian food would be so easy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prices-of-essential-items-stabilise-as-supply-eases/articleshow/75359825.cms||Archi Rani
April 25, 2020||Patna||171 Thai nationals evacuated from Gaya||GAYA: Kolkata-based Thai consulate general on Friday thanked the Government of India for facilitating safe evacuation of its nationals from Bodh Gaya. Earlier in the day, a group of 171 Thai nationals flew back to their native land on a special flight of the Thai Air Smile Airways. Before being allowed to board, the Thai nationals, mostly Buddhist pilgrims, were subjected to medical examination. “As none of them showed any symptoms for Covid-19, they were not required to undergo Covid test,” said a senior official of the health department. The Thai nationals were stranded in Bodh Gaya and Kushinagar (UP). Those stranded in Kushinagar were granted special permission for a road journey from Kushinagar to Bodh Gaya. As per the contents of the letter of thanks issued by the Thai consulate general, the second and last batch of Thai nationals will be evacuated on Saturday and the Thai Smile Airways would be operating a special flight to take them back. The letter further said that besides the ministries of external affairs and civil aviation, special gratitude was also due to the district magistrates of Gaya and Kushinagar and officials of the Gaya International Airport for providing logistical support including medical assistance and police protection to facilitate repatriation of Thai nationals. According to Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar, “All the 171 passengers scheduled to fly back to Thailand reported in time at the airport and extended full cooperation in maintenance of social distancing and hygiene. A couple of days back, 24 Burmese nationals missed a similar evacuation flight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/171-thai-nationals-evacuated/articleshow/75361156.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 25, 2020||Patna||Lockdown hits milk producers in Bihar||PATNA: Milk producers are among the worst hit in the nationwide lockdown as their clients like confectioneries, sweetshops and tea stalls are shut to contain Covid-19 pandemic. Ravindra Prasad Singh (55) of Rautania under Marwan block in Muzaffarpur district produces more than 300kg/litre of milk per day at his dairy. Singh said even the Muzaffarpur dairy firm refused to buy his milk saying it already had surplus supply. “I have to distribute the milk among the villagers for free,” he said. Ranjan Kumar (40), who owns a milk processing unit at Muzaffarpur, said the procurement of milk has reduced from 25,000 to 8000 litres per day during the lockdown. “There is no buyer in the market as people remain indoors,” he said. Gupteshwar Mishra (60) of Samastipur district said it is a double whammy for milk producers. “We are facing shortage of fodder for the cattle and there are hardly any takers of milk even at reduced prices, leading to acute financial constraints,” Mishra said. If a khatal owner of Vaishali is to be believed, many centres have stopped milk procurement from farmers not enrolled with them. “Most of the time they ask to visit the collection centre next day. On being pestered, they procure milk from unregistered farmers three days in a week,” said a milk producer of Raghopur diara, requesting anonymity. Bihar State Milk Cooperative Federation Limited (Comfed) authorities said milk procurement at all the eight cooperative samitis across the state has increased from an average 11 lakh kg/litre per day to 15.92 lakh kg/litre per day since the lockdown was invoked from March 25. They attributed the reason for rise in milk procurement to disappearance of private players in the field. “Those who earlier supplied milk to some private processing units have also started contributing to the state cooperative samitis. The excess milk procured at these centres is being used in manufacturing dry milk powder and pouches,” said Comfed managing director Rajiv Verma. He admitted that the sale of milk and milk products has reduced by 25-30% post lockdown. Around 12.5 lakh families of milk producers (read farmers) were linked to the cooperatives samitis. “As large quantity of milk is now being used for manufacturing dry milk powder and pouches, our working capital of around Rs150 crore has been blocked,” he added. The Comfed officials are apprehensive of more trouble in the days to come if the lockdown continued for long. Minister reviews situation: State agriculture minister Prem Kumar, who is holding additional charge of animal husbandry and fisheries department, reviewed the situation in the state milk cooperative samitis with the senior officers of the department and functionaries of milk producers’ union on Friday. When contacted, Prem said, “We are trying to help Comfed by providing financial aide through the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC). We have sought Rs234 crore loan from NCDC for Comfed to deal with the unprecedented situation. In addition, the state government has decided to provide Rs26.34 crore as loan to Comfed for cattle feed. Several other measures have also been taken to streamline the sale of milk and milk products.” To help the farmers, around 1300 automatic machines are being installed at milk procurement centres. The minister said procurement of milk has increased from 21 lakh litres per day to around 24 lakh litres during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-hits-milk-producers-in-bihar/articleshow/75359970.cms||Ramashankar
April 25, 2020||Patna||Sale of textbooks begins at Patna schools||PATNA: A number of city schools began selling textbooks on Friday following a directive issued by Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi in this regard on Thursday. The DM had pointed out that only one parent would be allowed to buy books from the sale counters. “People will carry the original identity cards of their kids along with their own IDs. Besides, only one person will be allowed on a two-wheeler and two on a four-wheeler,” he had said. St Michael’s High School (primary section), which began the sale of books on Friday, notified parents about the DM’s directive and asked them to follow all necessary norms. “Since we are concerned about everyone’s safety, we have made the use of masks mandatory and allotted time slots for different classes,” headmistress Vishakha Sinha told this newspaper. Not more than 15 parents were allowed to enter Bishop Scott High School simultaneously for buying books on Friday. Its director Shailesh Kumar said, “Books will be sold between 9am and 6pm from Saturday. We want to finish the procedure as soon as possible.” Litera Valley School has granted permission to vendors to sell study materials from Saturday. Principal Sharat Kumar said, “There are different slots for different classes and parents, who come after the designated timings, will not be permitted to buy books.” Meanwhile, students are looking forward to buying and using new books. St Michael’s (primary section) student Samiksha Mishra said, “Although everything is available on the internet, it is easier and more convenient to study a topic from a book.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sale-of-textbooks-begins-at-schools/articleshow/75360029.cms||Archi Rani
April 25, 2020||Patna||Privileged to serve people: Delivery boy||PATNA: Amid the fear of contracting Covid-19, delivery boy Kanhaiya Mishra finds himself privileged to serve people by delivering essential commodities. Mishra, who works with a private firm, delivers grocery items, fruits and vegetables to more than 30 families in a day. “It’s quite risky as delivery boys are vulnerable to contracting the virus. However, people in the city need our services. If we stop working, people will start going out, thereby ruining the concept of lockdown,” he said. Mishra added he was also present at a recent meeting held by district magistrate Kumar Ravi. “Just like doctors and police personnel, the services rendered by delivery boys in these challenging times are also important. Our job is not as big as them, but delivering food items to people amid lockdown is also an important work,” he said. Since the firm Mishra is working with has been facing shortage of manpower, he works for additional hours to avoid delays in delivery of products. Mishra, who provides services in areas like Boring Road, Kadamkuan and Chhajjubagh, reaches the office as early as 5am. “All safety measures have been put in place at the place. The delivery boys are screened and sanitised at the entrance of the store. We change gloves after every delivery,” he said. In a bid to avoid infecting his family members, Mishra, a resident of Anisabad, keeps himself away from them. “I bath outside the house and avoid coming close to my family members after reaching home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/privileged-to-serve-people-delivery-boy/articleshow/75360120.cms||Archi Rani
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Teachers upset with guardians’ scrutiny||KOLKATA: School teachers in the city who have been taking with online have suddenly found that the number of students has trebled. While the kids’ faces on the screen are welcome, there are two pairs of eyes with every student, scrutinizing every activity. Parents, also at home due to the lockdown, have been supervising their wards’ online classes. The takeaway from classes stretch to parents’ chat groups where criticism of teachers are rife. Not all teachers are affected by this, but some have flagged the issue with principals. Teachers are now being counselled to ignore the jibes. Technical glitches, like getting ‘muted’ in the middle of a lesson, is common, especially because it will still take a while for teachers to get used to the new format. However,some parents are also sitting off-camera and prodding their kids to ask questions when not necessary and some are asking the teacher to go slow so that his or her child can finish writing. Parents are even trying to advise teachers on the content and are suggesting alternatives. Feedback from teachers to principals have repeatedly pointed out these problems. “On one hand, they are facing the challenge of a new medium and on the other, they are worried about remote assessment by parents. There is no need for so much supervision at all,” said John Bagul, principal of South City International School. Making fun of a teacher’s diction on parents’ chat groups have become common and sometimes it gets back to the teacher. “If a maths or a physics teacher’s diction has a regional slant, should it matter? It is not a literature class,” said Souvik Jati, academic co-ordinator of Heritage School. The school has been advising parents to limit their conversations on chat platforms to academics. Some teachers have complained that fathers could be seen on screen wearing nothing but shorts. In such cases, they have been cautioned by the schools. Sometimes, a child has been allowed to play while a parent took notes. Schools are now bringing in stringent virtual attendance and camera presence rules. Newtown School principal Shatabdi Bhattacharya said, “We have brought in online class etiquette and told these helicopter parents that supervision is not necessary beyond Class V,” she said. Principal of La Martiniere for Boys John Rafi said, “The teachers are providing yeoman service and parents should appreciate that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teachers-upset-with-guardians-scrutiny/articleshow/75362440.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||Shettar greenlights construction work in Dharwad district||Dharwad: The lockdown norms being eased from Friday, Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar said that permission would be granted for construction, albeit outside the purview of Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) and the containment areas across the district. Shettar confirmed to TOI on Friday that industries in the rural areas could recommence operations. “Construction of new roads, and repair of old ones will also start. We have also lifted restrictions on the functioning of stone-crushing units. However, all of this is contingent on the management ensuring social distancing between employees, and maintaining the highest standards of hygiene,” the minister said. Shettar said that, while both the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the public works department could start off where they had left, the officials concerned would have to obtain prior approval by submitting details of ongoing projects online. “The authorities can ferry labourers from the other districts as long as arrangements have been made for their shelter, food and primary healthcare. They will have to be accommodated at temporary shelter homes. Police have been asked not to obstruct transport of construction material,” he added. Pointing out that Dimhans, SDM Medical College Hospital, KIMS and Railway Hospital in Dharwad were already conducting tests to check for Covid-19, Shettar added, “This is in addition to two facilities in Belagavi and Gadag districts. With more institutions now equipped to conduct tests, the process will be completed much faster.” Procurement of cotton The minister said that procurement of cotton, the suspension of which has affected scores of farmers across Dharwad, would recommence shortly. “According to the guidelines laid down by the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), we will first procure the crop from farmers in the district. We need to ensure that the farmers are alerted to this development so they can benefit from the initiative,” Shettar added. He appealed to Muslims not to assemble to offer congregational prayers in the month of Ramzan, which starts from Saturday. “Provisions must be made to ensure sale of dry and fresh fruits in localities where the population of Muslims is high thereby preventing the need for them to step out to purchase these products,” said Shettar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shettar-greenlights-construction-work-in-dharwad-district/articleshow/75358979.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 25, 2020||Business||Cos see cash as king, cut capex plans||Reeba Zachariah & Namrata Singh | TNN Mumbai: Bogged down by the coronavirus-related lockdowns, India Inc has decided to adopt a strategy of financial prudence for the new fiscal year. As costs remain constant while incomes decline, companies across sectors are revisiting their capital expenditure (capex) programmes. ‘Cash is king’ is the new mantra corporates are strictly abiding by, as they delay heavy investment plans, revise their sales budgets and bring their cost plans to a new realistic Covid-19 normal. JSW Energy director (finance) Jyoti Kumar Agarwal said the company is revisiting all its plans, operational as well as strategic, in light of the pandemic. “Much like non-essential travel, we have decided to put off any non-essential, discretionary expenditure for the moment. We are also redrawing our strategic road map in the near term while keeping a nimble approach given the rapidly evolving circumstances. While we do have sufficient liquidity to last through a prolonged dislocation, we would nevertheless prefer to conserve as much capital as possible given the unprecedented nature of the situation.” Some industries, like cement, move in tandem with the GDP growth numbers. “We expect this quarter of fiscal 2021 to be a damper for the industry and hope to see strong signs of revival in the third quarter,” said Birla Corporation COO Sandip Ghose. Normalcy could return only in the fourth quarter. “Costs that are postponable, will be postponed. When we are not selling anything, we don’t need to spend on on-ground marketing activities,” said Ghose. Power and transportation form high costs for the cement industry, while labour runs in single digit rates. “If plants are not run at optimal capacity, production costs will go up. With the market not able to pay higher prices for the cement bags, players, which operate on thin margins, will be in a bind,” said Ghose. TCS, which saw a dip in its fourth quarter profit of fiscal 2020, sees margin contraction in the short term. It is looking at costs across the board, which includes slashing travel expenses and suspending salary increments. Rajesh Gopinathan, CEO of India’s largest IT services player TCS, expects the peak impact of the virus outbreak to reflect in the current quarter’s earnings and sees TCS’s financial performance returning to normalcy in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. The FMCG sector too has been impacted by the Covid-induced lockdown. Godrej Consumer Products MD & CEO Vivek Gambhir said, “Ensuring sufficient liquidity and a strong cash position is an important priority. Major capital expenditure decisions will get deferred by companies till there is more clarity in the evolving environment. Maintenance and capital expenditure for incremental capacity expansion and lines for new products launches will continue.” Although food is an essential commodity and there’s increased demand, factories are functional only partially as there are constraints on raw material, packaging and labour. Mother’s Recipe-Desai Foods executive director Sanjana Desai said, “We would need to revise our sales budgets and purchase forecasts for at least the next few months, as we expect the global recession to hit hard.” But largest biscuit-maker Parle Products plans to stick to its capacity addition plans this year. Executive director Arup Chauhan said, “We are currently in excess of 75% of our production levels with 50% worker strength. Production is ramping up every day. Stocks in the pipeline are moving really fast now and we believe, given that nutrition is going to be key for consumer health, we will increase our capacities by 20% this year.” Costs that companies will target could include fresh hiring, rentals, training & development budgets and salaries. Valuations in M&As (mergers & acquisition) may also decline. Executive Access India MD Ronesh Puri said, “Hiring will take a back seat and that will hit our industry. Some companies are struggling to pay salaries, and some are even thinking of vacating large rental places and shifting to smaller ones to save on costs. Salaries are either being staggered, or cut, or employees furloughed.” Chauhan of Parle Products, however, said, “Even if working capital is impacted, we are not cutting salaries or jobs. On the contrary, we are motivating our workers and employees and assuring them of benefits as well.” The impact on M&A activity would be mixed. Singhi Advisors MD Mahesh Singhi said, “Most companies will start re-assessing their business portfolios and de-leverage their balance sheets by selling off assets generating returns below certain threshold level. The increase in availability of assets will enable well-capitalised buyers to cherry pick these and structure transactions with staggered payouts and, in turn, lower risk-adjusted valuations.” Lower valuations will be expected by most strategic buyers since their own valuations would have dropped in the falling markets and risk perceptions would have changed. “We can expect increased PE-backed M&A transactions for companies building up capacities through acquisitions to meet increased traction and areas where global de-risking will be required where China has a monopolistic position,” said Singhi. According to Gambhir, this will be a good opportunity to scout opportunistically for M&A. “Companies that have strong balance sheets could find interesting companies to consolidate their presence in existing categories or enter new categories. Some of the smaller players could find the terrain more challenging over the next few quarters and may look to sell,” said Gambhir. Enhanced M&A activities will be seen in growth sectors like speciality chemicals, electronic manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, healthcare services and medical consumables. “We may also see need-based/compulsive deals in beaten down sectors like auto components, commodity packaging and metal processing. However, finding a buyer in such situations will be equally difficult,” said Singhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-see-cash-as-king-cut-capex-plans/articleshow/75362591.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 25, 2020||Chennai||4-day full closure in city from Sunday, to also cover grocers||Chennai: As Covid-19 positive cases in the state continue to rise, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced a total lockdown in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai corporations from Sunday 6am to 9pm on Wednesday. The restriction will also cover city suburbs such as Tambaram, Pallavaram, Pammal and St Thomas Mount Panchayat Union and several other areas falling under Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. In Salem and Tirupur corporation limits, the lockdown will be in force from Sunday 6am to Tuesday 9pm. Barring a few essential services, all others, including grocery stores, will remain shut. In a statement, the chief minister said though the virus has been brought under control in rural areas, the chances of it spreading in urban areas is quite high. “We consulted public health experts, and they said the virus could be brought under control only if the lockdown is further intensified in urban areas,” the CM said, explaining the reason for the decision. The CM announced the decision after a high-level meeting with chief secretary K Shanmugam, DGP J K Tripathy, Chennai police commissioner A K Viswanathan, and senior bureaucrats on Friday. According to sources, the officials told the CM that there was free movement of people and vehicles on roads due to relaxation of curbs, and virus transmission will be difficult to control in Chennai unless stricter measures are in place. “The CM said one option is to impose total lockdown till May 3, but he later restricted it to a few days,” a source said. Chief secretary K Shanmugam said the government had chosen the corporations based on their population density, and number of cases reported. “We want to break the transmission cycle. Stricter lockdown will mean more effective restriction in containment zones and outside. By restricting movement, physical contact of people can be minimized,” Shanmugam said. He ruled out inclusion of more local bodies in the lockdown for now. Asked about the possibility of these stricter measures being extended, Shanmugam said, “If the numbers continue to rise, tighter lockdown may continue.” The state was still in stage II of Covid-19 transmission (local transmission) and had not progressed to stage III (community transmission), he said. “Community spread is uncontrollable, something like what we are seeing in Maharashtra. Most of the cases reported in Tamil Nadu were in containment areas. Majority of the cases reported in Chennai today were from containment zones,” he said. At least 72 new cases were recorded in TN on Friday, including 52 in Chennai. According to an order issued by the chief secretary, the existing restriction in all other areas will continue to remain the same. During this total lockdown period, restrictions in containment zones will be further intensified. Disinfectants will be sprayed twice a day. Movement of people will be restricted completely. Severe action will be initiated against those violating the lockdown and their vehicles will be seized. According to Chengalpet collectorate, Tambaram, Pallavaram, Pammal, Anakaputhur, Sembakkam municipalities, Peerkankaranai, Perungalathur, Chitlapakkam, Thiruneermalai and Madambakkam town panchayats, and 15 village panchayats of St Thomas Mount Panchayat Union, and Kanathur Rettikuppam and Muttukadu village panchayats in Tiruporur panchayat union will be under total lockdown as in Chennai. Similarly, Mangadu and Kunrathur town panchayats and 18 villages panchayats of Kunrathur panchayat union in Kancheepuram district will also be under curbs. In Tiruvallur, Avadi, Poonamallee, Minjur and Ponneri municipalities, Naravarikuppam, Thirumazhisai and Tirunindravur town panchayats, and 13 village panchayats of Villivakkam panchayat union, seven village panchayats of Puzhal panchayat union, 28 village panchayats of Poonamallee panchayat union, and nine village panchayats of Cholavaram panchayat union, and nine village panchayats of Minjur panchayat union will under total lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/4-day-full-closure-in-city-from-sunday-to-also-cover-grocers/articleshow/75363236.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 25, 2020||Business||With 6 debt funds shut, AMFI rushes in for damage control||MUMBAI: A day after Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund said it was winding down six of its debt funds with nearly Rs 25,900 crore in total assets under management, fund industry leaders found themselves busy assuaging frayed nerves of investors, distributors and other stakeholders. In a hurriedly called conference call, top officials of industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) said that the Franklin Templeton incident was an isolated one and there was ample liquidity in the system, which will prevent any repetition of it. Pointing out that the assets of these six schemes constitute less than 1.4% of the total funds managed by Indian fund houses, an AMFI release said “income-oriented debt schemes of most mutual funds have superior credit quality and continue to remain fairly liquid even in these challenging times”. It also pointed out that fund houses were not borrowing large amounts from banks to meet their redemption needs. Although Sebi regulations allowed funds to borrow up to 20% of their assets to meet redemptions and dividend payouts, only four of the 42 fund houses had borrowings aggregating Rs 4,428 crore. Read AlsoFranklin Templeton to shut 6 debt funds in a 1st for mutual fundsFranklin Templeton Mutual Fund, one of the top fund houses in India, has decided to close down six of its debt funds, which currently manage nearly Rs 25,900 crore in all. The move is due to liquidity troubles in the bond market triggered by Covid-related issues. This is the first time such anAccording to AMFI chairman Nilesh Shah, there is nearly Rs 7 lakh crore worth of liquidity in the banking system. The central bank is conducting its targeted long-term repo operations (TLTROs) to provide funds to entities in need and the central bank is likely to keep the bond market liquid in the current challenging times. “The fund industry continues to remain robust, like in 2008 sub-prime crisis or 2013 taper tantrum crisis,” Shah said. During the day, brokers’ body Association of National Exchanges of Members of India (ANMI) approached the finance ministry and markets regulator Sebi to step in to restore confidence of fund investors. It also requested the government to start an investigation by an expert committee to look into the circumstances that led the fund house to take this drastic step. “ANMI believes that this is of paramount importance as the confidence of investors in debt mutual funds is at risk,” a letter from ANMI said and added that an isolated event should not dent the confidence in a Rs 24-lakh-crore industry. The overnight developments in the fund industry also impacted confidence of investors on Dalal Street on Friday with the sensex, after volatile trades, closing 536 points lower at 31,327 as banking & financial and IT stocks led the laggards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/with-6-debt-funds-shut-amfi-rushes-in-for-damage-control/articleshow/75362815.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, Gujarat high court notice through WhatsApp||AHMEDABAD: In a first, the Gujarat high court has permitted a litigant to serve notice on another party through WhatsApp, because serving hard copy of the notice might be difficult during the lockdown. Because of the lockdown in place to check the spread of Covid-19, the HC has for the first time started e-filing of petitions and affidavits. It has been hearing cases through video conferencing and even accepted virtual production of corpus in habeas corpus cases. The instant case involves a labour contractor, Jaysukh Bavarava from Morbi, who is facing rape charges levelled against him earlier this year by a labourer working on contract at a ceramic unit. Since the complainant belongs to SC/ST community, Bavarava has also been slapped with charges under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Moreover, Bavarava and a friend of his were also booked under the Information Technology Act for making viral objectionable photographs of the rape survivor. Denial of bail by a lower court brought Bavarava to the HC. When the bail plea came up for hearing before Justice A Y Kogje, he admitted the case on Thursday and ordered issuance of notice. The court permitted the applicant to service the notice to the rape survivor through WhatsApp when the latter said that he has got her mobile number and his advocate requested for this mode of service citing the extraordinary situation due to the nationwide lockdown. Applicant’s advocate Ashish Dagli said, “In a criminal matter, where the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act is invoked, the law provides for serving a notice to the complaint before deciding the bail application. The mode of service of the notice is usually through police. But because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it will be difficult to get physical copy to the police and forward it. Therefore, such order has been passed for the first time to find a way to serve the notice so that the provisions of the law are complied with.” The HC, however, has permitted Bavarava’s lawyer to send the HC notice to the complainant’s mobile number though either WhatsApp or other message service, but for this he will have to obtain her consent first. Further hearing is now on May 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-permits-serving-of-notice-through-whatsapp/articleshow/75361987.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||Now, Gujarat high court notice through WhatsApp||AHMEDABAD: In a first, the Gujarat high court has permitted a litigant to serve notice on another party through WhatsApp, because serving hard copy of the notice might be difficult during the lockdown. Because of the lockdown in place to check the spread of Covid-19, the HC has for the first time started e-filing of petitions and affidavits. It has been hearing cases through video conferencing and even accepted virtual production of corpus in habeas corpus cases. The instant case involves a labour contractor, Jaysukh Bavarava from Morbi, who is facing rape charges levelled against him earlier this year by a labourer working on contract at a ceramic unit. Since the complainant belongs to SC/ST community, Bavarava has also been slapped with charges under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Moreover, Bavarava and a friend of his were also booked under the Information Technology Act for making viral objectionable photographs of the rape survivor. Denial of bail by a lower court brought Bavarava to the HC. When the bail plea came up for hearing before Justice A Y Kogje, he admitted the case on Thursday and ordered issuance of notice. The court permitted the applicant to service the notice to the rape survivor through WhatsApp when the latter said that he has got her mobile number and his advocate requested for this mode of service citing the extraordinary situation due to the nationwide lockdown. Applicant’s advocate Ashish Dagli said, “In a criminal matter, where the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act is invoked, the law provides for serving a notice to the complaint before deciding the bail application. The mode of service of the notice is usually through police. But because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it will be difficult to get physical copy to the police and forward it. Therefore, such order has been passed for the first time to find a way to serve the notice so that the provisions of the law are complied with.” The HC, however, has permitted Bavarava’s lawyer to send the HC notice to the complainant’s mobile number though either WhatsApp or other message service, but for this he will have to obtain her consent first. Further hearing is now on May 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hc-permits-serving-of-notice-through-whatsapp/articleshow/75371197.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coronavirus, confusion over exams making students anxious||AHMEDABAD: Lack of clarity about competitive exams due to coronavirus pandemic has left the students preparing for JEE and NEET anxious and confused. They are studying for hours, attending classes online, doing their revision, but motivation is going down with each passing day. Besides the extension of the lockdown period and some media reports suggesting further extension are also creating fear of wasting an academic year. Sharonya Jain, a class XII student preparing for JEE, said, “Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the momentum required for the studies. The online classes are covering the curriculum, but the opportunity to interact with teachers/faculties is amiss. Besides, corona spread is having its own effect on our psyche.” Adds Nupur Vasinav, a NEET aspirant, “The one-to-one interaction in the classroom environment provides an opportunity of solving the doubts at that moment itself. The queries of other students also enrich the discussion. I pray the exam date is announced soon.” Dheeraj Parikh, a JEE aspirant said, “It is a boon for me as now I have all the time in the world for focused study. The only thing I miss is group studies with friends because that brings a lot of clarity and shows how deep I have understood the concept.” While Anish Dhawad, another class XII student said, “WhatsApp has emerged as a major saviour. I note down all doubts and share it with educators for a solution.” Harshit Kumar, an aspirant, adds, “During the first lockdown period there was a lot of confusion and discomfort when it came to online learning. But, now things have settled down and classes go smoothly. Both students and teachers have adapted this kind of learning.” While Tushar Parikh, vice-president of a reputed coaching institute feels that children's momentum is registering a dip due to lack of clarity in terms of date. He said, "This lockdown is best for those who were not prepared. They have time in hand to improve. We have uploaded paper material and worksheets for the benefit of children.” Murlidhar Rathod, associated with a leading coaching institute, said, “We are taking lectures for three hours in the morning and evening sessions are for clearing the doubts. Children are now comfortable with the new format of education.” Sanjay Singh, in-charge of a coaching institute, said, “With parents at home, the pressure is on students to study, but only time will tell how much they benefit from this extended time period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-confusion-over-exams-making-students-anxious/articleshow/75362124.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jail starts ‘e-meetings’ for prisoners, relatives||AHMEDABAD: While in-person meetings between prisoners and their relatives no longer allowed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Ahmedabad Central Jail has started ‘e-meetings’ for its inmates. The prisoner’s relatives have to download an app and get their numbers registered with the jail authorities. The authorities then give them a time and the prisoner is called to the specially-made chamber and is connected to the relatives on video call through a laptop. DSP D V Rana of Ahmedabad Central Prison said people wanting to meet inmates thus don’t have to come to the jail. “The decision to start e-meetings was taken because talking to relatives or friends makes the prisoner feels good and psychologically relieved,” said Rana. Jail officials said that while Covid-19 is wreaking havoc, relatives of prisoners are also worried. So far about 500 prisoners have communicated with their relatives using this platform,” added a jail official. Rana said 45 to 50 prisoners use the platform every day and requests are pouring in. “E-meetings are held from 8am to noon and from 3pm to 6pm. The conversation is surveilled by us,” added Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jail-starts-e-meetings-for-prisoners-relatives/articleshow/75362062.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: New guidelines for patients with SARI||VIJAYAWADA: The health department laid down a standard operating procedure (SOP) to deal with patients suffering from severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) on Friday. The decision was taken in consideration of the hypothesis that patients with SARI symptoms could have contracted coronavirus. As per the SOP, all SARI cases in Covid, non-Covid and other private hospitals need to be isolated first. Various radiographic, serologic and other tests such as random blood sugar, electrocardiogram, chest X-ray, complete blood count, serum creatinine will be carried out on patients upon admission. Truenat/CB-NAAT tests should also be conducted on them. If a patient approaches a Covid hospital and tests positive, it will be confirmed further through RT-PCR test. If the patient tests negative, they will be shifted to a non-Covid hospital. For patients who approach a non-Covid hospital, if the patient tests positive in both Truenat and RT-PCR tests, the patient will first be stabilised and then shifted to a nearby state or district Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-guidelines-for-patients-with-sari/articleshow/75360907.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Varanasi||7 new Covid-19 +ve cases found, Marahuli 7th hotspot||Varanasi: Seven new Covid-19 positive cases were confirmed in Varanasi on Friday. Six of them are from hotspot area of Madanpura, who had offered namaj in a mosque with a Tablighi Jamaat attendee also diagnosed as infected in first week of April and one positive case was detected in Marhauli area. With the detection of seven new cases in the district, the number of hotspots has now increased to seven. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Varanasi has reached to 26. Of these 17 are in hospital, eight had been discharged after getting cured while one died on April 3. After receiving reports from BHU laboratory on Friday, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed, “Seven persons including six from hotspot area of Madanpura and one person from Marhauli locality have been tested Covid-19 positive.” Six new patients from Madanpur were in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat attendee, who was initially tested as infected and cured after being treated at DDU district hospital’s isolation ward, said the DM adding, while tracing the people who had come in contact with the Jamaat attendees in Madanpura it was found that 41 persons had offered namaj with the Jamaat attendee in a mosque. The samples of all such persons had been collected three days ago and were sent for laboratory test, he said adding that on the arrival of their reports six of them were confirmed as infected. Madanpura hotspot had already seven positive cases and following Friday’s development the total number of cases in the locality has reached to 13. The number of infected Jamaat attendees and people confirmed coronavirus positive after coming in their contact has reached to 17. A 29-year-old medicine trader of Marhauli area, who had reached district hospital on April 20 for test after suffering from cold and cough, was also tested as positive, said DM mentioning that his travel and contact histories are being traced to know the cause of his infection. Process to test other members of his family and persons who had come in his contact was started immediately after the arrival of his report. Besides, other precautionary measures were also started in the Marhauli area by sealing it and declaring it as the seventh hotspot of the district. Earlier, the district had six hotspots including Madanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta, Nakkhighat, Gangapur and Pitarkunda. In view of the rising Covid-19 positive cases, especially among Tablighi Jamaat attendees and persons coming in their contact, the district administration has kept 29 Jamaat participants, who were detected in the district after March 28, under close vigil. Initially, only two had been found Covid-19 positive while three, who were initially tested negative, also tested positive later, said DM. Despite getting cured, two Jamaat attendees have been still kept in the isolation ward of the DDU district hospital, where three others are also undertreatment. Other 24 Jamaat attendees are also being kept under close vigil at the Shivpur quarantine home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/7-new-covid-19-ve-cases-found-marahuli-7th-hotspot/articleshow/75360921.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt rolls back 4% hike in DA for almost 3L employees||Dehradun: Following the footsteps of the Union government, the Uttarakhand government on Friday rolled back the 4% increase in Dearness Allowance (DA) for its employees. Consequently, the state government will not be paying the additional installment of DA payable to employees and dearness relief to pensioners from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. State finance secretary Amit Negi told TOI that the government has taken the decision in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic which is crippling the state’s financial resources, adding that the rollack will help save the state over Rs 700 crore. He added that “ever since the lockdown came into effect in March, the state government has suffered a loss of over Rs 11,000 crore both in the form of tax and non-tax revenue earnings.” According to state government records, there are over 1.6 lakh permanent and over 1.25 lakh retired employees who were supposed to be given DA at 21% with effect from January 2020, up from 17% earlier. Meanwhile, president of secretariat employees’ union Deepak Joshi said that the state government should not have cut DA of personnel of the police and health department who are on the frontline in the fight against Covid-19. “Deducting the DA of policemen and health workers who are frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19 is an extremely unfortunate move," said Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-rolls-back-4-hike-in-da-for-almost-3l-employees/articleshow/75360899.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||Hotelier gives free stay to SMC health staff||Surat: After hearing about harassment faced by the front-line health staff of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) when coming to Surat from their native in Navsari, a hotelier has came forward to provide them with free accommodation so that they can stay in the city and work efficiently.Sanat Relia, vice-president of Surat Hotels and Restaurant Association (SHARA), who owns two hotels—Vetro Inn and Bellevue-- near the Surat railway station, has offered his hotels for 50 health staff including nurses and lab-technicians travelling from Navsari to Surat on daily basis.Talking with TOI, Relia said, “In these trying times, the health staff is fighting against all odds and reporting to duty from faraway places. Still, they are facing harassment at the check points where they are told to stay at home or else they could possibly bring corona in their region.”“This is really disheartening. I have decided to provide free accommodation to such people. Not they can stay in the city and put their 100% in saving lives,” he added.Relia was contacted by a senior SMC officer for helping the outstation staff.Relia has about 150 rooms, his both hotels combined. “Since the kitchen is shut, we are only providing free accommodation to the healthcare staff,” the hotelier said.Parimal Naik, a lab-technician at SMC’s SMIMER hospital, who is from Khakhwada village in Navsari, said, “There is a sense of fear among the people in our village who think that we are working in the red zone of Surat and could get infected.”Naik added, “Since there was no option, I was forced commute between Navsari and Surat every day. But now with the accommodation at the hotel, which is also close to the hospital, I can concentrate on my work.”A nurse employed with the SMIMER hospital, who is staying at one of Relia’s hotels said on condition of anonymity, “Coming from Navsari to Surat was like a challenge every day. I was worried about my family and wanted to keep distance from them. This accommodation (at the hotel) is a big relief. I am staying here since last two days and keep in touch with my family over phone.”Assistant municipal commissioner, Kamlesh Naik said, “There are very few people like Relia who have come forward to help the healthcare staff with accommodation. We are taking care of the food and other facilities of the employees staying at the hotel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hotelier-gives-free-stay-to-smc-health-staff/articleshow/75360914.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Infighting claims elephant’s life||Udhagamandalam: A female elephant was found dead in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris on Thursday. Forest department field staff had found the carcass near Jalliyarai stream in the Segur range of forests during regular patrol. Local veterinarians conducted postmortem on Friday. The animal was 15 years old and was killed following a fight with a male elephant, said Srikanth, deputy director of MTR buffer zone. “Postmortem report revealed that the elephant had suffered severe congestions and internal head injuries, and injuries on front shoulder and legs. The report also suggested that it was in heat and the fight with the male elephant followed a mating attempt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infighting-claims-elephants-life/articleshow/75363261.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Entally belt turns concern zone||KOLKATA: The Sealdah station-Park Circus belt, with its narrow alleys, congested neighbourhoods and slums, has emerged as a major cause for concern for both civic officials and cops trying to contain the spread of Covid-19 and prevent community transmission. With NRS and CNMCH at either end and Bibibagan and Motijheel slums in between, the area has reported five Covid cases and many more are on the list of suspects. However, Beniapukur remains a black hole, with neither civic officials nor police willing to divulge any figures from the area. Entally in central Kolkata has emerged as a potential concern area for both KMC and the Kolkata Police. The area already had five confirmed Covid cases till Friday morning, two of them fresh ones, and a few suspects. “If we can stop its spread in these high-density spots, half the battle will be won,” an officer told TOI. The administration has now turned its focus on the two slums at Motijheel and Bibibagan. The affected area and concern zones have been cut off from the main roads and all policemen and KMC workers there have been assigned specific duties. Three markets, including Chhatubabu Bazar and Syed Ahmed Road market, have been shifted to nearby playgrounds to maintain social distancing and there is a proposal to allow Entally market to open on alternate days, a civic official explained. When the markets shut around noon, a joint team from KMC and KP conducts a disinfection drive. However, cops said enforcing social distancing was a major challenge in pockets. “We regularly distribute ration and medicine in the slums to stop crowding at shops. A campaign has also been launched to keep kids engaged with indoor games. But we are still finding it difficult to reign in errant bikers,” said an officer. Additionally, an SOP has been designed by cops and KMC, in consultation with the health department to deal with panic calls. “When we receive a panic call now, we inform Swasthya Bhawan and Lalbazar. A KMC ambulance then transfers the Covid suspect to a hospital,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/entally-belt-turns-concern-zone/articleshow/75362320.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Quarantine rake arrives at Nashik Road station||Nashik: A special Covid-19 train with 21 coaches for quarantine purposes have arrived at Nashik Road railway station on Wednesday in view of the Covid-19 pandemic spread. The coaches have been specially designed for isolation purposes and stationed at platform number 4, said Central Railway sources from the Bhusawal division. The coaches have been converted into quarantine facility with a coach supporting 13 beds and the entire rake supporting 273 beds in total. Apart from that, there are nursing cabins, toilets, and bathroom facilities in each of the coaches. The officials said that the rakes were being moved across all the major railways' stations in the central railways' jurisdiction for any timely requirement of the facilities. “There is no specific demand as such, but the railways have prepared such rakes and dispatching them at the various locations so that they can be made available at the short notice wherever required. Across the country the rakes are being sent to the divisional (revenue) headquarters and even the division (railway) headquarters from where they can be diverted, called, sent to the locations required easily,” the officer said on the condition of anonymity. The coaches have facilities to run electrical (medical) equipment if and when required and hence will be a good support to the health department in tackling the challenge was thrown by Covid-19. The platform number 4 at Nashik Road station has the water hose facility that will help the coaches to be refilled besides a vast open space outside enabling the easier movement of vehicles. The platform also has no offices which could be affected thereby hampering the railways' parcel or other regular activities that are being carried out. Thus it is conveniently placed, the sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/quarantine-rake-arrives-at-nashik-road-station/articleshow/75360939.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||R’seema reports half of all new cases, 2 deaths||Tirupati: Thirty-one of the 62 new Covid-19 cases in the state on Friday were reported from the two Rayalaseema districts of Kurnool and Anantapur. Both districts also reported two deaths. The number of Covid-19 patients in Kurnool district went up to 261 on Friday morning after 27 new cases were reported. The death toll in the district went up to eight. The district, which has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state, has treated and discharged only four patients so far. Another 249 patients are still undergoing treatment at Covid-19 hospitals in the district. Anantapur district reported four new cases, bringing up its tally to 46. After reporting one death on Friday, the death toll in the district has gone up to four. Eleven patients have been discharged so far. State finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy who reviewed the measures taken by the administration in Anantapur district on Friday, directed officials to increase the number of teams collecting samples of Covid-19 suspects in the district. Speaking to reporters after the review, the finance minister said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy was closely monitoring the Covid-19 scenario across the state. “The state government is at the disposal of the district administrations and we are continuously ensuring all the necessary medical equipment including testing kits, medical aids and other materials are procured and handed over to the district administrations to effectively contain the outbreak of the novel coronavirus,” the finance minister said “The district administration should increase tie-ups with more medical shops especially in the red zone areas and keep a tab on people suffering from other ailments. Vegetable vendors and others visiting the red zone areas should also be screened regularly for Covid-19,” Buganna said. Meanwhile, Sri Satya Sai Central Trust donated 4,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to the collector on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rseema-reports-half-of-all-new-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/75360947.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS & BJP spar over paddy procurement||Hyderabad: Ministers of TRS government, and BJP leaders locked horns over procurement of paddy and other crops. While state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar alleged the TRS was ignoring farmers’ woes, state civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar said, “Sanjay should approach the Centre as FCI, which procures paddy, is under their control”. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-spar-over-paddy-procurement/articleshow/75363295.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Every 102 minutes, a death and 14 +ve cases||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending 5pm on April 24, the city and district added 169 positive cases and 14 deaths to its tally – taking it higher at 1,821 and 83 respectively. Approximately, one death was recorded every 102 minutes (1 hour 42 minutes) while in the same time 14 cases were added in the tally. As on Friday evening, Ahmedabad accounts for 65% of Gujarat’s total positive cases and 65% of total deaths. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that the new cases have been reported from areas such as Dariapur, Isanpur, Gomtipur, Vastral, Maninagar, Rakhial, Narol, Nikol, Bapunagar, Kalupur, Khadia, Chandlodia, Ghatlodia, Vejalpur, Thaltej, Ranip and Danilimda. “The deaths of positive patients included seven each from SVP Hospital and Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. Age of the patients ranged from 17 to 90 years. The deceased included seven men and women each,” she said, adding that one more death of a 53-year-old woman was recorded in Surat. On Friday, seven patients from Anand, Surat and Dahod got discharged, taking total number of recovered patients in Gujarat to 265. Vijay Nehra, Ahmedabad municipal commissioner, had a word of caution for the citizens – the city is doubling the cases every four days. At this rate, the cases could be 50,000 by May 15 and 8 lakh by May 31. Case doubling rate (CDR) of eight days is achieved internationally by only a few countries like South Korea. If Ahmedabad achieves CDR of 10 days, there could be 25,000 cases by May 31, he said. The civic chief mentioned that there would be a spike in cases once the lockdown ends on May 3 with increase in spread. “We want to slow down the CDR till May 3. We expect 15% to 20% increase after the lockdown,” he said. He said the AMC strategy of ‘chasing the virus’ will yield good results in May. The number of fresh cases, which was 243 on April 17, fell to 151 on April 23. “Due to our proactive strategy, the number of cases per day reduced to 150-odd instead of the 500 expected. However, even a small mistake or complacency will render all our strategy useless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/every-102-minutes-a-death-and-14-ve-cases/articleshow/75362633.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Xaverians give 300 PPE kits to corona warriors of charity hospital||KOLKATA: St. Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association distributed 300 pieces of PPEs to the doctors and health support providers of a city-based private charity hospital on Friday. The principal of the college and president of the association Rev Fr. Dominic Savio, said, “We need to stand by the doctors and other frontline health service providers who are offering humanitarian service to people in the trying times. Our small effort will surely give a positive signal to the section of the society, which is trying to outcast these noble professionals.” Members of the association look forward to distributing more PPEs to the health workers in the coming days to combat Covid-19 and they have appealed for contribution to go ahead with the social service. The association members played an active role in the college’s contribution of Rs 40 lakh to chief minister’s special corona relief fund. During the lockdown, they distributed ration to 500 needy people on Good Friday and Easter. They also distributed food packets to eight villages around the rural campus of the college at Raghabpur in South 24 Parganas. The college identified 16 villages in South 24 Parganas and distributed essentials to 3,000 families. They will continue helping the hapless people till the pandemic is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/xaverians-give-300-ppe-kits-to-corona-warriors-of-charity-hosp/articleshow/75362336.cms||Dipawali Mitra
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||Jobless painter fights Covid with brush||Rajkot: Nothing can stop you if you have made up your mind to contribute your bit to the society. That he is jobless and is practically existing hand to mouth in this critical time didn’t stop roadside painter of Rajkot, Rambhai Makwana, from doing some good, his style. Unemployed for the past one month, Makwana wanted to fight corona his own way by painting city’s roads with Gujarati slogan against the virus, ‘Jivan Bachavo, Gharma Raho’ (Save life, Stay at home), with colours that were lying unused at his home.Makwana, a resident of Bhagavti para has three daughters, and has been seating near Jubli garden, one of the busiest roads of the city, for more than a decade now painting banners and boards and earning Rs 500 to 700 per day. Ever since Janta Curfew on March 22, Makwana has been unemployed. But his creative mind did not allow him to seat idle at home. Therefore, he started painting city’s roads from Friday starting his task from Greenland Chowkdi, entery point of Rajkot from Ahmedabad road, and painted all the crossroads including Pedak road, Parevdi chowk, Hospital chowk and Jubili chowk. Talking to TOI, Makwana said: “I am a daily wage earner. I stayed at home following government’s direction, but I also wanted to do something for my society. I know nothing except painting and so, I started painting the roads.”However, Makwana will soon run out of paints. “I want to paint all the roads of the city. But, I have limited paints. If I manage to get more colours, I will paint all the roads with the slogan,” said Makwana, who takes only five minutes to paint one road with the slogan. The painter is confident that he will be able to complete his task of painting the whole city in just a couple of days only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jobless-painter-fights-covid-with-brush/articleshow/75360956.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 25, 2020||Surat||We will overcome coronavirus crisis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Even as fear is being expressed that the Covid-19 outbreak in the state is spiralling out of control, chief minister Vijay Rupani issued a video statement on Friday to assure people that the state will soon overcome the crisis. Rupani said that although the need may not arise, the administration is readying 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. “Many are questioning whether we will be able to manage the crisis if it worsens further,” the CM said. “The state had created 9,500-bed capacity by March 20 itself. Today, we have about 2,500 Covid-19 patients and a capacity of 9,500 beds.” He went on to say: “In Ahmedabad alone, we have a capacity of over 5,000 beds and a Covid care centre (CCC) at Samras hostel with a capacity of 2,000 beds.” Rupani said that the state government is in the process of doubling bed capacity for Covid-19 patients even if the need does not arise. “Preparations are on to have a 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. The state government is also not facing any shortage of ventilators,” he said. The CM said that many ask why the government has allowed private hospitals to treat coronavirus patients. “We have declared that treatment of all patients in government hospitals will be totally free,” he said. “We allowed private hospitals to treat patients so that people have an option.” Commenting on the video of Ahmedabad Civil hospital which went viral on social media, the CM said that all issues faced by patients are being resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/we-will-overcome-corona-crisis-cm/articleshow/75368244.cms||Kapil Dave
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court asks government to go on with PG medical intake||CHENNAI: Two days after keeping in abeyance the publication of merit list for admission to post-graduate medical courses, the Madras high court on Friday recalled the order and permitted the authorities to proceed with the process. Justice M Sundar passed the order on Friday, after the Centre and directorate of medical education in Tamil Nadu explained to the court that all-India counselling for the courses were over and that May 4 was the deadline to complete admissions. The court also recorded the submission of the authorities that candidates have a window of eight days after publication of the merit list to approach the court with grievances. The issue pertains to a plea moved by Dr G P Arulraj, a state in-service candidate, seeking direction to the authorities to grant weightage marks to him for his service as medical officer in cadaver (brain-dead donor) maintenance unit/ liver transplant unit in admission to PG medical course 2020-2021. On April 22, the petitioner had approached court to take up his case on an urgent basis, claiming that the authorities are planning to publish the merit list on April 24 for counselling, without considering his request for incentive marks. Allowing the mention, the court had directed the authorities to consider his representation and directed them to hold on to publishing of the merit list till June 8. Aggrieved, the Union health ministry and the state authorities made an urgent mention before the court on Friday and submitted that the entire plea was argued under the premise that the all-India counselling was yet to be conducted while it was already completed online. The directorate general of health services (DGHS) has also instructed the respective states to hold counselling from April 20 till May 4. “The DGHS timeline was so that students can join allotted colleges within the time stipulated by the Supreme Court in the Ashish Ranjan case, and also in accordance with the Postgraduate Medical Education (Amendment) Regulations, 2018,” the authorities said. If the state counselling dates and release of the merit list get delayed, toppers will have no choice but to join in colleges in other states. This could even force them to pay Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh as penalty to get relieved from such colleges later, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-govt-to-go-on-with-pg-med-intake/articleshow/75363292.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||We will overcome coronavirus crisis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Even as fear is being expressed that the Covid-19 outbreak in the state is spiralling out of control, chief minister Vijay Rupani issued a video statement on Friday to assure people that the state will soon overcome the crisis. Rupani said that although the need may not arise, the administration is readying 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. “Many are questioning whether we will be able to manage the crisis if it worsens further,” the CM said. “The state had created 9,500-bed capacity by March 20 itself. Today, we have about 2,500 Covid-19 patients and a capacity of 9,500 beds.” He went on to say: “In Ahmedabad alone, we have a capacity of over 5,000 beds and a Covid care centre (CCC) at Samras hostel with a capacity of 2,000 beds.” Rupani said that the state government is in the process of doubling bed capacity for Covid-19 patients even if the need does not arise. “Preparations are on to have a 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. The state government is also not facing any shortage of ventilators,” he said. The CM said that many ask why the government has allowed private hospitals to treat coronavirus patients. “We have declared that treatment of all patients in government hospitals will be totally free,” he said. “We allowed private hospitals to treat patients so that people have an option.” Commenting on the video of Ahmedabad Civil hospital which went viral on social media, the CM said that all issues faced by patients are being resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/we-will-overcome-corona-crisis-cm/articleshow/75362626.cms||Kapil Dave
April 25, 2020||Nashik||2 patients succumb to Covid-19, cop & wife test positive in Malegaon||(done) Nashik: Two Covid-19 patients died in Malegaon while 10 fresh coronavirus cases, including a policeman posted in the powerloom town and his wife, were reported from various parts of Nashik district on Friday. The total number of coronavirus patients in Nashik district has now reached 134 and the death toll has risen to 11. “Two people who had tested positive for Covid-19 died during treatment in Malegaon. Besides, 10 fresh positive cases were reported from the district, of whom one is a migrant labourer based in Nashik city and another in Yeola. The rest are from Malegaon,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. The police personnel who tested positive for Covid-19 along with his wife was on bandobast duty in Malegaon. “It is a matter of concern that a cop on duty has contracted the virus. He and his wife were unwell for the past couple of days and now the swab tests have come positive,” said superintendent of police Arti Singh. “We are trying to segregate the people who have been in contact with the policeman and his wife and are monitoring the health of the police personnel,” she added. The policeman and his wife have been admitted to the Nashik Civil Hospital. The other person admitted to the civil hospital is a woman from Yeola. She had been to the home of her daughter-in-law in Malegaon to see her newborn grandchild. She returned to Nashik city a few days back anmd was feeling unwell before being quarantined. The labourer who tested positive in Nashik city is a migrant labourer and a resident of Bhandara. The 21 year-old youth, currently resident of Mankhurd, along with 10 others was walking home when the Nashik police picked them up on Wednesday. All of them were quarantined. While the swab of the youth tested positive, the results of others are awaited. 5 new cases in Jalgaon Meanwhile, Jalgaon district recorded five new cases on Friday, all from the family of a woman from Amalner who had died and later tested positive two days back. Four of them are men, aged 27 to 28, and a woman, aged 36 years. The district has 11 positive cases and three deaths while one person has been cured. 2 test positive in AhmednagarAhmednagar district has recorded two more Covid-19 patients on Friday, taking the total count to 40. Both the patients are among high- risk contacts of two sons of a positive person who had succumbed before swab test results reached. The district has registered two deaths while 24 patients have recovered. MHADA to the rescue Houses constructed by MHADA in the Malde area, near Malegaon, will be used for quarantine and other facilities for patients in Malegaon. District collector Mandhare reviewed the same. The collector appealed to the people to come out and get tested if they have slightest symptoms of coronavirus to ensure early treatment and recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-patients-succumb-to-covid-19-cop-wife-test-positive-in-malegaon/articleshow/75360976.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||RTI data: MSEDCL arrears, losses shoot up in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Even as MSEDCL hikes power tariff every year, it seems to be doing nothing to improve its performance, which further increases rates. As per data obtained by activist Abhay Kolarkar under Right to Information (RTI) Act, arrears owed by consumers to MSEDCL more than doubled in five years in Vidarbha. The arrears owed by consumers in Vidarbha was Rs 3,842 crore in 2015-16. This has increased to Rs 7,930 crore in 2019-20, an increase of 106%. The collection efficiency was 97.21% in 2018-19. It sharply reduced to 90.83% in 2019-20. MSEDCL has been telling Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) that it managed to reduce distribution loss every year. However, a glance at Vidarbha’s data shows that this is not true. The low tension (LT) distribution loss increased from 5.08% in 2015-16 to 39.57% in 2018-19. Fortunately, it came down to 14.4% in 2019-20. Power experts said that the overall distribution loss figure is meaningless since high tension (HT) consumers pay their bills honestly. Theft is rampant among LT consumers, which MSEDCL has been unable to check. TOI had mailed this data to a MSEDCL spokesperson but he was unable to explain the reasons for this deterioration in the company’s performance. MSEDCL used to inflate agricultural power consumption to hide its failure in reducing distribution losses. Whenever more electricity was pilfered, instead of trying to reduce it, MSEDCL would claim that farmers were using more power. As most farmers don’t pay bills they didn’t bother about the inflated power bills. This jugglery had been exposed by consumer activists years ago but MERC took no notice of it. Former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had set up a committee to investigate into the matter. The committee asked MSEDCL to scientifically calculate agricultural power consumption. However, the report was junked. Finally, MERC set up a committee to calculate the actual consumption. The committee exposed the fraud and MERC increased MSEDCL’s distribution loss figure by 6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rti-data-msedcl-arrears-losses-shoot-up-in-vidarbha/articleshow/75363337.cms||Ashish Roy
April 25, 2020||Surat||Bootlegger escapes from police station, held||Surat: A bootlegger, who had fired at state monitoring cell (SMC) of Gujarat Police during a raid, escaped from Palsana police station here on Thursday night. He was however, nabbed by the special operations group of the Surat range IG late from Gundlav in Valsad on Friday. Vinod Varma alias Vinyo Bhaiyo, who is an accused in multiple bootlegging cases registered across south Gujarat, escaped from the police station between 9pm and 11pm. Police sources said the police station does not have lock-up and that Varma was not handcuffed. He escaped from a sliding window of an office when the cop on duty went for dinner after locking the room from outside. SMC, which functions under the supervision of director general of police, was attacked in November 2018 by the accused when it raided a spot in Navsari from where liquor was being transported through cars. Varma was arrested by Surat city crime branch in January 2020. Varma was arrested by Palsana police on transfer warrant on April 22 in a 2016 prohibition case. A local court had remanded him in police custody until April 25 evening. H M Gohil, police sub-inspector of Palsana police station, has filed an FIR against the bootlegger for escaping from custody. Gohil has claimed in his complaint that he had gone out for patrolling when Varma escaped at about 11pm on Thursday. Gohil claimed that Varma was in the custody of his writer Sanjay Gandabhai, assistant sub-inspector. The ASI clarified that he had gone out for dinner at around 9pm after handing over the custody of the accused to head constable Kamabhai Babubhai. The accused had escaped by the time he returned, he said. Police sources said Kamabhai's duty was at Makhinga checkpost on National Highway-48 from 8pm. Accused Varma, who was with the ASI in his chamber, acted as if he was asleep. ASI Sanjay locked his chamber from outside and went for dinner. A M Muniya, superintendent of police, Surat, was not available for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bootlegger-escapes-from-police-station-held/articleshow/75361025.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: App helps police book over 3,000 for defying lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: DGP D Gautam Sawang on Friday said as many as 22,478 foreign returnees’ were under surveillance during the lockdown with the help of their indigenously developed Covid Alerting Tracking System or Home Quarantine application. Sawang explained that with the help of geofencing capabilities embedded in the application, they were able to book 3,043 persons for violating the lockdown in the last 28 days. The app was created by Anantapur DIG Kranthi Rana Tata and DIG (law and order, coordination) SV Raja Shekar. Foreign returnees were made to download and register the application in their phones. “Most of the people with foreign travel history are from Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. Restrictions have been lifted on those who have completed the quarantine period,” Sawang stated. Officials explained that the application uses the cell towers to track a person’s movement. If the person travelled beyond 100 metres of the geofenced area, an alert would be sent to the police, who would, in turn, send teams to arrest the person for violating lockdown restrictions under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Cops are, now, looking to expand the ambit of the application across all identified red zones. All the district police units across the state have been instructed to send the particulars of all foreign returnees to the DGP’s dashboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/app-helps-police-book-over3000-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/75360974.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Standard operating procedure issued for tea industry||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Tea Board of India has released a standard operating procedure (SOP) to resume operation of factories and to ensure safety of workers during the Covid-19 outbreak. Following a government order dated April 3, tea production has started with half of the workforce on a shift basis. “Managements of all big and small tea gardens should screen their workers and staff deployed in the field operations. Basic protective gear such as gloves, face masks and protective uniforms should be provided to them,” it said. Social distancing norms should be followed. Regular weekly health camps should be conducted, and technical advisories issued by the United Planters Association of Southern India (Upasi) should be followed, the release said. “Guest workers should be properly screened before they are deployed for field operations. Factory premises, machineries and equipment should be sanitized properly before commencing manufacturing process. Sufficient gap should be provided between each shift.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/standard-operating-procedure-issued-for-tea-industry/articleshow/75363298.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||We will overcome coronavirus crisis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Even as fear is being expressed that the Covid-19 outbreak in the state is spiralling out of control, chief minister Vijay Rupani issued a video statement on Friday to assure people that the state will soon overcome the crisis. Rupani said that although the need may not arise, the administration is readying 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. “Many are questioning whether we will be able to manage the crisis if it worsens further,” the CM said. “The state had created 9,500-bed capacity by March 20 itself. Today, we have about 2,500 Covid-19 patients and a capacity of 9,500 beds.” He went on to say: “In Ahmedabad alone, we have a capacity of over 5,000 beds and a Covid care centre (CCC) at Samras hostel with a capacity of 2,000 beds.” Rupani said that the state government is in the process of doubling bed capacity for Covid-19 patients even if the need does not arise. “Preparations are on to have a 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. The state government is also not facing any shortage of ventilators,” he said. The CM said that many ask why the government has allowed private hospitals to treat coronavirus patients. “We have declared that treatment of all patients in government hospitals will be totally free,” he said. “We allowed private hospitals to treat patients so that people have an option.” Commenting on the video of Ahmedabad Civil hospital which went viral on social media, the CM said that all issues faced by patients are being resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/we-will-overcome-corona-crisis-cm/articleshow/75368239.cms||Kapil Dave
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||We will overcome coronavirus crisis: Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Even as fear is being expressed that the Covid-19 outbreak in the state is spiralling out of control, chief minister Vijay Rupani issued a video statement on Friday to assure people that the state will soon overcome the crisis. Rupani said that although the need may not arise, the administration is readying 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. “Many are questioning whether we will be able to manage the crisis if it worsens further,” the CM said. “The state had created 9,500-bed capacity by March 20 itself. Today, we have about 2,500 Covid-19 patients and a capacity of 9,500 beds.” He went on to say: “In Ahmedabad alone, we have a capacity of over 5,000 beds and a Covid care centre (CCC) at Samras hostel with a capacity of 2,000 beds.” Rupani said that the state government is in the process of doubling bed capacity for Covid-19 patients even if the need does not arise. “Preparations are on to have a 25,000-bed capacity for Covid-19 patients. The state government is also not facing any shortage of ventilators,” he said. The CM said that many ask why the government has allowed private hospitals to treat coronavirus patients. “We have declared that treatment of all patients in government hospitals will be totally free,” he said. “We allowed private hospitals to treat patients so that people have an option.” Commenting on the video of Ahmedabad Civil hospital which went viral on social media, the CM said that all issues faced by patients are being resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/we-will-overcome-corona-crisis-cm/articleshow/75368242.cms||Kapil Dave
April 25, 2020||Business||Govt framing policies to attract FDI: Goyal||Kolkata: The Centre is framing policies to attract foreign investments which could make India a global economic superpower, said Union minister of commerce and industries Piyush Goel at an e-session with the members of the Bharat Chamber of Commerce (BCC). “The global pandemic has made countries realise that they do not wish to depend only on a few countries,” the minister stated. In the context of reopening of factory premises, Goyal said that decisions have to be taken up by the district collectors. Speaking on the problems faced by the MSME exporters, the minister clarified that facility has already been extended from March to December 2020. Similarly, the Interest Equalisation Scheme has also been extended with an aim to cushion the blow to exporters in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Goyal stated, “Any sector facing problems related to anti-dumping duties and other import related matters can get in touch with DGTR and MSMEs can also avail free of charge legal services in this matter”. Goyal welcomed a suggestion pitched in by a Bharat Chamber member on increasing the import duty on Synthetic PU leather, which is a 100% import substitute and a strong competitor to China. Responding to a question related to the cash crunch of tea producers reeling under huge financial pressure, Goyal appreciated the suggestion of giving short term soft loans to tea producers at a reduced interest rate and assured that the matter will be taken up by him with the finance ministry. BCC president Ramesh Kumar Saraogi voiced his concern on the volatility of coal and fuel prices and the loss of overseas orders to other countries during this lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-framing-policies-to-attract-fdi-goyal/articleshow/75363329.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Stranded French family prays to Hindu deities, learns about Sanatan Dharma||GORAKHPUR: A French family on an international tour in their caravan, is stranded near Shiv Ramjanki Temple in Singhorwa village in Maharajganj district since March 21 and has become regular visitors to the temple, participating in temple prayers and learning about Sanatan Dharma. Pallarez Patrice, his wife Virginie, daughters Ophelie and Lola, and son Tom are residents of Toulouse city of France. “The family was on their way to Nepal when a nationwide lockdown was announced and borders were sealed. They then decided to stay near the Shiv Ramjanki Temple of Singhorwa village which is near to the Laxmipur forest,” said Nautanwa SDM Jasveer Singh. “Since they had no cough, cold or any other Covid-19-like symptoms, they went through a routine health checkup and were found healthy,” he added. Interestingly, the family is a believer of Hindu deities like Shiva, Parwati, Ganesha and Hanuman and joyfully indulges in prayers and temple rituals. “They come to the temple at sunrise and sunset everyday and chant mantras. Notwithstanding their French food habits, they have adapted to and developed a liking for Indian vegetarian food such as pulses, rice and chapatis,” said the temple priest Udairaj. Village head Jogendra Sahini said, “The administration wanted to shift them to a safer place in the city but they resfused to leave and said they were happy to stay near the temple.” “The family strictly follows social distancing norms and stays inside their caravan. We ensure that they are taken care of as we believe in the philosophy of ‘Atithi Devo Bhava’ (Guest is God),” added Sahini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/stranded-french-family-prays-to-hindu-deities-learns-about-sanatan-dharma/articleshow/75360994.cms||Arjumand Bano
April 25, 2020||Chennai||2 dead, toll hits 22; total 1,755 as city reports 52 new cases||Chennai: Two senior citizens died of Covid-19 on Friday taking the state’s death toll to 22, even as total cases touched 1,755 with 72 more testing positive. Chennai continued to be the epicenter of the infection with 52 new cases. More than 18 frontline workers such as nurses, hospital workers, sanitary and conservancy staff, policemen, journalists and their family members tested positive. There was a growing list of patients admitted to ICUs, chemotherapy units, and labour wards in at least six city hospitals who have been categorized as “high risk” by the state health department. Officials from the Greater Chennai Corporation are now tracking patients, doctors and nurses in these hospitals. Epidemiologists have also found that at least two cancer patients may have acquired the infection from city hospitals. “They were already immune-compromised. We have asked for screening of doctors, paramedics and other patients in both hospitals,” said a senior corporation health official. The cancer patients have been shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and are under intensive care. “One of them has undergone surgery for lung cancer and another patient is undergoing chemotherapy. They are now being monitored round the clock,” the official said. Another cardiologist of a multispeciality hospital in Adyar has performed angioplasty on a patient who later tested positive for the infection earlier this week. On Thursday, officials were tracking down pregnant women, new mothers, doctors and staff nurses of at least two hospitals after a mother at one of the hospitals and two doctors at the other hospital tested positive. “Doctors and paramedical staff must take adequate precaution if they don’t know the status of the patient. The first option is to avoid surgery, but if that is not possible, doctors must take adequate precaution,” the official said. According to health department sources, samples of a 67-year-old man who died on Wednesday have returned positive. He was admitted to a hospital on April 14 but did not have signs of the infection during admission. “Samples were drawn on Wednesday and test results were positive,” doctors said. On Friday, a 70-year-old patient from Madurai, mother of a priest at the Meenakshi Amman Temple, died of the infection. Nine other districts reported cases in single digits. The state discharged 114 patients, including a woman who delivered a baby at the Stanley Medical College Hospital, after testing positive for the viral infection. Her infant was also discharged from the neonatal ward of the same hospital. The total number of patients discharged from different hospitals increased to 866. “We have 864 active cases in hospital now. For the first time the number of patients who were discharged is bigger than the number of patients in hospitals,” said health secretary Beela Rajesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-dead-toll-hits-22-total-1755-as-city-reports-52-new-cases/articleshow/75363304.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: In Indore coronavirus positive cases rate dip, Jabalpur shows a rise||INDORE/JABALPUR: The rate of samples in Indore turning Covid-19 positive has dipped to 10.26% in past six days (between April 17 and April 23) though overall rate remained at 21.40%, but at the same time the total number of positive patients have more than doubled in Jabalpur in the past five days. A dozen people including a trainee IPS officer were tested positive for Covid-19 in Jabalpur on Friday. With this the total number of people testing positive for covid-19 reached 43 in Jabalpur. The virology laboratory in Indore tested 1,335 samples in the six days with over 700 being tested on April 23 and 22 and only 137 were tested positive. However, 21.40% of total 4,842 samples tested positive till April 23. A faculty member of a medical college said the lockdown, social distancing and awareness in public led to reduction in transmission rate, which has helped in reduction in cases in city in past one week. The jump in number of positive cases was recorded on Thursday because of samples pending for last few days. Major increase in Covid-19 positive cases were recorded when 1,000 samples were tested in NIV lab Noida. Divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi said, “We have sent 606 samples for testing to Bhopal. State government along with the 1,000 pending samples of Bhopal has sent it to NIV Pondicherry on Friday.” The reports of those samples would be out in a couple of days. Tripathi said, “We have tested 420 samples on Thursday and can further increase it to over 600 per day if we are provided sufficient testing kit.” Meanwhile, in Jabalpur, in a month between March 20 when the first Covid-19 positive patients were found till April 19 only 19 people had tested positive. But, between April 20 and April 24, a total of 24 new people have tested positive, taking the total number of positive patients to 43. District collector Jabalpur, Bharat Yadav had ordered complete lockdown in the district for the next three days after these 12 patients were tested positive. During this lockdown relaxation of two hours each in morning and evening will be provided for milk supply and agriculture related works, said Yadav. Yadav said that a total of 12 people including a trainee IPS officer who was posted as a CSP in the city were tested positive on Friday. Seeing the increase in the number of positive patients total lockdown for three days has been ordered in the city. Narasinghpur SP Gurukaran Singh told TOI that the CSP, who tested positive, was among the police team that had gone to Narasinghpur to nab the NSA from Indore who fled from Jabalpur hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/in-indore-ve-cases-rate-dip-jabalpur-shows-a-rise/articleshow/75362361.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 25, 2020||Goa||9 deny flouting CRZ, say houses built before 1961||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) recently issued showcause notices to nine persons along the Palolem, Agonda and Devbag coasts in Canacona, and at Varca in Salcete, stating that their extensions, mainly residential structures, were carried out within the no-development zone (NDZ). Most of the Goans who have been issued the notices have, however, told the GCZMA that their families have been residing in the structures since the pre-Liberation period. Goa was liberated from colonial rule in 1961. Jayeer Bhikan Pagi and Sandip Bhikan Pagi, residents of Dhavalkhajan, Agonda, were told that the laterite wall they constructed falls within 200m of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) area. The Pagis presented documents before the GCZMA showing that they have been residing in the house for 52 years, since before Goa’s liberation. They told the authority that they enjoy mundkarial rights over the property and said they had sought the Canacaona mamlatdar’s permission to repair the house as it was in a dilapidated condition and had developed cracks. The family presented the permission issued by the mamlatdar. The GCZMA, however, issued showcause notices to the Pagis stating that they had not submitted any approvals for the structure falling within CRZ area. Similarly, Shobha Pagi was issued a notice for similar alleged violation. Shobha told the GCZMA that her husband had constructed the residential house prior to Liberation and that it was registered at the Agonda village panchayat. She further submitted a house tax receipt, electricity bill, Form I & XIV, survey plan and other documents. Similar pleadings of their houses having already existed before Liberation were made by others, but they, too, were issued showcause notices. While the Desai family of Nagorcem in Canacona was found to have constructed a room close to the HTL, Shankar Pagi in Agonda was issued a showcause notice for construction of a ground-plus-one structure within 200m of the HTL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/9-deny-flouting-crz-say-houses-built-before-1961/articleshow/75364225.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Allahabad||Man robbed of Rs 99,000, three arrested||Prayagraj: A group of five men on two motorcycles robbed a customer service centre employee of Rs 99,000 in Shakulpur area, under the limits of Handia police station, on Friday morning. Police said that they had arrested three of the accused later during the day. The burglary was captured on a CCTV camera installed near the store. According to police, the five armed men reached the customer service centre around 10am. Three of them barged into the centre, which was located on the first floor of a building, and locked the centre from inside. The trio looted Rs 99,000 from the employee Mukesh at gunpoint. They also took away his mobile phone. Mukesh told the police that he had withdrawn Rs 1 lakh from the bank to distribute among customers on Thursday evening. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “Three of the accused have been arrested and police are looking for others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-robbed-of-rs-99000-three-arrested/articleshow/75361118.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nashik||4 more Covid-19 patients discharged in Ahmednagar||Nashik: Four Covid-19 patients were discharged from Evangeline Booth hospital in Ahmednagar on Friday after their throat swab sample tests conducted after the isolation period returned negative. While two of the patients hail from Alamgir area falling in the rural part of Ahmednagar district, one is a resident of Ahmednagar city. The fourth patient is from Beed district. “So far, 24 patients have recovered from the infection and 12 are currently undergoing treatment at the hospital. The condition of those undergoing treatment is stable,” said officials from the district administration. Officials added that among the 12 patients admitted were four Nepali nationals who tested positive on Thursday. A group of 14 Nepali nationals was staying in the Sangamner region of the district since February. “The district administration came to know about their stay in the first week of April. They immediately picked them up and put them in institutional quarantine. Initially, their throat swab sample reports had returned negative,” said officials. The district administration carried out another round of throat swab sample tests before releasing all 14 of them from quarantine. In the reports that arrived on Thursday, four tested positive while 10 were negative. The 10 Nepali nationals who tested negative for the contagion after their institutional quarantine was over were released on Thursday. So far, as many as 40 confirmed Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from Ahmednagar. Two people have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-more-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/75361017.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Halt in import of dates leads to steep rise in prices||Aurangabad: The halt in the import of dates from Saudi Arabia and Iran via the sea route due to the outbreak of the pandemic has led to a steep increase in its prices this season. Dates, which are mandatory fruits during the month of Ramzan have now become out of the reach for the poor people. Things have taken a different turn during this Ramzan. The lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19 has led to the loss of livelihood, hence affecting the purchasing power of the people. It has also impacted on the supply of dates.According to Sadi Quadri, a wholesale dates seller in Beed, the supply of the dry fruits to India through cargo ships has been stopped due to the lockdown. As a result, sufficient stock has not reached Mumbai which led to an increase in prices. “We are utilising the stock that was sent before the lockdown. The Rs 50 per kg dates now costs more than Rs 100. On average, the rate has increased by 50%,” Quadri said. He added that the dates are only imported as there is no local yield. Mahavir Dosi of Mansi Dry Fruits in Aurangabad said that there is an increase in the prices but every family that observes fast during Ramzan buys dates. “This year due to the lockdown, those people who usually purchase a kg may limit to purchasing half a kg,” Dosi said. He added that he has 25 varieties of dates which are brought from Iraq, Iran, Muscat and Saudi Arabia. The price ranges from Rs 110 to Rs 6,000 per kg.Nazema Patel, a doctor, said that dates are important during Ramzan for two reasons. “When people are fasting throughout the day, they need something to balance out the dropping sugar levels in the body. Apart from that, dates are high in iron and multivitamins. Eating dates to break the fast (Roza) has religious significance also as Prophet Muhammad has recommended it,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/halt-in-import-of-dates-leads-to-steep-rise-in-prices/articleshow/75361059.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Madhyamik examinee found murdered||KOLKATA: A 15-year-old Madhyamik examinee, who had gone missing on Thursday evening, was found murdered in a bush adjacent to a Ganga Action Plan (GAP) area at Titagarh on the northern fringes of the city on Friday afternoon. His body was found barely 16 hours after his father had received a ransom call demanding Rs 3.5 lakh for his only son’s release. Cops suspect that the boy, Srideep Samaddar, a resident of Palta’s Babanpur, had been stabbed at least thrice on his face, stomach and neck. His two friends have been detained in connection with the murder. According to local sources, Samaddar had appeared in Madhyamik examination this year from Ichapore Ananda Math High School. His father Sukumar is associated with ayurvedic medicines business. The boy had left home on Thursday evening for watching a special programme on TV at his friend’s house in the neighborhood, but he had not returned home till late at night. Around 1pm on Friday, locals spotted a pair of shoes and a mask lying on the banks of a pond near the GAP area. On being alerted by them, cops rushed to the spot and recovered his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/madhyamik-examinee-found-murdered/articleshow/75362349.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad doctor denied entry into apartment, files complaint||HYDERABAD: A Gandhi hospital doctor lodged a complaint with Vanasthalipuram police on Friday after she was denied entry into an apartment by its residents. The doctor was visiting her brother, who resides in the apartment. The police said a case was registered under Section 188, 341, 509, 506 of IPC against several residents of the apartment. On Wednesday, when the doctor went to meet her brother, she was informed by residents of the apartment that the association members had passed a resolution to not to allow entry to outsiders due to the fear of Covid-19. Despite her informing that she is a doctor, they allegedly refused to allow her to enter and an argument ensued. “She lodged a complaint on Friday and we registered a case,” Vanasthalipuram inspector A Venkataiah told TOI. Meanwhile, some government doctors brought this issue to the notice of minister Eatala Rajender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doc-denied-entry-into-apartment-files-plaint/articleshow/75363387.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj back on Covid-19 radar as new cases surface||Prayagraj: Less than a week after Prayagraj was declared a ‘green zone’, three new novel coronavirus cases — two from Shankargarh and one from Shivkuti — were reported from the district on Friday. Of these patients, two were daily wagers who had returned from Mumbai in Maharashtra three days back and the other was a youth who travelled along with a novel coronavirus patient in a train. The three were admitted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa for treatment. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The two labourers were aged about 17 and 20 years and were native to Kapari in Shankargarh. The third patient is a 37-year-old youth from Shankarghat in Shivkuti area.” Sahai said that the two labourers had returned from Mumbai and their swab samples were collected by a team of health department officials on Wednesday. The two tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. “The two labourers had started for Prayagraj on April 19 to attend the funeral of their father and had been issued e-passes for the purpose,” the ACMO added. Health department officials are now collecting samples of the two labourers’ family members for testing. Sahai said that youth from Shivkuti had travelled in a train coach along with a Covid-19 patient. His co-traveller later tested Covid-19 positive in Varanasi. Later, Varanasi SSP alerted Prayagraj police. Acting on the inputs, a team of health department officials had collected the youth’s swab sample on Thursday and he was diagnosed with the disease on Friday. “Health department has declared Shankarghat and Kapari in Shankargarh as novel coronavirus hotspots. The area around one-kilometre radius of Shankarghat and three-kilometre radius area in Kapari (Shankargarh) has been sealed. Health department teams are going door-to-door to check for suspected cases,” he added. Till last week, nine novel coronavirus cases were reported from districts comprising Prayagraj range — one from Prayagraj, six from Pratapgarh and two from Kaushambi. Of these, seven were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event. The lone Covid-19 patient from Prayagraj was an Indonesian national who had come to the city after attending the Delhi event in March. All the patients had recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-back-on-covid-19-radar-as-new-cases-surface/articleshow/75361149.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Real estate developers in Andhra Pradesh want I-T relaxation||VISAKHAPATNAM: Hit hard by the nationwide lockdown imposed to prevent spread of coronavirus (Covid-19), real estate developers in Andhra Pradesh have decided to request the finance ministry for a relaxation in income tax through the state government. They also want the state government to ease a few charges imposed by state-level agencies. Members of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) in Andhra Pradesh organised a meeting through teleconference on Friday to discuss their course of action. “We are not requesting the government to exempt construction works from the lockdown considering the present situation. Rather, we have decided to urge the state government to relax a few charges, including income tax, as a compensatory measure. The lockdown has had a serious effect on the real estate industry,” former president of the Vizag chapter of Credai Koteshwara Rao told TOI. Developers said that earlier the finance ministry had eased income tax in 2010 as part of a government scheme to promote big residential and commercial complexes. But that was only for developers who had constructed and sold land measuring one acre or more. “We are going to ask for relaxations on a few other charges like the one we pay for getting property plans sanctioned. The detailed list will be prepared shortly,” Rao said. “Hardly a few people sold or invested in new properties in March and everything closed down once the lockdown was imposed. Moreover, no construction work is going on and a few labourers got stranded at the sites and now we had to take care of their expenses,” said M Murali, a developer. Recently the government had exempted construction work in Agency areas, developers could not resume works mostly because there’s no supply of raw material owing to the lockdown. “Small time players like us don’t depend on finances. We sale or take advances from our customers and invest the money on our projects. Because of the lockdown the cycle has been disturbed heavily,” Murali added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/real-estate-developers-want-i-t-relaxation/articleshow/75361011.cms||Arpit Basu
April 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Travel restrictions a challenge for cancer patients in lockdown||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lack of awareness, delayed diagnosis and treatment have always been a challenge for cancer patients. But the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has made matters worse as patients face travel restrictions and scarcity of drugs. Cancer treatments are delivered in multiple sessions over a period of time either by radiation therapy or chemotherapy under day care. This is a difficulty as patients have to travel daily. Many of them are stuck in various districts and neighbouring states due to lack of public transport or inability to afford private transportation. Moreover, doctors say that patients are susceptible to respiratory pathogens and severe pneumonia due to their immunosuppressive state resulting from malignancy and anti-tumour therapy. Getting timely and continuous treatment is the key for cancer patients. Keeping these into consideration, HCG Cancer Centre is mobilising ambulances from various districts so that patients do not suffer due to the lockdown. The cancer centre is also offering free transportation, accommodation and hygienic food for both patients and their attenders so that their scheduled treatments continue without interruption. “We have more than 70 patients under treatment at HCG Cancer Centre where accommodation and food are being provided for free. With the lockdown having effects on logistics, we have stock over two months inventory of medicines and consumables,” said Dr Vijayaditya, consultant radiation oncologist at HCG Cancer Centre. Satyaprasad (name changed), a cancer patient, had his chemotherapy scheduled in the third week of April. He had to travel from Berhampur, which is 280 km from Vishakhapatnam. “A hospital pass was issued certifying the essential treatment required. The chemotherapy was performed at the right time. If not, my condition would have become worse,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/travel-restrictions-a-challenge-for-cancer-patients-in-lockdown/articleshow/75361057.cms||Reshma Jain
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Tender process blocks key project in Aurangabad||Aurangabad:The Rs 1,680 crore water supply scheme of the city is yet to go past the tender process even as the residents reel under water crisis. The engineers of the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP), which is the implementing agency of the project, said that the scheme would take a minimum of four years for execution. Inspite of the high level intervention and bagful of assurances by the state government, the crucial water supply project does not seem to be moving any faster. After the BJP built up pressure against the state government for putting a stay on the project in December, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, during his visit to the city on January 9, had instructed the officials of the urban development department and MJP to clear minor roadblocks and issue the work order for the project in eight days. Three-and-a-half months later, the project has not even passed the tendering stage let alone issuing of work order. According to executive engineer of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Hemant Kolhe, the technical evaluation for bidders that came forward in the second tender call is underway. After qualifying technical scrutiny, the parties can then make financial bid. When asked, Aurangabad East MLA Atul Save, who had played a key role in getting the scheme sanctioned from the state government, said that had it been the BJP government, the project could have started in December itself. “During the pandemic time, we do not want to distract the government from disease prevention and management. However, this project is also essential for citizens who are struggling due to irregular water supply,” Save said. Women to resort to fasting for water As many as 55 houses in the Cidco N-7, B-1 area are facing low water pressure and irregular supply for the last one-and-a-half years. Subsequently, with no one to hear their concerns, the women residents of the area have said that they, along with their children, will resort to fasting to attract attention of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tender-process-blocks-key-project-in-aurangabad/articleshow/75361107.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 25, 2020||Chandigarh||PU hostellers panic when asked to move belongings||Chandigarh: Panic ruled in Panjab University (PU) after students received a message on Wednesday from a warden that the residents of girls’ hostels 8,9,10 and international hostel should move their belongings from the hostels at the earliest. However, Panjab University authorities said the message was sent by mistake. As of Wednesday, PU authorities had issued no formal order as a meeting in this regard was scheduled for Thursday. The students, however, started sending mails in response to the message received on Wednesday night. Panicked students also listed suggestions to the authorities as to what can be used as isolation wards instead of their hostel rooms. According to the students, the guest houses in PU, gymnasium halls, golden jubilee halls and departments, especially dental department, can be used as isolation wards. They also stated that other government bhavans, MLA hostels, hotels, community halls in each sector and stadiums can best serve the purpose. The students said even in the hostels, common rooms, mess and canteen can be utilised. The message sent by a warden to the students stated that the students can visit the hostel any day before lunch time and collect their stuff themselves or authorise anybody to collect on their behalf or they can request their local guardian or any relative living nearby in Tricity to do the same. They can request their respective roommates or hostel mates to either collect their stuff or at least pack up their belongings, label them and keep them in the storage rooms in the hostel allocated for the same, the wardens stated. “In case, the above options are not viable, the PU team supervising this will pack all the things of individual residents and store them in the rooms allocated for storage in the international hostel. But these things might not be available to the residents for next few months due to the fact that isolation wards will not be allowed entry,” the letter stated. “We have to return to these rooms one day. What if the infection stays and how is it possible for us to travel and collect our belongings, which include important academic documents? Who will take responsibility if anything is misplaced,” said a student from Himachal Pradesh requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-hostellers-panic-when-asked-to-move-belongings/articleshow/75344346.cms||Kamini Mehta
April 25, 2020||Surat||Vehicles killed 10 crocs in Guj in 2019||Surat: As many as 12 marsh crocodiles (mugger) were victims of road and railway tracks accidents in different parts of the state in 2019, claims a research paper titled ‘Crocodile-Vehicle Collision: New threat to Mugger Crocodiles in Gujarat’ authored by reptile experts Raju Vyas, Anirudhkumar Vasava and Vishal Mistry. Of these crocs, 10 died, while two survived the collision with vehicles. Researchers recorded 38 incidences of crocodile-vehicle collision (CVC) over a 14-year period (2005-2018) which included 24 (63%) on roads and 14 (23%) on railway tracks. “In our study, we documented direct mortality of crocodiles from road or train accidents. Twelve such accident cases recorded in Gujarat in 2019, including 10 on roads and two on railway lines. Of these crocs, six were hatching-juveniles, 3 sub-adults and 3 adults. Nine crocs were found dead,” researchers said. While the mortality rate is much higher to compared to previous years, researchers blame the prolonged monsoon that year as a possible reason behind the deaths. CVC most frequently occurred in the monsoon season (72 % of the incidents) followed by winter (18 %) and summer (10%), they explained. “For Gujarat in particular, due to crocodiles’ breeding trends and the inter-connected expansive network of irrigation canals, the distribution of the reptile is estimated to gradually expand across the state. The irrigation canal network expanses have a positive impact on its population, road and railway networks have negatively impacted the reptile species,” said Vyas, a reptile expert while talking to TOI. “With increasing number of numbers of collisions and transport corridors, we need to act in a balanced way. The balance between economic development and natural resources lies in evaluating the short-term economic gains in comparison to long-term ecological sensitivity. We should design roads and railways in such a manner that sluggish reptiles or even other wild animals can safely cross to the other side. Many foreign countries have already done it,” Vyas said. “Roads and railway networks act as physical and behavioural barriers to movement of wildlife and disturb populations living close to them,” he added.Though, state forest department does not carry out any systematic population estimation of this reptile species, Gujarat is home to approx 1800 mugger population, according to Vyas.Marsh crocodile species is protected under Schedule I category of Wildlife Protection Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vehicles-killed-10-crocs-in-guj-in-2019/articleshow/75361106.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh government scraps Maheshwar hydel power project||BHOPAL: Almost a quarter century after signing the agreement and spending over Rs 3000 crore of public money, Madhya Pradesh government terminated the power purchase agreement (PPA) of the 400 MW Maheshwar Hydel Power Project on river Narmada. Violation of PPA terms is cited as one of the main reasons behind termination of the project. Though a massive concrete structure was created at the dam site, it was steeped in controversies ever since its inception. Prior to the sudden termination order issued on April 18 this year, in 2014, the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) had criticized the government for not terminating the project despite undue delay in its completion. The project was also marred by controversies related to financial irregularities, said government sources. “The PPA required the state government to pay project promoters huge amounts of public money every year for 35 years from the date of the commissioning of the project, whether or not the electricity was purchased by the government”, a senior government official said, requesting anonymity. Citing “ breach of clauses 16.4(a), 16.4(b )and 16.4( c) of the PPA dated November 11, 1996 and breach of clauses of A&RA( amendatory and restated agreement)” , a five-page order issued by Madhya Pradesh Power Management company limited on April 18 terminated the PPA” with immediate effect”. Along with this, the escrow agreement and the rehabilitation agreements have also been terminated. The order also said that “ public interest” has been jeopardized by various acts of “ default commissions, omissions” by SMHPCL, Shree Maheshwar Hydel Power corporation limited, promoted by S Kumars. Alok Agrawal of Narmada Bachao Andolan, who had been relentlessly raising the issue of this project’s expensive PPA and alleged irregularities, said, “Our stand is vindicated. A monument should be created at the concrete structure near dam site symbolizing the monumental waste of public money”. The 400 MW project on the river Narmada, in Khargone, was also said to cause submergence of 61 villages and was one of the 30 large dams proposed to be built in Narmada valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-scraps-maheshwar-hydel-power-project/articleshow/75362375.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Water levels in Selaulim, Anjunem higher than last year||PANAJI: The summer heat is rising and some areas have already begun facing a drinking water shortage. However, there seems to be sufficient raw water available in the state. The five reservoirs are currently 42% to 80% full, which is higher than the levels recorded in mid-April last year. Excess rainfall received during the 2019 monsoon, which ended as the wettest monsoon in decades, has ensured that the levels in the dams have not dropped to worrisome levels. In mid-April 2019, the Selaulim reservoir was 54% full. This year, the water level in the reservoir currently stands at 67%. The dam caters to the drinking water needs of towns such as Margao, Vasco, Quepem and Sanguem, as well as the hinterland towns across South Goa. Water levels at Anjunem had plunged to 30% on April 15, 2019. In comparison, the level stands at 42% this year. The reservoir provides raw water to meet the drinking water requirement in parts of Sattari and Bicholim talukas. In the case of Amthane reservoir, the level is at 73% currently. It supplies water to treatment plants for supply to parts of Bicholim and Tiswadi. Similarly, the dam in Panchwadi is 49% full and the reservoir at Chapoli in Canacona is 79% full, show records of the Water Resources Department . Due to the delayed rains, many parts of the state, epecially the mining belt, faced acute water shortage in April and May last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-levels-in-selaulim-anjunem-higher-than-last-yr/articleshow/75364227.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corona confirmed as cause of teen’s death||Ahmedabad: Two days after a 16-year-old girl died at Civil hospital, the administration has confirmed that she had succumbed to Covid. The Danilimda resident had co-morbidities. Officials in the AMC said that the news of the girl’s death spread rapidly in the area, which was quarantined. According to the officials, the girl was first taken to SVP hospital from where she was shifted to Civil hospital. SVP hospital had been full. Later, the municipal commissioner had announced that the bed capacity of SVP hospital will be increased to 1,000, said officials. The officials said that the girl’s name was included on the list of Covid deaths on April 23, when the test results were received. The girl had been put on ventilator within hours of admission at Civil hospital. She died on April 21. The girl had some liver problems and was also taking medicines for a skin disease. Officials said that the girl had been taking treatment from a local physician but when her situation deteriorated she was taken to SVP hospital. Meanwhile, a 59-year-old woman from the Walled City was listed as a 16-year-old in death records. Officials later spotted the error.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-confirmed-as-cause-of-teens-death/articleshow/75362620.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata beats other cities in lockdown effectiveness||KOLKATA: A study conducted by TRA Research, a national research firm, revealed that the city has done well as far as lockdown effectiveness is concerned. The study, ‘TRA’s Coronavirus Consumer Insights 2020’ that was conducted among 1,000 respondents in 16 cities was based on the views of residents. Going by the respondents’ views, cities like Chennai, Guwahati and Cochin have the least effectiveness. Kolkata has also scored better than other metro cities, including Mumbai and Hyderabad, in the awareness front. The study took into account the perceptions, attitudes, worries, fears and expectations of those who have been under voluntary house-arrest for nearly a month. The lockdown implementation got a thumbs-up from Kolkata with 85% score. It scored 86% in the awareness front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-beats-other-cities-in-lockdown-effectiveness/articleshow/75362365.cms||Udit Mukherjee
April 25, 2020||Kolkata||Ex-bureaucrats: Stop harassment of minorities||KOLKATA: As many as 101 former bureaucrats, including Anita Agnihotri, Jawhar Sircar, M N Roy and Trilochan Singh from the Bengal cadre, have written an open letter to chief ministers of all states on the harassment of Muslims amid the Covid-19 crisis. The letter has been copied to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The civil servants, uniting under the banner of the Constitutional Conduct Group wrote: “It is with much anguish that we bring to your attention reports of harassment of Muslims in some parts of the country, particularly following the meeting of the Tablighi Jamaat in March in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi. “The Jamaat was criticized for ignoring the principles of social distancing when cases of Covid-19 had started emerging in the country,” it read. They requested the chief ministers to ask all public functionaries to be particularly vigilant “to prevent social boycott of any community”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-bureaucrats-stop-harassment-of-minorities/articleshow/75362378.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 25, 2020||Meerut||Priests performing last rites of Covid-19 patient hold protest, seek gloves & sanitizer||MEERUT: Priests performing the last rites of a Covid-19 victim held a protest at the crematorium in Meerut on Friday and demanded protective gears and sanitizers. On Friday, they consigned to flames the fourth patient who fell to novel coronavirus in the district. “Even we have children at home. How can the authorities and families expect us to carry out the last rites when they themselves stand at a distance from the body? We were told that the body will be brought to the crematorium by a health department team. However, there was only one driver in proper personal protective gear. Policemen stood outside the crematorium and there were only two family members of the deceased to lift the body and conduct the cremation,” said Ramesh (who goes by his first name), the priest at Surajkund crematorium in Meerut. He further said: “The family members had gloves on, but we had none. We should also be given gloves and sanitizers. At a time when there is so much fear about the disease, it is unfair to depend on us for the cremation without protection, and create pressure if we refuse to do so. Sanitisation of the crematorium should also be done.” Later police intervened and the priests agreed to do the cremation, that too from a distance. Abdur Rehman Siddiqui, station house officer of Civil Lines police station, said, “The priests agreed for the cremation eventually and it was conducted with proper rituals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/priests-performing-last-rites-of-covid-19-patient-hold-protest-seek-gloves-sanitizer/articleshow/75363388.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa’s government primary schools remain unpopular choice as 11 more shut down||PANAJI: Eleven more government primary schools were forced to shut down during the current academic year 2019-20 for want of students, educational statistics for the year released by the directorate of education (DoE) this week show. With most operational government primary schools offering Marathi as the medium of instruction, all the schools shut were also Marathi medium institutes. Of the 98,500 students enrolled across the state from Classes I to IV, only 20% now study in state-run schools. The closure of the 11 schools does not come as a surprise. Chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant had said in the assembly that during the last academic year 2018-19, 19 government primary schools had closed down due to low or zero enrolment. The continued closure of more schools each year is a given, with over 50% of the operational 742 state-run primary schools having enrolment of 20 or a lower number of students. Of the schools shut during the current academic year, five were in Ponda taluka, four were in Bardez, two in Bicholim and one in Tiswadi. As per the statistics released, one new government primary school did open, in the Urdu medium. Meanwhile, aided and unaided institutions continued to see their demand rising among students with new privately managed primary schools opening up in Bicholim (2), Tiswadi (1), Salcete (1) and Mormugao (1) during 2019-20. Now, of the 98,500-odd students enrolled across the state from Class I to IV, only 20,601 study in the 742 government primary schools. The remaining 78,000-odd students study in only 402 aided and unaided schools. The unpopularity of government primary schools was higher in the case of urban areas, where only 4,076 or 10% of students enrolled in primary schools studying in government institutions. In the case of rural areas, 16,500 or 27.5% of primary school enrolment of the region was in state-run primary schools. The government tried to merge low-enrolment schools with others in the vicinity, but parents were unhappy with the longer commute to school it would have involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-govt-primary-schools-remain-unpopular-choice-as-11-more-shut-down/articleshow/75364231.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Ujjain reports 4 more deaths, toll touches 15||Ujjain/Indore: Like Indore, death toll and number of positive patients are on rise in neighbouring Ujjain district. In last 24 hours, the district reported four deaths including a class-III employee of collectorate and 15 new cases. So far, Ujjain has reported total 15 deaths while total number of positive cases have reached 106. After killing Neelganga police station in-charge, the virus claimed life of another government employee. The 52-year-old man was on duty on Monday when he fainted and was rushed to a private hospital. His samples were tested positive on Thursday and he died on Friday. His death created panic among other employees and his 21 primary contacts have been home quarantined. Of them, samples of six people were sent for test. According to CMHO Dr Anusuiya Gawali, they received reports of 15 positive patients on Friday. Ujjain administration registered a case against four staff members of RD Gardi Medical College including two doctors for refusing to report for duty. Dewas district reported a positive case and its total has reached 22. Of them, deaths of six patients have been reported here so far. Remaining five districts of Ujjain division reported no new positive case or death due to the virus. “In Indore division, Indore has reported total 1029 cases while nine new cases reported in Khargone district, which increased the figure of total positive patients to 60. Remaining six districts reported no new case or death,” joint director (health, Indore) Dr JS Awasiya said. // 6 caught infection from barber shop Khargone: Six Covid positive patients are found to have been infected from a barber shop in Badgaon of Khargone. CMHO Dr Divyesh Verma told TOI that report of six people of village Badgaon have come positive late on Thursday night. “An employee of a hotel situated in Indore had visited Badgaon on April 4 and had hair cut at a barber shop the next day. The barber used same towel and instruments on 10 to 12 people,” he said. Among them, six people have found Covid-19 positive. He said that the reports of the remaining other people who got their shave and hair cut done from the barber on April 5 have come negative. Doctor Verma said that the hotel worker was Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ujjain-reports-4-more-deaths-toll-touches-15/articleshow/75362382.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Tribals threaten to stage quota protest||Visakhapatnam: Tribals in the Agency have threatened to flout the Covid-19 lockdown and assemble at mandal headquarters in a demand that the AP government file a review petition against the Supreme Court order that caps reservations in government jobs and education at 50%. Agency tribals have planned to stage a protest on April 29 and the joint action committee of all tribal unions and associations have called for the central and state governments to bring an ordinance to invoke GO 3 that provides for 100% reservation for tribals in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana under the Fourth and Fifth schedules of the Constitution. Convener of JAC Rama Rao Dora said “Non-tribals have been exploiting tribals in Araku Valley, Paderu, Chintapalle and few other areas by occupying land and setting up hotels, resorts and other establishments. This order will further strengthen the non-tribals,” Dora added. “We have planned a four day protest, on April 25, tribals will display protest placards at their homes, and people would switch off their lights at home and light a candle on April 26. On April 27 people will bang empty vessels and plates as a mark of protest. Giving a gap of one day, all tribal students, employees, people and political leaders and activists will assemble at mandal headquarters and raise slogans against the Supreme Court order on April 29,” Dora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tribals-threaten-to-stage-quota-protest/articleshow/75361099.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||Response to relaxation of norms slow in North Karnataka||Dharwad: With the state government deciding to relax the lockdown in a phased manner, economic activities in select sectors have begun, albeit slowly in North Karnataka. Friday saw people engaged in seeds and fertiliser business, farming, construction of buildings, grocery trade and courier services among others getting back to their businesses. Automobile mechanics were seen opening the shutters of their garages and cleaning the premises. Farmers waiting to harvest the rabi crop were seen getting ready for the harvest. Those who have already completed the harvesting are gearing up to prepare the fields for sowing. However, some people are still apprehensive of Covid-19 and reluctant to resume works in sectors where relaxation has been offered. The resumption of activities in the Covid-19 red zones of Vijayapura and Belagavi districts in sectors where relaxation has been given was not to the expected level. In Dharwad district, one could see farmers rushing to the seed/ fertiliser shops in Akkipeth and Nehru Market to buy agriculture equipment. Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar said, “Construction of new roads, and repair of old ones will also start. We have also lifted restrictions on the functioning of stone-crushing units. However, all of this is contingent on the management ensuring social distancing between employees and maintaining the highest standards of hygiene.” Shettar said that, while the National Highways Authority of India and the public works department could start off where they had left, the officials concerned would have to obtain prior approval by submitting details of ongoing projects online. “The authorities can ferry labourers from the other districts as long as arrangements have been made for their shelter, food and primary healthcare. They will have to be accommodated at temporary shelter homes. Police have been asked not to obstruct transport of construction material,” he added. Poor response to MGNREGAThough the government has asked the district authorities to start works under MGNREGA, people have shown reluctance to join the workforce in certain districts due to the fear of Covid-19. In Dharwad district, only 30% of the workforce is in action. The authorities said they have started only individual works and not community work. In the district so far, 5,051 families have applied for job cards under the job scheme, and the ZP has given cards to 2,166 families. A total of 29,171 rural people work under the scheme, an official said. Procurement of cotton The minister said that procurement of cotton, the suspension of which has affected scores of farmers across Dharwad, would recommence shortly. “According to the guidelines laid down by the Cotton Corporation of India, we will first procure the crop from farmers in the district. We need to ensure that the farmers are alerted to this development so they can benefit from the initiative,” Shettar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/response-to-relaxation-of-norms-slow-in-north-karnataka/articleshow/75360183.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Over 1,000 Olive Ridley hatchlings released||POINGUINIM: With the turtle nesting season drawing to a close at South Goa’s designated sites of Agonda and Galgibaga, a total of 1,038 hatchlings from 12 out of 17 nests have been released into the sea after the 50-odd day incubation period. The season had started late after the first Olive Ridley turtle had arrived for nesting at Galgibaga on January 1. The first pit was laid at Agonda on January 2. As part of the turtle conservation programme, forest department staff keeps vigil over the nests round the clock to prevent poaching of eggs. A total of 1,951 eggs were laid in 17 nests on both beaches. At Galgibaga, 713 eggs were laid in six pits, while, at Agonda, 1,238 eggs were laid in 11 pits. “The last Olive Ridley hatchlings of 55 made their way into the sea on April 18,” range forest officer (wildlife) Vikramaditya Naik Gaonkar said. In the past, the season extended from October to March, but in recent years it commences late and ends late, even during monsoon. Naik Gaonkar said that there is a possibility of late nesting in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-1000-olive-ridley-hatchlings-released/articleshow/75364235.cms||Albert Fernandes
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||NDDB supports cattle feed plants||Vadodara/Anand: The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) has started providing reformulation support to cattle feed plants in the wake of nationwide lockdown.The apex body of dairy development in the country said that compound cattle feed is a crucial input for milk production. The lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic has pushed cattle feed production into crisis, it said.“Many cattle feed plants are facing problems of irregular supply of feed raw material and packing ingredients. Reduced interstate movement of trucks as well as labour shortages has also been reported,” said NDDB’s chairman Dilip Rath, adding that some relief is expected as restrictions on key industries have been eased from April 20.“It is against this backdrop of non-availability of key raw resources for cattle feed production, that we (NDDB) have started providing reformulation support to cattle feed plants to meet cattle feed demand,” Rath said in a statement.He said NDDB’s animal nutrition experts have provided support for ‘reformulating cattle feed’ for many cattle feed product lines using least cost formulation software after considering prices and local availability of regular raw material as well as incorporating novel raw ingredients (like corn gluten feed) whenever necessary.“Regular use of feed in prescribed quantities increases reproductive efficiency of dairy animals, keeps animals healthy, improves growth rate in young calves, increases milk production and reduces production costs, which will ultimately help dairy farmers to deal with post Covid challenges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nddb-supports-cattle-feed-plants/articleshow/75361128.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chandigarh||HC to hear PIL on disposal of PPE, masks||Chandigarh: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in Punjab and Haryana high court, raising concerns over disposal of medical waste like gloves, mask and other protective gear and waste being generated daily in tonnes because of Covid-19. The high court will hear the PIL on Friday seek the court to issue proper guidelines for the usage and disposal of medical waste as it poses greater risk to environment and health if not handled properly. According to petitioner, advocate Abhayjeet Singh, several districts of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh are included in the ‘red zone’ and have been declared hotspots. Despite this, the PIL stated that no proper guidelines have been issued or steps taken for collection, handling and disposal of medical waste, pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-to-hear-pil-on-disposal-of-ppe-masks/articleshow/75344391.cms||Neha Sharma
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Three booked for mortgaging same property in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: City police have booked three people, including a woman, for obtaining loan from two banks by mortgaging the same property and keeping both the financial institutions in the dark. Based on a complaint lodged by 47-year-old Sumedh Paikrao, a representative of Oriental Bank of Commerce, Kranti Chowk police have registered a case of cheating and criminal breach of trust against the suspects. Taking cognizance of the incident, police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad has tasked the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) to investigate this case. As per complaint lodged by Paikrao, the suspect trio, hailing from Patoda, on April 6, 2013, obtained a loan of Rs 5 crore from Bank of Maharashtra for construction of a godown by mortgaging their land admeasuring 4.32 acre. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Nagnath Kode said that as per procedure, the documents of this plot should have started reflecting under hypothecation with a bank, but for the reasons best known to the suspects the record was never updated. Taking advantage of this situation, the suspects, reached out to Oriental Bank of commerce’s Samarthnagar branch earlier this year and applied for a loan towards the same land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-booked-for-mortgaging-same-property/articleshow/75361123.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Government lab technicians resist swab collection work, move court||CHENNAI: Whose job is it to collect samples from suspected Covid-19 patients for swab tests? Noting that it is the responsibility of qualified ENT doctors, and that laboratory technicians should not be compelled to do the work, a PIL has been filed in the Madras high court seeking an order to restrain the state government from continuing such a practice. The PIL, filed by Tamil Nadu Government Medical Laboratory Technician’s Association, said one of the key components of the strategy to combat Covid-19 is contact-tracing and collecting throat swab (Oropharyngeal) and nasal swab (Nasopharyngeal) samples of potentially infected people. “The samples can be collected only by trained healthcare worker in the presence of a clinician. Only qualified and trained workers, particularly ENT specialist doctors and post-graduate training doctors who have studied anatomy and physiology of throat and nasal swab, can do the job,” the petitioner-association said. Noting that compelling lab technicians to take the samples would amount to violation of medical rules, the association said: “Even the Union government, through a communication dated April 8, has issued guidelines and directed all states and Union territories to take necessary steps to utilise the services of ENT professionals and post-graduate trainees to take such samples. The World Health Organisation has also issued a similar guideline.” This apart, lab technicians have only a basic qualification of diploma in medical laboratory technology without any expertise in the anatomy and physiology of a human body, making them ineligible to collect such samples, they said. Therefore, the petitioner-association wanted the court to direct the state to immediately stop engaging lab technicians for collecting swab samples and instead, engage qualified ENT doctors for the purpose. When the plea came up for hearing before a special division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice M Nirmal Kumar, the court adjourned the hearing as copies of the plea were not served to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-lab-technicians-resist-swab-collection-work-move-court/articleshow/75363392.cms||Suresh Kumar
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad techies help feed migrant workers||HYDERABAD: Moved by the plight of stranded migrant workers during lockdown, a city-based techie and his friends have been coordinating with the administration to provide food packets to them. Believing in the idea of “where there is a will, there is a way,” the group has distributed 15,300 food packets in Cyberabad and 5,000 across the city since the lockdown was announced. The group, including Sai Teja Katragadda, Prashanth Mamidala, Srinivas Bellam, Pradeep Gadicherla, Anumod Thomas, Ramanjeet Singh, Vidyasagar Jagadeesan, Venay Vangala and Surendra Uplanchiwar have, contributed money for procuring the supplies. The group delivers the essentials at a designated place everyday, from where the police takes over and distributes the packets in Madhapur, Miyapur, Kukatpally, Gachibowli, Balanagar, Jeedimetla, Alwal, Rajendranagar, RGI airport and Shadnagar. “Few people have been willing to help migrants in a sustained manner. I feel it is my duty to get them food which is a basic human right,” Sai Teja told TOI. Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar has appreciated their efforts and said: “Your service amid the corona pandemic will always be remembered.” Their help to the migrants also earned praises from Odisha MLA Amar Patnaik. “I really thank you for this gesture. May your tribe prosper. Elinor Ostrom, nobel prize winner in economics has said that when markets fail, government steps in. But when both fail, it is the communities that step in. It is people like you that step in. Thanks again,” he said. Nasscom has also praised the team’s work during these tough times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techies-help-feed-migrant-workers/articleshow/75363398.cms||Uttara Varma
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Five cops suspended for extortion in Beed district||AURANGABAD: Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar has suspended five police constables who were allegedly involved in extorting money from a brick kiln owner at Saradgaon in Parli. Sources in the police department said that the alleged extortion happened in the the wee hours of April 20, when a truck driver had gone to load bricks from the kiln owned by Madhukar Dole. “The policemen, SB Chindamwar, GA Yeradlawar, SN Ekulwar and PS Panchal, were on night patrol duty and threatened Dole with strict action for running business during the lockdown,” said the sources. “The policemen allegedly demanded Rs 20, 000 for not initiating action against the kiln owner. The policemen even assaulted the labourers after waking them up at the kiln.” According to the sources said that the five suspect policemen took Rs 10, 000 after negotiation with Dole and left the spot. Dole soon informed MLA Sanjay Daund about the incident. The MLA then brought the matter to the notice of senior police authorities, following which the matter reached the Beed SP, who ordered an inquiry. Dole’s complaint was taken by inspector Shivlal Purbhe of the Parli rural police station. Parli SDPO Rahul Dhas recorded the statements of each of the men present at the brick kiln at the time of the incident and prepared a detailed report before tabling it before the superintendent of police. When contacted, SP Poddar said, “Some constables of Parli rural police station were found to have indulged in acts of misconduct three days back. Sub-divisional police officer, Ambejogai, conducted an inquiry and the incident was prima facie found to be true. On that basis, suspension orders were issued against the policemen.” Poddar said that a preliminary inquiry has been instituted for disciplinary action against the five policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-cops-suspended-for-extortion-in-beed-dist/articleshow/75361143.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Centre’s nod to bring back bodies of youths||TIRUPATI: Anantapur district collector Gandham Chandrudu said the bodies of two youths from the district killed in a road accident in the Philippines will soon be brought back. Speaking to reporters, the district collector said the central government has given the green signal to bring back the bodies of the two students. It will be recalled that two 21-year-old students, Vamsi Kondigalla Peddinti and Revanth Kumar Katikela, studying medicine in the Philippines were killed in a road accident in Cebu city on April 6. Upon being informed of the deaths of the two youths, their family appealed to the district collector to help them bring back the bodies. The state government in turn sought the support of the ministry of foreign affair. “Since international flights have been suspended across the globe, the Union government has made arrangements to bring back the bodies of the two deceased youngsters through air ambulances soon. The necessary approvals have been accorded to initiate the process,” the district collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/centres-nod-to-bring-back-bodies-of-youths/articleshow/75361129.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Take special care of senior citizens: Nehra||Ahmedabad: Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra called on younger people to take special care of senior citizens who are particularly vulnerably to Covid-19 and implored social media influencers to use their creativity to spread this important message. Nehra said that the mortality rate was higher among senior citizens and once the lockdown open on May 3 there will be a spike in cases. He urged youngsters to try to ensure that seniors don’t have to go out. “If they must go out, they should take all precautions such as wearing masks etc,” he said. Nehra said mortality is particularly high in those older than 60, and those who have heart disease, kidney disease and diabetes. Such patients even in the 40 to 60 years age group are vulnerable. Nehra said, “If we take care of senior citizens we can definitely bring down our mortality rate, which is high at present. We have to resolve that we will not lose our seniors to the virus.” The AMC had on Thursday announced that its focus would now be on senior citizens. Over 3,000 teachers of the AMC were have been assigned this special task. The AMC has details about the addresses and names of pensioners and senior citizens so that they can be monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/take-special-care-of-senior-citizens-nehra/articleshow/75362617.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Now, dictionary app to help polish your Konkani vocab||Panaji: Konkani speakers and those interested in the language the world over will now be able to access an English to Konkani and Konkani to English dictionary online using the ‘Shabdkosh Konkani’ app free of cost. The dictionary has a collection of 25,000 words and Konkani quotes and phrases will also be added in a phased manner to enrich it further, said Konkani Bhasha Mandal, which collaborated with Shabdkosh.com to create the app and a website as well. “Now, Konkani words will be easily accessible to the students, translators and others across the world with the help of this website and app. The KBM with the help of Shabdkosh.com, further intends to incorporate a Konkani-Konkani dictionary, English to Konkani sentences and Konkani quotes in a phased manner,” said KBM president Chetan Acharya. The vocabulary database will be updated regularly, he said. Shabdkosh.com, a website originally conceptualised, designed and implemented by Maneesh Soni, has a collection of Hindi, Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati, Bengali, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam dictionaries. Now, Konkani language is available on this platform, which is used by over 10 million people around the world every month, said Acharya. Thanking Shabdkosh.com for accepting the Mandal’s proposal, he said it was a dream come true for KBM. Students of the various academic institutions in Goa and translators associated with KBM helped make the online dictionary a reality, said Acharya. The Konkani Dictionary App can be downloaded and installed from Google Play Store and iOS App Store, he said.“It has been a pleasure to work with KBM to enable Konkani language dictionary website and apps for the users in India and around the world. We will continue to work to improve the Konkani language offerings,” said Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-dictionary-app-to-help-polish-your-konkani-vocab/articleshow/75364238.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Collect by April 26: PU||Chandigarh: In its meeting on Thursday, PU administration, on the direction from Chandigarh administration, has recommended that the students should take their belongings by April 26. However, the belongings of the students who are unable to do so, will be shifted to cloak rooms. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Shankarji Jha, dean university instructions (DUI). Authorities suggested that in case students have certificates, laptops and other valuable things in their rooms, then they will have to inform the warden so they can be kept in a safe place.“The students need not panic. In this time of emergency, PU is duty bound to provide all necessary help to the administration,” said the DUI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/collect-by-april-26-pu/articleshow/75344419.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University professor, held for sheltering Jamaat guests, suspended||PRAYAGRAJ: Mohammad Shahid, a professor in the political science department of Allahabad University, who was arrested recently on charges of sheltering Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) attendees, was suspended by the university on Friday. The suspension letter (TOI is in possession of a copy) signed by AU registrar Prof N K Shukla, read: “In view of the letter dated April 23 and the enclosed FIR dated April 1, received from Shahganj and Shivkuti police informing about your being detained in police custody, the vice-chancellor of university in exercises of power conferred under sub-clause (i) of Clause 23 of statutes of the University, as provided in the University of Allahabad Act 2005, hear by places you under suspension with effect from date of detention, i.e., April 21.” During the period of suspension, Prof Shahid shall be paid subsistence allowance as per the applicable rules of University of Allahabad and financial rule of the Government of India as amended time to time, the letter added. The professor would remain suspended till the time of his detention after which the Executive Council would take up the matter and decide on the future course of action on the faculty member, based on the report of the registrar on the issue. If the EC decides, services of Prof Shahid could be terminated from the institution as mentioned in the Ordinance of AU. AU public relation officer (PRO), Shailendra Mishra said, “AU had sought first-hand information from the police in regard to detention of Prof Shahid and now that the same was given to AU, the varsity administration has initiated appropriate action, based on the rules mentioned in the Act and statuettes of AU.” The professor is accused of sheltering several TJs, including six foreigners, in the district. He was arrested on April 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-prof-held-for-sheltering-jamaat-guests-suspended/articleshow/75363491.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||‘Use village panels to fight virus’||Panaji: Goacan has urged director of panchayats Narayan Gad to make use of village development committees, which have been formed in all 190 panchayats, to help create awareness in order to help contain the spread of Covid-19 in villages. “Every panchayat has set up its village development committee and its members have been given comprehensive training through Goa institute of public administration and rural development (GIPARD) over the last four years,” Goacan coordinator Roland Martins said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-village-panels-to-fight-virus/articleshow/75364242.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: It will be stay-at-home prayers, feasts this Ramzan||CHENNAI: The month of Ramzan is usually a time of fasting and reflection. People gather at brightly lit mosques for mass evening prayers, abstain from food and water between dawn and sunset and break the fast with sumptuous meals, engage in charity and be part of gatherings. This year, the Covid-19 pandemic and the unprecedented nationwide lockdown has changed the way Muslims will observe Ramzan. Mosques will be closed, and prayers and feasts will be an intimate affair largely confined to homes amid physical distancing starting from Saturday. “Mosques will usually be packed when we break the fast in the evening. There will another late evening prayer when the Quran is recited. It’s also the time when you would meet your relatives and friends. This year, we have been asked to perform our rituals at home,” said A Abdullah, a resident of Pudupet. Tamil Nadu chief qazi Salahuddin Mohammed Ayub said Ramzan fast will begin in the state on Saturday as the crescent moon was sighted on Friday evening. The month is also about charity with food donated to those who cannot afford them. “We have asked our people to cook some extra food and give it to the poor living nearby. It’s our duty to take care of them. Usually, we make food for people who come to break the fast but the government has told us not to allow such gatherings,” said Moulana Muhammad Mansoor Kashifi Qasimi, chief Imam, Makka Masjid in Anna Salai. “We have to adjust to the changing situation now. Though it is going to be a sad Ramzan as the festive mood will be absent, it won’t affect our rituals,” he added. The Imam said they have also advised people, particularly the elderly and those with low immunity, not to fast and protect themselves from contracting coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/it-will-be-stay-at-home-prayers-feasts-this-ramzan/articleshow/75363405.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||DCF appointed in Gir (east) division||RAJKOT/SURAT: The state government on Thursday transferred 2008 batch Indian Forest Service (IFS) Anshuman Sharma and appointed him as deputy conservator of forest (DCF), Gir (east) division of the Gir wildlife sanctuary. Sharma is presently the DCF, wildlife division, Banaskantha. Sharma’s appointment to this crucial area comes at a time when another canine distemper virus (CDV) outbreak looks imminent in three forest ranges - Tulshishyam, Jasadhar and Hadala - that fall under the Gir (east) division. It is suspected that at least 23 lions have died in these three ranges since January, reportedly due to CDV. The forest department has, however, denied any such outbreak. Sharma’s first posting as DCF was in Gir (East) division in February 2012. In October 2018, when 23 lions had died due to CDV in Dalkhania forest range, Sharma was appointed for crisis management. He was shunted out of Gir in 2015. It was on Wednesday that a group of wildlife activists had written to the Prime Minister Office (PMO) urging that several vacant posts in Gir, the last abode of Asiatic lions, should be filled up urgently, considering the recent lion deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/finally-dcf-appointed-in-crucial-gir-east-division/articleshow/75369233.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Thieves take TV, leave jewellery untouched||Patiala: The police in Patiala have booked some unidentified persons for stealing a LED TV worth Rs 7,000. However, the jewellery shop owner and the police are left perplexed as the burglars have left the costlier ornaments untouched in the shop. The incident took place allegedly in the wee hours on Wednesday at a jewellery shop situated at Puri market, Ghumman road in Patiala. According to the complainant the burglars were recorded in the CCTV camera of a neighbouring shop. The case has been registered at Civil Lines Patiala police station against unidentified accused under sections of house trespass and theft on the complaint of Vikas Verma. “Three persons first broke the lock of the shutter of my jewellery shop and then the locked glass door at around 3.45am on Wednesday. They took away only the LED TV and some coins kept in the money box, but they did not touch the silver ornaments kept in a glass box. The silver ornaments are worth more than Rs 15,000. There was also no attempt made to break the tight shield lock inside the shop where usually goldsmiths keep their gold. I had closed my shop since March 22, but on Wednesday I was informed by a neighbour that the gate lock of my shop was broken,” said Verma. Sub inspector Gurmel Kumar said the accused are yet to be nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thieves-take-tv-leave-jewellery-untouched/articleshow/75344453.cms||Bharat Khanna
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five meet Chenchu families with groceries||HYDERABAD: Two city-based techies who are volunteering with Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) and three other youngsters distributed grocery kits to the Chenchu tribe in Amrabad forest area of Nagarkurnool district. As many as 240 Chenchu families residing in 11 tribal hamlets benefited from the activity, which was conducted in association with the Cyberabad police. The five volunteers - P Ram Kumar, Phani, Gautham, Hari and Vamsi- started their journey at around 4 am in a vehicle arranged by the police. They were carrying with them grocery kits were were packed by SCSC volunteers and the police a day ago. “We started distribution at around 8.30 am and completed it by 6.30 pm. More than 700 members of Chenchu tribe now have groceries for the next 10-15 days,’’ said P Ram Kumar, an engineer who is a member of Robinhood, an NGO. After Amrabad Tiger Reserve forest, Cyberabad police plans to supply essentials to other tribal areas like Adilabad and Kothagudem with the help of volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-meet-chenchu-families-with-groceries/articleshow/75363410.cms||Srinath Vudali
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Inappropriate to refer to lockdown as curfew: Police||Aurangabad: Senior police authorities as well as legal experts have expressed their reservations over the rampant use of word ‘curfew’ instead of using factually and legally correct terminology for the restrictions imposed in the current lockdown during which essential as well as emergency services have been granted exemption. Police authorities, without mincing words, said that any violation of lockdown orders would result into registering a case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by government authorities), 269 (unlawful or negligent act knowing to spread infection or any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease), 271 (knowingly disobeying any quarantine rule). In addition to slapping relevant sections of National Disaster Management Act – 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act – 1897, against the suspect. Experts unanimously pointed out that the word curfew is nowhere mentioned in any of the book of laws including the IPC and CrPC. Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar, a barrister by qualification said, “The word ‘curfew’ does not appear in Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Section 144 provides residuary powers to an executive magistrate to prohibit or enable certain acts deemed necessary to preserve law and order.” Aurangabad superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil said, “Lockdown is under disaster management act. To implement it magistrates have to issue restriction orders under section 144 of CrPC.” Shedding more light on the issue, Aurangabad city’s senior-most deputy commissioner of police, Nikesh Khatmode Patil said, “Whatever orders are being imposed, are only restricting movement. They are neither curfew nor blanket ban on movement.” High court lawyer Abhaysinh Bhosale said, “A lock down is imposed when there is a restriction on assembly but essential services are still available. Section 144 is imposed when assembly is prohibited under the IPC. A curfew is put in place when Section 144 is imposed along with essential services shut down. Violation of lockdown can lead to legal action, but in case of curfew, the violation leads to strict legal action and orders such as shoot at sight can also be directed to prevent unforeseen incidences.” “A lock down can be enforced by a collector or chief medical officer in a particular area under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. This will be implemented through orders of the police commissioner under section 144 of CrPC. This gives them the power to restrict the assembly of 5 or more people in close quarters,” Bhosale added. Criminal lawyers said lockdown is more about self-imposed restrictions while curfew is all about 100% forced restrictions imposed by the law enforcement agencies .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/inappropriate-to-refer-to-lockdown-as-curfew-police/articleshow/75361173.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Mask making unit gutted||VIJAYAWADA: A massive fire broke out at a mask manufacturing centre in Gandhi Nagar, Nellore town, on Friday. According to officials, the incident took place in the early hours of the morning. Upon information, fire tenders rushed to the spot and doused the flames. It was, however, too late as all the raw material, including cotton fabrics sent by the government, were gutted. District fire officials said they are yet to ascertain the source of the fire. The masks were being manufactured in the open at a private field. Meanwhile, preliminary investigations peg the property loss at over Rs 2 lakh. The state government had set a goal to distribute around 16 crore masks across the state. They were being manufactured at respective district headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mask-making-unit-gutted/articleshow/75361151.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Cremation of second Covid-19 victim held amid opposition in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: The funeral of a 75-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19, was held amid opposition from local people in Dakshina Kannada district on Friday. The funeral was held as per the protocol for Covid-19 deaths, police said. The woman, identified as the mother-in-law of the district’s first victim, was declared dead at Wenlock District Hospital on Thursday. With fear raging that Covid-19 could spread to those handling bodies, at least four crematoriums denied permission to conduct the last rites. The district administration had first decided to conduct the woman’s last rites at Pachanady crematorium, but after the news spread, locals from neighbouring Kudupu, Panchanady and Vamajoor raised objection over virus scare. In a video that has gone viral, Mangaluru city north MLA Dr Bhsarath Shetty was seen expressing solidarity with the locals as the administration had failed to inform him or the local corporator about the decision to conduct the funeral at Pachanady crematorium. “Cremation with fire is an accepted method to dispose of the body of a patient with COVID19 +ve case. However, thousands of people including women gathered in Pachhanady who were in Panic with rumours & reluctant to move. In order to protect law & order, we had to change plans (Sic),” he tweeted later. Later, the body was taken to Bantwal where the locals again opposed the move and MLA Rajesh Naik U reportedly offered space at Oddoor Farms in Ganjimutt for the funeral. “The administration reached out to me around 11pm. I offered space at my farm for cremation. I also asked the administration to give me 30-minutes prior notice to make all arrangements. But, by then the administration had decided to conduct the cremation at Kaikunje. The entire process was completed by 3am. There is no harm in conducting the cremation as long as the guidelines are followed,” he said. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, district urban development cell, said: “There is widespread misconception and fear regarding the protocol for Covid-19 deaths. The administration will take measures and spread awareness on it.” The district has so far reported two Covid-19 deaths. The funeral of the first victim, who died on April 19, was conducted at the Boloor crematorium amid opposition from the locals. Meanwhile, referring to the controversy, minister S Suresh Kumar said the disease must not lead to stigma. “It’s inhuman to deny space for the cremation of a patient who has expired. Those who denied may have had lack of awareness. I request all not to forget humanity,” he said. Khader slams Shetty for supporting protestersMangaluru: Manglauru MLA U T Khader on Friday slammed Mangaluru city north MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty for opposing the cremation of district’s second Covid-19 victim at Pachanady crematorium. “It’s a blot on civilised society. I wonder as to how an MLA could lead the people to protest against the cremation. At times like this, humanity is very important. I condemn the stand taken by MLA Bharath Shetty. Meanwhile, I appreciate the humane gesture of Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U, who offered space for the funeral to be conducted at his Oddoor Farms in Ganjimutt,” Khader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cremation-of-2nd-covid-19-victim-held-amid-opposition/articleshow/75359476.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||DCF appointed in Gir (east) division||RAJKOT/SURAT: The state government on Thursday transferred 2008 batch Indian Forest Service (IFS) Anshuman Sharma and appointed him as deputy conservator of forest (DCF), Gir (east) division of the Gir wildlife sanctuary. Sharma is presently the DCF, wildlife division, Banaskantha. Sharma’s appointment to this crucial area comes at a time when another canine distemper virus (CDV) outbreak looks imminent in three forest ranges - Tulshishyam, Jasadhar and Hadala - that fall under the Gir (east) division. It is suspected that at least 23 lions have died in these three ranges since January, reportedly due to CDV. The forest department has, however, denied any such outbreak. Sharma’s first posting as DCF was in Gir (East) division in February 2012. In October 2018, when 23 lions had died due to CDV in Dalkhania forest range, Sharma was appointed for crisis management. He was shunted out of Gir in 2015. It was on Wednesday that a group of wildlife activists had written to the Prime Minister Office (PMO) urging that several vacant posts in Gir, the last abode of Asiatic lions, should be filled up urgently, considering the recent lion deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/finally-dcf-appointed-in-crucial-gir-east-division/articleshow/75361186.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Railway union upset with staffer’s test report delay||Ahmedabad: Delay in communicating Covid-19 testing result to the person concerned has been causing problem to the citizens. In the latest case, a railway employee Abdul Gani, who had given samples to the AMC officials on April 15, was not told about the outcome for the next few days. Gani, who was under quarantine since April 3, assumed that he is free from any infection and joined his duties on April 21.All hell broke loose in Gani’s office when his name appeared in the list of positive persons released by the AMC on April 23. Now, the railway employees working with Gani want all those present in the office when Gani worked there be tested for Covid-19 infection.A few days back, Yasin Mandosarwala, 56, a close associate of Jamalpur MLA Imran Khedawala, too had alleged delay in communicating his report which was positive. He allegedly got to know about his report from social media.Sanjay Suryabali, divisional organizing secretary of Western Railway Employee's Union, has written a letter to the divisional railway manager asking the latter to intervene and get all the railway employees tested for Covid. “We want the railways to get all the employees who were present in office when Gani worked there be tested for corona. Even those whom these employees met should be tested,” he saidDeputy municipal commissioner Dr Om Prakash refused to take calls or reply to the SMS on this issue. Gani too refused to talk about the incident, but Suryabali said that Gani was quarantined on April 3 and his final test before quarantine was to end was taken on April 15. “The AMC officials, who came to take the test, took samples of his wife, his mother, one of the daughters and Gani. But they refused to take samples of the youngest daughter who was sleeping. Failing to get the results till April 21, Gani assumed that he was tested negative and went to office on April 21. Later on April 23, a list of corona positive people was out and it had names of Gani, his wife, his 17-year-old daughter and mother,” said Suryabali.Suryabali said that the youngest daughter of Gani, whose test was not done, is in her home, and Gani and his other family members are at Haj House.“This is a serious lapse on the part of corporation if the entire family is positive how can one daughter be not positive? Secondly, why was there a delay of eight days in declaring Gani’s test results by the AMC? Had the AMC acted in time, Gani would have been in a hospital and other employees whom he met on April 21, would not have been put in danger,” said Suryabali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/railway-union-upset-with-staffers-test-report-delay/articleshow/75362610.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||S Goa bans Sri Ram Sene for 60 days||Margao: South Goa district magistrate Ajit Roy has issued an order banning the activities of right-wing organisation Sri Ram Sene for a period of 60 days, from March 16. The order also prohibits the entry of Pramod Mutalik, the leader of Sri Ram Sene and any of his associates or the group’s members, within the jurisdiction of South Goa district for the two-month period. The district collector’s order refers to a report sent by the South Goa SP which points out to the possibility of a breach of communal peace and harmony in the state, in the event that Mutalik is allowed entry into the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goa-bans-sri-ram-sene-for-60-days/articleshow/75364247.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kanpur||Black poly bags for waste collection in red zones||Kanpur: Team of Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) have started collecting garbage in black polybags in all red zones of the city. KMC had distributed black polythene bags on Wednesday to the teams for collecting garbage. As per instructions, the garbage collected in black polythene, would be kept for seven days in isolation at Panki Bhau Singh garbage disposal centre, and would be sanitized before disposing it off. According to KMC authorities, the government had issued an advisory about disposal of garbage from red zones, Covid-19 isolation wards, quarantine centres and testing labs. After receiving the advisory, municipal commissioner Akshay ḤTripathi purchased black poly bags of 10 kg capacity and asked the sanitary workers to distribute them to the residents of red zones. RK Singh, nodal in charge, Panki Bhau Singh disposal plant, stated that garbage packed in black polybags would be kept separately after date tag. The tagged bag would then be opened after seven days and then it would be sanitized and processed, he added. Chief health officer KMC Dr Pramila Niranjan Singh said that these black bags would be transported in separate vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/black-poly-bags-for-waste-collection-in-red-zones/articleshow/75363550.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Conman offers booze online, dupes several in Chennai||CHENNAI: It was a simple post on several social media platforms, promising the choicest of liquor from Tasmac Elite outlets home delivered for a little more than the marked price. At least 50 people from across the city, with visions of enjoying their favourite tipple during the lockdown, paid between Rs 500 and Rs 2,500 and after realizing they had been conned are now airing complaints on social media sites warning potential victims. Police, who are yet to register a case in the absence of a complaint, say the gang of fraudsters remains active as the post with a picture of an Elite liquor outlet in Anna Nagar and mobile phone numbers 7064278160 and 9983670439 continue to be on various online platforms. Once the victim makes the call and places the order, he/she is directed to pay the entire amount or half of it in advance inclusive of Rs 100 as commission via Google Pay. If the victim offers to transfer money to the stipulated account, account information including OTP is sought. Then the victim’s number is blocked and in case he/she calls from another number to complain, the call is disconnected. When this reporter contacted one of the numbers mentioned in the social media post, a man demanded 50% of the amount upfront through Google Pay. When Anna Nagar resident Sanjay saw the post on a social media platform, he thought he would be able to entertain his friends on his birthday. “When I called the number, a man told me in Hindi that he had very few bottles left and demanded Rs 1,500 for one. As soon as I paid Rs 750, he switched off the mobile and I have not been able to contact him since.” When contacted, staff at the Elite Tasmac outlet said they were shut temporarily. “We also received a few complaints and decided to take up the issue with police,” he said. Cybercrime officials have received oral complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/conman-offers-booze-online-dupes-several/articleshow/75362420.cms||Sindhu Kannan
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Crocodile rescued from Atladara-Bil Rd||Vadodara: A four-feet-long crocodile was rescued from Atladara-Bil Road on Thursday night. The reptile was spotted by locals at about 10pm following which they informed volunteers of Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT). The volunteers handed over the reptile to the forest department. “With onset of summer, water in many ponds are receding. So the crocodiles are venturing out of such ponds in search of newer waterbodies,” said Arvind Pawar, who runs WRT. Pawar said that many more crocodiles would be spotted when they migrate in the coming days. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crocodile-rescued-from-atladara-bil-rd/articleshow/75361211.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||20 cases from towns, villages near A’bad||Ahmedabad: Villages and small towns in Ahmedabad's outskirts have witnessed 20 cases of Covid-19 positive. The Daskroi taluka has seen 13 cases including the two who tested positive for Covid-19 from Prajapati Vas in Jetalpur of Daskroi taluka on Friday. Dholka, Detroj and Dholera have not witnessed any case of infection. A total of 919 samples have been taken for tests of which 20 have tested positive for the virus. Five people have recovered from the disease. District officials say that 73,884 people have been screened for Covid-19 symptoms in Ahmedabad's outskirts, while 1.75 lakh people have been surveyed. There have been four cases from a society at Prashanti Homes in Bopal area. Two cases were registered from Prajapati Vas, one case each from APMC-Jetalpur and Jetalpur town. In Shela area, there was a single Covid-19 case from Greenwoods, while another from Vraj Home. In Dhandhuka, there has been a single case from Mota Ogharwada. In all, there are 75 people who are under quarantine who came in immediate contact with Covid-19 patients. Some 39 healthcare contacts too are under quarantine across various talukas. “We have introduced a special Covid-19 screening van which provides enough protection to our health workers and helps collect samples very efficiently. Very soon we will have more such vans,” says a senior district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-cases-from-towns-villages-near-abad/articleshow/75362606.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Boyfriend kills 22-year-old girl in Goa||COLVA: Police arrested Melbourn Fernandes, 24, from Benaulim on charges of murdering his girlfriend on Friday. Police said that Fernandes allegedly saw his 22-year-old girlfriend from Margao speaking to another boy. Enraged, he called her to an isolated place at Monte in Benaulim and murdered her. While the police have arrested the accused, details of how he killed her are awaited. South Goa SP Arvind Gawas confirmed the murder and the arrest of the accused but said investigations were still under way. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/boyfriend-kills-22-year-old-girl/articleshow/75364257.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Hold your ears, do sit-ups: Aurangabad cops to lockdown violators||AURANGABAD: To keep a check on those violating lockdown orders as well as those stepping out of homes without masks, the city police have started opting for public shaming by making rule-breakers to hold their ears while standing on the road. On Friday morning, police teams were found opting for public shaming of the violators in the areas of Shahgunj, Buddilane, Roshan Gate, Osmanpura, Garkheda and Pundaliknagar to name a few. In the past couple of weeks, the authorities have already imposed fine on hundreds of violators caught sans wearing mandatory masks or for violating the lockdown orders. In addition to this, many violators have also faced action under relevant sections of The Motor Vehicle Act. Sources confirmed that the area police stations, apart from the traffic police, have been tasked to opt for initiating action under The Motor Vehicle Act, instead of getting into any argument with the violators. Wearing masks has been made mandatory for respective authorities at the local level in all the red-zone districts of the state. Anyone caught without mask is imposed with a spot fine of Rs 500. Police authorities said that several people do not have work and money due to lockdown. “Imposing fine on such people may be inhuman in certain cases, so we have decided to punish them,” said an officer. Sources in the police department said that considering financial crisis that a large of section of the society is undergoing, police prefer alternate legal ways of keeping a check on violators unless imposing fine remains the only way. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad on Thursday, using the special powers conferred to him, issued orders imposing strict restrictions of the lockdown from 1 pm to 11 pm, except for the essential services including pharmacy stores, milk dairies, LPG services, on duty government employees as well as the industrial houses that have been granted permission to function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hold-your-ears-do-sit-ups-cops-to-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75361209.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 25, 2020||India||India Post is more than just the ubiquitous red boxes||NEW DELHI: When some migrant labourers were stranded in far-flung Shillong during the lockdown, postmen using handheld POS machines and Aadhaar-authenticated payment system ensured that they received their direct benefit transfer money. From delivering life saving drugs to reaching personnel protection equipment to hospitals, besides pension payments and banking services, India Post has used its vast network to ensure uninterrupted supplies and combat the crippling impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is using an array of transport systems, from Blue-Dart cargo flights to special parcel trains being run by railways. The 1,000 ATMs that have been deployed by the department has come in handy for ensuring banking services while the 3 lakh Grameen dak sewaks armed with micro ATMs have fanned out across the remotest parts. Data on different metrics provides a sense of the mammoth operations. From March 24 to April 13, nearly 14 lakh speed posts were booked, about 2.43 lakh parcels used its network and nearly 11 lakh electronic money orders were registered. From March 24 to April 15, nearly 1.3 banking transactions were carried out, totalling Rs 21,000 crore. On an average, one lakh AePS transactions were undertaken and Rs 10 crore disbursed among the needy and the poor at their doorstep. “When the lockdown was announced, there was apprehension that our operations would grind to a halt but the department reinvented itself and become even more people-centric and compassionate,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-lockdown-india-post-is-more-than-just-the-ubiquitous-red-boxes/articleshow/75365536.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 25, 2020||Kanpur||Muslim neighbours perform last rites of Hindu man in Kanpur||KANPUR: After a perfect display of communal harmony in Munshipurwa, where a group of Muslim men performed the last rites of a 90-year-old Hindu woman on Wednesday, neighbours of a 72-year-old rickshaw-puller, Kaushal, carried his body amid chants of "Ram naam satya hai" and performed his funeral at local burial ground in Jajmau area of the city on Thursday. Kaushal had died on Thursday afternoon after a prolonged illness at his makshift home in the Cantt area of the city. As his relatives, who stay in other districts were stuck due to the lockdown, his Muslim neighbours with the help of their Hindu brethren came forward to perform his last rites. They arranged a bier and amid Hindu chants, lifted it on their shoulders and took it to the Budhiya Ghat burial ground in Jajmau for the last rites. Videos of the funeral procession went viral on social media, drawing huge accolades from netizens. The cremation took place as per Hindu rituals. "We along with our Hindu brethren from the area came forward and collected contributions and made arrangements and performed Kaushal's last rites as per Hindu rituals," said Shahrukh Khan, a local resident, who added, "We followed social distancing norms as only ten persons were allowed to go for funeral because of the lockdown." Others who attended the funeral included Mohd Aqeel, Gaya Prasad, Mohd Subhani, Azmat, Amir and Raju Savita, he said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/muslim-neighbours-perform-last-rites-of-hindu-man-in-city/articleshow/75363579.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 25, 2020||Kanpur||50 test corona +ve in 24 hours, city tally 144||Kanpur: Total number of coronavirus positive cases in Kanpur crossed the 100 mark on Thursday night and Friday, recording a jump of 50 patients in 24 hours. The city reached a cumulative tally of 144 cases, informed chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. The city had reported its first case on March 23 when a 70-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus, few days after his arrival from the US. As per officials, of the 144 Covid-infected people, many were residents of Quli Bazar and Colonelganj localities. However, nine of them have been cured and discharged and three others have died, leaving the number of active cases at 132. Meanwhile, the district health authorities quarantined 28 outsiders who reached the city on Friday. So far, 7,788 persons have been quarantined in the district. According to the health bulletin, three quarantined persons were allowed to go home on Friday. As many as 6,787 quarantined persons have been released so far. DM Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari on Friday appealed to the Muslim community to offer prayers from home during Ramzan which began from Friday. He appealed to the devotees not to organize or conduct mass prayers or iftaar during the lockdown. He also directed the officials to ensure door-to-door delivery of dates and other iftaar items in localities so that no one has to head out to buy the same. The administration continued aerial supervision of hotspot areas of the city such as Jajmau, Chamanganj, Beconganj, Babupurwa, Anwarganj, Naubasta and Machariya. Besides, teams of Kanpur Municipal Corporation sanitized all hotspots and other parts of the city. Door-to-door supply of essential goods to hotspots continued on Friday. DM, along with other officials, visited Chakarpur Mandi on Friday morning and enquired vendors about their problems. On the occasion of Panchayati Raj Diwas on Friday, he felicitated 2 village heads—Priti Soni of village Kakwan and Sushil Dikshit of Hindupur village—for their appreciable relief work in containing the Covid-19 outbreak in their villages. As per authorities, 66 community kitchens have provided food to 55,420 persons so far. Police on Friday checked 4,148 vehicles and realized Rs 15,500 fine from 1,580 vehicles for flouting traffic rules. Besides, 17 vehicles were seized for not showing papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/50-test-corona-ve-in-24-hours-city-tally-144/articleshow/75363559.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Study: Uneven Covid-19 testing across country||HYDERABAD: A study done by Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) researchers has revealed that tests conducted across India for Covid-19 are highly uneven and reflect a disproportionate screening drill, as far as population density is concerned. The researchers of TISS’ School of Public Policy and Governance said West Bengal with a higher population density of 1,029 persons per a square kilometre has low testing rates. Whereas, Rajasthan with a density of only 201 persons per sq km has a tpm of 516. TISS alumnus — TS Pranathi and Shruthi Prasad — and faculty professor Aseem Prakash in the study ‘Navigating to normal a responsive lockdown exit strategy’ urged states to strengthen the testing capacities to cover more extensive sections of populations. “Private players should be incentivised by government to provide affordable testing. Robust data collection of disease can strengthen and streamline Covid-19 testing protocols,” they observed. TISS experts said vigorous testing mechanisms have to be put in place due to the growing apprehensions about community transmission as well as rising cases of asymptomatic individuals testing positive. “Considering the possibility of a spike in infections despite an extended lockdown, a flexible approach is suggested to a phased exit. Moderate or strict restrictions can be activated or removed in an adaptive manner, depending on evidence of infection rates and institutional preparedness,” the study recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/study-uneven-covid-19-testing-across-country/articleshow/75363421.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||100 families from Gadag hotspot quarantined||Hubballi: About 100 families in the Rangawadi, a small street in Gadag where four Covid-19 cases were reported, have been shifted to a quarantine facility. The district administration’s decision – claimed by officials as the first of its kind exercise in the state -- is aimed at curbing the spread of coronavirus. All the cases reported in the district are from the same locality. An 80-year-old woman died while availing treatment at Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences, and three others are being treated at an isolation ward of the hospital. The contact tracing of the first patient did not yield any result. The authorities were busy tracing the primary and secondary contacts of the deceased after which three more cases came to the fore, leaving little breathing room for the district administration. Gadag deputy commissioner M G Hiremath said, “There were many primary and secondary contacts of those who contracted the disease at Ranganwadi. Hence, we decided to quarantine every one living in the area to a government facility and send their throat swab samples to the laboratory. This was the only way to contain the disease. They have been quarantined since Monday. At one go, we sent 104 samples for testing, after which 76 more samples were sent. A total of 180 samples were sent for testing of residents from Ranganwadi. We have received test results of almost all the samples sent, which have tested negative for Covid-19, and a few reports are yet to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/100-families-from-gadag-hotspot-quarantined/articleshow/75359124.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cash runs out, salon workers struggle||CHENNAI: For the past four days, Rashmi Das and her roommate Renuka have been surviving on soups so they can save some rations for the coming days. While they find it hard to get adequate food, they are also having a hard time from residents of their neighbourhood. “When we went out to buy groceries a few days after the lockdown began, there were three men on a bike shouting ‘Corona Corona’ at us. We got scared and returned,” said Rashmi, who works with Renuka as a beautician in a retail salon chain. Since then, the native of Nagaland added, even people in the building where they live had become hostile. “Nobody talks to us anymore.” What is bothering them more is a recent message from the owners of the salon that employs them. “We were told that a few of us will be laid off since they have incurred a lot of loss. There is too much tension now,” said Renuka. A large number of men and women working in salons in the city are from the Northeast. When the lockdown was announced, many attempted to return home, but are now stranded here with very little money and fewer essentials. “The lockdown was announced all of a sudden. The parlour has been shut since and we have no idea when it will reopen. We can earn money only if it does,” said Kamalika Mukhi, a hairstylist from Mizoram. A few others alleged that they had not received their full salaries for March. “We only received 15 days’ salary last month and our owner said we will have to wait to get the rest. And this month again we have no salary but have many bills to pay,” said Tenzin Bhumo, another hairstylist. He said his landlord has been pressuring him to pay the rent before the end of this week. “We are three people and none of us have jobs or money. But he doesn’t understand our situation. I have asked a few people to lend us some money,” he said. A few owners, however, have been doing their bit for their staff. M Vijayalakshmi, manager of a popular beauty salon, said they had been distributing essential commodities and money to their employees, once a week. “We are incurring losses and it would take at least eight months, after reopening, to compensate it. But in the meantime, we are supporting them as much as we can,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cash-runs-out-salon-workers-struggle/articleshow/75363412.cms||Aditi R
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Stop work at bank branches in red zones’||AHMEDABAD: With high exposure to public on the job, and anticipating a customer rush at banks once the lockdown is eased, bank employees have sought temporary shutting of branches located in red zones i.e. areas from where more Covid-19 positive cases are reported in Gujarat. A representation regarding this has been made by Maha Gujarat Bank Employees’ Association (MGBEA) to the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC). Mentioning that five bank employees in Gujarat have tested positive for Covid-19 infection, and raising concerns that bank employees have a higher risk of contracting the infection, the MGBEA representation states, “60% of the cases in Ahmedabad are spread within 8.7 square kilometre area and in these areas, social distancing is a challenge. Thus, we seek to close bank branches situated in these areas temporarily. In fact, bank branches of red zone areas should be closed or relocated to other area branches. In the same area, within a 5km vicinity, banks can function alternatively.” Nearly 40,000 employees are working with fear of contracting infection, states the representation. Bank employee associations have also alleged that despite their demand, thermal scanners as well as masks, gloves and sanitizers are not available at most branches. “Only some banks have provided masks and gloves and sanitizer at the entry door. Most of them have failed to provide thermal scanning machines. Recently, four staff members of a nationalized bank branch were found positive. Cash transactions may continue from 10am to 2pm so that risk of exposure of front-office staff is reduced,” said Janak Rawal, general secretary, MGBEA. Bank employee associations have also sought prosecution of bank managers who insist that staff stay back at the branch even after completion of work. “Branch heads of some banks are insisting upon completing backlogs and achieving targets. They also insist the staff stay in the branch even after completion of work. This can also be a probable reason of transmission and thus, such managers should be booked,” Rawal further added. Alleging that certain bank branches are already operational at 50% staff, MGBEA has also urged the SLBC to make it mandatory for each bank branch to operate on a skeleton staff and avoiding unnecessary crowds in branches. MGBEA has also sought that all banks and branches be advised to provide entry-level thermal guns, screening and sanitation process to save clients and bank employees and prevent spread of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stop-work-at-bank-branches-in-red-zones/articleshow/75362447.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: After huge sale of fruits, e-thottam to become app||CHENNAI: Having ramped up vegetable and fruits procurement and sale from 300 tonnes to 3,500 tonnes, the horticulture department now plans to make its e-thottam platform a full-fledged mobile app which will work on android and iOS mobiles. Having so far door-delivered 1,000 tonnes of fresh fruits and 2,500 tonnes of vegetables in cartons through food aggregators in the city, sales through the app will after the lockdown help about 1.5 lakh registered farmers sell their produce directly to consumers. An assorted pack of fruits including apple costs Rs 500 as does an exclusive five kg of Alphonsa mangoes pack and an assorted pack of vegetables. An official said anyone can order through https://ethottam.com/shop/ that had begun sales on March 26, two days after the lockdown began. The horticulture department has about 6,000 Farmers Interest Groups (FIG), each with at least 20 members, supplying their produce to district horticulture offices. Director of horticulture and plantation crops N Subbaiyan told TOI, “We are not enrolling new members for FIGs and have set up a control room at our headquarters in Chennai which can be reached on 9500091904, 044-22253496, 044-22253884, 044-22253885.” All the 2,500 staff members of the department have been roped in to help the initiative, said an official. In Chennai, the delivery is made through Uber autos and cabs, while in the districts, it is done through cycles. There are 102 farms and parks, 600 depots apart from 385 horticulture offices and 7,500 mobile vendors, who collect fruits and vegetables from the horticulture offices. Farmers from Krishnagiri and Salem send mangoes, guava, and watermelon, while muskmelon comes from Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram, and jackfruit from Villupuram.  “We hope the people will patronise this initiative even after the lockdown is lifted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-huge-sale-of-fruits-e-thottam-to-become-app/articleshow/75362461.cms||A Selvaraj
April 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lightning strike kills six in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR/BALASORE: At least six persons were killed on Friday in separate lightning strikes in the state. The deaths were reported from Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Balasore districts. Bhubaneswar along with other places of the state received heavy rainfall on the day. Three youths from Badapathara village under Khunta police station in Mayurbhanj district were killed in lightning strikes. The trio identified as Jaminikanta Mahanta, 22, Dibyashankara Mahanta, 26, and Koushish Mahanta, 19, had gone for fishing to a pond near their village at around 11am. Fire services personnel reached the spot and admitted the youths to Khunta community health centre where the doctor declared them ‘brought dead’. Two lightning death cases were reported from Jhumpura block in Keonjhar district. The duo was identified as Randu Munda, 35, and Urmila Mudi, 44, . One person Jatri Mahakud of Balabhadrapur was seriously injured in the lightning strike. The incident happened when Randu was going to her farmland in the afternoon. She was taken to Jhumpura community helath centre for treatment where she died. The other incident took place when Urmila and Jatri were retruning from a bank after withdrawing money. Urmila died on the spot and Jatri was injured when lightning struck them. One lightning death was reported from Basta block in Balasore district on Friday morning. The person was identified as Sidhartha Majhi, 18, of Kushadiha village. In Balasore district, strong winds uprooted trees at several places leading to disruption in communication. Power lines were also snapped at most places. A mobile tower collapsed at Chandmari padia in Sahadevkhunta area of Balasore town. K Sudarshan Chakravarthy, Balasore collector, said large trees, electric and telephone poles were also uprooted in the storm. “We are trying to normalize the power supply and remove the uprooted tree from the roads. No causality has been reported so far, he added. Balasore district received heavy rainfall starting from noon to evening. This district received the highest 69 mm rainfall in the state followed by Kosagumuda in Nabarangpur district (60mm) and Mayurbhanj's Baripada (42mm). Heavy rainfall accompanied by lightning and thunderstorm lashed the capital city for more than an hour in the evening. (With inputs from Keonjhar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lightning-strike-kills-6-in-state/articleshow/75359569.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||Ruckus at Noorani Maholla when cops tried to arrest locals||Surat: Police arrested two persons from Noorani Maholla near Gopi Talav in Salabarpura police station on Friday for allegedly standing in a group near their house. A video of the scuffle between police and the locals when cops went to arrest the duo went viral. Police arrested Akhtar Pathan and Ashfaq Pathan, both brothers, for allegedly being part of the illegal assembly. When police wanted to arrest them, they resisted and locals also obstructed the cops from arresting the brothers. Police booked the locals who created a ruckus and obstructed cops from doing their duty.Police claimed that the duo was selling vegetables in the area where six cases of Covid-19 have already been reported. Police noticed a crowd around their cart but when police reached the spot, they had left. After a while when police returned to the same spot, they found the duo selling vegetables again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ruckus-at-noorani-maholla-when-cops-tried-to-arrest-locals/articleshow/75361265.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Pallavaram municipality careless about disposal of waste from Covid-19 patients||CHENNAI: The Pallavaram municipality is not following the due process in disposal of waste collected from houses under quarantine, allege residents and activists. A paramedic residing at Bharatipuram had tested positive and the area is under containment. On Friday morning, sanitary workers with the municipality had collected waste from the patient’s house and instead of disposing it with due diligence, the workers just burned the waste bag at the burial ground in Ganapathipuram, according to activist David Manohar. The waste collected from the Covid-19 patient’s house should be placed into a deep pit and then burned, an official with the municipality said. However, workers climbed over the locked gate of the Ganapathipuram burial ground in Chromepet and burned the bag containing the waste near the gate, without digging a pit. David Manohar, who was alerted of this, rushed to the scene and found that the workers had not followed the procedure. “There is a way to do it. Even the municipality officials acknowledge that. But, their staff just burn it over ground and left. After I alerted the supervisors, two people were sent to take the half-burned stuff and dispose of it,” said David. Pallavaram (Pallavapuram) municipal commissioner C Mathivanan noted that there has been clear instructions to all sanitary staff about ways to dispose of waste from quarantined houses and said he would inquire into the incident. According to another official, residents from quarantined houses have been requested to hand over used masks, gloves and other waste separately in a yellow bag and the waste is either sent to incinerator or burned in a deep pit. “The workers have been working relentlessly for more than three weeks now. They have been asked to disinfect the waste after the waste bag is left outside by the resident. They are aware of the risks of not disposing it properly,” the official said. The commissioner said there are chances the burned waste might have been from a house not under the containment zone. The municipality falls under Chengalpet district which has 57 Covid-19 positive cases till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallavaram-careless-about-disposal-of-waste-from-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75362497.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three-day-old baby girl abandoned in Raipur||AHMEDABAD: A three-day-old baby girl in a cradle was abandoned by some unknown person on Thursday near Mahipatram Ashram, about 200 metres from Kagdapith police station in Raipur. “We have registered a case and trying to find who had left the baby there, with help of CCTV footage from nearby spots,” said a Kagdapith police official.  According to police sources, while the caretaker of the ashram, Shardaben Patel, was sleeping on Thursday night, another employee of the ashram called her up and informed of the infant abandoned in front of the ashram gate. “Patel rushed to the spot and saw the baby girl crying in the cradle. She called her staff and then informed police. We went to the spot, but found no suspicious person near the ashram,” said an official of Kagdapith police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-day-old-baby-girl-abandoned-in-raipur/articleshow/75362500.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Cuttack||Lightning strike kills six in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR/BALASORE: At least six persons were killed on Friday in separate lightning strikes in the state. The deaths were reported from Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Balasore districts. Bhubaneswar along with other places of the state received heavy rainfall on the day. Three youths from Badapathara village under Khunta police station in Mayurbhanj district were killed in lightning strikes. The trio identified as Jaminikanta Mahanta, 22, Dibyashankara Mahanta, 26, and Koushish Mahanta, 19, had gone for fishing to a pond near their village at around 11am. Fire services personnel reached the spot and admitted the youths to Khunta community health centre where the doctor declared them ‘brought dead’. Two lightning death cases were reported from Jhumpura block in Keonjhar district. The duo was identified as Randu Munda, 35, and Urmila Mudi, 44, . One person Jatri Mahakud of Balabhadrapur was seriously injured in the lightning strike. The incident happened when Randu was going to her farmland in the afternoon. She was taken to Jhumpura community helath centre for treatment where she died. The other incident took place when Urmila and Jatri were retruning from a bank after withdrawing money. Urmila died on the spot and Jatri was injured when lightning struck them. One lightning death was reported from Basta block in Balasore district on Friday morning. The person was identified as Sidhartha Majhi, 18, of Kushadiha village. In Balasore district, strong winds uprooted trees at several places leading to disruption in communication. Power lines were also snapped at most places. A mobile tower collapsed at Chandmari padia in Sahadevkhunta area of Balasore town. K Sudarshan Chakravarthy, Balasore collector, said large trees, electric and telephone poles were also uprooted in the storm. “We are trying to normalize the power supply and remove the uprooted tree from the roads. No causality has been reported so far, he added. Balasore district received heavy rainfall starting from noon to evening. This district received the highest 69 mm rainfall in the state followed by Kosagumuda in Nabarangpur district (60mm) and Mayurbhanj's Baripada (42mm). Heavy rainfall accompanied by lightning and thunderstorm lashed the capital city for more than an hour in the evening. (With inputs from Keonjhar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/lightning-strike-kills-6-in-state/articleshow/75369528.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chandigarh||3 held for burglary and stealing liquor||Chandigarh: Industrial Area Phase-1 police have arrested three persons for burglary and possessing illicit liquor. Police said the accused have been identified as Rahul alias Mungi, a resident of Sector 17 in Panchkula , Deepak Kumar of village Khuda Lahora and Anil alias Kancha, a resident of colony number-4. According to the police, Rahul had broken into a shop in Daria village and stole cash and other documents. Police seized Rs 10,000 in cash and other documents from him. Rahul was produced before court, which sent him on 14-day judicial custody. Deepak was arrested from near colony number-4 with seven boxes of country-made liquor in his car. He failed to produce permit for carrying liquor with him. He was released on bail. Anil was arrested for allegedly stealing liquor boxes from a truck, which was parked at Industrial Area Phase-1 on March 23. Police have claimed to have recovered 36 boxes of stolen liquor from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-held-for-burglary-and-stealing-liquor/articleshow/75344531.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Ranganayaka Sagar receives Godavari water||Hyderabad: Amid the statewide lockdown, there was much to cheer for the farmers of Siddipet district as Godavari water was released into Ranganayaka Sagar on Friday. Apart from providing drinking water to several villages in five assembly constituencies, Ranganayaka Sagar will also irrigate 1.10 lakh acres. Ministers KT Rama Rao and T Harish Rao released water by switching on the first of the four motors to lift water. Officials said this was the second biggest machine after the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ranganayaka-sagar-receives-godavari-water/articleshow/75363443.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||One booked for fake social media invites to support cops||Surat: Police booked a man in Amroli on Thursday for alleged cheating people by inviting them to come together to support police. The accused shared the invite through social media.Police booked Ghanshyam Italiya, president of Lifeline Charitable Trust, for allegedly sharing the message on social media. In his message, Italiya invited people to join together to support the police. He used name of Amroli police station, according to the police complaint.“Italiya did not take any approval from police to undertake the activity and without informing local police he was doing the activity,” said a police officer.Italiya is currently running a health check-up van to check health of government employees working in field during lockdown. He was also earlier involved in traffic rules awareness campaign run by the city police.Earlier in the week, a property broker and VHP member Pravin Bhalala, was arrested by crime branch for allegedly sharing WhatsApp group links on social media inviting people to join the groups to support police in current times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-booked-for-fake-social-media-invites-to-support-cops/articleshow/75361244.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: GMERS gets nod for Covid-19 testing||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat has got one more laboratory run by government ready to conduct Covid-19 tests on Friday, taking the number of total government-run labs in the state to 15. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that GMERS Gandhinagar has got the ICMR nod for the Covid-19 testing. As on Friday morning, Gujarat government-run labs include facilities at BJ Medical College, Ahmedabad, MP Shah Medical College, Jamnagar, Government Medical Colleges at Bhavnagar, Vadodara, Surat, PDU Medical College, Rajkot, SVP Medical College, Ahmedabad, GMERS Sola, NIOH Ahmedabad, GCRI Ahmedabad, SMIMER Hospital Surat, STDC Ahmedabad and TB Centre, Surat. Four private labs having the ICMR permission include Unipath Specialty Laboratory, Supratech Miropath Diagnostics and Pangenomics International, Ahmedbad, and SN Gene Lab in Surat. While Ravi claimed that the number of tests have increased in Gujarat, the figure released by the state health department revealed that from 5pm on April 23 to 5pm on April 24, Gujarat carried out 1,438 tests compared to the state’s perceived daily capacity of 3,000 tests. “The number of tests conducted for Covid-19 are being increased gradually. We were carrying out 100 tests daily on April 1 which increased to 2,963 on April 23. As a strategy to test 100 samples from all districts having no positive cases, we have also collected 4,212 samples in a day,” said the principal secretary, adding that the state currently has capacity of 3,000 tests daily with 15 public-sector and four private sector labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gmers-gets-nod-for-covid-testing/articleshow/75362578.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Meerut||Migrants stuck in Haryana swim across Yamuna to UP||MEERUT: At least 12 manual workers recently crossed the Yamuna, which doubles up as border between Haryana and UP on some stretches, on their way home, before they were caught and quarantined in Shamli. All of them worked in Panipat’s vegetable market and were forced to leave after their “employer stopped giving them food”. They were marching to Kaushambi, about 765kms from Panipat, when some villagers in Shamli’s Gangeru village spotted them and alerted police on Tuesday. On Thursday evening, at least 15 migrants from Kunjpura area of Haryana tried to swim through Yamuna to enter Shamli’s Chausana village. But villagers alerted police and they were sent back. Just like them, hundreds of workers stuck in neighbouring Haryana cities are looking towards the river to recede, putting the already overstretched police force in a fix. After barricading roads and sealing the borders, the department never thought that it will have to man the river also, a senior officer said. Yamuna marks UP’s border with Haryana in Shamli and Baghpat districts. In the first week of April, police arrested a number of migrants using inflated tubes to cross Yamuna. The tubes were provided by villagers for which they charged 200-300 per person. After the police crackdown, the practice stopped. The district administration in Shamli on Friday held several meetings with locals and heads of villages, located on the Yamuna banks and appealed to them to immediately alert if anyone tries to cross over into UP. When contacted, Shamli’s district magistrate Jasjeet Kaur said, “Most of these labourers are not residents of Shamli. They are from other parts of UP like Gorakhpur, Varanasi, etc. We cannot send them to their districts because of lockdown. It is the government’s decision that labourers have to stay where they are. When we send these workers back, we do inform Haryana authorities to accommodate them in shelter homes. In Karnal alone, we have reports that over 740 UP labourers are in shelter homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/border-roads-sealed-migrants-stuck-in-haryana-swimming-yamuna-to-cross-over-to-up/articleshow/75363432.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||Tobacco addict murders 22-year-old man in Adipur, held||RAJKOT: Craving for tobacco can prove so lethal that it can result in a murder. Such an incident came to light on Friday, when a youth who objected to a tobacco addict frisking his father for a tobacco pouch was stabbed to death in Adipur of Kutch district. Police arrested the accused, Jawahar Baazigar (25), soon after the crime on Friday afternoon. Jawahar had allegedly stabbed Sanjay Baazigar (22) in Baazigar Mohalla locality near Hanuman temple in Adipur. According to the details of the incident, Jawahar had asked Sanjay’s father Shankar Baazigar for tobacco. When Shankar said he did not have any, Jawahar started frisking. “It was then that Sanjay happened to pass by. When he objected Jawahar for his misbehaviour with his father, an angry Jawahar went inside his house and came out with a knife. He allegedly dealt four stabbing wounds to Sanjay. Sanjay was rushed to a private hospital in Adipur where he succumbed to his injuries,” said N K Chaudhary, sub-inspector with Adipur police station. The police nabbed Jawahar from Baazigar Mohalla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tobacco-addict-murders-22-yr-old-man-in-adipur-held/articleshow/75361287.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Registration begins for stranded Odias||BHUBANESWAR: The online registration process for stranded Odias, who want to come back, started on Friday with the state government launching a portal (covid19.odisha.gov.in). Registration can be done both in Odia and English. The state government is on its toes to manage the post-lockdown situation in the state as around 7.5 lakh Odia people, including migrant workers, students, professionals, pilgrims and others, are expected to return once the lockdown is lifted. The state government has made it mandatory for everyone, who wants to come back to Odisha, to register himself/herself on the portal. State panchayati raj secretary D K Singh, in a recent advisory to the collectors, said, “In no case, persons coming from outside the state shall be allowed to go to his home without being kept in quarantine in the temporary medical camps in gram panchayats for 14 days.” An official source said if someone would return without being registered, he/she will be asked to register on the spot and sent to quarantine centres. “We cannot sent him/her back but he/she has to stay in quarantine facilities wherever the administration wants and not necessarily near his/her localities. All those who want to return should register through the portal or with the help of any of their local contacts,” said an official. People without any local contact can also register with the help of panchayat or ward nodal officers, whose details have been shared on the portal. Every returnee will be screened at the arrival points like bus stands, railway stations and airport. Even as many states have sent special buses to other states to bring back their people, there is no clear picture whether Odisha will arrange special trains and buses to bring back people from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/registration-begins-for-stranded-odias/articleshow/75359586.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh Lokayukta steps in for farmers’ safety||HYDERABAD: In order to prevent farmers from gathering at the groundnut procurement centre at Pulivendula in Kadapa, AP Lokayukta Justice Lakshmana Reddy directed authorities to establish more centres. M Gowthami, joint collector, set up more than 12 centres. Farmers are allotted tokens and only nine farmers are allowed at once at each centre, she said. In a petition from Srikakulam, many alleged that villages will be submerged if fish tanks built in Vamsadhara river by private persons are not removed. The judge sought an report from irrigation officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-lokayukta-steps-in-for-farmers-safety/articleshow/75363458.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist admin despatches new ration cards||Coimbatore: The district administration has started distributing ration cards to as many as 1,500 families who had applied for the cards to avail essential commodities from the state government. As on Friday, authorities distributed essential commodities to about 95% beneficiaries and received the district’s share of commodities required for distribution during May.According to civil supplies officials, 5,800 people had applied for new ration cards in the district. Of them, the department issued 4,600 cards just before the lockdown kicked in.The dispatch of the remaining 1,200 cards was pending and the officials were planning to resume distribution of the new cards after the lockdown was lifted. However, since the lockdown was extended and there was growing demand form the pending applicants for faster distribution of the cards, the officials have started issuing them.The applicants wanted the cards so that they could collect the lockdown relief materials and cash dole given by the government.Civil supplies officials said that the staff are going door-to-door to give the new ration cards to the applicants. “PDS staff from the respective ration shops will go to the applicants’ house in their locality and hand over the cards. Those getting the new cards can avail the government benefits,” said a civil supplies officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-admin-despatches-new-ration-cards/articleshow/75363454.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Total lockdown in city from Sunday to contain Covid-19||Coimbatore: The state government on Friday announced complete lockdown in the city corporation limit for four days beginning 6 am on Sunday. The move is to control the spread of Covid-19 infection by completely restricting the movement of public.District collector K Rajamani said, “the corporation borders would be completely sealed and no one would be allowed to cross the border for any reason other than medical emergencies. The measures taken in the corporation limit to restrict public movement would be intensified further.” He said his administration would ensure that essential commodities – vegetables, fruits and milk – are made available to the general public. Both markets and mobile vegetable vehicles would be allowed to function for a stipulated time, he said, adding that steps would be taken to ensure that vegetables reach those in the containment zones. “No shops other than medical outlets would be allowed to remain open. If people are found gathering at medical shops for absurd reasons, stern action would be taken both against people and shopkeepers,” he said. All necessary steps would be taken to ensure that food distribution to migrant workers continues without any interruption, he added.Police commissioner Sumit Sharan said as many as 1,200 police personnel would be deployed across the corporation limit and only ambulances and people with medical emergencies would be allowed to travel. The deployed personnel have been directed to verify medical prescriptions in case of doubts and to ensure that people travel only to the nearest medical shops. “If people are coming out deliberately, they would be booked and their vehicles would be seized. If anyone is found to be coming out for the second time, they would be arrested and remanded to judicial custody,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/total-lockdown-in-city-from-sunday-to-contain-covid-19/articleshow/75363479.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh ex-SEC letter: Evidence tampered, says probe||HYDERABAD: A probe into a letter written by former Andhra Pradesh election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh has revealed that attempts to damage the evidence were made. AP Crime Investigation Department chief PV Sunil Kumar said the pen driver used for transferring files was smashed, the desktop was formatted and files deleted. “We received a complaint from MP Vijay Sai Reddy, alleging that the former SEC’s letter to MHA was not sent from his office. Reddy also raised suspicion regarding his signature. We initiated an enquiry into the matter and also spoke to the SEC’s assistant secretary K Samba Murthy on the issue,” said Sunil Kumar. “Murthy told us that Ramesh dictated a five-page letter to him soon after the SC’s judgement. The letter was typed on the laptop and transferred to the desktop via a pen drive. Following this, it was transferred to Ramesh’s phone via Whatsapp and he may have sent it to MHA through his personal email ID,” he added. To verify the facts, the CID officials had asked for the laptop, desktop and pen drive. “To our utter surprise, Samba Murthy told us that the letter on the laptop was also deleted. The hard disk of the desktop has been formatted and a new operating system has been installed. The pen drive has been physically smashed,” said Sunil Kumar. The investigating agency has seized the devices for forensic examination and retrieving the data. Vijay Sai Reddy had earlier alleged that TDP leaders are behind the letter written by SEC to union home secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-ex-sec-letter-evidence-tampered-says-probe/articleshow/75363469.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government tracks mobile phone usage to trace Bengal returnees||BHUBANESWAR/KORAPUT: Besides using feedback from panchayat representatives on those who have returned recently from outside the state, the government is actively tracking people with recent travel history through their mobile phones to ensure that nobody escapes Covid-19 surveillance. Such people, once traced, are being kept in quarantine for 14 days. The government has so far tracked more than 2900 who have come from West Bengal alone on or after March 25. This was done after 33 people who returned from the neighbouring state tested positive for the virus. Barring Nuapada, the returnees are spread across 29 of the 30 districts. Shalini Pandit, mission director, National Health Mission, Odisha, on Thursday wrote to the district administrations to locate such returnees, home quarantine them and send their samples for testing. “Phones which were active in West Bengal before March 25 and are active in Odisha after that were tracked. Data of all these have been shared by the government with the district administrations to check the health condition of those who have returned and quarantine them,” a senior government official said. The government would follow a similar strategy to track people travelling through the state after the lockdown ends, a government source said. The Koraput district administration on Friday started tracking 44 people, including five BSF personnel, who had been to West Bengal after March 25. “They will be kept under home quarantine and their samples will be sent for tests,” said Makrand Beura, chief district medical and public health officer, Koraput. Balasore saw 772 people return from West Bengal after March 25 while Bhadrak and Jajpur witnessed 242, and 329, respectively. The government has been concentrating aggressively in its containment strategy in the three districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur following a spurt in the number of cases there. While Bhadrak has reported 16 positive cases, Jajpur has seen 12 and Balasore 10. “We have been carrying out contact-tracing, sample collection and testing in the three districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur because of the cases there. There is no such situation elsewhere,” health secretary Nikunja Bihari Dhal said. These apart, 238 people have been traced in Khurda district of which Bhubaneswar is a part. “We are appealing to people with recent travel history to get themselves registered either in the government portal or by calling up the helpline number 104,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-tracks-mobile-phone-usage-to-trace-bengal-returnees/articleshow/75359631.cms||Ashok Pradhan
April 25, 2020||Pune||Scramble for essentials as most shops remain closed in Kondhwa||PUNE: With only a few shops open in Kondhwa on Friday morning despite relaxations announced by the authorities, people scrambled for essentials and crowded around stores selling milk, eggs and chicken, throwing social distancing norms to the winds. There were arguments and squabbles as people waited in long queues under the blazing sun to buy essentials. Milk packets were the most in demand, but they were sold out early as only a few shops received their supplies. Most shops selling groceries and vegetables remained shut on NIBM Road, parts of Undri and Salunke Vihar Road. The few shops that were open had to contend with a huge crowd right from early in the morning. “I woke up early and stood in a queue outside a chicken shop for around 45 minutes. As soon as the shop opened around 10am, all hell broke loose. Those who were behind me rushed to the front. Social distancing norms were quickly forgotten as everybody demanded that they be served first. I left the place without buying anything,” Shailesh Jamkar, who lives on Salunke Vihar Road, told TOI. Bhawani, a grocery shopowner in the same area, said, “While we are permitted to stay open for two hours, police are telling us to close before time. They are warning us that they would seal the shop otherwise.”  Priya Dixit, from NIBM Road, said she couldn’t find any vegetables even after driving for half-an-hour. “Some shops only have potatoes and onions. I saw around 70-80 people standing in front of Reliance Mart,” she said. On NIBM Road, too, some shops that were open saw a huge rush. “I stood in a queue around 8am to buy some milk and eggs, but was pushed aside by the surging crowd,” said a local resident. In the same area, a grocery store owner selling milk packets was forced to down shutters as the crowd in front of his shop became unmanageable. “I cannot sell in this kind of situation. If the police see so many people, they will seal my shop,” he said. Kondhwa corporator Nanda Lonkar said the shops in the area were allowed to remain open between 10am and noon. “The municipal administration had initially said that the two-hour rule was for two days, but it has been extended until further orders,” she said. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from Kondhwa police station said that no instruction had been given to keep the shops shut. “We have not told grocery shops and vegetable vendors to remain shut on Salunke Vihar Road. No complaint has been received from anybody in this regard,” he said. (Additional reporting by Asseem Shaikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scramble-for-essentials-as-most-shops-remain-closed-in-kondhwa/articleshow/75363476.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 25, 2020||Pune||Trash trouble for housing societies||Pune: A number of housing societies in different parts of the city, including Kondhwa, are facing problems with regards to collection, segregation and disposal of waste, as those tasked with the job are not reporting for duty. Housing society representatives said wet and dry garbage were not getting segregated as a result and that Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) trucks were refusing to pick up the mixed trash. “Some days after the lockdown started, many parts of the city, including Kondhwa, were sealed. The men we had engaged for garbage disposal live in one such area and are unable to come. Until three days ago, all the dustbins were full and the stench was unbearable. This has happened due to some society members not following instructions,” the office-bearer of a society on NIBM Road said. A source in the PMC said there were quite a few societies in sealed areas where disposal of garbage has become a problem. “Garbage needs to be segregated. However, that isn’t happening,” an official said. A resident of a society on Salunke Vihar Road said, “The society management had instructed residents on the disposal of waste. However, there are many residents who are not following them. Now, the dustbins have been kept near the main gate. The society guard has been told to keep an eye on those not following instructions.” A resident of another society near the NIBM post office said, “For days, the garbage was not being collected by the PMC staffers due to improper segregation by many residents. Residents not segregating waste will be fined.” Dnyaneshwar Molak, deputy commissioner and head of the PMC’s solid waste management department, said, “We have been working round the clock to ensure collection of waste. Though there has not been any complaint from any society, they have been told to follow the instructions strictly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trash-trouble-for-housing-societies/articleshow/75363482.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 25, 2020||Jamshedpur||Lockdown blues: 55 wedding guests from Odisha stuck on rooftop in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: The lockdown has turned life upside down for around 55 guests from various parts of Odisha, who had come to the Steel City for a wedding reception on March 21. The guests comprising women, about 10 children and even lactating kids, have been compelled to live on the rooftop pandal at Pardesi Para under the Sonari police station area in Jamshedpur. With no scope of any social distancing whatsoever, the guests mainly from Rourkela and Balangir in Odisha, are left at the mercy of nature. So from sweltering heat with temperature hovering over 40° Celsius during the daytime to nor’westers followed by heavy rain later in the evening, they have to face the nature’s fury. The family of the bridegroom, Sumit Kumar, talking to TOI on Friday lamented that after the Janata Curfew, the first phase of the lockdown started following which it was extended until May 3, leaving the guests with no option but to stay back. The wedding reception was on March 21 and the guests had stayed back to attend various family rituals. Kumar said, “We are somehow arranging the food for all the guests. But as days are passing by, it is becoming increasingly difficult for us to bear the cost of feeding so many mouths four times a day.” He added that recently a local club had arranged a one-time meal for the guests, but the quantity was not enough. Kumar said every alternate day they require an LPG cylinder to cook the food for so many people. “This was becoming difficult as new norms have come into force for booking a fresh cylinder amid the ongoing lockdown,” he groused. Arranging infant food has also become a challenge. Ram Panda, who is farmer by profession, and was among the wedding guests said it was extremely difficult to maintain basic hygiene as so many people are living on the rooftop with two toilets. When TOI visited the place, it was seen that more than 75% of the guests, including kids did not have masks and social distancing was simply out of the question in such a crammed space. The guests wanted the district administration to issue them travel passes and arrange a vehicle such that they could go back to Odisha. Kumar hoped that NGOs, political parties or the district administration would help them feed and give proper shelter to the guests in this lockdown. In another house in Sonari west under the Sonari police station, more than 20 people from Varanasi, Bangalore and other parts of the country were stuck after they had come to attend the last rites of their kin in the city on March 24. J Raju, the head of the family, said the guests now want to go back as it was extremely uncomfortable to live in a 3BHK flat for so many days. They had booked train and flight tickets, but they got automatically cancelled after the lockdown was extended. The guests and hosts are keeping their fingers crossed for the end of lockdown 2.0 so that they can return to their homes safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/lockdown-blues-55-wedding-guests-from-odisha-stuck-on-rooftop-in-steel-city/articleshow/75359641.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
April 25, 2020||Surat||Curtail import of roughs for a month, GJEPC urges||Surat: With the Covid-19 pandemic impacting global economy, leaders of the Indian gems and jewellery industry have made an appeal to its members to voluntarily curtail import of rough diamonds for one month starting May 15. The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) and the diamond associations in Surat and Mumbai have appealed to its members for considering the option to protect the interest of the industry at large during the current global crisis. Based on the consultation with the industry leaders, the GJEPC has written to the Union Commerce ministry and other government departments apprising them of the precarious state of the Indian gems and jewellery industry due to the Covid-19 crisis.Pramod Kumar Agarwal, chairman of GJEPC said, “The curtailment of rough import for one month will send a signal to the banking sector that the industry will not increase its indebtedness and the banks won’t reduce credit exposure to the industry. The move to curtail export would cause few roughs to enter into the diamond pipeline as the demand may take a long time to improve.”Vice-chairman of BDB, Mehul Shah said, “This crisis is different from the global economic downturn of 2008. We don’t know when the demand will improve as majority of our diamond consuming markets are under lockdown. At present, the industry has enough stock of rough diamonds and there is no need for piling up of fresh stock.”Diamond industry analyst, Aniruddha Lidbide said, “There is an estimated about $2 billion worth of rough diamonds and $5 billion worth of polished diamond inventories in the industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/curtail-import-of-roughs-for-a-month-gjepc-urges/articleshow/75361321.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Dhanvantari Raths’ used as mobile OPDs||Ahmedabad: Dhanvantari Arogya Raths, the scheme launched for well-being of the construction workers in Gujarat, are being deployed across the state as mobile OPDs for the hotspots, said EMRI Gujarat officials. In Ahmedabad, 12 such vehicles are deployed around hotspots and isolation zones, they said. Harendra Vala, project coordinator, said that about 700 to 800 patients are handled by the 34 vehicles in the state. “For quite some time, the citizens found it difficult to approach their nearby clinics for smaller health problems. Thus, the teams with doctors and paramedics were deployed,” he said. “The diagnosis also served as screening mechanism, especially near the hotspots, to identify potential Covid-19 cases.” An official with a vehicle stated that in several cases, the patients could not visit their regular physicians for check-ups. “Based on their previous history, we also recommended them medicines and health regime,” she said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dhanvantari-raths-used-as-mobile-opds/articleshow/75362572.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Petrol pumps to operate for two hours in high-risk zones||PUNE: The Pune Petrol Dealers' Association said on Friday after a meeting with the police that further restrictions had been imposed on pump operation timings in severely-affected Covid-19 areas, where petrol pumps will now operate for two hours from 10am to noon. Except for the severely-affected areas, the operation timings of the pumps in lesser-affected areas of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will be from 8am to 4pm. "Except for the severely-affected Covid-19 areas, the rest of the petrol pumps in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Mjnicipal Corporation (PCMC) areas will follow the same operation timing as before: 8am to 4pm,” Sameer Ladkat, president, Petrol Dealers Association, Pune, told TOI. The Petrol pumps that fall in containment areas (severely-affected areas) will operate from 10am to noon. This will apply to those pumps within the boundaries of both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad," he said. The pumps in areas in Pune district other than the municipal limits will be operational from 7am to 11pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-pumps-to-operate-for-two-hours-in-high-risk-zones/articleshow/75363489.cms||Neha Madaan
April 25, 2020||Pune||Summer internships at engineering colleges remain in the doldrums||PUNE: Engineering students usually take on summer internships between June 1 and July 31 but this year the period may be largely truncated due to the ongoing lockdown. Most examinations for third-year engineering students come to an end by May and students are free to undertake internships in the following months. However, now the academic calendar may be extended since there is no clarity on when examinations will be held. Consequently, only a short period will be available for internships that lead to pre-placement offers. Some colleges said that companies are working on online modes of internship. The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has already directed institutions to put summer internships on ‘hold’ till further orders. Meanwhile, B-school internships that were to begin in the first week of April are now happening online mode wherever possible. Army Institute of Technology’s training and placement officer (TPO) Manoj Khaladkar said, “Generally, by May, the end of semester exams are over and students are free to take up summer internships. As per AICTE instructions, we have mailed all industries that a virtual internship mode needs to be created and they are working on the same. Internships aren’t cancelled but this also depends on when the government permits universities to conduct exams.” Cummins College of Engineering for Women’s TPO Amit Rajurkar also stressed on companies going virtual. “If all goes well, we can get a time period of six rather than eight weeks and we are already conducting online classes, assignments, etc. All of this depends on when the lockdown ends though,” said Rajurkar. A TPO also said that there are also chances of complete cancellation of internships at many branches. “The problem is that there is already a delay and we need to start the next academic calendar soon. We cannot forgo classes or exams. If the lockdown extends further, then internships will be cancelled or only online internships will be allowed,” he said. VIT’s Karthick Subramanian said, “A weakened US and European market is a threat to the IT industry. We are in constant touch with HR officials asking them if they will stick to their commitment. At our college, 100 third-year students had landed summer internships but now that looks dicey. Some companies are fine with online internships but others say that they need some physical contact.” Pratibha Chavan, associate dean of industry relations at Trinity College of Engineering, said, “The current situation seems difficult for summer internship programme that normally lead to pre-placement offers for students. Due to the lockdown and disturbance in the academic schedule, summer internships are a non-starter.” How are B-schools faring?Meanwhile, business schools are also facing some problems as their summer internships take place in April-May. GVS Rao, professor of finance who teaches at various management institutes in Pune, said, “Normally, end-term exams are conducted in the first and second week of April and all the interns invariably join companies by the third week. Some students have been informed informally that their joining date is postponed. As companies do not stand to lose anything because of a delay, they do not communicate officially. Some companies have cancelled or postponed internships to July-August as of now.” Pratima Sheorey, director of Symbiosis Centre For Management and HRD, said that most companies offering internships at the college are doing it through the virtual mode. “While there were some cancellations, we were able to find internships for those students too. The lockdown hasn’t impacted the stipend offered by big companies but there were a few start-ups that cut down their offers by 10-15%,” added Sheorey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/summer-internships-at-engineering-colleges-remain-in-the-doldrums/articleshow/75363499.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana NRI cell to help workers in Dubai||HYDERABAD: Telangana NRI cell officials said that they would write to Indian consul general in Dubai asking for help for workers who have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Gulf. The workers are allegedly locked up in a labour camp without medical care. Around 10 of them who tested positive have sought help for hospitalisation, while others in the camp have been demanding tests.  An official of the NRI cell, E Chitti Babu told TOI, “ As Friday and Saturday are holidays in Dubai, we will be writing to them after two days.” Telangana Gulf Welfare Association president P Basanth Reddy had also submitted an online grievance to the Prime Ministers Office. Meanwhile, in an audio message, one of the victims, originally from Mancherial said, “We are still locked up in the room without medical care. If we stay here for a few more days, we will die. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-nri-cell-to-help-workers-in-dubai/articleshow/75363501.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 25, 2020||Meerut||Newborn of Covid-19 positive pregnant woman handed over to family without testing||MEERUT: In utter ‘negligence’ of the staff of LLRM Medical College, the newborn of a 31-year-old pregnant woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20, was handed over to her family without testing the baby for Coronavirus. The Meerut chief medical officer has now sought a written reply in the matter from the hospital authorities. The woman gave birth to a baby boy after a caesarean delivery on Friday. Now, all eyes are on the test reports of the baby. Notably, the woman's case came to light after she went for a regular check-up at a hospital in Begum Pul as her fever continued a little longer. She tested positive at the private facility last Monday. Her husband and the private hospital staff were put under quarantine. Her husband is a vegetable seller. He sells vegetables at Sadar Sabzi Mandi, thereby putting the health department on alert to trace his contact chain. The woman was traced from Rajban’s Chhota Bazaar area, which was declared a "Covid hotspot" starting Monday midnight, until further orders. Dr Raj Kumar, the Meerut CMO, said, “This is a matter of utter negligence and a written reply will be sought from the LLRM hospital authorities about it. The testing of the child should have been done before handing him over to the family.” However, Dr RC Gupta, principal of LLRM Medical College, had something else to say. “Despite the risk involved, we conducted a caesarean delivery. According to protocol, the test of the newborn is conducted a week after he is born, and since somebody has to take care of the child, he was handed over to the family, who have already tested negative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/newborn-of-covid-ve-pregnant-womanhanded-over-to-family-without-testing/articleshow/75363472.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Faithful gear up for low-key Ramzan amid lockdown||Coimbatore: Ramzan this year is markedly different than in the past. With an unprecedented ban on family gatherings and mass prayers due to Covid-19 pandemic, several Muslim families marked the beginning of the holy month of Ramzan on Friday with the sighting of the crescent moon. The month-long practice of fasting is considered a holy ritual by Muslims worldwide, accompanied with reflection and service to the community.“As it is our duty to extend support to the government in controlling the infection, we have decided not to open the mosques for public. People were informed to pray at their houses,” said A Faizal, joint secretary of Coimbatore district Sunnath Jamath Kolgai Kuttamaipu.Just like other days, calls for prayers would be announced from the mosques but instead of stepping out, people have been asked to pray at their homes itself, he said. The day-long fasting begins from Saturday. “In general, people would gather at mosques to see the crescent moon and then feed each other sweets to mark a happy beginning. But this year, we could neither visit the mosques nor sight the crescent with our friends and families,” rued M Abdul Hakkim, secretary of Jamaat e Islmai Hind.In the holy month of Ramdan, Muslims donate about 2.5% of their income to the poor. But Abdul Hakkim said they are uncertain how to go about fulfilling the ritual this year. Following the fasting that lasts from sunrise to sunset, Muslims invite their friends and families for iftaar. “But this year, it cannot be done in a grand manner,” he said. A Abdul Jabber, general secretary of Coimbatore District United Jamaat, said, “they are going to remember this Ramadan forever.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/faithful-gear-up-for-low-key-ramzan-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75363505.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: When cops helped woman deliver baby on the road||COIMBATORE: Police personnel went beyond their call of duty to assist a woman in labour deliver her baby safely near Singanallur police station on Thursday. Around 9.30 pm on Thursday, when artists from two NGOs Aathma Arakkattalai and Ruthambara arakattalai were painting walls to create awareness on Covid-19, a man who was travelling with his wife in a two-wheeler stopped his vehicle and rushed towards them seeking help. A police official said the man had sought the assistance of the NGO workers as his wife was in labour pain. The NGO staffers instantly alerted police officials and sought help. Personnel at the Singanallur police station immediately dispatched a team, including women cops, to the spot where the woman was lying. Once there, they cordoned off the area by using barricades. “Women cops – Krishnaveni and Devi Rosy – who had rushed to assist the woman donned the role of midwives. Within a few minutes, the woman delivered a baby,” an official said. Both the woman and the baby were then taken in an ambulance of the NGOs to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where their condition is stable. During an enquiry, it was found that the woman’s husband, Govindan, was a construction worker from Krishnagiri. He was living at Ondipudur, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-cops-helped-woman-deliver-baby-on-the-road/articleshow/75363493.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 25, 2020||Pune||Mylab ties up with Syngene to indigenize Covid-19 kit||Pune: City-based Mylab Discovery Solutions, which is making Covid-19 test kits and has already supplied over 35,000 of these to more than 20 states, said that it has tied up with Biocon subsidiary Syngene for “self-reliance”.The move is expected to cut-down Mylabs’ reliance on 8-9% of the raw materials that goes into making the kit with the help of Bengaluru-based Syngene. “In a major step to make India self-reliant in Covid-19 testing, Mylab has collaborated with Kiran Mazumdar Shaw’s Syngene,” Mylabs said in a statement.The announcement was first tweeted by Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla and retweeted by Shaw.Poonawalla recently made an undisclosed “multimillion dollar” investment in Mylabs, which, according to the molecular diagnostics company, gave it the scale to go big.“Happy to have a partnership with Syngene, to make Mylab’s COVID-19 test kit more indigenous; reducing its dependency on international raw materials and to further strengthen India’s self-reliance in response to Covid 19,” Poonawalla’s tweet read.Shaw said that Syngene was pleased to make it a truly indigenous kit. “We have a large-scale oligonucleotide facility at its Bengaluru campus which it has repurposed for manufacturing these reagents to support this partnership,” Syngene said in a statement.MyLabs MD Hasmukh Rawal told TOI that the “forward-looking partnership” would cut reliance on imported raw material. “With the Covid-19 situation, every country is likely to look inward and so this partnership with an Indian entity is an important step in the long term,” he said. Two lakh tests per dayCome May, Rawal said the company is geared to make two lakh tests per day to meet the increased demand from states. “For now, we have given each of the ordering states what we could,” he said.Each Mylab kit is capable of handling 100 tests, according to the company.A test kit, Rawal said, takes about 28 days — from planning to delivery — and that the company has already planned for the next phase to make more kits available. The company also said that it will be able to deliver a total of 7 lakh tests before May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mylab-ties-up-with-syngene-to-indigenize-covid-19-kit/articleshow/75362567.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 25, 2020||Indore||21 hotspots identified for close monitoring||Indore: The district administration on Friday identified 21 hotspots after multiple Covid-19 cases were reported there. In these areas, incident commanders have been appointed to ensure contact tracing and sampling of suspected patients. The senior officials from Centre on Thursday had asked local administration to prepare a special plan of action to check spread of corona in containment zones, where 10 or more cases have reported. In the scrutiny, administration has identified 21 such hotspots. As per order, 20 areas of Indore and one hotspot in Mhow has been identified. In Indore, SDM Shashwat Sharma has been appointed as incident commander for seven hotspots including Hathipala, Daulatganj, Ranipura, Pinjra Bakhal, Udapura, Juni Indore, Manikbagh Colony and Moti Tabela. Similarly, four hotspots including Ahilya Paltan, Juna Risala, Palhar Nagar and Jinsi Haat Maidan in Malharganj to SDM Rakesh Sharma, Chandan Nagar Sector 71 and Sudama Nagar to SDM Ravi Singh, Khajrana and Tanjim Nagar to SDM Sohan Kanash, Taatpatti Bakhal and Kadavghat to SDM Bhupendra Rawat, Azad Nagar and Madina Nagar to SDM Munish Sikarwar and Ushaganj to SDM Anshul Khare. SDM Abhilash Mishra has been appointed as incident commander for Mhow. The officials will ensure better implementation of administration’s plan including survey and health screening of locals, contact tracing of people in primary contact of positive patients, speeding up sample collection and testing along with shifting suspected patients to quarantine facilities or hospital based on need. District collector, divisional commissioner and even state government will review status of hotspots at regular intervals. Meanwhile, Centre’s team visited Mahadev Nagar in Pipliyapala and reviewed food distribution system from a fair price shop. The team’s members held a discussion with locals and took feedback on doorstep delivery system. Following a sudden rise in number of deaths due to Covid-19 and reporting of new cases in Indore that drew nationwide attention, a team of Union government’s senior officials reached here on April 20 to take stock of the situation and help administration improve the same. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/21-hotspots-identified-for-close-monitoring/articleshow/75362601.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Locals pick song and dance to beat lockdown blues||HYDERABAD: A residential community at Nizampet will sing, dance and entertain each other during lockdown on a Youtube channel, exclusively meant for them. “Performers will be from our residential community but everyone is welcome to watch. We cannot be burdened by the lockdown. We have to have some fun and enjoyment,” said R Rajeshwari Iyer, who conceived the idea along with other residents of Vertex Prime Apartment. There are 280 flats in the complex and in a first, eight singers will present their programmes on the Vertex Prime official Youtube channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-pick-song-dance-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75363510.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 25, 2020||Pune||Crescent rises, Ramzan buzz amiss due to lockdown||Pune: The crescent heralding the onset of the holy month of Ramzan was sighted here on Friday evening, but the usual buzz was missing due to the lockdown. However, citizens looked determined to fight the coronavirus by praying at home and avoiding gathering for prayers or ‘iftaar’, the breaking of the fast. “Ramzan will come again next year, and we will be able to see it only we if we survive the coronavirus,” said Saif Ahmed, a Kondhwa resident currently working from home for an American insurance firm.  Maulana Abdul Rahaman, secretary, Sunni Ulema Council, Pune, said, “We have requested the administration to allow use of loudspeakers for giving Azaan-call for prayer five times a day at mosques and read the ‘dua-prayer’ before fasting (‘sehri’) and ‘iftaar’ for the Muslims. The mosques will remain closed as per the lockdown directives. We have urged our brothers to offer Ramzan namaz at home.” Haji Zakir Shaikh, president of All India Quami Tanzeem (Western Maharashtra), said, “All eateries selling Ramzan delicacies will remain closed. Some have tied up with food delivery platforms. The governmentcan increase milk supply during Ramzan.” Community leader Akbar Pathan said, “The district administrationcan allow the market to be open from 3.30am-12 noon. The government can relax the lockdown rues for Eid-ul-Fitr namaz by maintaining social distance between 7am and 12 noon.” Rafiuddin Shaikh, general secretary of the Seerat committee, Poona, said, “Our pplication, filed with the city police on April 20, for permission to give ‘Azaan’ and read dua with moderate volume on loudspeakers at mosque is pending.” DCP (special branch) Mahesh Gatte said, “All religious places have been closed due to the lockdown. We have not received representation from the community members for giving ‘Azaan’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crescent-rises-ramzan-buzz-amiss-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75363513.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Couple offer free medical help to villagers in Addoor||MANGALURU: This husband and wife, fondly called “doctor couple”, have turned into Good Samaritans for the villagers of Addoor by providing them medical treatment free of cost. Dr Sabeena and Mohammed Sali, a physiotherapist, have opened a clinic at Badriya Jumma Masjid in Addoor. The free clinic started operating on April 13 and is open from 10am till noon. “The clinic was opened as people here have no access to healthcare due to the lockdown. Most of the nearby clinics have closed down due to the pandemic. Therefore, the couple started to offer medical treatment for free,” said the head of Jumma Masjid. After consulting with patients, medicine is offered for free to them. The medicine is donated by Sahiq Basheer, a businessman and resident of Addoor. Dr Sabeena said that patients maintain social distancing and seek help for blood pressure, diabetes and other ailments. More than 200 people have benefitted from the clinic. “In this difficult time, the couple have come as saviours for us,” said Aboobakkar, an Addoor resident. Sabeena pursued her studies at Karnataka Ayurveda Medical College and married Sali, a Farangipet resident. The couple, who work in Dubai, had come here on vacation but got stuck due to the lockdown. “I feel happy to serve society. Every day, I attend to about 50-60 patients, who suffer from various ailments. My husband joins me whenever it is needed,” said Dr Sabeena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/couple-offer-free-medical-help-to-villagers-in-addoor/articleshow/75359563.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 25, 2020||Pune||Pune traffic police recover Rs 11 lakh in pending fines||PUNE: The traffic branch of the city police has recovered Rs 10.94 lakh in pending fines from 5,083 offenders in the last four days. The traffic police are not only seizing the vehicles of those venturing out of their houses without valid reasons, but are also checking their past records to recover pending fines. To prevent people from using their vehicles, the sale of petrol was restricted to only vehicles used for essential services. The police also started impounding vehicles of those who were using them unnecessarily. The Pune police have impounded 34,042 vehicles till Friday. The traffic branch of the city police has 13 check points at the entry and exit of the city and 109 nakabandi points. “One of the offenders was a Mumbai resident who was caught at the Chandani Chowk check point. We have recovered Rs7,000 from him for his traffic offences in Mumbai and Pune,” an officer from the traffic branch said. The Pimpri Chinchwad traffic police too have started taking action against traffic offenders. In the last three days, the police have recovered Rs4.27 lakh from 433 offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-police-recover-rs-11l-in-pending-fines/articleshow/75363508.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 25, 2020||Indore||ATM now at your doorsteps as lockdown likely to get longer||Indore: Amidst ongoing lockdown, district administration has now allowed mobile ATM facility to reach out to people in their locality and provide services. Indore, which has reported over 1,000 corona cases, is all set to witness an extension in lockdown and thus, administration is planning steps to ensure minimum difficulties to people. To check virus spread, people are urged not to come out from their houses but extension in lockdown condition has created many problems before them. Not having cash in hand is a big issue and to solve the issue, administration on Friday allowed one bank to run a mobile ATM vehicle. As per order, HDFC Bank’s Manikbagh branch is given permission to reach out to the people in different areas through a mobile ATM vehicle and provide them services there. As per order, the bank will have to follow all set protocols related to Covid-19 control while bank’s employees in the vehicle will have to wear masks, sanitizer and gloves. Besides, employees will have to sanitize ATM machine after every public transection. The administration has issued a conditional permission to MP Rural Road Development Authority to start repairing work of damaged roads along with new projects, which are already sanctioned. Collector Manish Singh has instructed contractor to ensure that labourers working with him are not from containment areas along with other measures to check spread of the disease. All people working in permitted projects will have to follow social-distancing, wear masks, gloves and use sanitizer. No worker from IMC’s limit will be allowed in any project. The authority’s general manager Anupam Saxena has been assigned responsibility to ensure all conditions are followed and violation will invite action under Section 188 of IPC against contractors. A day after district administration cancelled registration of five Ayush practitioners for allegedly denying services, collector on Friday appointed nine Ayush doctors to render their services in current situation. The doctors have been appointed on temporary basis to help controlling spread of the disease. In another order, Singh roped in 15 doctors and paramedical staff in ground survey of people’s health. Exercising powers delegated under MP Public Health Act 1949, Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and essential services maintenance act (ESMA), the collector has ordered doctors and all other staff members to resume/continue services as absent from work without any valid reason will lead to strict actions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/atm-now-at-your-doorsteps-as-lockdown-likely-to-get-longer/articleshow/75362586.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No entry to dist without permit: VZM collector||Vizianagaram: District collector M Hari Jawahar Lal has urged residents of rural areas and border areas to prevent the entry of people from elsewhere into the district without permission. The collector made this appeal following reports of large-scale seepage of people into the border areas from other districts and states. He added that in such a scenario, locals must take social responsibility, keep a watch and inform the authorities of such activities. Vizianagaram shares a porous border with Odisha and the neighbouring districts of Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam. The district authorities have set up checkposts at all major highways, border areas and junction points. The check-posts are manned by officials of the police, revenue and medical and health department. The collector also appealed to the public to ensure that quarantine measures are implemented properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-entry-to-dist-without-permit-vzm-collector/articleshow/75361472.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Indore||Rate of +ve cases comes down in the past six days||Indore: Rate of cases turning positive during testing of Covid-19 samples has dipped to 10.26% in past six days (between April 17 and April 23) though overall rate remained at 21.40%. The virology laboratory tested 1335 samples in the six days with over 700 being tested on April 23 and 22 and only 137 were tested positive. However, 21.40% of total 4842 tested samples came positive till April 23. A faculty member of medical college requesting anonymity said the lockdown, social distancing and awareness in public led to reduction in transmission rate. The slowing of transmission helped in reducing cases in city in past one week. The jump in number of positive cases was recorded on Thursday because of samples pending for last few days. Major increases in Covid-19 positive cases were recorded when 1000 samples were tested in NIV lab Noida. Divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi said, “We have sent 606 samples for testing to Bhopal. State government along with 1000 pending samples of Bhopal has sent it to NIV Pondicherry.” The reports of those samples would come in couple of days. Tripathi said, “We have tested 420 samples on Thursday and can further increase it to over 600 per day if we are provided sufficient testing kits from suppliers.” Indore may further record a jump in positive cases with results of pending samples but officials expect that the rate will be lesser than what was recorded for samples sent to Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rate-of-ve-cases-comes-down-in-the-past-six-days/articleshow/75362609.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||DRDO rolls out 500 fellowships, 90 in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has rolled out 500 fellowships for research on defence related problems at various DRDO labs. Of these, 90 have been allocated to Telangana-based institutions. According to a press release issued by DRDO, of the 90 fellowships, 32 are allocated at IIT, Hyderabad, 20 at NIT, Warangal, 20 at University of Hyderabad, 11 at Osmania University, five at JNTU and two at Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad. Each DRO fellow will receive Rs 31,000 to Rs 35,000 scholarships for the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-rolls-out-500-fellowships-90-in-t/articleshow/75363525.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||AMC allots space for vegetable vendors||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Alandi Municipal Council (AMC) has allocated space for vegetable vendors in various parts of the town to reduce overcrowding in the markets and areas outside. “All shops, except those selling essential commodities, are shut owing to the lockdown. Several people have started selling vegetables to make ends meet. However, these people have set up shops along the roads in groups, which has resulted in overcrowding. A meeting with the vegetable vendors was held on Thursday at the Alandi police station, following which arrangements were made for the vendors to sell their products by sitting at a safe distance from each other in the several parts of the town,” AMC chief executive officer Sameer Bhumkar said. Vaijanta Umargikar, president, AMC, said the vegetable vendors should be provided with spaces in each of the 18 wards in Alandi. “I suggested that the vegetable vendors be allocated spaces in the parking lots in Vadgaon Road and on the school playground near Dutt temple for the convenience of the residents,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amc-allots-space-for-vegetable-vendors/articleshow/75363526.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||News items that landed portal chief behind bars||Coimbatore: On April 12, the PG doctors of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital were stumped when the workers of college’s hostel mess went on a flash strike. The workers themselves were scared after two of the PG doctors tested positive for Covid-19. They demanded safety gear to get back to work. After a stop gap arrangement on April 13, neither breakfast nor lunch was served in the hostel mess on April 14. “We are all ‘swiggying’ in food and managing with biscuits,” TOI had quoted a PG doctor in its report detailing their troubles. The PG doctors had also complained of ‘shabby’ treatment by the hospital authorities. They had complained of lack of medical gear and even basic amenities like water in their hostel. It was this issue that Simplicity news portal highlighted, and eventually got its founder jailed. The complainant M Sundararajan, an assistant commissioner in Coimbatore corporation, had said the news item in Simplicity highlighting the issue was false and could instigate health workers to protest against the government. But two days after the news appeared government had shunted CMCH dean B Ashokan without attributing any reason. This is seen as an acknowledgement by the government that there was a case of mismanagement by the dean. His successor Prof P Kalidas sorted out the issues. Yet another story that has been cited in the complaint was irregularities by ration shop staff in distribution of lockdown relief materials to ration cardholders. Here again, Sundararajan has said that the news item was likely to instigate PDs staff to protest against the government and indulge in strike. However, on April 8, 10 days before the news item on irregularities in PDS shops appeared in the portal, district collector K Rajamani suspended three employees of PDS shops in Coimbatore for irregularities in distributing lockdown relief materials given to ration cardholders. The suspension order revealed the irregularities in PDS shops. The three E Rajasekar from Pari Nagar ration shop, S Rajan from Velandipalayam shop and K Lathabhai attached to Kovaiputhur PDS outlet were found distributing lesser quantity of relief materials and syphoning off the withheld quantity. The official action came after an inquiry into specific complaints against the three. Civil supplies officials admit that they do receive complaints but are sorted out immediately. “With regard to relief materials distribution we are careful that there should not be any irregularities,’’ said district supply officer R Kumaresan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/news-items-that-landed-portal-chief-behind-bars/articleshow/75363527.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Grocery stores in Pune to reopen today; call for new timing||PUNE: Getting groceries would be a tad easier in some parts of the city from Saturday as many shops would reopen after the four-day closure, ending on Friday. Sachin Nivangune, the president of the Pune District Retailers’ Association, said the shops would resume functioning from Saturday following the social distancing measures and the business hours set by the police as well as the administration. He said the closure call of the association received good response from areas dotting Sinhagad Road, Warje, Dattawadi, Dhayri and other parts. Some shops operated during the four-day closure. An office-bearer of the association said it was the decision of individual shopkeepers. The association said it was looking forward to revision in the existing timing of business. “At present, shops are allowed to remain open from 10am to noon at most places and up to 2pm in some areas. This timing is not suitable for residents because of summer. Also, people prefer purchasing essential grocery items, including milk, during morning hours,” Nivangune said. He said the association was planning to hold talks with the police and the civic administration about revising the business timing. “The retailers want the business hours to be from 8am to noon. We shall explain the authorities how this timing could benefit citizens,” Nivangune added. The association also said the shopkeepers were ready to continue with the home delivery of grocery articles to reduce the footfall at the counters and help the administration in implementing the lockdown measures. “The local shopkeepers can home deliver the items for a month. Residents can place orders with the store owners in advance to avoid any inconvenience,” Ramesh Baheti, a shopkeeper from the Shivajinagar area, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grocery-stores-to-reopen-today-call-for-new-timing/articleshow/75363531.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 25, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: No electricians, discom gets calls for fixing faulty home appliances||INDORE: Finding an electrician to get faulty home appliances repaired during lockdown has been an impossible task for residents. Finding no option, people have started calling ‘1912 Helpline’ of Madhya Pradesh Paschim Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited (MPPKVVCL) to seek help regarding faulty home appliances such as air-conditioner, cooler, refrigerator, washing machine and even mixer grinders. According to officials, staff engaged at helpline service is getting such calls from at least 3 to 4 residents daily. Discoms superintendent engineer Ashok Sharma said that they get calls from as many as 300 residents daily. “Of these, at least three to four calls are related to demand for repair of faulty home appliances,” he said adding that such complaints started pouring in after imposition of the lockdown. Sharma said that discom does not provide any such assistance or attend individual complaints related to faulty home appliances. “We have a responsibility to attend power supply related issues or electrical faults that occur in distribution lines till consumer’s electricity meter,” he said, adding that discom does not run any service related repair of electronic items. The residents on the other hand complained about unavailability of electricians as a reason behind them calling for assistance. “Our refrigerator is not working for last two weeks and we are not able to store food. There is no electrician who is ready to come and repair it because of the lockdown,” complained Richa Verma of Mahalakshmi Nagar. “If they don’t allow electricians to work, then what residents like us are going to do?” she said adding that discom should come out with some solution to this problem as several essential services including electrical repair have not yet been started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-electricians-discom-gets-calls-for-fixing-faulty-home-appliances/articleshow/75362627.cms||Ashok Kumar
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Pollution board probe into dead fish at Ameenpur lake||HYDERABAD: The fisheries department and Telangana State Pollution Control Board are looking into dead fish surfacing at Pedda Cheruvu in Ameenpur. Officials visited the lake after an activist drew attention to the issue. “Dozens of fish were found belly up in the water or on the bank of the lake. The most likely reason is effluents from industries nearby,” said Thakur Raj Kumar Singh of the Human Rights & Consumer Protection Cell Trust. “Fisheries and PCB officials have collected the samples. A report is awaited,” said Madhusadhan Reddy, executive engineer, irrigation department, Sangareddy.  Suresh, environmental engineer, Sangareddy, added, “It will take time to arrive at the cause of the fish kill. Several samples have to be analysed.” Ameenpur lake is the only biodiversity heritage site in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pollution-board-probe-into-dead-fish-at-ameenpur-lake/articleshow/75363537.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Indore||Indore: Asha workers choose to stay thirsty during community survey||INDORE: Leaving nothing to chance, city-based Asha workers, Anganwadi workers and teachers are abstaining from drinking water while conducting surveys. Despite guidelines to keep themselves hydrated, most workers are not drinking water despite the scorching heat as a precautionary measure. “I drink water before going for survey and after coming back I try to make up for it as I don’t remove my mask during survey. Moreover, drinking water might abet usage of washroom which I personally avoid in public places,” said govt school teacher Sharmila Savli. These teachers and workers were given a one-day training wherein the emphasis was done on social distancing and other precautionary measures. But, as most of these workers are conducting the surveys at containment areas, considering the situation on field, these workers have been coming up with their own precautionary measures for extra safety. “We were not given any instructions about jewellery. However, from my end, I have stopped wearing them. Also, I don’t take hand bag as we might put our hands inside a couple of times and that might even touch the items that we don’t sanitize,” said Asha worker, Rachna Dalke who despite having a 10 month-old-daughter has been compelled to do the survey of one of the containment areas of the district near Khandwa road. These workers and teachers have been going in teams of three members to the allotted areas for nearly a fortnight now. On a daily basis these workers have been contacting over 50 families and keeping a track of their health status. Some of these workers have also started counseling the families and encouraging them to discuss their health issues without fear. Most of these workers try to keep their immunity high with help of Kadha, a drink made with spices and herbs easily available in the kitchen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/asha-workers-choose-to-stay-thirsty-during-community-survey/articleshow/75362619.cms||Laveena Francis
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Special postcards released to honour frontline workers||Coimbatore: The postal department has released a special set of thanksgiving postcards with the message ‘We salute the corona warriors’. The cards are in four categories, including those with red and golden special cancellations on social distancing. The cards, released by postmaster general of the western region Sheuli Burman at the regional office on Friday, aim to honour the service of doctors, nurses, police, postmen and conservancy workers during the pandemic, said senior superintendent of post offices Sudhir Gopal Jakhere.While plain postcards cost Rs 15 each, picture postcards with red cancellations are priced at Rs 25 and picture postcards with golden cancellations, Rs 50. The cards will be available at all head post offices and sub post offices of the Coimbatore division. “We encourage people to send the cards to frontline workers,” said Jakhere.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-postcards-released-to-honour-frontline-workers/articleshow/75363546.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Balewadi isolation hub faces locals’ opposition||Pune: Local residents across Baner and Balewadi have opposed a quarantine facility at a Balewadi institute after 35 people in the isolation facility tested positive for Covid-19. According to residents, as yet the area has reported very few positive cases and has a possibility of being marked as a green one so the quarantine facility would be a risky idea. Local corporators, flooded with calls from concerned citizens, had to convince the callers that the quarantine facility is completely isolated and would not lead to a spread of the coronavirus in the area. Corporator Amol Balwadkar of Baner-Balewadi-Pashan area said that he has been assuring people that nobody inside the institute is coming in contact with local residents and the entire facility is under lockdown with workers staying inside the campus. On the other hand, another local corporator Jyoti Kalamkar refused to answer questions and told TOI to speak to her husband claiming “he handles such things”. Priya Nair, a local resident, raised questions about the need to open the facility. “Why would people from Bhavani Peth and such areas be brought here which is a potential green zone? I think there is no logic in bringing people from the red zone here, thereby increasing chances of transmission. This has frightened everybody in the area,” said Nair, adding that she does not support segregation but recommends ward-wise quarantine. Chairman of Baner Balewadi Pashan Residents Association (BBPRA) Vijay Varangaonkar said that converting an institute in a residential zone into a quarantine facility without informing local residents was not correct. “The local corporators should have informed us. Secondly, there are better places to make such centres. Balewadi stadium being an ideal place that is huge and completely isolated. Turning the present place into a quarantine facility is not a correct decision,” he said. Explaining the situation, Aundh-Baner ward in-charge and assistant municipal commissioner Jaydeep Pawar, said, “Many hospitals have been earmarked for swab collection. Until April 22, people were asked to remain at whichever hospital the swab was collected for a day or till the swab results are out. However, the quarantine facilities at these hospitals are full. Hence, from April 22 evening, people from across Pune are being brought to the institute in Balewadi in buses following all safety norms. There are about 350 such people living here and all of them are kept in isolation. Once the test results come in, people testing positive are taken to hospitals while the remaining are kept in isolation for another 14 days.” Pawar further said that none of the workers in the campus are interacting with the local population. “The food is being prepared by the institute’s canteen and the staff stays within the campus. The sanitation workers are also from an agency and they too have been given place to stay within the campus so that the area is in a complete lockdown with no possibility of local transmission,” said Pawar. An official with the Pune Municipal Corporation said there are about 356 people currently in isolation at the campus. Of the total, 35-40 patients tested positive and were shifted to various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/balewadi-isolation-hub-faces-locals-opposition/articleshow/75363543.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Two deaths in Amravati, 15 new positive cases in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Vidarbha recorded a double digit increase in the number of confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 on Friday after a gap of two days. Nagpur saw 7 new positive cases while Amravati recorded 8. Now, Vidarbha region has 183 total cases, including eight deaths and 55 patients recovering. In Amravati, two women who died recently, were tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the number of deaths in Amravati is now 5. Now, the city has 16 confirmed positive cases, including five deaths. Four patients got recovered on Friday and were discharged. The unusual number of deceased patients being tested positive for Covid-19 has raised questions over the containment drives in Amravati. Following this, the district collector announced curfew in the entire Amravati city for next three days. An official release from Amravati district administration stated that the throat swab of a 40-year-old woman of Tarkheda locality, who died on April 23 morning at home, tested positive on Friday. Earlier, swab samples of a 95-year-old woman of Patipura, who died at home on April 21 due to old age, had tested positive. Apart from this, a 22-year-old grandson of a 60-year-old deceased woman from Hyderpura locality of Amravati, tested positive on Friday. The youth was admitted in the quarantine ward. By Friday evening, three more women in high risk contacts of positive patients tested positive. Massive containment drive in Yavatmal After eight local residents were tested positive on Thursday, Yavatmal administration has started aggressive containment drive on Friday. In the last 24 hours, 101 presumptive cases were admitted in the isolation wards. A total of 127 swab samples were sent to Nagpur for lab test on Friday and the report is awaited. “150 more samples will be sent to Nagpur on Saturday morning. A total of 233 persons including the 14 active positive patients are now admitted in the isolation wards of Yavatmal GMC,” informed Yavatmal district collector MD Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-deaths-in-amravati-15-new-positive-cases-in-vid/articleshow/75362623.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||7 new Covid cases in city, Satranjipura count is 59||Nagpur: With seven more from city testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the number of positive patients from Satranjipura increased to 59. At the same time, number of cases from one family in Mominpura swelled to 11 in seven days.The total number of cases in the district increased to 105. The number in city went up to 101. One of seven new positive patients is from Satranjipura and reportedly neighbour of 68-year-old deceased, city’s first and only death of Covid-19. A female, she was under institutional quarantine since April 22 and has been admitted at IGGMCH after testing positive.Satranjipura case alone has contributed 56.19% of total cases. The reports of first and second samples of over 140 persons are still awaited.The samples of 150 people quarantined on Thursday were taken on Friday at MLA Hostel and Wanadongri. The reports of these, all neighbours of the deceased, are also awaited.Remaining six positive cases are from Mominpura taking total to 24 which is 22.85% of total cases in the district.Zonal medical officer of NMC Mahal-Gandhibagh Zone Dr Khwaja Moinuddin told TOI, “Five persons are immediate family members of 42-year-old who had tested positive on April 18. Two are his brothers, one wife of one of the four brothers and her 5-year-old child. Fifth person is brother of his father,” he said.The person’s five family members— father, mother, wife and two children had tested positive on April 21. Thus, total number of positive persons from this family is now 11.Immediately after the person was tested positive on April 18, the NMC team led by Khwaja had quarantined 27 persons from the family residing in one building at Chudi Gully, Mominpura. Reports of remaining are awaited.NMC has begun to trace close contacts of 11 positive persons. The 42-year-old was taking care of food and other requirements of 8 Tablighi Jamaatis. In late development, report of one more person (male, 38) from Mominpura came positive. The details of the person could not be known from the NMC.Mominpura Family* 42-year-old resident of Chuddi Gully, Mominpura, tested positive on April 18* He was looking after eight Jabalpur-based Jamaatis camping at Darul Falah, Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura.* His five family members— father, mother, wife and two children tested positive on April 21* Reports of his two brothers, wife of one of four brothers, her kid and brother of his father came positive on Friday* Reports of remaining 16 persons from the family are awaited* NMC is now tracing close contacts of all these persons||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-new-covid-cases-in-city-satranjipura-count-is-59/articleshow/75362641.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How sealing helped contain coronavirus spread||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s decision to unseal the containment zone of Mansara Apartments in east Delhi’s Vasundhara Enclave has come as a ray of hope for thousands of people currently locked down in their houses while the number of Covid victims has steadily risen in the one month of the lockdown in the capital. The apartments had been sealed in the last week of March after a person tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Movement of people was restricted, though agencies ensured the residents didn’t face a shortage of any essential commodity. While Delhi government has declared close to 100 localities as containment zones so far, the number of Covid cases in most, barring one or two, has so far remained static. Only people who were perhaps already infected at the time the area was sealed may have added to the daily count. District administration officials insisted that Delhi government’s Operation Shield — acronym for sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, essential supplies, local sanitisation and door-to-door checking — was the only way to deal with the coronavirus. “Containment is the only option and it has proved highly successful. By sealing localities and restricting movement of people even in densely populated areas such as Mandawali and Krishan Kunj, we managed to control the spread,” claimed district magistrate (East) Arun Kumar Mishra. While the central government’s guidelines prescribe containment if there are at least 10 Covid cases or two deaths in a locality, Delhi, being a dense city of over two crore people, adopted more stringent norms. As B M Mishra, district magistrate, South, explained, “We generally seal an area if there are three cases close to each other in the same locality. But sometimes, we have declared a street a containment zone even if there was just one case and we suspected there could be more. Like in the case of Mehrauli where one case proved positive, we decided to declare the area a red zone immediately because we suspected infection might have spread. Rightly, after testing samples we detected nine cases.” According to the guidelines, a containment zone continues to remain sealed with no person allowed to exit or enter the area for 28 days from the date of the last person testing positive for Covid-19. To ensure that people living in the containment zones do not face problems regarding essential commodities, the district administration creates a WhatsApp group of families and senior officials for resident to log their daily requirements. The designated vendors bring the essentials to the barricade locations, from where civil defence volunteers convey them to doorstep. This ensures social distancing and nil exposure of asymptomatic people to the outside world. While the number of cases in most containment zones have been static, some densely populated areas — Chandni Mahal in old Delhi and Jahangirpuri in north — saw spikes despite the restrictions, forcing the authorities to take more drastic measures. The new cases could be attributed to flagrant violations of the strict lockdown protocols. In his digital press conference last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had to cite Jahangirpuri as one such locality. There, 26 members of an extended family living close to each other had tested positive. The Chandni Mahal area in the Walled City also witnessed a spike in Covid cases. Nidhi Srivastava, DM (Central), said the district administration and police had started conducting flag marches in the area twice a day to coax people into following the guidelines. “We are also carrying out aerial vigilance by drones to keep people indoor,” she said. “In addition, we have roped in 80 local volunteers to keep a check on people, apart from two-wheeler patrolling. The area has been divided into four for better monitoring.” Srivastava added that another reason for more cases emerging in the area was the higher number of samples tested. “We have taken more than 2,000 samples so far of both symptomatic and asymptomatic people,” she revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-sealing-helped-contain-virus-spread/articleshow/75363590.cms||Atul Mathur
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Neeri starts testing Covid-19 samples, throws up city’s 100th +ve||Nagpur: The laboratory at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) finally started testing Covid-19 samples on Thursday. The Centre has also appointed Neeri, a constituent laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) as the hub for all the Covid-19 testing centres in the city. One of the samples on the first day tested positive, which eventually became the 100th confirmed positive case of Nagpur city. State directorate of health services is yet to link samples from any specific district or region for Neeri lab. Being the hub, Neeri will now provide guidance to other testing centres in the city. The Neeri lab is the fifth Covid-19 testing facility in Nagpur after IGGMCH, AIIMS, GMCH and MAFSU labs. It will be the sixth lab in Vidarbha. A lab is also functional at the GMCH in Akola. TOI recently reported that CSIR director general Shekhar Mande had recognized the institute headquartered at Nagpur as one of the laboratories to carry out testing for Covid-19 in the region. Krishna Khairnar, senior scientist and head of environmental virology cell at Neeri, said that the Centre has recognized 10 hubs in the country. “Neeri will provide solutions on infrastructural development, scaling up of testing capacity, training of manpower, required instruments etc for testing centres in city,” he added. The Covid-19 testing at Neeri is being under Khairnar who has previously worked on the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). “I am carrying out the testing with support from my students. Three of them help me in the testing while another three help in documentation work,” he said. Neeri director Rakesh Kumar has also constituted a three-member committee of outside experts to make sure that all the protocols are being followed while testing the samples. “Our lab has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and we are following all its protocols,” added Khairnar. Neeri’s lab became operational from April 19 and has a capacity of testing 50 samples per day. “We are open to testing samples from any part of the country. After testing, we submit the results to ICMR, state health department and some other agencies,” said Khairnar. Neeri has specially procured personal protective equipment (PPE) for the testing. “Many self-help groups have also come forward to donate us PPEs,” said Khairnar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neeri-starts-testing-covid-19-samples-throws-up-citys-100th-ve/articleshow/75361448.cms||Manka Behl
April 25, 2020||Pune||Khadki Cantonment Board to start institutional quarantine establishment||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Khadki Cantonment Board will create a 45-bed institutional quarantine facility at its stadium near Khadki Bazaar. Suja James, the office superintendent of the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB), said, “The district collector on Thursday gave us permission to start an institutional quarantine facility at the sports centre. We will develop the necessary infrastructure for the same.” She said a man — residing in Sangamwadi in the KCB-limits who works in Pune — tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. “He was admitted to the Symbiosis hospital in Lavale. His 11 contacts were admitted to Rakshak hospital while the other nine close contacts were admitted to the Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Cantonment General Hospital. We received negative reports of nine contacts on Friday,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-to-start-institutional-quarantine-establishment/articleshow/75363553.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||95 roads to be sealed in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi: The Kalaburagi City Corporation has brought 1,000 metal sheets from Solapur, Maharashtra, to be used to seal 95 roads in containment zones. Falling under the Covid-19 red zone, Kalaburagi has recorded 36 positive cases, death of four people and recovery of six patients so far. The rest are in the isolation ward of ESIC Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/95-roads-to-be-sealed-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75362744.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur took 44 days to reach 100 cases, Pune 25, Mumbai and Nashik 22||NAGPUR: The district completed 100 confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 on Friday. Since the first case was detected here on March 11, to the 100th case on April 24, the city took 44 days to reach the 100-mark. Pune took 25 days while Nashik and Mumbai (BMC) took 22 days to reach this mark. Experts say effective containment drives and fairly strict lockdown in the city played an important role in restricting spread of infection. “House-to-house active surveillance was implemented effectively. NMC health department covered almost every household in the city. I am sure many patients were detected during this survey,” said virologist Dr Shrikant Shinde. The NMC health department records bear out this view. The city’s 5th patient, a businessman from Khamla, was referred for the Covid-19 test by NMC health officials during the door-to-door drive. Later, five in his connection tested positive. All of them have now recovered. On the same lines, a 35-yr-old patient from a housing society near Gandhisagar was also referred for tests by NMC doctors. He also recovered and went home on Thursday. “In case these patients had not been detected early, possibly they would have infected many more people around them,” said Dr Shinde. “We have seen cases in Satranjipura, where not only family members but also shopkeepers, visitors, and neighbours in the patient’s contact tested positive later,” he added. Another important reason for the check on number of positive cases is the collective effort of the people of Nagpur. According to police records, no major incident of lockdown breach has been recorded in last 31 days in city. Still, the real challenge is ahead, warn experts. “If we compare with Pune and Mumbai, we must understand that real surge in positive cases came after they completed 100 cases,” said chest physician Dr Pranit Agrawal. “We have time till May 3 to break this chain and flatten the curve. We must be more serious about lockdown for next 10 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-took-44-days-to-reach-100-cases-pune-25-mum-nashik-22/articleshow/75362630.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Two-year-old corona fighter feted||Vadodara: As she appeared from behind a tin shed in her father’s arms in Bodeli town, a thunderous applause broke out in the area with people cheering the two-year-old girl who recovered from coronavirus. People stood in the balcony to applaud little Ayesha Khatri who was dressed in red frock. Balloons were tied to at the entrance of the red zone area to welcome the toddler. She was felicitated by the district administration officials in the town on Friday. Ayesha was given a chocolate hamper and more importantly, a school run by a private trust promised her free education up to Class IV once she reaches the eligible age. The school trustees handed over the certificate for admission.“It was a great moment for the entire family. Our daughter not only defeated the dreaded corona but also garnered people’s appreciation. She is lucky to be felicitated as a corona fighter by the district administration and for getting free education,” said Ahmedullah Khatri, Ayesha's father. “It was a difficult time for us with two members of the family and then a third, my wife, getting infected with Covid. But now with two members getting discharged, we are relieved to some extent,” said Khatri.Ayesha, who was the second person to test positive for coronavirus in Chhota Udepur district, was discharged from GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri on Tuesday. She had contracted the infection from her 60-year-old grandfather who was also discharged last week. Her mother is recovering and expected to discharged soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-year-old-corona-fighter-feted/articleshow/75361517.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nervous neta, bureaucrats ‘compel’ admn to shift 2 quarantine facilities||Nagpur: Pressure from politicians and senior bureaucrats has prompted the district administration to consider shifting inmates from the two latest quarantine facilities where residents of Satranjipura containment zone are housed. The facilities were opened at the hostels run by social justice department at Wanadongri in Hingna and Civil Lines, on Thursday. On Friday, BJP MLA from Hingna Sameer Meghe reached the district collector’s office and demanded that the hostel at Wanadongri should be cleared of the suspects. Collector Ravindra Thakare told TOI that the MLA’s demand will be considered and alternative arrangements are being made.Even as inmates of the Wanadongri hostel are yet to be shifted, those who were taken to the Civil Lines facility were quietly taken to the MLA Hostel on Friday morning. There were 34 inmates at the girls hostel at Civil Lines, which is over 200 metres from the high court. Offices of top bureaucrats are also close by. It is learnt, some senior bureaucrats had put in a word for shifting the occupants elsewhere.The shifting is done in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) buses. It involves extensive procedure of disinfecting the vehicle each time the passengers are taken in.Meghe told TOI that presence of the 125 quarantined persons posed a high risk to other residents of the area which has so far not seen a single Covid-19 case.“The hostel has common toilet facilities which increases the chances of spreading the infection. More than that the well from which water supply is catered to the entire area is on the hostel premises. Even if one of the inmates spits by chance it would spread infection to a population of close to 50,000 living in nearby pockets,” said Meghe.Thakare said that the fears though unfounded have been accepted at this point of time. “We are looking to accommodate the inmates in the existing quarantine facilities and even new ones are being explored,” the collector said.Thakare clarified that the venues were being only changed considering the general apprehension among people and because alternatives were available. “Once we run out of space elsewhere, the same facilities may have to be used again,” he said.Meanwhile, the facility at Lonara will be closed with last of its inmates going in a day. “Lonara had different problem. Social distancing could not be maintained there due to the large dormitories housing as much as 40 persons together,” Thakare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nervous-neta-bureaucrats-compel-admn-to-shift-2-quarantine-facilities/articleshow/75362660.cms||Shishir Arya
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati lab yet to conduct trial tests, nod to be delayed||Amravati: Permission for the proposed lab on Sant Gadgebaba Amravati University premises is likely to be delayed by 3-4 days in absence of experimental sample testing. The lab has been set up by AIIMS, Nagpur. With number of pending samples and rejected samples going up every day, it was felt that the lab at Amravati would expedite the process, thereby facilitating speedy treatment. The district administration was expecting the lab to start testing samples from Saturday. “Our infrastructure is ready. We are waiting for samples from AIIMS for experimental testing. Once we receive them and they are evaluated by AIIMS after testing, our case would be recommended to ICMR for approval. And this is expected to take another 2-3 days,” Dr Prashant Thakare from microbiology department and university’s central instrumentation centre expert told TOI. The proposal for lab at Amravati was submitted by SGBAU vice-chancellor Dr Murlidhar Chandekar and registrar Dr Tushar Deshmukh to collector Shailesh Naval. The state government after approving it provided biosafety cabinets to the university, which has other facilities of its own required for the lab. Dr Thakare and Dr NA Ghanwate have taken training at AIIMS. Nanded University, which made its lab operational from Wednesday, has decided not to allow any human movement within 100 metres of the lab. This has led confusion at Amravati University as its administrative building and 18 other departments fall within 100 metres of the proposed lab. Pro-VC Dr Rajesh Jaipurkar told TOI that the Nanded University’s decision is its own and there is no such clause in ICMR norms. “ICMR has expressed satisfaction after conducting video inspection of our lab. We have kept one point entry to the lab,” Pro-VC Dr Rajesh Jaipurkar told TOI. Collector Naval said that he would not mind closing the university for 2-4 months for testing swab samples. On apprehension that the lab may lead to spread of coronavirus on the campus, he said, “Samples arrive in a box and opened in the lab only under ultraviolet lights. A solution is applied to kill the virus. So there is no possibility of its spread on the campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-lab-yet-to-conduct-trial-tests-nod-to-be-delayed/articleshow/75361499.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||6 cops, woman test positive||Coimbatore: Six police personnel from the city corporation limits and a 20-year-old woman from Sirumugai have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district, even as 19 patients were discharged from ESI Hospital on Friday, taking the total count of recovered cases to 105. The cops, three of them women, were tested positive during a routine screening that was conducted for them at Podanur police station on Thursday. Of the six, five are attached to Podanur police station and the remaining one is a writer with Kuniyamuthur police station. All the six have been admitted to the PSG Hospitals, where they are undergoing treatment. Following the new development, Podanur police station has been shut for disinfecting and shifted to a private wedding hall in Mahalingapuram for time being. The health department said there was no community transmission in the district. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “All the seven have either visited containment zones or are from containment zones itself - Podanur, Ukkadam and Sirumugai. They could have touched a surface that an infected person touched earlier. People are moving around freely from 6am to 1pm.” According to a source, it was following a request from Podanur police station that the city corporation’s health department tested more than 74 cops there on Thursday. Of the six cops, two are from law and order section, three from crime and one is a writer. Two of them have mild symptoms like feverishness and sore throat, said a senior officer. Officials suspect the source of infection to be some of the earlier patients or their relatives from Podanur. “Four of the five cops with Podanur police station were deployed for vehicle check just outside the streets and areas with positive cases, and in front of barricades in containment zones. So, they could have been infected while stopping a vehicle or individual,” said police inspector (law and order) Mageshwaran. Another official said many people have still been roaming around streets without masks. According to him, there are at least another 30 staff to be tested in Podanur police station. While all the cops at Podanur police station have been asked to isolate themselves, family members of the positive cases were tested on Friday evening. A public health department official said, “We have sent officials to take their nasal swabs. We are also in the process of interviewing the officers to find out their close contacts outside their houses and police station.” The cops were reportedly upset when they were tested positive and asked to get hospitalized. One of the women cops told TOI, “I have no symptoms. We did not touch anyone or go near anyone unnecessarily. We don’t know how we were infected.” The 20-year-old woman, who tested positive, has been isolated at the Pollachi government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-cops-woman-test-positive/articleshow/75363581.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||NMC readies 12 private hospitals for coronavirus patients||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has readied 12 private hospitals for treatment of positive patients of Covid-19 in case there is further increase in cases of infection. The civic body may bring these hospitals into use anytime after April 27. TOI on April 21 had reported that municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has directed 13 private hospitals to be ready for treatment of Covid-19 positive patients. Mundhe on April 23 issued a notification in this regard. The NMC is planning to keep government and private hospitals ready with total capacity of 5,000 beds. In the existing scenario, the capacity at IGGMCH and GMCH is around 220 beds. The civic chief told TOI that private hospitals will be brought into use as Covid-19 centres after capacity at government hospitals is exhausted. “Need is to be prepared for every situation,” he said. The 12 hospitals on NMC’s list have 100 or more beds each. Apart from these, 29 more hospitals with capacity of 50-100 beds have been identified and will be readied in case 12 notified hospitals are brought into use. The NMC is also readying institutional quarantine facilities of 7,000 beds, with 1,500 beds in the first phase. With 41 private hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 patients, the NMC is also planning to notify some other private hospitals as non-Covid-19 centres for other types of diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-readies-12-pvt-hospitals-for-corona-patients/articleshow/75362673.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: 55 patients discharged in Vidarbha so far, more set to recover||NAGPUR: On Friday, when 15 new confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 were detected in Vidarbha, 14 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged from different government hospitals in the region. Vidarbha has total 183 cases so far. Out of them, 55 have been discharged. This means more than 30% of the total cases have recovered in the region. This rate is way more than state’s recovery rate of 13% and India’s recovery rate of nearly 20%. The highest seven patients were discharged from Nagpur on Friday. All seven are relatives of the Satranjipura deceased. While many more from the locality were quarantined the same day, these seven were given a warm farewell by the staff of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur. Four patients were discharged from Amravati. They are relatives of the first positive patient of Amravati, a 45-year-old person who had died on April 2. His samples had tested positive on April 4. “Recovery of four contacts of the April 2 deceased is a very satisfying thing for all our doctors, nurses and health staff who have been working assiduously to serve the patients at the hospital. This brighter side of the pandemic comes as a great and welcome relief to people of the district and a morale-boosting one for all,” said Dr Shyamsundar Nikam, civil surgeon of Amravati. Buldhana district administration discharged three patients — two from Shegaon and one from Chitoda village in Khamgaon tehsil. “These patients cooperated very well with the medical protocol and were tested negative in two sets of tests,” said district collector Suman Rawat Chandra adding that 11 patients from Buldhana have recovered till date and only nine patients are taking treatment here. No new patient was detected here since April 14. In Washim, the only patient of the district is set to be discharged on Saturday. District collector Hrishikesh Modak said that the patient tested negative on 14th as well as 15th day test. “But, as a matter of precaution, the doctors decided to wait for 24 hours more. We will release the patient tomorrow,” he said. In Yavatmal, 34 persons admitted in the quarantine facility of GMCH are set to be released on the very first day of Ramzan. Civil Surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Warey said the district administration has cleared their names. “They were tested negative three times during quarantine. So, they will be discharged soon”, she added. On April 23, TOI had taken up the matter of releasing 67 persons who were kept in institutional quarantine despite testing negative in all the three tests. The decision to release 34 from institutional quarantine has been welcomed by the Muslim community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/55-patients-discharged-in-vid-so-far-more-set-to-recover/articleshow/75362686.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Madrassa students to be promoted||LUCKNOW: Students enrolled in Class 1-8 at 13,360 madrassas in the state will be promoted, owing to loss of studies due to the lockdown. This follows a government decision on Friday and the order encompasses 560-aided and other madrasas registered with UP Board of Madrassa Education. “Citing lockdown, a proposal was sent to the government by the madrassa board that students be promoted to the next class as done by other boards. This was approved and letter of confirmation has come from principal secretary of minority welfare department Manoj Singh,” said UP Board of Madrasa Education registrar RP Singh. The registrar will send an official note to district minority officers and madrassas on Saturday. Students of tahtaniya (Class 1-5) and students of faukaniya (class 6-8), whose internal tests and assessments could not be conducted, won’t waste a year, but get promoted. Recently, UP Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UP Board) had taken a similar decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/madrassa-students-to-be-promoted/articleshow/75363615.cms||Yusra Husain
April 25, 2020||Indore||Over half of city’s corona cases are from 20 containment zones||Indore: Less than 10 per cent of over 200 containment zones in the city reported a little over half of the Covid-19 cases detected till April 22, revealed an analysis of area-wise figures from CMHO office. Only 20 areas have 473 cases out of 954 detected till April 22. These areas include Khajrana, Tatpatti Bakhal, Udapura, Ahilya Paltan, Moti Tabela, Manik Bagh and others. The first few cases of Covid-19 infection were detected in Khajrana, Chandan Nagar, Daulatganj area on March 25. A community medicine department faculty member of MGM requesting anonymity said, “The first few cases were detected through testing of swab samples collected for testing of swine flu in some of patients with Serious Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) admitted to different hospitals in city.” Those cases belong to areas including Khajrana, Chandan Nagar, Daulatganj and others. After detecting those few cases, health teams began backtracking primary and secondary contacts of them, he said. They were tested positive and this cycle never stopped since then. It is still going on. Meanwhile, samples of persons with influenza like infections were also collected at dedicated hospitals and some of them also tested positive. All those were the resident of the same locality, added faculty member. Dr Amit Malakar, district in charge of sampling team said, “We have worked according to guidelines of Union government in backtracking and sample collection for Covid-19.” All symptomatic patients along with primary and secondary contacts of those positive ones were tested for infection and many of them despite being asymptomatic were found positive, said Malakar. This led to concentration of cases in few pockets of city, added Malakar. There are around 60% Covid-19 positives patients without symptoms in city, who have been either treated or getting treatment. The severity of symptoms and condition is only found in five per cent of the cases, said Dr Ravi Doshi of SAIMS, one of the Covid-19 facilities of city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/over-half-of-citys-corona-cases-are-from-20-containment-zones/articleshow/75334203.cms||Antriksh Singh
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||Fishing resumes in Uttara Kannada, boats set sail on Arabian Sea||Karwar: The fisherfolk in the coastal district of Uttara Kannada have had, in more ways than one, a very dry past month. The curbs on fishing activity during the lockdown has severely impacted their livelihood, but the relaxation in the norms by the Karnataka government has ushered in a slim ray of hope. Fishermen in Karwar returned to the Arabian Sea to resume traditional methods of fishing on Friday after a forced hiatus. In addition to the traditional boats, small mechanical vessels have been permitted to venture into the sea at all the major ports such as Majali, Karwar, Keni, Kumta, Honnavar, Bhatkal and Murudeshwar across Uttara Kannada. Deputy director of the department of fisheries P Nagaraju said that as many as 1,514 boats waded into the sea along the Uttara Kannada coast on Friday. “In all, the catch reported across the district came up to 5,638kg, all of which was sold locally,” Nagaraju added. The department has stipulated that fishing will be permitted as long as those involved practice social distancing. This entails sale of catch immediately, and curbs on the number of people who can assemble at the market. The department has made it clear to both the fishermen and the merchants at the markets that crowds cannot be allowed to gather for purchase of fish. In addition to easing the hardships of the fishermen, the lifting of restrictions on the activity will be greeted with pleasure by the residents of the district, for many of whom fish is a staple diet. For the past month, they have been forced to pay enormous sums to purchase freshwater fish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fishing-resumes-in-uttara-kannada-boats-set-sail-on-arabian-sea/articleshow/75358187.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Lockdown effect: Registration department loses Rs 1,500 crore in a month||VISAKHAPATNAM: The stamps and registrations department has lost around Rs. 1500 crore revenue in the past one month due to the lockdown. In a year, the registrations department revenue would be between Rs 6000 cr to Rs 8000 cr. In the last 10 days of the financial year 2019-20 and the first month of the financial year 2020-21 has not yielded revenue, sources said. The state has 291 sub-registrar offices in 38 registration districts in 13 revenue districts. The 12 registration zones are headed by a deputy inspector general (DIG)-rank officer. Visakhapatnam district had logged 90% revenue (Rs 575 crore) against the target of Rs 634 crore in 2018-19. It logged only 72.67% (Rs 601 cr) out of its target Rs 827 crore in 2019-20, said Manmadha Rao, district registrar. “We received no revenue in the last 10 days of March. We lost more than Rs 60 crore,” he said. Sources said the department’s revenue would be Rs 17 crore to Rs 20 crore per month. The department’s income would be Rs 30 crore to Rs 50 crore in the last 10 days of the financial year as there would be more than 2,000 registration in the last two weeks of March. The first month of April would generally get Rs 20 crore to Rs 25 crore. But the lockdown has upset the plans. Usually, there would be around 200 registrations in eight sub-registrar offices in the city limits every day. After the government’s intent about making Vizag as executive capital, the revenue had gone up in the first two months of the New Year. Post-bifurcation, the revenue department had achieved 98% target in 2015-16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lockdown-effect-registration-dept-loses-rs-1500-cr-in-a-month/articleshow/75361529.cms||Siva G
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||MGIMS sets up lab, gets nod for Covid-19 tests||Wardha: The Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sewagram, on Friday received permission from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, to conduct swab sample tests for Covid-19. With this, Wardha will be the third district in Vidarbha after Nagpur and Akola to have the testing facility. Wardha district has not reported any positive cases so far. Out of the 196 samples sent for testing to Nagpur, 185 tested negative while reports of 11 are pending. “AIIMS, Nagpur, director Dr Vibha Dutta has approved the MGIMS laboratory. The lab will conduct RT-PCR test under the mentorship of AIIMS. Testing kits will be provided from the Indian Council of Medical Research,” said MGIMS dean Dr NM Gangane. “Our microbiologist Dr Deepashri Maraskolhe and three technicians have been trained at AIIMS. We have made several arrangements and ensured that our lab possess the mandatory safeguards (biosafety level 3) to perform the tests,” said Dr Vijayshri Deotale, head of microbiology, MGIMS. The laboratory will receive samples from Wardha and Yavatmal districts. “Apart from suspected Covid-19 patients, tests will also be conducted on pregnant women about to deliver, patients undergoing operations, and those on dialysis,” said Dr SP Kalantri, medical superintendent, Kasturba Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mgims-sets-up-lab-gets-nod-for-covid-19-tests/articleshow/75361562.cms||Balwant Dhage
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Apartment in east Delhi first to be de-sealed||NEW DELHI: Sealed on March 31, Mansara Apartments in east Delhi’s Vasundhra Enclave was one of the first containment zones created in the capital to check the spread of novel coronavirus. On Friday, it became the first such zone to be de-sealed in Delhi as no fresh Covid-19 case has been reported on the premises since then. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday that the anti-coronavirus ‘Operation Shield’ was successful in the zone with the cooperation of local residents. “No new case in Mansara Apartment in Vasundhara Enclave. Therefore, this containment zone is being de-contained,” he tweeted. Three more containment zones in East district — created between March 31 and April 2 — and another in Shahdara district are likely to be de-sealed soon. TOI on April 18 reported that some containment zones might be opened towards the end of April. In a meeting on Friday, the health authorities confirmed that the conditions for de-sealing a containment zone, set by the Union health ministry, had been fulfilled, said East district magistrate Arun Kumar Mishra. “Therefore, the approval was given for de-containment of Mansara Apartment,” he added. The residents will now have to follow the general lockdown norms. “The area will be under surveillance by the medical authorities for the next 14 days to detect any health issue and take proper action,” said Mishra. The area, which has become an orange zone from a red one, is likely to turn “green” after 14 days. Mansara Apartments Residents Welfare Association (RWA) secretary Saurabh Mukherjee said everyone was elated to hear the news. “It was the toughest period and I am thankful to all residents who cooperated with us in this testing time,” he said. “The first and last four days were full of tension as anxious residents kept calling to know the status,” said RWA president Manidipa Paul. While the area was sealed, nobody could go out even to buy essential items. An RWA member said the local administration had set up a shamiyana where people could place their order through civil volunteers for essential commodities, which were sent home. The authorities also conducted door-to-door screening of 188 flats. Although a few people initially argued against restrictions, the residents showed community spirit and followed the containment measures, said one of them. To ease tension, an antakshari was organised on WhatsApp between two blocks every Saturday evening. “One of us, Deb Roy, a singer himself, orchestrated the event,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/apartment-in-east-delhi-first-to-be-de-sealed/articleshow/75363642.cms||Alok K N Mishra
April 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Music, movies and books keeping Murmu busy||The lockdown caught Chandrani Murmu off guard. The MP from Keonjhar Lok Sabha constituency got stuck in New Delhi and couldn’t return home. But she is making the most of her time. In Delhi with her mother, uncle and aunty, she is passing her time watching films, reading and ensuring the situation is safe back in her constituency. “We are inside the house following the government’s lockdown rule. We are taking all necessary precautions like using mask, maintaining social distance to beat the virus,” said Murmu over phone from Delhi. She is fond of reading and this lockdown has given her ample time to indulge herself. “I am spending a lot of time reading – from books to articles in newspapers and social media,” she said. Then there’s music and movies. “I like listening to music, mostly from the 1990s and 2000s. Her current favourites are Arjit Singh and Shreya Ghosal. Besides, she likes songs sung by Kishore Kumar, Kumar Sanu, Alka Yagnik,” the 27-year-old MP said. As far as movies are concerned, she is not an action buff, but likes comedies. “I am watching Hera Pheri again. Paresh Rawal was simply outstanding,” she said. Though she can’t read the Santali language, she watches a lot of music videos in Santali. Murmu doesn’t like to cook and is more comfortable having ‘pakhala’. “During summer, it tastes even better,” she quipped. She keeps enquiring about the situation in her constituency and tells people back there to be careful. She is also utilising her time finishing some pending work. Murmu loves to paint and this would have been an ideal time to start all over again. “But due to the lockdown I could not get hold of painting material,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/music-movies-books-keeping-murmu-busy/articleshow/75359875.cms||Naresh Chandra Pattanayak
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur surge takes UP’s day total to 143||LUCKNOW: Kanpur saw its record single-day jump of 48 cases as UP’s tally went up to 1,674 on Friday. While 143 cases were reported in the past 24 hours, one more death took the Covid toll in the state to 26. Besides, 20 persons were discharged, making it 226 overall. The only death on Friday was reported in Agra which also saw 19 new cases and retained its top position in the state 346 cases. CMO Mukesh Kumar Vats said: “An ailing resident of Naulakha area who reached the SN medical college on Wednesday morning was declared brought dead. But when the family revealed that he had fever and complained of breathlessness before dying, his sample was taken to check Covid-19. Late on Thursday, he tested positive. We are screening his contact.” Kanpur recorded the maximum jump of 48 cases found a place for itself in the top five with a tally of 144. It was followed by Saharanpur which crossed the 150-mark with 19 new entries. Covid struck Prayagraj once again with three fresh cases, days after it became a zero-active case district. Varanasi saw addition of seven new cases, including one from Madauli, which became the seventh hotspot in district.The other districts which reported Covid cases were Firozabad (9), Moradabad (7), Varanasi (7), Gautam Budha Nagar (6), Bulandshahr (4), Muzaffarnagar (3) and Amroha (2). Mathura, Kannauj, Aligarh and Meerut recorded one case each. The patient in Aligarh was a junior doctor in medical college AMU. Besides, an FIR was lodged against the woman who tested positive in Bahraich. She reported defied the lockdown protocol by travelling out of the city without permission and also hosted a party after coming back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-surge-takes-ups-day-total-to-143/articleshow/75363661.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Final call on Rath Yatra after May 3’||Bhubaneswar: Amid serious concerns about the novel coronavirus, the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration on Friday said a decision on the fate of the Puri Rath Yatra will be taken only after the nationwide lockdown is lifted on May 3. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Rath Yatra issue. While Odisha’s biggest festival is scheduled to take place on June 23, the temple’s managing committee said they will wait for the revised guidelines from the Centre and the state government before taking a final call on the matter. “We are bound to obey the instructions of the Centre and the state government. Let’s wait till the end of the May 3 lockdown and the subsequent guidelines from the government,” Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, chairman of the Jagannath Temple managing committee, said after a video conference with other members of the committee. Deb said the managing committee members were in favour of celebrating the Rath Yatra, but with restrictions. “The government will decide whether the Rath Yatra can be celebrated amid restrictions or not. It will decide whether the festival can be celebrated safely through the deployment of police and other staff. Religious freedom should not be exercised at the cost of people’s lives and their safety,” Deb said. Thousands of police personnel, including some central forces and administrative officials, are usually deployed in Puri to conduct the nine-day Rath Yatra that sees a footfall of more than seven lakh devotees every year. With Covid-19 showing no sign of a let-up, the government may not take the risk of allowing a mass congregation for the festival. Deb, the scion of the erstwhile royal kingdom of Puri, said the construction of the chariots cannot start before May 3. According to tradition, the construction work of the chariots must begin on the auspicious occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on April 26. In view of the lockdown restrictions and guidelines, the rituals associated with Akshaya Tritiya, which is generally observed outside the 12th century shrine, will not be held before May 3. “Since we cannot start the construction of the chariots on Akshaya Tritiya and observe the rituals related to it, such as Chandan Yatra, outside the temple before May 3, we have sought the advice of Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati Maharaj ji to guide us on some alternative ways so that our religious tradition and rituals can be preserved. We will again meet the top seer and discuss the Rath Yatra after receiving the revised guidelines from the government post-May 3,” Deb said. Chhatisa Nijog, a prominent body of different servitors’ associations of the temple, proposed to the government to celebrate Rath Yatra without the participation of devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/final-call-on-rath-yatra-after-may-3/articleshow/75359904.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Engaged in Covid-19 duty, doc to meet newly-wedded wife a month after marriage||Dehradun: After his marriage on March 21, Dr Akshat Mittal had little idea that he would be able to meet his wife only after a month. The day after his marriage, Janata Curfew was announced and he got orders to report to the Covid-19 ward of the Doon Hospital. After a month of duty at the hospital during which he stayed at accommodation near the hospital, he was finally allowed to leave on April 22 but was home quarantined. His home quarantine will end on Saturday morning when he would be finally able to meet his wife. Speaking to TOI, Dr Mittal said, “Everyone — doctors, nurses and support staff — is working at the Covid-19 ward at Doon Hospital with a great sense of duty and commitment. So, there was no question of my taking leave even though I had just got married.” He added that “in my home, everyone was worried since all of us were in direct contact with the patients but we used PPE kits while taking rounds in the wards where Covid-19-positive patients were under observation.” During the lockdown, Dr Mittal said he was in touch with his newly-wedded wife, also a doctor, through video calls. The couple had planned a honeymoon to Spain which they were forced to cancel. Meanwhile, his wife, Dr Somya Mittal told TOI, “Initially, it was tough for me to digest the fact that right after marriage, my husband will be going away and staying in quarantine.But then as doctors and responsible citizens, our duty comes first. Now I am happy that he is back and his reports are negative.” The doctor will be joining duty again on May 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/engaged-in-covid-19-duty-doc-to-meet-newly-wedded-wife-a-month-after-marriage/articleshow/75361582.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Three more traders test Covid-19 positive at Delhi's Azadpur mandi||NEW DELHI: With three more traders at Azadpur vegetable and fruit auction yard being found Covid-19 positive on Friday, senior Delhi government officials went into a huddle to find ways to keep the highly contagious virus out of Asia’s biggest mandi. Sources said the two traders had their shops in D-Block of the mandi where Bhola Dutt, who died of Covid-19 earlier this week, ran his office. The third trader ran his business from B-Block. While the traders were admitted to a private hospital, officials said the district surveillance team was tracking those who had came in contact with them over the past few days. At least 50 people had been identified till Friday evening in the mandi itself. They will be tested on Saturday. The source from where the three traders got infected couldn’t be ascertained. A large number of people — traders, their staff, labourers, farmers and truck drivers — visit the wholesale market every day. The daily footfall is over 50,000. “A large number of labourers come from the nearby Jahangirpuri locality, a part of which has been declared a containment zone. We are doing out best to contain the virus here. Several steps have been taken to decongest the area, including ensuring social distancing and keeping the place sanitised,” Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board vice-chairman Sanjay Goel said. Following the protocol, the shops where the traders ran their businesses were sealed and sanitised along with a few more in the vicinity. Since it is a commercial place, officials said the area cannot be declared a containment zone. Azadpur Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) officials, meanwhile, said that the government had decided to reduce the number of trucks entering the mandi everyday by at least 20%. “We have decided to create a holding area for trucks at Nirankari Maidan to stop congestion. The drivers can wait there for their turn,” Goel said. APMC also held a medical camp at the mandi where more than 400 traders, staff and labourers were tested. APMC chairperson Adil Ahmad Khan said the 19-member team included 12 doctors. The team will visit the mandi on Saturday to test more workers. Anil Malhotra, APMC member and president of vegetable traders’ association, urged that all traders, staff and labourers be tested. “Instead of keeping the mandi open 24x7, the government should allow trading on alternate days. This will help decongest the area and social distancing will be maintained,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-more-traders-test-positive-at-azadpur-mandi/articleshow/75363692.cms||Atul Mathur
April 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Textile sector begins to count losses||VISAKHAPATNAM: With losses running into crores, the textile business in the state (including handloom, spinning mills and readymade garments) is one of the worst-affected sectors. Sources said cloth merchants in the state have already suffered losses around Rs 3,000 crore in the past month. “There are more than one lakh big, medium and small garment shops across the state and around five to eight lakh people depend on it. We lost sales during festivals such as Telugu new year and Srirama Navami, besides sales ahead of summer,” said a garment businessman K Ramachandra Rao. “We got March salaries well in advance on March 27. We don’t know about this month. There is no work and all the owners have incurred losses due to lockdown,” said an employee at a well-known shopping mall in the city. While all branches of CMR Shopping Mall together employ over 15,000 people, South India Shopping Mall, KLM, Kalaniketan and other malls support a workforce of around 50,000 across the state. Greater Visakha city has more than 3,500 garment shops with a workforce of around 80,000 dependent on it. The association of garment merchants alone has 2,000 members. “Around Rs 50 crore business per month generally takes place in Vizag city,” owner of CMR Shopping Mall Mavuri Venkata Ramana told TOI. “The district has lost business of around Rs 70 crore to Rs 100 crore in the last one month due to lockdown. Generally, the business would be double in the marriage season when compared to normal months. It would take a year to revive our business from this Covid effect,” he said. Additionally, sources said the revenue generated by the state handloom sector is around Rs 2,000 crore per annum while the annual income of spinning mills is between Rs 20,000 crore to Rs 30,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/textile-sector-begins-to-count-losses/articleshow/75361591.cms||Siva G
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Online workouts keep the spirits high for wheelchair hoopsters||Trichy: With the lockdown suspending the outdoor physical activities of wheelchair basketball players, online sessions promoting strengthening exercises has come in handy for the players to overcome idleness in staying home.Chennai-based Wheelchair Basket Federation of India (WBFI) that promotes wheelchair basketball game across the country is sharing motivational videos to encourage their players to maintain their physical fitness to a desirable level even during the lockdown.WBFI affiliated to International Wheelchair Basketball Federation (IWBF) has about 25 state-level wheelchair basketball teams in the country. The gameplay is identical to that of the abled-body basketball rules. With tough rules, as the players are supposed to pursue a set of rigid exercises on routine to sustain their fitness level, the ongoing lockdown has disturbed the players’ routine.As the self-isolation in the houses due to Covid-19 scare may mentally affect the wheelchair basketball players, WBFI is releasing a set of strengthening videos in their official Facebook page since the lockdown. The 600 players across the country including men and women were encouraged to utilise the lockdown period to enhance their skills by practising the physical exercise videos shared.“Players were encouraged to practise strengthening exercises twice a day. The motivational videos will not only encourage our wheelchair basketball players but also others to overcome the idleness,” P Madhavi Latha, president of WBFI said.The lockdown has seen many international wheelchair basketball players representing India come forward and share their stories in handling the lockdown effectively by devoting time to indoor physical exercise.“Physical movement of people with disabilities is highly restricted during the lockdown. There is a possibility of an increase in weight for the players, such motivational videos will keep our players active,” said P Ananda Jothi, technical director, WBFI.The federation has planned to be in touch with the wheelchair basketball players through social media to help them stay fit till the lockdown is lifted. The fedeation has players aged between 14 and 50 years belonging to various states including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal and Jammu and Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/online-workouts-keep-the-spirits-high-for-wheelchair-hoopsters/articleshow/75363708.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Veggie traders oppose move to shift wholesale market||Trichy: Efforts by the Trichy district administration to shift the makeshift wholesale vegetable market from Palpannai to Samayapuram to prevent Covid-19 spread has received a backlash with traders refusing to comply and announcing an indefinite strike against the move. The 27 unions of wholesale vegetable traders have sought the reopening of wholesale vegetable operation in the Gandhi Market that was closed after the lockdown.The administration convened a meeting on Friday which failed to reach a consensus as the traders were firm on their demand seeking to reopen of Gandhi Market, and also refusing to operate from Palpannai. Eight retail vegetable markets were opened in the city by the district administration. Simultaneously, Gandhi Market was shut and temporarily shifted to the Trichy-Chennai national highway near Palpannai. However, over the past few weeks, a large number of traders thronging the temporary flouted the norms by not maintaining social distancing. To solve this, the administration on Thursday mooted a plan to relocate the temporary market to a goat shandy in Samayapuram, on the city outskirts. However, the 27 traders unions threatened to go on an indefinite strike. “Since the crowd was increasing, we planned to shift the market. But, the traders are resisting,” a corporation official said. “The makeshift market was attracting large crowds because people who were not wholesale traders were participating. Gandhi Market is an ideal place as outsiders’ presence can be prevented. We will ensure social distancing,” said Ve Govindarajalu, representative of Gandhi Market traders. Meanwhile, the resistance from traders has not gone well with the residents. “This is not the time to announce protest. For the wellness of Trichy people, vegetable traders should relocate,” K Shyam Sundar, a resident of Thiruverumbur said. A final decision about the location is likely to be taken on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/veggie-traders-oppose-move-to-shift-wholesale-market/articleshow/75363714.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hunger centres keep many going, some miss out||NEW DELHI: Saroja and her three friends walked around a kilometre on Friday in scorching heat from Chilla village to a relief centre in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase I for food only to be told that there was nothing left for them. It was just 12.50pm. “My husband usually reaches the relief centre at the government school around the same time every day and always gets food. Today, he asked me to go. But I was told the food was over. My six children are at home waiting for their meal,” Saroja mumbled. Biswanath, a carpenter who has been forced to stay indoors with his aged parents, wife and three children in a small shanty in Sarai Kale Khan, however, said the government’s relief centres have kept starvation at bay. Biswanath and his wife have been bringing home cooked food since the lockdown. “Had this food centre not existed, I don’t know how my family would have survived. Though we get the usual kadhi-rice or chhole-rice every day, at least my family does not sleep hungry,” the carpenter said. Thousands of people in Delhi, mostly daily-wage earners left jobless by the Covid lockdown, are dependent on the AAP government’s hunger relief centres to sustain themselves. According to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the state government provides almost 10 lakh people food twice a day. There are 1,422 hunger relief centres set up in schools across the city and over 450 other food distribution centres located in places where the poor, migrant populace lives. This is in addition to the dry rations that the AAP government has been providing to both the beneficiaries of public distribution system and non-ration card holders. Sisodia said the large number of agencies providing mid-day meals to school students had been roped in along with charitable and religious organisations to provide cooked meals. According to officials, not less than 150 organisations have chipped in. “This is definitely not luxury, jut the bare minimum that the government can provide to the vulnerable people to ensure nobody sleeps hungry,” Sisodia said. The deputy CM said the government would open new relief centres according to requirements. A government functionary added that several new centres were going to be opened within “3-4 days” to ensure people didn’t have to walk long distances for food. Sisodia added that the AAP government had adopted a three-pronged approach to the daily needs of people in this trying time. “Apart from cooked meals, we gave PDS beneficiaries dry rations 1.5 times more than they were entitled to in April. More than six lakh people not covered by PDS applied for e-coupons and were given wheat and rice,” he said. However, the need to register on the government portal to get e-coupons came in for criticism. In a letter to CM Arvind Kejriwal earlier this month, Anjali Bhardwaj, founder member of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, demanded that the state government provide ration to everyone without getting into the complicated system of registering. “To ensure that nobody gets the dry rations twice in a month, the authorities can mark their fingers with indelible ink for easy identification,” Bhardwaj suggested. According to the government’s estimates, 6.2 lakh people have already been provided food grains without ration cards after some initial hiccups, and the number of applicants has crossed 30 lakh. Kanhaiya Kumar, a migrant from Bihar, hoped his family would get some dry rations. “On some days, NGO volunteers come and give us some food but the quantity is very little and doesn’t last long. It would be better if we got foodgrains, spices, oil and other essentials so that we could cook our own food,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hunger-centres-keep-many-going-some-miss-out/articleshow/75363726.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||‘Make all sub-stns functional soon’||Lucknow: CM Yogi Adityanath on Friday told power minister Shrikant Sharma to get the constructed transmission and distribution sub-station functional and not wait for a formal function to dedicate them to the people. The CM said the sub-station could be formally dedicated to the public later. Sharma, in turn, asked UP Power Corporation Limited chairman Arvind Kumar to review the construction of sub-stations and submit a report soon. Sharma has also directed managing directors of distribution companies to make the sub-stations functional since the demand for power will rise significantly in the summer season. The directions were issued by Sharma during a video conferencing with MLAs and MPs of Gorakhpur and Basti division comprising Gorakpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar and Siddharthnagar. He reviewed the power distribution situation during the lockdown. Terming power officials and employees as ‘corona warriors’ who were risking their lives while performing their duties, Sharma asked the engineers to ensure that adhoc employees are paid their remunerations on time. The minister also asked the engineers to expedite the work of increasing capacity of transformers in the wake of increased power demand. The engineers have also been told to make arrangement of poles and wires and ensure trolley transformers in case of any urgency. Sharma told the officials to ensure social distancing at the billing counters. The minister will hold a video conferencing with MPs, MLAs of Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Etawah, Auraiya, Kannauj and Farrukhabad on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-all-sub-stns-functional-soon/articleshow/75363718.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy collector appeals to donate blood on Monday||TRICHY: District collector S Sivarasu appealed to the people to donate blood at the blood donation camp to be organised at National College at Karumandapam in Trichy from 9 am to 4 pm on April 27, 2020. The collector stated that the pregnant women and other patients at government hospitals in Trichy require blood transfusion as a part of their treatment. He also made it clear that the blood donation camp will be conducted in compliance with the Covid-19 containment guidelines.  People willing to donate can register their names by sending a message ‘Want to Donate’ on WhatApp or sending an SMS to the numbers 94431-82847 and 9965519761. A reply will be sent which will be considered as a pass to enter the donation camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-collector-appeals-to-donate-bloodon-monday/articleshow/75363721.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||One dead in Ajmer shelter home, 5 who fled brought back||Ajmer: A homeless person quarantined at a shelter home at Ghooghra Ghati died on Friday morning. Meanwhile, five people who fled away from the shelter home after the death of the person were found at Madarpura by police and were sent back. After getting the report of the death of a person at the shelter home, police along with medical and health teams reached the spot. Samples for Covid-19 test were taken and the body was sent for post-mortem. Other inmates said that he was not well for the last two days. Two coronavirus positive cases were reported from Jawahar Government School shelter home in Civil Lines on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-dead-in-ajmer-shelter-home-5-who-fled-brought-back/articleshow/75362824.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mumbai||Bandra housing complex residents engage in spats over delivery rules, shut lifts||MUMBAI: On Thursday evening, several residents of an upscale housing complex in Pali Hill, Bandra, were at loggerheads over rules to be followed for delivery agents and other service personnel during the lockdown. Local police had to intervene. With everyone in lockdown in their homes for over a month now, such fights have become common in societies across the city. “We had been allowing essential commodities to be delivered at the building lobby until recently. On instructions of the police, though, we had to change that and allow delivery services only till the main gate. Although blocks B, C, D and E are farther from the gate and on a slope, residents of Block A objected to the change and wanted deliveries till the lobby,” said the wife of the chairman at Cozy Homes, a complex of 160 flats. The two groups of around 50 residents gathered at the society premises on Thursday and an argument ensued. Meanwhile, someone informed the police and a team visited the complex. “It was a verbal feud between two groups in a complex. One group was demanding that delivery boys should be allowed up to the building and the other that they should be allowed only till the gate,” said Khar police senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule. No case was registered in the matter. The chairman resigned on Friday evening. “Police read out and interpreted the directives which were in complete consonance with what I have been seeking to implement for the safety of the society,” he said in his letter. The other group denied the allegations. “It was only a discussion because the chairperson had not consulted others. The building has a steep slope and the decision would impact senior citizens as well. The law too permits delivery of essential services,” said a member. Similarly, in a Borivli society, time-bound use of the elevator has sparked a war of words among residents. Seven- storey Sita Society at Ashokvan houses 85 residents. From March 30, its elevator is not operational from 9am to 6pm every day, which has forced all, including the elderly, to trek up and down the stairs. “We are concerned about what will happen in case of a medical emergency,” said Anand Kamble (62), president of the society and a former BMC employee. He has dashed off a complaint to Dahisar police station now. Fights over what is essential and what is not are also common among members. At a Kandivli housing complex, a fight broke out after one of its residents called for an internet service provider. Then there was a spat in a society on Ambedkar Road in Mulund West on Friday over a shop owner who had put up shutters but was delivering goods from the society back gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bldg-residents-engage-in-spats-over-delivery-rules-shut-lifts/articleshow/75362816.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Meat shops to remain shut in Trichy on Sunday||TRICHY: The district administration has ordered all meat and fish stalls in the district to remain closed on Sunday (April 26). As several people were found visiting these stalls on Sundays, the district administration for the past few Sundays had suspended their operation. The status quo will continue this week as well. Any meat or fish stalls that are found opened for business on Sunday will be sealed by the authorities, the district administration has warned. Already, the corporation has announced a complete shutdown in the city, except for milk supply, hospitals and pharmacies, on Saturday and Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/meat-shops-to-remain-shut-in-trichy-on-sunday/articleshow/75363717.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Salem||Complete lockdown in Salem dist for 2 days||Salem: In the wake of chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announcing a complete lockdown in Salem corporation area from 6 am on April 26 to 9 pm on April 28, district collector S A Raman has extended the lockdown in the district on Saturday and Sunday. The collector told TOI that all shops, excluding medical and milk vending outlets, will remain shut across the district starting from Saturday till 9 pm on April 28. “The complete lockdown will be enforced in Salem municipal corporation, four municipalities, 33 town panchayats and all panchayats in the district,” he said. Meat and fish stalls will also remain shut during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/complete-lockdown-in-salem-dist-for-2-days/articleshow/75363723.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Special needs kids spread awareness on Covid-19||VISAKHAPATNAM: The children at the Cerebral Palsy Clinic, run by the RK Mission, with the help of their parents and trainers have taken upon themselves the task of educating the public on coronavirus and preventive measures that need to be taken to battle it. “Some of them have Down’s Syndrome, cerebral palsy, autism and intellectual deficiencies. However, they do understand the idea of danger and it is in their nature to take up everything they do with dedication,” observed one of the trainers, C Sri Lakshmi. These children have been coordinating with their peers online from home. The trainers said the children are enamored by the visual training methods, which have aroused their curirosity and as a result they are able to perform such daunting tasks from home without any direct contact with their trainers and with whatever tools, means and material available at home. Brother Anil Kumar of R K Mission, Visakhapatnam, said, “ There are 70 children of different ages. The oldest among them, who are provided basic kindergarten-level education at our special school, are spearheading the task.” The trainers said, “They are spreading the message “Stay Home, Stay Safe” by means of a collage. Each child has been tasked with sketching one letter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/spl-needs-kids-spread-awareness-on-covid-19/articleshow/75361672.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||48 days and 23 tests later, 62-year-old is discharged||Thiruvananthapuram: After 48 days of hospitalization, 62-year-old Sherli Abraham from Vadasserikkara, Pathanamthitta, finally returned a second consecutive negative test for Covid-19 on Friday. Her saving grace proving to be the drug ivermectin — usually administered to cure parasitic infestation. After the first negative test early in April, her subsequent 20 samples returned positive. Her case baffled the health department and forced the state medical board to experiment with various combinations of drugs. Sherli was discharged from the Kozhencherry district hospital on Friday. “We tried various drug combinations as per the advice of the medical board. The patient was stable and asymptomatic. She had no major health issues. But she was not testing negative. In between, she once tested negative but the following tests returned positive,’’ said Dr Sheeja A L, district medical officer of Pathanamthitta. The medical board had even decided to shift her to Kottayam Medical College Hospital if she tested positive again. She was administered ivermectin thrice on alternate days, as per the directions of the medial board. Even the first samples following this treatment had returned positive. It was the samples collected after April 20 that tested negative. She was admitted to the hospital on March 8 and tested positive on March 10. She was among the primary contacts of the three-member family who had arrived in Ranni, Pathanamthitta from Italy on February 29. She along with her daughter tested positive. Her daughter was discharged on April 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/48-days-and-23-tests-later-62-year-old-is-discharged/articleshow/75360021.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Inter-caste couple united after police intervention||Trichy: An inter-caste couple in Karambakudi of Pudukottai district was united by district police after the girl said she wanted to go with her husband in Thennagar village, on Wednesday. The girl belonging to a backward class community had been forcefully taken by her relatives from her dalit husband .Police said 27-year-old Muruganandam and Banupriya, 21, of the same village have been in a romantic relationship for the past four years. However, Banupriya’s family refused to accept her affair with a dalit man.Banupriya decided to go with Muruganandam and married him on Tuesday in the presence of groom’s family. Later in the day, Banupriya’s family members took her and kept in an isolated location. “Her relatives beat up Muruganandam badly following he was taken to hospital,” said executive director of Evidence A Kathir, a Madurai-based NGO who took up the matter with Pudukottai district superintendent of police.Muruganandam filed a complaint with Karambakudi police seeking to unite her with her family. Police called both the sides and the couple were united as the girl wanted to go with her husband. A senior police officer said that Banupriya’s family were not aware that she is married to Muruganandam. “As Banupriya wanted to go with her husband, we asked both the families to not create issues,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/inter-caste-couple-united-after-police-intervention/articleshow/75363737.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Considering plasma therapy for all critical patients: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will soon seek permission from the Centre to use the plasma therapy on all serious novel coronavirus patients as four such patients at the Lok Nayak hospital have shown “encouraging results” to this treatment and two of them are likely to be discharged soon. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday appealed to the recovered patients to donate their plasma to save others. “Once a person recovers, antibodies are formed in his blood, which is then transferred into an infected person’s body. We got the trial permission (from the Centre), and we have tried the therapy on four patients and the results are satisfactory,” Kejriwal said. “After the next two-three trials, we will apply for permission” for using the therapy on all serious Covid-19 patients, Kejriwal said. While “this should not be treated as a cure for corona, it has come as a ray of hope to us”, the CM pointed out. “A patient who was in a very serious condition before the plasma therapy will soon be discharged,” he emphasised. The plasma transplant was carried out on two patients — admitted to ICU — on Tuesday. The respiratory rate of one of them was 30 against the normal 15 and the oxygen saturation level was 85%, which should be 95%. “After the therapy, their respiratory rate is 20 and the oxygen saturation level is 98%. This has been observed in all patients whose respiratory rates and oxygen saturation levels have improved,” the chief minister said. These two patients will be discharged from the ICU while the remaining two have also “shown excellent results”, he added. For the treatment, only plasma is extracted from the blood of a recovered patient. Appealing to all such people, Kejriwal said, “Your plasma will be given only to those patients who are very critical. You will be saving the lives of people.” The government will give a call to the recovered people and make all arrangement, he added. “I appeal with folded hands to come forward and help,” Kejriwal urged. Dr S K Sarin, the head of ILBS Hospital, said plasma therapy was inexpensive compared to many other medical procedures and medicines. In the third phase of the infection, cytokines are released in the body that produce substances that can kill the virus, but it can also lead to organ failure, he said. “If the person is treated through plasma therapy in the second stage itself, we can neutralise the virus as well as stop organ failure,” Dr Sarin said. “Our main aim through this therapy is not to let any sick person reach the third stage, which we call the ‘cytokine storm’, and also cure their lung infection,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/considering-plasma-therapy-for-all-critical-patients-cm/articleshow/75363916.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Bundi corona warrior gets homemade food after three weeks||Kota: A medical officer at Badanaya Gaon primary health centre in Bundi was happy to get homemade food after 23 days on Friday. Dr Doulat Ram Bairwa, who is on round-the-clock duty, got a tiffin box from his sister Mamta Bairwa, a government teacher in Hindoli town of the district. Dr Bairwa had somehow been managing for the last 23 days, but on Friday morning his sister Mamta called up him asking to reach the national highway outside Badanaya Gaon village to collect the tiffin box. “I was to join duty at Covid-19 control room at Hindoli on Friday morning so I asked my brother to collect the tiffin box on the way,” Mamta said. Dr Bairwa’s wife Dr Diksha is also a corona warrior, who is serving as paediatrician. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bundi-corona-warrior-gets-homemade-food-after-three-weeks/articleshow/75362825.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur police’s viral video shows funny side of deadly pandemic||Coimbatore: Suppose, you go out without wearing mask. Suppose, police stop you and force you to board an ambulance in which a Covid-19 patient is lying. How will you react? You will plead with cops to let you leave the ambulance. But they won’t. You will try to escape through the side windows. Your panicky reaction will be a stuff of comedy soon.This same situation is presented in a Covid-19 awareness video released by the Tirupur police in Tamil Nadu. The video shows cops stopping five youths, riding on two motorcycles, for not wearing masks.A woman inspector asks three youths on a bike what would happen if they are not wearing masks. Two sub-inspectors of police force them to board an ambulance. Once they board the ambulance, a ‘Covid-19 patient’ is shown lying in the vehicle. On seeing the ‘patient’, the youths attempt to escape through side windows. They pleaded with the cops to let them go. It becomes hilarious.At the end of the video, Palladam police inspector (incharge) G Palaniammal is head requesting the general public to stay indoors and wear masks when they go out.The video, running three minutes and 51 seconds, was uploaded on YouTube by the social media unit of the Tirupur district police. It was widely circulated on social media and instant messaging apps. “This video will help curtail the movement of the public. Volunteers from Palladam acted in the video,” said Tirupur superintendent of police Disha Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-polices-viral-video-shows-funny-side-of-deadly-pandemic/articleshow/75363738.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||IAS officer removed as nodal officer||Ajmer: After pressure from doctors, the district administration removed IAS officer Artika Shukla as nodal officer for Covid-19, who is posted as city SDM, and deputed CEO of zila parishad Gajender Singh in her place. Though the woman doctor, who accused Shukla of assault, has not yet withdrawn her police complaint, the district administration is trying to sort out things between the two. The administration also revoked the notice given by Shukla to a doctor from Beawar. The district administration assured the doctors of fair investigation in allegations made by Dr Jyotsyana Ranga and asked doctors to concentrate on checking the spread of coronavirus in Ajmer. SDM Shukla said that the district collector has given her a new responsibility of managing labour shelters in Ajmer and said that all officers are supportive of her. Medical officer Dr Ranga had accused SDM Shukla of assaulting her during a meeting on quarantining the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ias-officer-removed-as-nodal-officer/articleshow/75362827.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Local dairies to be roped in to restart milk supply chain||LUCKNOW: Neighbourhood dairies will soon be tapped by the state government to restart the essential milk supply chain that became erratic or even collapsed following the pandemic-triggered lockdown. In a directive to district magistrates, municipal commissioner and executive officers of local bodies, principal secretary urban development, Deepak Kumar, sought close coordination with local milk federations to carry out door-to-door distribution of milk by mobilising manpower. Official sources said, dairy companies are facing challenges in distribution with several small vans getting stopped by police while enforcing lockdown. As per the order, government is duty bound to provide essential commodities, including milk at people’s doorstep, Kumar said. The development comes amid the state government wheeling in free ration to needy through PDS shops and even resorting to home delivery, particularly for the physically challenged. The principal secretary directed the dairy development department and Pradeshik Cooperative Dairy Federation to devise a strategy and rope in not only milk producing giants like Parag, Amul, Namastey India, Gyan, Paras, but also local diaries located outside municipal limits. For this, managers of milk federation have been made nodal officials to oversee implementation of the plan and address shortfall in milk supply. Urban development sources said, the decision was taken in view of lockdown impacting milk supply in states like Maharashtra. As a result, milk companies were able to supply milk to super markets. And branded companies contributed to distribution of up to 45 lakh litres whereas 35 lakh litres is distributed by local dairies and retail shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/local-dairies-to-be-roped-in-to-restart-milk-supply-chain/articleshow/75363745.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Shops begin sale of Rs 500 grocery kits||TRICHY: The Rs 500 grocery kits hit the shelves of fair price shops in Trichy district on Friday. While many of the shops in Trichy did not receive the full grocery kit with 19 items, some of the shops have not received the kits at all. Officials from the cooperative society said that the full kits are arriving in batches and will reach all shops by Saturday. The state government had announced the sale of Rs 500 grocery kit with 19 essential grocery items through fair price shops. The move was to address the shortage of essential commodities in the market during the lockdown and control their prices. Each kit will contain 19 essential grocery items including half kg tur dal and urad dal apart from black pepper, black cumin, mustard, garlic, red chillies and other essential items. A total of 1224 fair price shops are being operated across Trichy district. Some stores received kits with only 13 items instead of 19 which were sold for Rs 320. The grocery kits are yet to arrive in fair price shops in Ramakrishna Nagar in Kallukuzhi. Another shop in K K Nagar received about 50 kits but managed to sell only about 10 packs. G P Arularasu, joint registrar, cooperative society, Trichy, said full that kits with all 19 items will reach all shops in the district by Saturday morning and there will not be any shortage. Saying that the scheme would be beneficial for daily wagers and those do not possess ration cards, S Nizamudeen, a customer from KK Nagar, felt that the price could have been lesser as it is almost on par with what is already sold in the grocery shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shops-begin-sale-of-rs-500-grocery-kits/articleshow/75363731.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 125 containment areas may have to wait longer for relaxation in curbs||BHOPAL: Those living in containment areas who were hoping to be relieved of the restrictions soon, especially after Professors Colony was declared restriction-free a couple of days ago, may have to wait for a while. Bhopal had only four coronavirus patients till March 31. Two from the same family in Professors Colony followed by a railway driver in Durga Nagar, Semra, and a resident from Avadhpuri, who was quarantined in Indore but fled from there and landed in Bhopal and after his condition deteriorated. He was admitted at AIIMS and one km area around his house was declared as ‘containment area.’ But in the month of April, there has been a spurt in Covid-19 positive cases. Four jamaatis three from abroad and one from Odisha caught and tested for coronavirus from mosques, were declared positive on April 2, doubling the number of Covid- 19 patients from four to eight. The next day i.e. April 3, an IAS officer, resident of a society in Trilanga , tested positive and the society was declared ‘containment area.’ By this time, Bhopal had nine Covid-19 patients and five ‘containment areas.’ As the district administration is lifting restrictions in ‘containment areas’ in 28 days, the only area which could get the relaxation this month is Durga Nagar, Semra. But the remaining 125 ‘containment areas’ in Bhopal, will continue to face restrictions even after the lockdown period ends on May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/125-containment-areas-may-have-to-wait-longer-for-relaxation-in-curbs/articleshow/75361701.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan minister seeks Rs 84cr from Centre to fight locusts||JAIPUR: Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria has asked the Centre to provide immediate financial assistance of Rs 84 crore in the wake of another locust attack in Rajasthan from Pakistan. Along with setting up of control room, spraying chemicals and preparing the action plan, the central government has been requested to provide Rs 84.62 crore for locust control and management, the minister said. The agriculture department has been put on alert in view of the possibility of locust outbreak in the state. The minister said on April 11, an outbreak of locust infants (hoppers) was seen near Hindumalkot, Renuka and Khakha in Sriganganagar district and Tanot in Jaisalmer district in areas bordering Pakistan. By spraying plant protection chemicals in 464 hectares on time, the situation was brought under control. The minister informed in the wake of the possibility of a locust outbreak, survey and monitoring are being done continuously. Action plans have been prepared at the district and state levels for locust management and control, he said. Rajasthan witnessed its worst locust attack in six decades with the insects attacking crops spread over 3.60 lakh hectares last year. Sriganganagar was the hardest hit district with parts of Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Jalore, Jodhpur, Barmer, Sirohi, Churu, Nagaur and Hanumangarh also being affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-min-seeks-rs-84cr-from-centre-to-fight-locusts/articleshow/75362836.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||1,200 Kota students from Assam, Haryana head home||KOTA: Nearly 1,200 students from Haryana and Assam left for their hometowns by 49 buses on Friday while over 2,000 students of Rajasthan started leaving for hometowns later in the day. Meanwhile, around 12,000 students from Bihar, who are depressed with the cold attitude of their state, continued their protest appealing to the Nitish Kumar government to take them back home. Over 50 students from the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Diu had left for their hometowns in three buses on Thursday noon and over 250 students of Rajasthan left till Thursday night. Of the 49 buses, 31 buses were packed with 800 students from Haryana and 18 buses with 400 students from Assam, said Kota ADM (admin) Narendra Gupta, who is monitoring the task. At least 50 students from Dadra and Nagar Haveli and 6 from Diu left had for their hometowns in 3 buses on Thursday noon while students of the homestate from Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran left for their homes in 10 buses on Thursday night, he added. Students from Himachal Pradesh are scheduled to leave for their respective hometowns in 9 buses on Saturday morning, Gupta said, while declining to comment on the departure of students of other states. Haryana state government had sent 31 buses to take students from Kota while Assam state government hired 18 buses from private bus operators to take the students from Kota to their hometowns in Assam, an official of a coaching institute associated in the task said. “Haryana government has eventually heard our plight and sent the buses to take us back to home. We are very thankful,” Sandhya Prasad, a Haryana resident, said. Approval to send back 190 students of Punjab and nearly 500 students of Jammu and Kashmir is yet to be received, a Kota district official said. At least 13,000 students of Uttar Pradesh, 2,800 students of Madhya Pradesh and 350 students from Gujarat had already reached their hometowns from Kota in the last few days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1200-kota-students-from-assam-haryana-head-home/articleshow/75362835.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Hopes soar over no Covid-19 cases in central Tamil Nadu||TRICHY: A fortnight after recording zero positive cases, the central districts once again recorded no Covid-19 cases here on Friday even as the recovery of some patients presented new hope to the people. None of the eight districts – Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam — in the region figured in the list of positive cases posted by the state health and family welfare in the evening. Prior to this, the region witnessed no cases on April 10. In the past four days from Monday to Thursday, the central region saw a total of 24 cases but the curve bent on Thursday with only two cases reported in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur. Though many expect the scenario to continue, it would depend on the result of the pending tests in the districts as the health teams have been lifting samples from symptomatic patients in the containment zones every day. Karur led the way in discharging more number of cured Covid-19 patients with 143 discharged from the government medical college hospital. In Friday’s discharge list, the hospital had 21 patients from Karur and one from Dindigul. They included three girls aged two, three and six. A young mother who delivered a baby boy a month ago and tested positive recently also got discharged. The the baby has tested negative. A 60-year-old male patient from Kumbakonam also returned home from government medical college hospital in Thanjavur. “Caring is the best medicine for the cure. I received good care in the hospital,” he told reporters. He was one among the eight patients discharged from the hospital. A total of 24 patients including 16 from Trichy, three each from Perambalur and Ariyalur and one patient from Pudukottai were undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. The district administration is awaiting results for some more symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. There has not been any positive case in Pudukottai district over the last four days after the first case emerged from Mirattunilai panchayat on Monday. While he has been under treatment in MGMGH, tests of a total 59 samples from across Pudukottai were negative on Friday. In Ariyalur district, a total of 617 samples were taken from suspected Covid-19 patients for laboratory tests of which six tested positive and 509 tested negative. Cases in Perambalur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam also remained unchanged on Friday keeping the total cases in the region at 232.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hopes-soar-over-no-cases-in-central-tn/articleshow/75363747.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Rural kids leave their mark on Covid-19 awareness drive||TRICHY: It was a dream-coming-true moment of sorts for class II student K Jiya, as she donned the role of a doctor and spread awareness on how to effectively prevent the Covid-19 outbreak that is terrorising the world now. The 7-year-old girl of Perambalur district, who aspires to be a doctor, was one among others actively taking part in the initiative by district welfare department to create awareness about measures against the pandemic in Trichy and Perambalur areas. Carrying stethoscope on her shoulder, the girl from rural Perambalur went on to speak in English in detail on how people should value the service of the doctors and nurses who are at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19. “Self-isolation is the best defence. Maintain social distance and protect yourself and others,” she said. A small boy dressed as policeman spoke on the struggles of the police in the battle against the pandemic. With folded hands, the boy requested the public not to venture out without valid reason even as the police were also running round the clock for them. “Stay alert for us. Distance yourself for the country. Stay home for tomorrow,” he said in his video. In another video, R Jovin Marutharaj, 7, of Perambalur district, introduced himself as a social worker and talked at length about the role of the doctors, nurses and sanitary workers in protecting the people from Covid-19. “All should abide by the instructions of the government to drive away the viral disease,” he said. Besides taking children on board, social welfare department also roped in people in rural areas to talk in the visualised awareness message about the need for being at home. They have recorded their speech and circulated on the social media with a view to achieve the maximum reach. While awareness message about prevention against Covid-19 was spread through the government officials only, district social welfare department officer A Thamimmunisha has found a novel way by involving children in the endeavour. “It is an effort to make an inclusive programme. Children will have more impact on society,” said Thamimmunisha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rural-kids-leave-their-mark-on-covid-19-awareness-drive/articleshow/75363754.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Alert Jodhpur villagers maintain tight lockdown vigil in rural areas||Jodhpur: While police have been struggling to enforce the lockdown in cities by invoking punitive measures against violators, villagers are doing their part and keeping an eye over people arriving in their areas. On Thursday night, three persons reached Kaparda village, some 60 km from Jodhpur on Jodhpur-Jaipur highway, taking advantage of the dark. But vigilant villagers got a whiff and informed the local administration, which immediately swung into action and quarantined them at the wellness centre of the village and later sent them back to Jodhpur for testing. All the three were working in an industry in Mandore Industrial Area and had set out on a motorcycle on Wednesday night to reach their homes. Earlier, 10 persons had reached Tena village in Shergarh subdivision from Jodhpur who had also been sent back to Jodhpur after the villagers tipped off the administration. According to block level officer (Tena) Bhojraj Singh, five persons arrived on Tuesday and five more reached on Wednesday. “We informed the primary health centre incharge and sent them to the wellness centre for quarantine. From there, they were sent back to Jodhpur for screening,” said Singh. These people had gone to Jodhpur to attend a function at a relative’s house on April 17-18. “With the spurt in positive cases in Jodhpur, villagers have become very cautious and have been guarding the borders of the village to stop anyone coming from cities,” villager Bhagwan Singh Tena said. Their fears are not unfounded. All these 10 persons had visited the area in Jodhpur which is close to a hotspot and had reported a series of positive cases in past four days. Corroborating this fear, SDM (Luni) Gopal Parihar said a resident of Barmer had tested positive when he was intercepted at the Jodhpur-Barmer border on Thursday. “One Omaram of Barmer, who had been working in Dharavi of Mumbai, had returned to Jodhpur in a truck from Mumbai and was heading towards Barmer with a relative on a motorcycle,” said Parihar. “He was stopped at the border and sent to Jodhpur for examination. He has tested positive,” Parihar said. Now all the 11 members of the family of the relative, who had accompanied to drop him to Barmer from village Uttesar of Dhava in Jodhpur, have been quarantined at MG Hospital in Jodhpur and their reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alert-jodhpur-villagers-maintain-tight-lockdown-vigil-in-rural-areas/articleshow/75362832.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman raped in Hyderabad on pretext of black magic treatment||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old woman was lured by a man who promised to heal her with black magic and allegedly sexually abused in Chandrayangutta. The accused, Mohammed Moizuddin (27), a computer technician, used to treat the victim’s aunt with ‘black magic’ and lured the victim.The victim went to stay with the accused for treatment and he allegedly sexually assaulted her. “The victim was missing for over a week and family registered a missing complaint,” said a cop. When the victim returned home, she revealed the assault and the case was altered. The accused was booked for rape, criminal intimidation and under Drugs and Magic Remedies Act, 1954. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-raped-on-pretext-of-black-magic-treatment/articleshow/75363750.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Agra||Agra police line kitchen staff tests Covid-19 positive||AGRA: A kitchen staff member of Agra police line was tested positive on Friday evening, even as the Covid-19 tally rose to 348 in the district. Speaking to TOI, reserve inspector of police line Rakesh Sharma said, “After the test results, the infected patient (constable follower) has been sent to isolation facility, while seven other staff of the police line kitchen have been asked to remain quarantined, until further notice.” The samples of the quarantine members will now be collected for tests. “On Wednesday, the constable follower had reported symptoms such as fever. His sample was collected on Thursday. If the samples of any of the remaining seven kitchen staff are found positive, further measures will be taken. Currently, contact tracing is being done for the infected patient," Sharma added. The Covid-19 infected constable follower hails from Bodla area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-police-line-kitchen-staff-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/75361724.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Kirana crisis in Bhopal on the wane as home delivery picks up pace||BHOPAL: After experimenting with different formulae to ensure that citizens get easy access to grocery during the lockdown period, the district administration seems to have finally struck the right combination. While the district administration has allowed 2,800 grocery shops to open across the city, it has kept up its efforts to promote online order of goods and edibles and their home delivery. It has also permitted more than 200 grocery shops to receive order over phone and home deliver the goods. This combination of grocery shops serving customers in their neighbourhood and bigger stores and supermarkets registered with the district administration fetching goods at home has eased the pressure on both -- the supermarkets are no longer showing “no slot” or “no stocks” notice over their portals and grocery shops are also not crowded. In fact, grocery shops are even less crowded than the pre-lockdown period. “It is no longer a situation where there will be a crowd as soon as you open the shop. Two or three people are coming at a time, thereby making obsevance of social distancing easy,” said owner of Mahadev Kirana Store in Shivaji Nagar. He said that many grocery shops are not opening now despite permission of the district administration because only people who need something urgently are coming to shops and their numbers are far less than normal. Food safety officer, Bhopal, D K Verma, said that home delivery of goods has been made to over 2.13 lakh families till April 24 from the day of the lockdown in Bhopal i.e. May 23. “If we have reached out to more than 2 lakh people with the help of stores registered with us, we have stopped at least 5-6 lakh people from stepping out to buy household goods and we feel good about it,” he said. When asked about criticism of home delivery system in the earlier phases, Verma said: “The situation has improved drastically over the past. People are not ordering unnecessary things and we are able to deliver more than 10,000 orders daily.” When asked about availability of grocery now, Krishna Trivedi, a government employee, said, “It is easy to get them but if you are brand-conscious i.e you eat rice of a particular brand and aata of a particular brand, you may not get that brand, but aata and rice you will get easily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kirana-crisis-in-bhopal-on-the-wane-as-home-delivery-picks-up-pace/articleshow/75361723.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 25, 2020||Trichy||More than 20 shops sealed in Pudukottai for violations||TRICHY: A popular betel-nut manufacturing company was among the 10 commercial establishments that were sealed in Pudukottai district for violating lockdown norms on Friday. A factory of Nizam pakku, popular sweetened betel-nut manufacturer in Pudukoattai was sealed by revenue officials. The factory which was operating with 120 workers, including 90 women, failed to adhere to the safety norms prescribed by the state government. When a team of officials led by revenue divisional officer, Pudukottai Thandayuthapani, many of the staffers were found not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during their work. “Even if one person coming to the factory was infected with Covid-19, it could be another cluster in Pudukottai. The company was allowed to operate, but it failed to follow norms following which the factory was sealed,” said Thandayuthapani. Similarly, 20 more shops including fancy shops, stationeries, and vehicle spare parts, were sealed across Pudukottai district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-than-20-shops-sealed-in-pudukottai-for-violations/articleshow/75363752.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Paramilitary men help break language barrier||KANNUR: What do you do when you face a language barrier in Covid-19 situation? You break this barrier to break the chain! These days, 81 personnel from CRPF, BSF and ITBP in different parts of the state are doing that by turning interpreters to meet the requirement of guest workers and share their concerns with the authorities. This in turn will boost their confidence as the ideas are communicated in their language. Of this lot, 51 are from two CRPF units at Peringome (Kannur) and Pallipuram (Thiruvananthapuram), while six are from ITBP unit in Nooranad (Alappuzha) and 24 from BSF units at Kainoor (Thrissur) and Nadapuram (Kozhikode). As per official records, around 4 lakh guest labourers are accommodated in 12,992 labour camps in state. In the backdrop of disturbing incidents in the community (mainly the spread of rumours and fake news), government decided to interact with them using policemen and others to address their concerns. But it was difficult to communicate in Assamese, Oriya and Bengali. At this point ADGP Sudesh Kumar, nodal officer of Kerala police who coordinates such activities, got in touch with CRPF, BSF and ITBP personnel and sought their assistance and they took up this mission from April 18 as interpreters. Now, these labourers are experiencing a friendly atmosphere and are happy that their problems are being resolved, said DIG MJ Vijay, who heads CRPF recruits training centre at Peringome. “When they find someone who converses in their language, they are comfortable and since we have people talking different languages, this reduces their stress level as well,” he said. Guest workers feel insecure when they hear rumours about lockdown. The new initiative has helped convince them about government initiatives and the need to maintain social distancing, he said. These personnel are deployed all over the state and the ones from Peringome are working among the migrant population in seven northern districts from Palakkad to Kasaragod, said assistant commandant at Peringome unit Santhosh PT, who is also the nodal officer handling Covid-19 related activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/paramilitary-men-help-break-language-barrier/articleshow/75360059.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man who raped and molested daughters yet to be arrested||JAIPUR: City police are yet to arrest the 44-year-old man who is accused of sexually assaulting his two daughters in Transport Nagar. His wife alleged that he had been raping the elder daughter for the past one year and had now started molesting the younger one too since the past few months. The girls’ medical examination was done on Friday. The survivors are aged 14 and 12 years old. Transport Nagar SHO Gayasuddin said, “The girls’ mother came to us on Thursday and registered a case against her husband. According to the complainant the accused had raped her elder daughter multiple times in the last one year. Lately he also started molesting the younger one following which their mother decided to lodge a case against him.” The accused worked as a labourer and while the girls’ medical examination was done, their statements in front of the magistrate under CrPC section 164 are yet to be recorded. “We will arrest the accused once the girls’ statements have been recorded and we will also question them further to get details of the assault. It appears that the accused father targeted one girl following which he set his eyes on the younger one. This is a serious case and we have initiated an enquiry,” added the SHO. A case under relevant IPC sections and POCSO act was registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-who-raped-and-molested-daughters-yet-to-be-arrested/articleshow/75362837.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||200ml sanitizer to cost Rs 100: UP government||LUCKNOW: The UP government on Friday fixed the price of alcohol used in production of sanitizers in the wake of new coronavirus pandemic. An order issued by principal secretary, cane development, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said a 200 ml bottle of sanitizer should not be priced beyond Rs 100. The price for other volume of sanitizer would be fixed accordingly. The state government had allowed the distilleries in sugar mills to produce alcohol which could be used for production of sanitizers. Bhoosreddy directed officials concerned to launch a drive to spread awareness about taking bills to check black marketing of sanitizers. In case of violation, action should be initiated under Essential Commodities Act 1955 and Essential Commodity Order 2020. The state government had, in fact, made a policy shift in use of ethanol in place of iso-propyl alcohol in production of sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-200ml-sanitizer-to-cost-rs-100/articleshow/75363759.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Agra||Medical, sanitation staff at Firozabad women's hospital protest||Agra: The medical and sanitation staff at Firozabad women's hospital staged a protest on Friday against alleged ‘lack of adequate safety measures’ after a woman, who had delivered a baby at the facility, tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital authorities said the woman had given an incorrect address, possibly fearing that she won’t be attended by medical staff if she revealed that she stays in a hotspot. Rajesh Kumari, the nursing staffer who helped the Covid-19 patient deliver a baby earlier in the week, said, “After three days of delivery, the patient's sample was collected and on Thursday night she was tested positive. The patient was showing symptoms and I had informed senior doctors, but no timely action was taken.” “I fear that probably I am infected with the virus along with other staffers. There is a lack of adequate safety measures in the hospital for the staff, as well as patients. We are being given sanitiser which is diluted by mixing water,” alleged Kumari. Suman Kushwaha, another nursing assistant, said, “There is pressure on us to carry on with our work. I had helped a patient deliver a baby even though she came from an area declared as a hotspot. The patient was given LAMA, which is wrong. The authorities should have first tested her for Covid-19 and only then allowed her to go home.” Pratibha, a senior nursing staffer, said, “We demand that sample testing of all the staff at women’s hospital be done. We cannot risk our lives.” Responding to the grime situation at the hospital, principal Dr Sangeeta Aneja said, “There was no strike in the hospital. I had a talk with the medical staff and they have assured that they would continue to be on duty.” “Medical staff are warriors in this desperate time. We cannot leave any patient without treatment or help. We have separate arrangements for Covid-19 patients' delivery and medical care. The patient who was tested positive on Thursday night had a complication case as well. Her baby is in a critical condition. The medical and nursing staff who help the patient deliver a baby were provided double layered masks, gloves and other items for precautionary measures. Besides, continuous sanitation and mopping are being done at the hospital, including the labour room. Samples for Covid-19 testing will be collected from the medical staff,” said Dr Aneja. According to hospital authorities, the woman was admitted on Monday and she hailed from Nakrachi toll area under Dakshin police jurisdiction. Her baby has been shifted to S N Medical College for further intensive care.” Meanwhile, the district reported nine new Covid-19 cases, including five females and four males. Earlier, a local RSS leader and computer operator at Firozabad Mayor office was tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/medical-sanitation-staff-at-firozabad-womens-hospital-protest/articleshow/75361741.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Agra||Eye clinic compounder strangulate former colleague, after she pressurised him for marriage||Agra: A private eye clinic compounder was arrested on Thursday by Agra police for allegedly murdering his paramour, who was also a former employee of the clinic. The victim was pressuring the accused for marriage. The accused was identified as Anand alias Atul of Humayupur Gautam Nagar, Dakshin police jurisdiction, Firozabad district. Currently, he was putting up at Gadi Bahdoria based private clinic in Agra. While the deceased victim was identified as Kiran (30), resident of Prakash Nagar, Shahganj police jurisdiction Agra. On Wednesday late night, her body was recovered from a medicine carton in Gajanand Nagar area. Rohan Botre, superintendent of police (city), Agra said, “Victim Kiran and accused Anand were in relationship for nearly three years while together in eye clinic. Two years back, the victim left the clinic after she came to know about Anand’s marital status. He is father of three children. However, the duo continued to be in touch.” “On Wednesday morning, the victim left her home at around 10am. After reaching the clinic, she got into an argument with the accused, as she was pressuring him for marriage. The accused, however, had planned to eliminate the woman around 12 noon. He strangled the woman to death in the clinic. Seven hours later, he took the body in medicine carton and dumped it near Gajanand nagar. After going through CCTV footage and call records, we managed to catch the accused,” added Botre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/eye-clinic-compounder-strangulate-former-colleague-after-she-pressurised-him-for-marriage/articleshow/75361733.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Cat on bed in Osmania ICU: TSHRC seeks report on conditions in hospital||HYDERABAD: Following an online complaint from an advocate regarding the poor conditions in the ICU of Osmania General Hospital, the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the superintendent. M Ramachandra Reddy, the complainant attached a video with his complaint to TSHRC. It shows a cat sitting on a bed in the ICU along with the patients. “As seen from the attached video the staff and doctors were never bothered about the hygienic conditions to be prevailed in the Intensive Care Unit and acting in a negligent manner and playing with the lives of patients who are supposed to be treated with intensive care,” read the letter dated April 23. The complainant also appealed for authorities “to direct them to rectify the conditions with immediate effect and also to direct the concern to take stringent action against the official for their negligent attitude towards the ICU,” as mentioned in the letter. Considering the complaint, TSHRC has called for a report from the OGH superintendent by May 22, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cat-on-bed-in-osmania-icu-tshrc-seeks-report-on-conditions-in-hosp/articleshow/75363760.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Remain stress-free: Madhya Pradesh CM to Covid-19 staff||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has asked the officers and employees involved in the fight against containing Covid-19 not to be bogged down by stress. In a message to the staff during a review through video conference, Chouhan reiterated that the hard work and dedication of the officers and employees will pay off and situation in the state would soon be under control. Chouhan also urged the officers and employees to take care of themselves while on duty and follow the protocol and use all protective gear to safeguard themselves from the coronavirus. He asked the staff to take adequate and sound sleep and remain stress- free. At the meeting, Chouhan expressed his displeasure over poor arrangements at the RD Gardi hospital in Ujjain and directed to ensure proper facilities to patients and warned that lapses would not be tolerated. The RD Gardi hospital in Ujjain has been notified as a Covid-19 hospital. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in Ujjain, chief minister Chouhan directed for strict maintenance of social distancing norms in the containment areas and its peripheries. He said carelessness and laxity on the part of people would be catastrophic. Chouhan also directed that in suspected cases, the suspects must be advised home quarantine. Only those cases where the houses do not have proper quarantine facility must to shifted to the quarantine centres. The centres must be small with limited number of people, he said. During the meeting, additional chief secretary, health Mohammad Suleman informed that in the 548 containment areas in the state a total of 24.97 lakh people have been screened. About 2,570 teams are involved with the survey and screening process in the state. Till date 32,974 samples have been tested of which 1851 have tested corona positive and 3,22 people are under home quarantine and 15,420 people are at various quarantine centres, he said. Suleman said that in a bid to increase testing in Madhya Pradesh auto extraction kits are required on which Chouhan assured to take up the issue with the Union government. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and principal secretary Sanjay Shukla were also present. Meanwhile, in a separate message to the police personnel, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that in this hour of crisis, our police personnel are setting a new example of selfless service. They are serving the public day in and day out by risking their lives. Along with strictly enforcing the lockdown, they are also ensuring supply of essential commodities to the public and are helping them in every possible way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/remain-stress-free-cm-to-covid-staff/articleshow/75361763.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Learning to compost wet waste for sustainable lockdown living||PANAJI: During the initial days of the the lockdown, everything came to a standstill in Goa, with not even the garbage collectors coming by to collect waste in most areas. This left some citizens determined to compost the wet waste generated in their household, reducing the burden on the state’s waste management systems. The spare time at hand due to the lockdown also helped many make the shift towards what they call sustainable living. Ponda-resident Abhinav Apte, who began the ‘ComePost’ WhatsApp helpline with like-minded individuals in 2018, has already organised online workshops during the lockdown to initiate citizens into composting. “We started this project one-and-a-half years ago in 2018 and our aim is to clock 1,000 active composters in Goa by December 2020. Today, we have 250 members in one WhatsApp group and 100 in another. During the lockdown period, we have had three sessions with experts, some even from outside Goa, over Zoom,” Apte said. Margao-based entrepreneur Arti Nagvekar is among those who began composting wet waste generated at home during the lockdown. “Now the wet waste we hand to the garbage collector has reduced to zero. My sister-in-law used to compost her home waste and had been asking us to do the same for some time now. With the lockdown in force, we had the time to get down to doing it and also those like Abhinav, have time to answer our many queries,” said Nagvekar. Of the various methods of composting, from using leaves to vermi-composting, individuals are initiated into the method best suited to their needs depending on the space available and the quantum of garbage generated . “We do not push any one method, and allow them to take up the method they are most comfortable with. Many people buy online kits for composting and later realise that there are maggots in the compost bin and stench due to lack of guidance. The WhatsApp group helps guide the members on how to go about it. If done the right way, there are no maggots or stench, the compost actually smells good,” Apte. said Faculty at a private engineering college, Christina Baretto, also began composting wet waste at her home in Cansaulim during the lockdown period. “I was out at work for long hours earlier, and now that I am at home I thought why not learn something new, which is a sustainable practice and good for the environment. Besides having the necessary time at hand during the lockdown, I don’t have to go out to get manure for our plants once the compost is readyUsually, we drive down to Margao to get manure for our garden plants,” she said. It has been two-and-a-half weeks since she started and cannot wait for the 45 to 60 day period to be over to lay her hands on the organic manure generated at home from the composting. “Our wet waste has reduced considerably. It was easy to do it during the lockdown as we did not need to buy anything extra besides an old bucket from the house and dried leaves from the garden. I watched a youtube video by Devki Shinkre who was my classmate and I thought it was pretty simple. Also, during the lockdown, we are mostly eating vegetarian food, which is simpler to start composting with,” Baretto added. During the lockdown, one of the first things that affected neighbourhoods was the safai karmchari not being able work as usual, said Abhay Mishra, a co-founder of the parent organisation Ulti Ginti of #ComePost. “We have been having composting workshops for more than a year now but only people from some pockets showed interest. Generally the eco-friendly clan would reach out to us. But suddenly we saw a change in attitude. People realised that now it is not some fancy term floated by environmentalists. This is something very basic. I had mostly seen women flock to our workshop, but after the lockdown was imposed, for the first time I had a batch of five men. People now want to learn composting as a life skill,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/learning-to-compost-wet-waste-for-sustainable-lockdown-living/articleshow/75363761.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Recognition to Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam boosts confidence of Siddha docs||Trichy: A latest order from the state government to distribute the Siddha medicine – Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam and other Indian and homeopathy medicines-- has instilled confidence among the Siddha doctors.The Tamil Nadu government’s Aarokyam scheme has recommended specific Ayurveda and naturaopathy and Unani Siddha homeopathy (AYUSH) medicines as an immunity booster to fight Covid-19. Some of the Siddha doctors said that the official order from the state government will drive away the speculations over the efficacy of the Chooranam.Responding to the state government’s decision, Trichy district administration was quick to distribute the chooranam to the people at temporary Uzhavar Sandhai at Central bus stand and the temporary vegetable market at Bishop Heber college ground in Trichy on Friday.While distributing a 50 g pack of the Chooranam, Trichy collector S Sivarasu asked the people to make use of the Siddha concoction to stay immunized as advised by the Union ministry of AYUSH. “Ministry of AYUSH has laid down guidelines that recommend the Kabasura Chooranam and Nilavembu Chooranam to improve the immunity level. Anyone can take it on empty stomach in the morning,” said the collector.The government Indian medicine doctors were waiting for the medicines from the Tamil Nadu Medicinal Plant Farms and Herbal Medicine Corporation Limited (TAMPCOL) to be distributed in a full-fledged manner.“As of now, we are providing the Kabasura Kudineer Chooranam to around 5,000 people across Trichy district every day. People, who experienced the results by taking the medicines, are referring it to others also,” said Dr S Kamaraj, district Siddha medical officer (DSMO), Trichy, adding that our staff will distribute the Siddha medicines to the people at all the public places.As prescribed, Kabasura Kudineer, Nilavembu Kudineer, Nellikai Legiyam and Amukkara Chooranam tablets will be given to everyone.In Ayurveda, Indhu Kandha Kashayam, Kooshbandha Rasayanam, Agastha Rasayanam, Dasamoola Kathurayam, Viyagriyadhi Kashayam and Rasayana sikitcha will be prescribed by the physicians.Unani branch will also contribute with Behidana, Unnab, Sapistan medicines. Arsenicum album would be the major medicine besides few other medicines from homeopathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/recognition-to-kabasura-kudineer-chooranam-boosts-confidence-of-siddha-docs/articleshow/75363762.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: ‘Smart system’ picks 45 tonnes of garbage daily||BHOPAL: To stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, Bhopal smart city development corporation limited (BSCDCL) is using automated vehicles and underground bins to collect the garbage and clean the roads in the night, during the lockdown. Automated road sweeping machines deployed by of BSCDCL have been continuously cleaning the roads. Over a dozen of these vehicles collect about 36 cubic metres of dust from the streets of the state capital. Monitoring of the cleanliness operation is also done quite diligently, with GPS and CCTV cameras tracking the movement of the automated vehicles, said BSCDCL CEO, Deepak Singh. Every day, a stretch of 200 km is cleaned through these machines. Cameras fitted on the vehicles also record their movement. Singh shared that 45 tonnes of garbage is being released daily in the underground smart bins installed at various locations in Bhopal. “BSCDCL was one of the first in the country to use the new method of waste collection. About 50 employees are deployed for cleaning operations in the night. They are provided with proper safety gear to keep them safe from infection. Live mapping of staff and tracking of vehicles is done at the control and command centre located in Govindpura area,” added Singh. The CEO also said that screening of all employees before entering the office premises or going for work has been made mandatory. Camps are regularly organised at the transfer stations for screening of the employees. During this time, special care is taken to adhere to the norms of social distancing. Employees have also been given masks, sanitizers and other equipment to protect them from Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/smart-system-picks-45-tonnes-of-garbage-daily/articleshow/75361742.cms||---
April 25, 2020||India||Corona’s biggest lesson is to be self-reliant, says PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday the pandemic had sent out a strong message about the need for India to be self-reliant. “The global contagion has thrown up challenges and problems which could not have been imagined. However, it has also taught us a very important lesson; that is, we have to be self-reliant and self-sufficient. It has taught us that we should not look for solutions outside the country,” the PM said in a video interaction with lakhs of village pradhans from across the country on ‘National Panchayat Day’. “Without self-reliance, we cannot deal with crises of such nature. The thought that we should not depend on others for fulfilling our needs is centuries old, but the changed circumstance has validated its importance once again,” he added. Modi's remarks came in the backdrop of growing recognition across the world of the perils of dependence on China as a cheap source of an array of goods as well as the threat of Beijing exploiting its position as the "factory of the world" to achieve global dominance. The public health emergency has validated those who felt that the world's reliance on China for critical goods — from active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) to personal protection equipment (PPEs) for medical professionals — constituted a source of vulnerability for countries while equipping Beijing with huge leverage. “Every village has to be self-sufficient enough to provide for its basic needs. Self-reliant villages will strengthen democracy by ensuring fruits of development percolate down to the grassroots. Similarly every district has to be self-sufficient at its level, every state has to be self-reliant at its level and the whole country has to be self-reliant at its level,” Modi said. He added that his government had worked hard to provide self-sufficiency to villages and making gram panchayats stronger. “In the last five years, nearly 1.25 lakh panchayats have been connected through broadband from a mere 100 before. Similarly, the number of common service centres had crossed 3 lakh,” he said. The interaction with panchayat heads turned into an opportunity for the PM to gather details of implementation of the lockdown and enforcement of social distancing. Modi said the country had witnessed the resilience shown by its people while dealing with coronavirus. “Despite odds and impediments, we have taken on the virus and shown to the world that we are fighting it with full determination to win. We have not succumbed to it," he said. In an important remark, the PM said those getting restless because of the lockdown and social distancing could learn from the spirit with which villages have been battling the coronavirus threat. “The collective power of the villages is helping the country move forward,” he added. Modi stressed that amid these efforts, we have to remember that the negligence of any one person could endanger the whole village and, therefore, there was no scope for relaxation. The PM interacted with sarpanchs from J&K, Karnataka, Bihar, UP, Maharashtra, Punjab and Assam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronas-biggest-lesson-is-to-be-self-reliant-says-pm-modi/articleshow/75365665.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
April 25, 2020||Agra||Agra: Red sand boa snake found in car, rescued||AGRA: A juvenile Red sand boa snake was rescued from the backseat of an advocate’s car in Moti Katra here on Friday. The snake was kept under observation for a few hours by members of an NGO, Wildlife SOS, and later, released into its natural habitat. On Friday morning, a family in Moti Katra discovered an unexpected passenger in their car -- a snake. Later, it was identified as a Red Sand Boa, a non-venomous snake The panic-stricken family wasted no time and called police for help. They, in turn, alerted Wildlife SOS team. According to the NGO's officials, a two-member team from Wildlife SOS donning Personal Protective Equipment and necessary rescue tools immediately headed for the spot. They duo carefully extracted the snake and transferred it into a safe transport carrier, much to the family’s relief. Wildlife experts said that the Red Sand Boa snake is a non-venomous boa species endemic to India, Pakistan and Iran. This particular species has various superstitious myths and beliefs attributed to it because of its ‘double-headed’ appearance and often referred to as “Do muha” in Hindi. Such blind faith has resulted in exposing the species to threats and danger, despite being a protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Sunil Kumar Pandey, the Advocate, who called Wildlife SOS, said, “We had taken out our car for a wash, when we suddenly noticed that there was snake inside it. We are thankful to Wildlife SOS for coming to our aid even during this lockdown.” Baiju Raj M.V, Director Conservation Projects, Wildlife SOS, said, “These are very difficult times for the world but that will not stop us from providing aid to both wildlife and communities in need. While the Covid-19 pandemic has driven people off the streets, calls involving urban wildlife have increased. Wildlife SOS continues to operate its 24-hour animal rescue hotline in the midst of a nationwide lockdown.” While the world has come to a complete standstill due to the coronavirus outbreak, nature seems to be reclaiming her territory. All around the world, there have been reported incidents of wild animals venturing into cities as pollution levels have decreased, public spaces are lying deserted and human encounters have reduced. This has in turn given animals an opportunity to venture beyond their usual territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/red-sand-boa-snale-found-in-car-rescued/articleshow/75361755.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mangaluru||MAHE hosts Manipal Covid Challenge||MANGALURU: MANGALURU: Kasturba Medical College, MIT, Manipal and the Innovation Center MAHE will host Manipal Covid Challenge. Problem statements identified are: Washable cloth masks for the general population, Sterilizing used N-95 masks for reuse, Development of Biodegradable patient gowns and PPEs and others. Arun Shanbhag, chief innovation officer, Innovation Centre, MAHE, said that all interactions and discussions between students, mentors and advisors will be held via web conferencing. It is an interdisciplinary competition, and a team must include 3-5 students and faculty members. At least one KMC Manipal or KMC Mangaluru student or faculty member is required on all teams. MAHE students and faculty members can participate in the challenge. The first phase of the challenge is ideation, where one has to submit a YouTube video presentation, for which the deadline is May 4. The second and third phase are deployment, and the deadline for the same is May 15. Entries can be mailed to: innovation@manipal.edu. The problem statements identified for Manipal Covid Challenge are: Washable cloth masks for the general population, shortage of N95 masks and reusable PPEs, protecting healthcare workers in a hospital, population movements: social distancing, quarantining, monitoring, remote monitoring of COVID patients, detecting asymptomatic populations in the community, identifying clusters and hot spots in a community and telemedicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mahe-hosts-manipal-covid-challenge/articleshow/75358397.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Three held for killing leopards||LUCKNOW: FIRs have been lodged against nine persons for killing two leopards in Kakraha and Sujauli ranges in the Katarniaghat wildlife division on Friday. On Thursday, three leopards had come out of forest. While two were killed by villagers, the third one was pushed back in the forest. The third incident had occurred at Semrighatia village outside Murtiha range. A person who had sustained injuries in this incident was given medical care. Talking to TOI, Sanjay Pathak, director, Dudhwa tiger reserve, said, “Of the nine persons against whom FIRs have been lodged three have been arrested from Sujauli range and sent to jail. A hunt has been launched for remaining ones.” While in Sujauli range, a one-year-old cub was beaten to death with sticks, in Kakraha range, a three-year-old leopardess was killed with sharp-edged weapons. In both the incidents, forest officials said, there was no cause of retaliation by villagers. Katarniaghat wildlife division has always been prone to the man-leopard conflict. “The killings have taken place during the lockdown. Many villagers living outside have returned to their villages. They may be intolerant to the wildlife,” said a senior officers. Lack of efforts to sensitize villagers and also field-level forest staff and intelligence failure have resulted in the death of big cats in these protected areas. A nexus between villagers and the field staff, rise in the number of contractual employees and failure to keep a tab on the activities of habitual offenders could be the other possible reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-held-for-killing-leopards/articleshow/75363766.cms||Neha Shukla
April 25, 2020||Indore||Quarantine units control virus spread||Indore: Quarantine facilities have helped control Covid-19 spread to a great extent as around 35% of the total 1029 positive patients in Indore, who were mostly primary contacts of the patients, were kept there even before their lab reports came out. IDA CEO and nodal officer Vivek Shotriya said laboratory reports of 379 inmates have come positive. “It shows that we’ve managed to identify suspects in advance and kept them in quarantine facilities till their laboratory reports came out. This way, we managed to isolate the patients from others else they could have infected more people,” he said. Shotriya added that so far, 962 inmates have also been released from quarantine facilities after they completed 14 days incubation period and tested negative. “On Friday, we released 66 people from different quarantine facilities,” he said. The administration has now started focusing on increasing immunity of the inmates and boosting their morale. “On Friday, three experts and volunteers from Prajapita Bramhakumari Ishwariya Vishwavidyalaya delivered motivational speeches and taught meditation to inmates of three quarantine facilities while at one of the places, doctors gave a musical performance. Some inmates also recited poems and stories and ensured their active participation,” the official said. He added that Chawanprash and Kada (mixture of tonics) were also distributed among the inmates. // Nutrition-rich food for asymptomatic patients at Covid Care Centre District administration will invite a tender to assign work of making nutrition-rich food for asymptomatic positive patients kept in Covid Care Centre. “The patients, who are positive but asymptomatic, have been kept in CCC and their number is only increasing on daily basis. The patients need nutrition-rich food for speedy recovery. So, the administration will invite tender in couple of days to assign the work,” IDA CEO and nodal officer Vivek Shotriya said. He added to have developed four CCC but as load in these centres are increasing, new facilities, out of some quarantine centres, will be created. // 20 new containment zones, 41 epicentres A day after Indore reported 84 new Covid-19 cases, the district administration on Friday declared 20 new containment zones and 41 epicentres. In most of the cases, the patients were found to be already kept in the quarantine facility or admitted to the hospital. Central Jail standard boys’ hostel in DRP Line, Nanda Nagar, Aerodrome police station, police line Mhow police station and Scheme 74 are some of the epicentres, where positive cases have been found. The administration has started tracing contacts of positive patients, barricading the areas and sanitizing and health screening of the locals. // 2 pvt Indore labs can now test Covid samples Two private laboratories of Indore got permission for testing Covid-19 samples. According to divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi, apart from giving permission to two private labs for sample testing, an automatic machine, which will be installed in MGM in a week, will help speed up the process. He mentioned that there are around 3,000 testing kits available in Indore. He said there are three CB NET machines in MRTB Hospital and they would likely to increase sample testing capacity by 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/quarantine-units-control-virus-spread/articleshow/75362833.cms||Sagar Choukse
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||2 youths drown in river at Banswara||Udaipur: Two youths from Mota Gaon village of Banswara district drowned in Mahi river in Dungarpur area on Friday. The youths, who were cousins, had gone with some of their family members to Valai bridge on Mahi river adjoining Dungarpur border on Friday to bathe after performing some rituals related to the demise of their grandmother, who had died a few days ago. One of the youths had even made video clips and uploaded on social media, before he drowned. According to family sources, the deceased Bhavik (20) and Kalpesh (19) had shaved their heads as per ‘Sootkara or Mundan’ rituals after the demise of their grandmother Parvati Devi Kalal, who passed away on April 15. On Friday, some 8-10 men of the household had gone to the Rannchhod Das Temple to shave their heads and the two youths had accompanied the elders. They were playing while bathing in the river and carelessly went into the deep waters and drowned. The family members pulled them out, while a team from the Nithaua police station of Dungarpur district too arrived on the spot and took the youths to Aaspur hospital where they were declared dead. Sources said both the boys were only sons in their respective families. A pall of gloom descended over the village when the bodies were taken home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-youths-drown-in-river-at-banswara/articleshow/75362838.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kozhikode||Repatriation of bodies of expats hit||Kozhikode: The repatriation of bodies of Malayalee expats who died due to Covid 19 from the Gulf in cargo flights has been hit following new instructions issued by the Central government. The instructions asking individual airlines to approach the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for special approval for immigration clearance of the bodies have resulted in the stalling of repatriation through cargo flights in recent days. With passenger flights not operating in the wake of the pandemic, the bodies were being repatriated to the state in cargo flights bringing vegetables and other goods. State government sources said that Indian embassies in Gulf countries were also asking for no-objection certificates from MHA for issuing clearance certificates for repatriation of bodies, which has caused hurdles in the repatriation process. Expat social activist Ashraf Thamarassery based in UAE said there are 26 bodies of Indian expats that are to be repatriated from UAE alone, including two bodies of Malayalees- that of a Kayamkulam native and Kasaragod native- are stuck in Dubai and Abu Dhabi airports. Kozhikode MP, M K Raghavan, has written to the Prime Minister saying two bodies that were brought to the Chennai International Airport in Qatar Airways cargo flight on Thursday were denied permission by the ministry at the last moment. He said that individual airlines have now been instructed that because of closing of immigration check posts (ICPs) for all incoming traffic except crew members of cargo/ evacuation flights from March 23 onwards, the immigration clearance of dead bodies has also been suspended except those which are specifically approved by the MHA. "The airlines have been asked to approach MHA for obtaining separate permissions regarding the same. This is not only a cumbersome procedure but would also lead to hesitation from the airlines to transport mortal remains in the near future," Raghavan said in the letter. Meanwhile, minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan, told media that there was no restriction on repatriating dead bodies to the country. He said that there were some ambiguities following the new situation of bodies being repatriated in cargo flights instead of passenger flights and added that the Central government was taking steps to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/repatriation-of-bodies-of-expats-hit/articleshow/75360109.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Agra||Seventh Covid death in Agra, district tally increases to 348||Agra: A 54-year-old businessman died of Covid-19 in Agra. The man's death takes the city's toll to seven on Friday. The man's lab report confirmed that he was suffering from Covid-19. Also, seven fresh cases were reported in the district on Friday, taking the tally to 348. Resident of Naulakha area under Sadar police station, the man’s health condition deteriorated on Tuesday evening. He passed away early on Wednesday. His family took him to SN Medical College (SNMC) where the doctors declared him as "brought dead". Chief medical officer (CMO) of Agra district Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The man's family informed that he was suffering from fever and breathing difficulties. Therefore, doctors at the SNMC collected his sample for Covid-19 testing. The man was later found Covid-19 positive. We are screening all the people living near the man's house and his contacts. Samples of his family members are being sent for lab testing." Earlier this month, four people with Covid-19 died at SN Medical College. Two positive cases - linked to a private hospital on National Highway-2 - also passed away. Localities from where the new cases surfaced on Wednesday were Sikandra, Shahjadi Mandi, Karodhana Kala, Tajganj and Nagli Kali. One case is related to a hospital in Sikandra, while another case is about a resident of Mainpuri district. “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people," the CMO added. According to health department, out of the 335 cases which have surfaced in Agra, at least 104 are linked to those who had attended the Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. While 95 cases are linked to a private hospital on NH-2. Another nine cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality. Besides, 26 cases are related to people who had returned from abroad and their contacts. Also, 43 cases are linked to healthcare workers and their contacts, with 36 cases linked to Fatehpur Sikri where a tour guide was found corona positive earlier this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/seventh-covid-death-in-agra-district-tally-increases-to-348/articleshow/75361768.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Indore||Indore: Now, 573 cameras to help cops keep eye on red zones||INDORE: Starting Saturday, senior police officials will be able to monitor activities in the red zones from DIG office and pass instructions on the spot. After developing localized control rooms and connecting them with loudspeakers, the officials have now got 573 CCTVs installed in these areas and have connected their feed with the control room through optical fiber cable. The officials also plan to update the grid with 1000 more cameras in phase II of the plan. This grid will supplement the data received from the existing 600 cameras of the city surveillance. IG Vivek Shama said that they had formed a grid of CCTVs three weeks ago and had also linked it with loudspeakers which had proved to be successful following which they decided to develop it further. DGP Vivek Johri had advised the officials to create a central hub to monitor activities in the lanes. “I provided two teams for security to the cable operator and the IT company who conducted the installation work in these areas,” IG Shamra told TOI. He said that they faced problems as CCTVs were only installed on the squares and not in small streets. He said that they received help from IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh in the entire process and were able to set it up within three days. “The footfall of senior officials is more at the control room and so this was the best place to start this. We have started feeds from 13 police stations right now and they can be seen simultaneously on 32 screens. Feeds can be recorded, snapshots can be taken,” he said adding that that this was an extensive exercise and CSPs and inspectors first chose the points where the CCTVs needed to be installed following which the cable operator was approached. The officials have received dedicated optical fibre cables for the same which have ample bandwidth and the feed can be projected on any static IP of the office. “It was a task to find media convertors but we were able to do so,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/now-573-cameras-to-help-cops-keep-eye-on-red-zones/articleshow/75362839.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, two from shelter home leave to join work||Nagpur: On a day when the city attained century in terms of Covid-19 positive patients, there was something to cheer when two of the 130 migrants were given a small farewell by the caretaker and other inmates at the shelter home at Government Polytechnic, Sadar, on Friday. The duo has been permitted to travel and join their work as JCB drivers at Pandharkawda in Yavatmal district. They are the first to get such permission from any shelter home in the city after the state government eased norms so that industrial activity can resume in green zones. Industries can employ migrant workers stuck in the respective districts, as per norms. Caretaker Neerja Pathania said that there are around 130 migrants in the shelter home from the day lockdown was implemented. “We are trying to convince these migrants to take up employment in green zones which have been partially opened as per government orders. These two used to work in I Earth Movers in Pandharkawda near Yavatmal district and were earning around Rs18,000 per month. We spoke to Pramod Maske of I Earth Movers who was happy to restart work. The other migrants too are looking forward to joining work and not insisting on going to their homes in other states.” Mahendra Singh Yadav (25) hailing from Block Jakora Post, Nanora village, Panchora, and Deshraj Pal (26) from Karari village, both in Lalitpur district of Uttar Pradesh are the two lucky migrants. Standing in a queue for the last time to get tea while wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing, Mahendra said that he is feeling very happy to get back to work. “Ranjana Lade, deputy commissioner of Nagpur Municipal Corporation social welfare department, Nilesh Bharne, additional commissioner of police (crime), and Vinita Sahu, DCP Zone 2, helped us in completing all the formalities. A taxi was hired to take the two workers to Pandharkawda. They left the shelter home amid cheering and clapping by other migrants of the shelter home,” Neerja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-two-from-shelter-home-leave-to-join-work/articleshow/75361798.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Agra||Agra: Private hospitals to face legal action for turning away patients without Covid-19 test reports||AGRA: The Agra district administration has decided to register FIRs against the managements of private hospitals, allowed to operate during lockdown, for not admitting patients. The decision has been taken following complaints that some private hospitals are turning away patients, asking them to first get a coronavirus test report. Agra district administration is the first in Uttar Pradesh to take such a decision. It is one of the worst-hit Covid-19 districts in UP. Health authorities said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh has appointed the chief development officer as nodal officer to coordinate with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and ensure patients do not suffer for want of treatment. Talking with TOI, the DM said, “We had identified 25 hospitals for treating different types of diseases and health problems. It has surfaced that some of these hospitals have not been admitting patients. This will not be tolerated. From Saturday onwards, we will be registering an FIR against the management of any hospital for denying or delaying treatment of a patient. The licence of the centre can also be cancelled right away. “The hospitals should consider each patient as a carrier of coronavirus. Doctors should do the required safety gear before they come in the contact with the patient. If required, samples can be collected for testing of coronavirus. But a patient cannot be denied treatment over suspicion of Covid-19 infection,” Singh said. According to the DM, for denying required treatment or refusing to admit a patient, the management of the hospital concerned will be booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). The DM has ordered private hospitals to immediately admit patients referred from SN Medical College and the district hospital. Both these centres are addressing coronavirus-related cases and are not able to provide standard services to other patients. According to sources, over the last six days, at least six patients have died allegedly due to lack of timely treatment. These include a retired government official residing in Sikandra who was not able to get a dialysis on time, a senior citizen of Tedi Bagiya locality and a woman patient from Trans-Yamuna locality. On Thursday, a 30-year-old pregnant woman, who is a resident of Shashtripuram locality, was allegedly turned away by various private hospitals. Later, she was admitted to SN Medical College. Due to the delay in getting medical attention, the fetus died in the womb of the mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pvt-hospitals-to-face-legal-action-for-turning-away-patients-without-covid-19-test-reports/articleshow/75361749.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 25, 2020||Udaipur||In 10 days, cases double to 2k in Rajasthan; 4 more die in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The total count of Covid-19 patients in the state crossed the 2,000-mark on Friday, doubling from 1,000 to 2,000 cases in a mere 10 days. Four persons died and 70 others also tested positive for the virus on the day. With the four deaths, the death toll in the state increased to 32. All the four persons who died on Friday are from Jaipur, taking the number of casualties in the city to 18 so far. Out of four, three were declared positive after their deaths, and the fourth person was brought dead. The four are a 75-year-old resident of Jamwaramgarh, who tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on April 22; a 60-year-old resident of Ramganj who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital on April 22; a 70-year-old woman and a resident of Adarsh Nagar who died on April 24; and a 60-year-old resident of MD Road who was brought to the SMS Hospital on April 22. With 70 new patients, the total positive cases increased to 2,034 in the state. So far, 493 persons have recovered and 198 discharged from hospitals after treatment. There are 4,317 samples pending for tests in different laboratories of the state. According to the health department report, among the 70 persons diagnosed with Covid-19, 36 are from Jaipur and 22 from Kota. Other districts which reported positive cases are Jodhpur (6), Jhalawar (4) and one each from Bharatpur and Pali. The report shows that out of the 36 persons who tested positive in Jaipur, 18 are from Ramganj area, five from Shastri Nagar, two from Adarsh Nagar, five from Paldi Meena, one from Neelgaron Ka Mohalla, one each from Housing Board on Delhi bypass, Sanganer, Raja Park and two from Uttar Pradesh. During a video conference with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, state minister Raghu Sharma raised the problems of shortage of ventilators, PCR kits for testing as well as the issue of starting a testing facilitiy in Bhilwara. “We have demanded 1,500 ventilators. We are also facing a shortage of PCR test kits and demanded more. Our Covid-19 testing facility in Bhilwara is awaiting permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start testing," said Sharma. He also said that he has spoken about the tests done with rapid testing kits. “He told us that he had issued directions to ICMR to test its accuracy in the lab. Only after that, guidelines will be issued whether to use it or not,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/in-10-days-cases-double-to-2k-in-state-4-more-die-in-jaipur/articleshow/75367009.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||In 10 days, cases double to 2k in Rajasthan; 4 more die in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The total count of Covid-19 patients in the state crossed the 2,000-mark on Friday, doubling from 1,000 to 2,000 cases in a mere 10 days. Four persons died and 70 others also tested positive for the virus on the day. With the four deaths, the death toll in the state increased to 32. All the four persons who died on Friday are from Jaipur, taking the number of casualties in the city to 18 so far. Out of four, three were declared positive after their deaths, and the fourth person was brought dead. The four are a 75-year-old resident of Jamwaramgarh, who tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on April 22; a 60-year-old resident of Ramganj who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital on April 22; a 70-year-old woman and a resident of Adarsh Nagar who died on April 24; and a 60-year-old resident of MD Road who was brought to the SMS Hospital on April 22. With 70 new patients, the total positive cases increased to 2,034 in the state. So far, 493 persons have recovered and 198 discharged from hospitals after treatment. There are 4,317 samples pending for tests in different laboratories of the state. According to the health department report, among the 70 persons diagnosed with Covid-19, 36 are from Jaipur and 22 from Kota. Other districts which reported positive cases are Jodhpur (6), Jhalawar (4) and one each from Bharatpur and Pali. The report shows that out of the 36 persons who tested positive in Jaipur, 18 are from Ramganj area, five from Shastri Nagar, two from Adarsh Nagar, five from Paldi Meena, one from Neelgaron Ka Mohalla, one each from Housing Board on Delhi bypass, Sanganer, Raja Park and two from Uttar Pradesh. During a video conference with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, state minister Raghu Sharma raised the problems of shortage of ventilators, PCR kits for testing as well as the issue of starting a testing facilitiy in Bhilwara. “We have demanded 1,500 ventilators. We are also facing a shortage of PCR test kits and demanded more. Our Covid-19 testing facility in Bhilwara is awaiting permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start testing," said Sharma. He also said that he has spoken about the tests done with rapid testing kits. “He told us that he had issued directions to ICMR to test its accuracy in the lab. Only after that, guidelines will be issued whether to use it or not,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-10-days-cases-double-to-2k-in-state-4-more-die-in-jaipur/articleshow/75363773.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Ban on public gatherings in Uttar Pradesh till June 30||LUCKNOW: Even if the lockdown is lifted on May 3, there will be no public gatherings in UP till June 30. Speaking to senior district administration officials, police officials and chief medical officers on Friday evening, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that no kind of public gatherings would be permitted in the state till June 30 and a decision to ease the rule will be taken subsequently, depending on the situation then. “With Ramzan starting, the community leaders have requested people to offer prayers from their homes. There should be no mass gatherings as that increases the possibility of coronavirus spreading. There will be no public gatherings till June 30,” he said. The CM said that in districts where the lockdown was implemented properly, cases of Covid-19 are low. The most number of positive cases are from those associated with the Tablighi Jamat, he said, and their members should be identified and quarantined. The CM said that to avoid crowd in banks, officers should try using postmen to deliver money to people. “Around 6 lakh persons have spent 14 days in quarantine in the state and are now back home. If someone runs away from quarantine, file a police complaint against them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ban-on-public-gatherings-in-up-till-june-30/articleshow/75363778.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Three teens arrested for circulating derogatory video against PM in Trichy||TRICHY: The city police on Friday arrested three teenagers for making and circulating a derogatory video against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the lockdown which is in force to prevent the spread of Covid-19. They were later released on bail. The Palakkarai police arrested a 15-year-old boy from Kandi Street in Beema Nagar, a 17- year-old boy from Kooni Bazaar and a 17-year old-boy from Pakkali Street in Beema Nagar. Police arrested them based on a complaint filed by the president of BJP Yuva Morcha Trichy district, N Gowtham. In his complaint, Gowtham said he came across a TikToK video on Thursday. In the video, the 15-year-old boy acted as if he was giving an interview to a TV channel and answered to questions posed by the two other boys. While the two boys asked the boy if he could not get a chewing tobacco due to lockdown, the boy replied to them and made derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Modi. The ‘interview’ continued with vulgar comments from the boys. Stating that the one minute and three second video was shot on the Beema Nagar bridge, Gowtham alleged that the ‘disgusting’ video was intended to insult the Prime Minister and was condemnable. The minors were booked under sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 294(b) (uttering obscene words, 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and 45 of the Information Technology Act. The boys were brought to the government observation home at East Boulevard Road. The juvenile justice (JJ) board which deals with juveniles in conflict with law released the three boys on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-teens-arrested-for-circulating-derogatory-video-against-pm/articleshow/75363768.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||‘IT for TS’ to raise funds for critical equipment||HYDERABAD: IT industry associations like IT industry bodies like Nasscom, HYSEA, TiE and AmCham have joined forces to set up ‘IT for TS’ to better channelise and utilise CSR funds and donations to help Telangana gear up in its battle against coronavirus. The objective of the initiative is to raise Rs 50 crore to buy critical equipment for Covid-19 designated hospitals, including high volume rapid testing machines, CT scanners and lab equipment. IT industry sources said, the initiative was the result of a recent meeting representatives of IT industry bodies had with state government officials. Confirming this, Telangana IT & industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said United Way of Hyderabad has been appointed charity partner for the initiative. “We have identified the critical medical equipment that the Covid-19 designated hospitals require. A fundraise target of Rs 50 crore has been set,” he said. United Way of Hyderabad CEO, Rekha Srinivasan said the initiative could later extend to raising funds for district hospitals. “Each of these associations have sent out mails to member companies requesting them to encourage employees to donate a day’s salary...,” Srinivasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-for-ts-to-raise-funds-for-critical-equipment/articleshow/75362855.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Guard held for liquor sale in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Punjagutta police arrested the security guard of 10 Downing Street Pub in Begumpet and seized Rs 1.5 lakh worth liquor while he was attempting to sell it illegally. Police conducted a decoy operation on Friday night and arrested security guard Ramu. “The pub has been locked since 40 days. Kitchen manager of the pub, Rambabu, was guiding Ramu. They have been selling the liquor to customers at a higher price,” Punjagutta inspector M Niranjan Reddy said. Cops seized 35 cases of 330 ml beer, 12 full bottles of rum, five bottles of whiskey. “We are looking for Rambabu. The CCTV cameras at the pub are not functional,” Punjagutta SI D Nagaraju said. In another case, Neredmet police booked an employee of Durga Bar at Neredmet X Roads for breaking into the bar on April 18 night and escaping with 10 bottles of liquor worth Rs 3,500. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guard-held-for-liquor-sale/articleshow/75363771.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Girl writes to PM offering land for burying Covid-19 warriors||MADURAI: A class IX student has sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing willingness to offer her family’s three acres in a village in Madurai district to be used as burial ground for doctors, nurses, police personnel and similar frontline warriors against Covid-19 who fall victim to the disease. B Thennarasi, a resident of Katchaikatti village at Vadipatti taluk in Madurai and a student at Thaai CBSE School, sent a two-page handwritten letter in Tamil to the PM through speed post on April 22. The girl told TOI that doctors, nurses, sanitary workers and police officials are rendering great service to the people for the containment of Covid-19. She said she recently read a news report about a Chennai doctor, who died after testing positive and was denied burial rights. “The doctors, nurses, sanitary workers and police officials are putting their lives at risk and are rendering selfless service. I want to ensure a decent burial to these ‘heroes’. So I have taken a decision that our land could be used for this purpose,” said Thennarasi. “My father L Bharathithasan is a farmer who has three acres of agricultural land in our village. When I told him about my decision, he appreciated me and immediately agreed to use our land for this purpose.” Bharathithasan said that Thennarasi was quite disturbed after reading the news report. “When she asked if our land could be used for the burial, I really felt proud of my daughter, who had come up with such a noble thought at this young age. I immediately agreed,” he said and added that though he and his family members are currently staying at his relatives’ house in Chennai, he helped his daughter send the letter to the PM along with the details of their land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/girl-writes-to-pm-offering-land-for-burying-covid-19-warriors/articleshow/75363769.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Owners insisting on rent: Hyderabad PG tenants||HYDERABAD: Despite a government order deferring rent collection for three months, many people staying in hostels and paying guest (PG) accommodations are stressed over house owners forcing them to pay rent for March and April. On April 23, the state government issued orders asking house owners not to insist on rents from their tenants for March, April and May. However, many people in areas like SR Nagar, Ameerpet, Madhapur, Ashok Nagar and Himayat Nagar have complained that owners are coercing them for rent for the lockdown period. “Of the Rs 6,500 rent amount, the hostel owner has been calling and asking me to pay Rs 5,000 for April. This, despite vacating the hostel by March 21 to leave for my home town Guntur and GO orders which clearly states that owners should not insist on rents from their tenants,” said Navya K, a civil service aspirant who stays in a hostel at Himayathnagar. Many such distressed students reached out to minister KT Rama Rao on social media seeking help. “We are hostel students from Hyderabad. We are stuck in hostels due to lock-down for 30 days... We are suffering a lot with hostel and they are asking hostel fees we are struggling to pay the hostel fee, please help us in this matter,” tweeted Mahesh Mahe. Hostel owners argue that the government order is only meant for properties leased for residential purposes and does not mention anything about hostels or paying guest accommodations. “We have to provide food to those living in the hostels, pay salaries to the staff, electricity bill. How can we do that without taking any rent,” said Srinivas Rao, owner of Manjunatha Hostels, which has its branches in SR Nagar, Ameerpet and Raidurgam. He added that those who are unable to make payments are being allowed to pay them at a later stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owners-insisting-on-rent-pg-tenants/articleshow/75362842.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Rural police crack whip on bootleggers, arrest 200||TRICHY: Cracking a whip on bootleggers, including brewers of arrack and hoarders of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL), the rural police have arrested more than 200 people and seized more than 3,000 bottles of liquor and 1,700 litres of arrack from the district. After receiving a tipoff on illegal stocking of the liquor in several parts of the district, Trichy police superintendent Zia Ul Haq formed special teams with officers from prohibition and enforcement wing (PEW) and regular police stations to nab the offenders. The teams caught 211 people for offences like bootlegging of illicit arrack, stocking of IMFL of TASMAC and Puducherry and toddy from March 24 to April 23. They seized 3,474 bottles of liquor meant for supply for Tasmac-rumrun wine shops. Six IMFL from Puducherry were also seized and were destroyed. While some of the supervisors of the Tasmac shops indulged in illegal sale of liquor in the lockdown and were arrested by the police, the incidents of illicit brewing of arrack were reported from several parts of the district in a month.The arrack brewing is rampant in Thuraiyur, Uppiliyapuram, Thottiyam, Kattuputhur, Musiri, Kallakudi and Ramji Nagar areas in the district. The hunt brought to light the illegal brewing in the areas and led to the seizure of 1,235 litres of arrack fermentation and 425 litres of arrack from the seven areas. PEW officials said that most of the people involved in arrack brewing have been concocting the stuff for themselves besides selling them to others. An official said they would keep a mixture of water, jaggery, kadukkai and velampattai in a pot for five days for fermentation and distil it to separate the arrack. The officials said the offenders would bury the pot to prevent the smell from spreading to others and to protect them from police action. The police, after taking a sample, destroyed them. The police also seized 114 liters of palm toddy in the district. The toddy was smuggled to Trichy from Thammampatti area in Salem district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rural-police-crack-whip-on-bootleggers-arrest-200/articleshow/75363772.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nine out of 33 districts are now free of coronavirus, declares government||HYDERABAD: Nearly 30% of the districts in Telangana have been declared Covid-19 free by the government. The districts include those which did not report a single case, where all positive cases have turned negative and persons have been discharged. “Nine districts of total 33 have had zero coronavirus cases in the past couple of weeks. In these nine, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Wanaparthy and Warangal (Rural) have not reported any cases since the outbreak. Siddipet, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mulug, Nagarkurnool, Narayanpet and Mahabubabad did report positive cases but now all persons detected with Covid-19 have been discharged,” health minister Eatala Rajender told TOI on Friday. Official sources said another six districts — Jagtial, Bhupalpally, Peddpalli, Asifabad, Rajanna-Sircilla and Medak — will become Covid-19 free in a week. These districts had reported two to three cases earlier and all those patients will be discharged soon. Karimnagar, which was the second district to report a Covid-19 case after Hyderabad in the state, will become safe by the end of this month. “Even after declaring districts with zero cases now, we will continue the surveillance for some time, especially on people who had tested positive and surrounding areas,” the health minister said. The government is worried about rising cases in districts like Suryapet and Gadwal besides the GHMC area. Districts like Nizamabad and Vikarabad have 58 and 33 positive cases respectively but there have been no new cases in the two districts. The government continues to review the coronavirus cases and taking stock of the situation in containment zones and lockdown implementation, officials said. “In Greater Hyderabad, 20 containment zones have been withdrawn and one in Mahbubnagar district. Some containment zones in Nizamabad town will be withdrawn soon,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nine-out-of-33-districts-are-now-free-of-coronavirus-declares-govt/articleshow/75362859.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 25, 2020||Agra||Aligarh admin tests cancer patient for Covid, to issue travel pass to Noida for treatment if report is negative||Agra: Aligarh administration on Friday directed the health department to immediately conduct a Corona screening test of a cancer patient, in order to facilitate his travel to a private hospital in Noida for treatment. The action followed TOI’s story on his plight on April 24. The patient is the father of an acid attack victim, who also co-starred in the Deepika Padukone film Chhapak. The police has also ordered the release of the salary of the patient — an employee of the UP Police department — which was stuck due to administrative reasons. The test was ordered because the Noida hospital insisted on a health certificate from local authorities that ensure the patient is Covid-free. Travel pass for the patient and his family will be issued after the test report is received, said an official. Taking cognizance of the TOI report carried on Friday — “Acid attack survivor, who worked in Chhapaak, pleads for dad’s treatment” — Aligarh district magistrate C B Singh instructed officials to contact the family and ensure all possible assistance. He said, “A health department team has been sent to their house to collect the sample of the patient, Somdutt Sharma. A pass for their travel to Noida will be issued after the report is received.” Mainpuri SP Ajay Kumar also contacted Sharma, a head constable posted in Mainpuri, and asked him to submit an application to get his salary regularised. Kumar told TOI, “We asked the family to submit an application for sanctioning medical leave, in order to release his salary, which will probably be credited in his account by tomorrow.” The TOI report had highlighted how the acid attack survivor, Jeetu Sharma, was running from pillar to post seeking treatment for her father, suffering from throat cancer. Even AMU’s medical college had refused to admit him as they were not taking any new patients during the lockdown. When contacted, Jeetu expressed hope that her father’s treatment would commence soon. She said the health department has taken her father’s sample to test for Covid-19, adding, “I’m thankful to TOI and UP administration for initiating the process of providing medical and financial help to my family. Now, we are hopeful of going to Noida for further treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-admin-tests-cancer-patient-for-covid-to-issue-travel-pass-to-noida-for-treatment-if-report-is-negative/articleshow/75361777.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar police starts WhatsApp groups to help locals||Rudrapur: To help locals during Covid-19 lockdown, Udham Singh Nagar police has started WhatsApp groups. In the first phase, the department has formed four such groups — for doctors, for transporters, for trade unions, and for industrial areas of Sitarganj and Pantnagar, said district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Barinderjit Singh. “The step has been taken in the wake of decision by the Central government to give relaxation to industries and commercial vehicles during the lockdown. We have set up a Covid-19 control room at district headquarters Rudrapur. The control room is operational and our staff is effectively responding to coronavirus-related queries of locals and addressing their issues,” told SSP Singh. The official added that many people who own (or work at) industries were not fully aware of the relaxation norms and conditions and some unit owners were finding it difficult to access the permission to start operation. “This is why we decided to make WhatsApp groups to address their problems directly. Similarly, the queries from owners of commercial vehicle are also addressed through these WhatsApp groups,” Singh said. The senior cop further said that trade unions, critically ill patients, doctors and surgeons are also being provided help through WhatsApp groups. Amit Kumar, circle officer (CO) of the city, told TOI that the police department is active at other social media platforms as well and the senior officials are monitoring those accounts but WhatsApp groups help in one-to-one communication. “We will form more such groups in the coming days and the officials will be given the responsibility to address the plight of separate groups,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-police-starts-whatsapp-groups-to-help-locals/articleshow/75361818.cms||Aakash Ahuja
April 25, 2020||Agra||Two docs among four test +ve in Aligarh, Mainpuri & Mathura||Agra: Two resident doctors were among four people tested positive for Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) in Aligarh, Mainpuri and Mathura districts on Friday. According to officials, while a resident doctor of Agra’s SN Medical College tested positive for the disease in his home town Mainpuri, a 27-year-old resident doctor of Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Gynaecology department also tested positive for the virus. The two patients, a 55-year-old man and 23-year-old youth, are from Mathura. In Aligarh, till now, two resident doctors, posted in general ward of AMU’s medical college, have been infected with Covid-19, taking the total tally of infected persons in the district to nine on Friday. “The resident doctor’s contacts are being traced and they will be quarantined soon,” said AMU spokesperson Shafey Kidwai. Kidwai told TOI that the patient’s husband is also working in JNMC and he will be home quarantined. Mainpuri DM Mahendra Bahadur Singh said that the junior resident doctor from Agra’s SN Medical College came to Mainpuri on April 18 and two days later, he gave his sample for testing, as he was feeling unwell. “After found positive for the disease, he has been shifted to the hospital's isolation ward and his family members have been quarantined,” said the DM, adding that the district tally is now eight. The DM told TOI that so far 539 samples have been collected and of these 352 were found negative. However, reports of 179 samples are still awaited. Mathura’s chief medical officer Sher Singh said, “The 55-year-old man is the relative of a person who had tested positive a day earlier. The other patient, a youth, had got his Covid test done at a private lab and had informed the health department after he was found positive." The duo have been admitted to an isolation ward and are under treatment, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-docs-among-four-test-ve-in-aligarh-mainpuri-mathura/articleshow/75361790.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Surgeons body worried over PPE quality in India||HYDERABAD: One thing surgeons across Hyderabad and elsewhere in the country have in their mind these days is whether their personal protection equipment (PPE) is safe? With news of surgeons getting infected with coronavirus while operating filtering in, the Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), the largest representative body of surgeons in Asia Pacific region, is now worried about the risks surgeons are exposed to, even with the PPEs on. The body has held responsible unauthorised manufacturers who have flooded the markets with PPEs which are available at one-third of the actual price and are of inferior quality which poses a big threat to the safety of healthcare professionals. “When we were trying to procure PPEs as part of our effort to help healthcare professionals, we found that only 19 Government of India approved manufacturers were there in the country (till March). With the acute shortage, many private individuals, including cloth merchants and people who were doing anything related to cloth got into this,” a concerned Dr P Raghuram, president, ASI told TOI. According to Raghuram, these sub-standard PPEs are being bought by some hospitals at Rs 300 to Rs 600 and are not safe. Certified PPEs cost around Rs 2,000. The ASI has raised Rs 77 lakh only for quality PPEs from ISO certified manufacturers in Bangalore for its member doctors. “When there was an acute shortage we started procuring PPEs and asking our workers to wear double layers for protection as they were of less than recommended thickness. Now we are going for the recommended hazmat suits,” said an operations manager of a private hospital in the city. In fact, a lot of PPEs which have been donated to government hospitals by individuals and organisations too were procured in a hurry and are of inferior quality, admit some officials. “Availability was a big challenge and in the initial days of the pandemic there was panic,” says Chandrashekhar Reddy, chairman, Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation (TSMIDC) which supplies PPEs to government hospitals. “Whatever was available was bought and given to hospitals, but now we are ensuring that the 70 gsm (thickness) quality is maintained. All samples being bought or given to us under CSR by companies are reviewed by the state-level technical committee to ensure quality,” Reddy told TOI. Dr Mahesh Kumar, secretary, Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association stressed a specification must be given for PPEs donated under CSR. “Of course, some are of very good quality and the quality being supplied at government hospitals has improved but we are still not happy with the quality,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/surgeons-body-worried-over-ppe-quality-in-india/articleshow/75362849.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana rice helping to feed four more states||HYDERABAD: Telangana is feeding four other states by supplying them with rice. At least seven lakh metric tonnes of rice produced in the state has been sent to Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and West Bengal by the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Though West Bengal, which is one of the largest producers of rice, was not in the list earlier, it sought rice from the Centre towards meeting the needs of the poor and needy and migrant labour in the state. FCI, based on the requirement placed by West Bengal, is supplying nearly four lakh metric tonnes of Telangana rice to West Bengal. FCI regional assistant general manager Pavan Anand told TOI that boiled rice is supplied to Kerala and Tamil Nadu from the pool of rice procured from the state. However, the rice being supplied to Karnataka is not in huge quantities as compared to Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Anand also said that rice is being supplied to West Bengal from the state. All the rice supplied by FCI would be given to the people through public distribution system (PDS) in the respective states, he added. The rice production has gone up in the state due to availability of water through irrigation projects, 24x7 power supply and the Rs 10,000 per acre cash sop, under the Rythu Bandhu scheme, being given to the farmers by the state government. Farmers have taken up paddy sowing in 38 lakh acres across the state. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had recently said that Telangana is fast becoming the rice bowl of India because of pro-farmer schemes being implemented by the TRS government. “Sowing operations are likely to be taken up in an estimated 1.35 crore acres in the ensuing Kharif season in Telangana. The government is making arrangements for supply of 21.5 lakh metric tonnes of fertilisers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-rice-helping-to-feed-four-more-states/articleshow/75362851.cms||Roushan Ali
April 25, 2020||Ajmer||In 10 days, cases double to 2k in Rajasthan; 4 more die in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The total count of Covid-19 patients in the state crossed the 2,000-mark on Friday, doubling from 1,000 to 2,000 cases in a mere 10 days. Four persons died and 70 others also tested positive for the virus on the day. With the four deaths, the death toll in the state increased to 32. All the four persons who died on Friday are from Jaipur, taking the number of casualties in the city to 18 so far. Out of four, three were declared positive after their deaths, and the fourth person was brought dead. The four are a 75-year-old resident of Jamwaramgarh, who tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on April 22; a 60-year-old resident of Ramganj who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital on April 22; a 70-year-old woman and a resident of Adarsh Nagar who died on April 24; and a 60-year-old resident of MD Road who was brought to the SMS Hospital on April 22. With 70 new patients, the total positive cases increased to 2,034 in the state. So far, 493 persons have recovered and 198 discharged from hospitals after treatment. There are 4,317 samples pending for tests in different laboratories of the state. According to the health department report, among the 70 persons diagnosed with Covid-19, 36 are from Jaipur and 22 from Kota. Other districts which reported positive cases are Jodhpur (6), Jhalawar (4) and one each from Bharatpur and Pali. The report shows that out of the 36 persons who tested positive in Jaipur, 18 are from Ramganj area, five from Shastri Nagar, two from Adarsh Nagar, five from Paldi Meena, one from Neelgaron Ka Mohalla, one each from Housing Board on Delhi bypass, Sanganer, Raja Park and two from Uttar Pradesh. During a video conference with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, state minister Raghu Sharma raised the problems of shortage of ventilators, PCR kits for testing as well as the issue of starting a testing facilitiy in Bhilwara. “We have demanded 1,500 ventilators. We are also facing a shortage of PCR test kits and demanded more. Our Covid-19 testing facility in Bhilwara is awaiting permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start testing," said Sharma. He also said that he has spoken about the tests done with rapid testing kits. “He told us that he had issued directions to ICMR to test its accuracy in the lab. Only after that, guidelines will be issued whether to use it or not,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/in-10-days-cases-double-to-2k-in-state-4-more-die-in-jaipur/articleshow/75367011.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad residents approach cops over amenities||HYDERABAD: A month into the lockdown, several young professionals living in paying guest accommodations along the city’s IT corridor continue to face issues, with many being forced to approach the police for help. While some complained of inadequate or substandard food, others said they are being denied facilities such as internet connection, making it difficult for them to work-from-home. And this, despite paying the month’s rent in full. “Since the day of the lockdown, we are only being served daal-rice for lunch and dinner; that too in limited quantities. There’s nothing else to eat. With online delivery services suspended, we cannot even order in,” said Anahitha D* who lives in a PG in Nanakramguda, a hub of working professionals’ hostels and PGs. “We are not even provided with Wi-Fi, though we pay for it every month....While we have tried to call the in-charge to complain, he hasn’t responded so far. We are also scared to say too much, because if they ask us to vacate now, we’ll have nowhere to go,” she said. Among those who extended support was Piyali S*, another software engineer living in a PG in Kondapur. She suggested that Anahitha and her friends — there are 50 others living in the same building — approach the police. When contacted, V C Sajjanar, commissioner of police, Cyberabad said that complaints from PGs are on the decline. “Initially, we did get some, but now there aren’t many that are being brought to our notice. In case there’s any specific case, we appeal to people to reach out to us, and we will look into it,” he said adding that many PG managements are also approaching cops over the rent issue. “While it is true that the government has relaxed rents for a certain period, these people (running PG operations) say that they too need to pay the staff and for various amenities being provided at these places. They have been appealing to PG residents, who are getting salaries, to pay the rent, even if it is in instalments,” the commissioner said. (*Names of PG residents changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-approach-cops-over-amenities/articleshow/75362845.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bengaluru||B’lureans soak in joy as morning rain pounds city||Bengaluru: A young mother from Bengaluru finally got the opportunity to sit back and enjoy the rain with her five-year-old son on Friday morning when the sky opened up and a thunderstorm lashed the city. Perhaps it was for the first time that Bengaluru’s early birds could rejoice in the rain instead of rushing through waterlogged roads and marathon traffic snarls to reach their workplaces. Ruchira Shah, an IT professional and Whitefield resident, said, “Since I ride to work, I dread rain as it only causes traffic to slow down. For the first time in many years, I stood in my balcony and loved every bit of it.” “My son is five years old and I have never enjoyed the rain with him before this. We both got drenched,” she added. Most Bengalureans are used to evening showers or are too busy to enjoy morning rain given their hectic schedules. Srimoyee Geetanand, a resident of Koramangala, wrote to social media: “6:30 am, Koramangala, chai and pakoda.” She said, “I’m usually up early because I walk my dogs. We were about 100 meters from the house when it started pouring. Although my dogs and I were completely drenched, it was a really pleasant start to the day. I also think Koramangala has a lot of greenery, which adds to the scenic beauty when it rains.” The city received 23.2mm of rainfall in the wee hours of Friday. The weatherman said the wind speed was just about normal and that the city is likely to receive scattered showers in the next five days. Considering it had been very hot, the rain brought much-needed relief. The temperature had been hovering around 36 degrees Celsius on Thursday and dropped to 29-30 degrees Celsius on Friday. Priya Jain, a resident of Jayanagar, said, “I leave my windows open while sleeping since it’s hot and one needs fresh air. On Friday, I actually woke up to raindrops falling on my face, which I believe is the most beautiful way to get up. In fact, if the weather continues to be like this, I do not mind being quarantined forever.” Working professionals were thrilled to be able to experience the rain without having to plan which route will have the least traffic. Sahana R, an IT professional who lives in Whitefield, said, “I’m usually not an early riser, but on Friday morning, the thunder acted like a natural alarm. I have a passion for singing so I just sat in the balcony, watching the rain and crooned at 6.30am.” She added, “I have not had the time to sit out like this since I started working.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blureans-soak-in-joy-as-morning-rain-pounds-city/articleshow/75362506.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||Surat man kills NRI son to recover Rs 1.80 lakh||SURAT: A London-based NRI was stabbed to death allegedly by his father after a bitter argument over Rs 1.80 lakh that the latter had lent him in Surat on Friday. On Friday, police arrested deceased Imran’s father Abdul Hamid Maniyar from their house in Bharbandhwad locality in Rani Talav area. Imran, his only child, was working in a hotel in London and settled there for the last 10 years. Imran, 36, had come to city around one-and-half-months ago with his wife and child. After arriving, he planned to get their house renovated for which he borrowed Rs 1.80 lakh from his father and some amount from other acquaintances and friends. As Imran was to return to London on Saturday, his father was demanding he return the money borrowed from him. Imran was scheduled to return to UK todayAbdul Hamid was worried about getting back the money as Imran was to return London on Saturday by a special flight arranged for UK citizens. Imran had told his father that he had no money but promised to repay the amount after first giving back the money that he had borrowed from other friends,” said AG Rathod, police inspector, Lalgate police station. Imran had also suggested to his father that he could rent out a portion of the house to recover part of this money, said police. "On Friday, a bitter argument broke out between Abdul Hamid and his wife Samsunisa in their room over the money. On hearing the altercation, Imran went to their room. His father picked up a fight with him too and suddenly stabbed Imran in the shoulder and underarm," said Rathod. Imran was rushed to a private hospital near-by where he died during treatment. Samsunisa lodged a complaint against her husband who was then arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-kills-nri-son-to-recover-rs-1-80l-lent-for-house-renovation/articleshow/75361817.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 25, 2020||Jodhpur||In 10 days, cases double to 2k in Rajasthan; 4 more die in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The total count of Covid-19 patients in the state crossed the 2,000-mark on Friday, doubling from 1,000 to 2,000 cases in a mere 10 days. Four persons died and 70 others also tested positive for the virus on the day. With the four deaths, the death toll in the state increased to 32. All the four persons who died on Friday are from Jaipur, taking the number of casualties in the city to 18 so far. Out of four, three were declared positive after their deaths, and the fourth person was brought dead. The four are a 75-year-old resident of Jamwaramgarh, who tested positive for Covid-19 after his death on April 22; a 60-year-old resident of Ramganj who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital on April 22; a 70-year-old woman and a resident of Adarsh Nagar who died on April 24; and a 60-year-old resident of MD Road who was brought to the SMS Hospital on April 22. With 70 new patients, the total positive cases increased to 2,034 in the state. So far, 493 persons have recovered and 198 discharged from hospitals after treatment. There are 4,317 samples pending for tests in different laboratories of the state. According to the health department report, among the 70 persons diagnosed with Covid-19, 36 are from Jaipur and 22 from Kota. Other districts which reported positive cases are Jodhpur (6), Jhalawar (4) and one each from Bharatpur and Pali. The report shows that out of the 36 persons who tested positive in Jaipur, 18 are from Ramganj area, five from Shastri Nagar, two from Adarsh Nagar, five from Paldi Meena, one from Neelgaron Ka Mohalla, one each from Housing Board on Delhi bypass, Sanganer, Raja Park and two from Uttar Pradesh. During a video conference with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, state minister Raghu Sharma raised the problems of shortage of ventilators, PCR kits for testing as well as the issue of starting a testing facilitiy in Bhilwara. “We have demanded 1,500 ventilators. We are also facing a shortage of PCR test kits and demanded more. Our Covid-19 testing facility in Bhilwara is awaiting permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start testing," said Sharma. He also said that he has spoken about the tests done with rapid testing kits. “He told us that he had issued directions to ICMR to test its accuracy in the lab. Only after that, guidelines will be issued whether to use it or not,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/in-10-days-cases-double-to-2k-in-state-4-more-die-in-jaipur/articleshow/75367010.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Nethravathi, her tributaries flow rich and pure this summer||Mangaluru: The suspension of commercial activities during the lockdown has had a markedly positive impact on the environment. The rivers originating in the Western Ghats are now flowing pure, despite the summer having reached its mercurial peaks. River Nethravathi, the lifeline of Dakshina Kannada district, is among the waterbodies that appear to have received a fresh lease of life. Indentations made into the ecologically fragile Western Ghats, frequent landslides and change in the river pattern had been steadily choking the life of the Nethravathi and its tributaries, all of which were flowing weak for the past five years. Dinesh holla, convener of Sahyadri Sanchaya, an organisation committed to the conservation of the Western Ghats, said that the amount of water being drawn out of the river had fallen sharply owing to the closure of offices, lodges, educational institutions and resorts. “The sight of the dried-up streams earlier this year had got us worried, and we were convinced that we would face a very bad water crisis this summer, but the lockdown has helped the river retain water to a great extent,” Holla said. However, Holla said that the crisis was not completely past. “The amount of water being used may have reduced but this does not mean everything will be hunky-dory once the lockdown is lifted, and the monsoon arrives,” he added. Belthangady taluk was among the worst hit areas during the flood last year. “Landslides resulted in many houses being destroyed and trees getting uprooted. While many of the damaged houses have been restored and uprooted trees cleared from farms and fields, debris has not been cleared from the path of the Mruthyunjaya and Aniyoor rivers. If the debris is not cleared in time for the monsoon, the river is likely to change its course again. The government must take cognisance of this, and ensure that the rivers can flow unobstructed along their natural paths,” Holla said. The activist also asked the government to prevent people from washing their vehicles on the banks of rivers. He said that the lockdown had prevented the annual excursions of many wayward youngsters who left a trail of garbage including glass bottles and plastic cups in the forest and the riverbeds. “Although the public have been greatly inconvenienced because of the lockdown, it has come as a blessing for the country’s rivers,” said Holla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nethravathi-her-tributaries-flow-rich-and-pure-this-summer/articleshow/75360125.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Unemployed man held for posing as police officer||Haridwar: A 25-year-old unemployed man was arrested by Haridwar police on Friday for posing as a sub-inspector. A case has been registered against him under section 170 (impersonating a public servant), section 420 (cheating and dishonesty inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code. According to police, the accused was giving instructions to local constables and was also patrolling Jwalapur, Ranipur, and other areas during ongoing lockdown in police uniform for the past few days. The accused has been identified as Jainedra Singh, a resident of Mirzapur, Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh). He currently lives in Haridwar’s SIDCUL area. Circle officer Abhay Singh told TOI, “The accused is a BTech graduate and was searching for a job. He bought the police uniform from the market and started posing as a fake sub-inspector. The accused was held after a police team in Jawalapur area asked him about his posting details. He told the constables that he was posted in Dehradun but could not tell other details. Later, he was brought to the city police station where he confessed the truth. A bike and fake pistol were also seized from him and a case has been registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unemployed-man-held-for-posing-as-police-officer/articleshow/75361828.cms||MS Nawaz
April 25, 2020||Goa||Shirgao sarpanch asks to seal village||Bicholim: The sarpanch of Shirgao panchayat Bhagwant B Gaonkar, in a letter addressed to Bicholim police inspector, has requested that all roads leading to the village be sealed till April 28 since the devasthan committee has decided to keep the Lairai temple and allied temples closed for devotees during the annual zatra of goddess Lairai to be held on April 28..Their request comes in view of the lockdown imposed to the curb the spread of Covid-19. The temple committee had earlier issued a notice informing the public that the annual zatra celebrations has been cancelled this year. The Shirgao sarpanch said the roads to be sealed include Manaswada-Mulgao to Shirgao, Shirgao bridge connecting to the village, Brahman devasthan in Poira to Shirgao, Siddhivinayak temple Poira to Shirgao and railway bridge in Poira to Shirgao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shirgao-sarpanch-asks-to-seal-village/articleshow/75363780.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Go for offline admissions for Std XI, says teachers’ union||Nagpur: The biggest junior college teachers association in state has demanded that the online Std XI admission process be scrapped for this year as it would lead to unnecessary delay in starting the academic session. Maharashtra Junior College Teachers Association (MJUCTA) and its Vidarbha unit have written to education minister Varsha Gaikwad saying offline admissions will ensure students are not inconvenienced. Sanjay Shinde, president of MJUCTA said online admission process in various urban areas in state had consistently led to delays. “Even in the normal course the process continues till September and academic sessions are delayed. This time we are already behind schedule due to the lockdown. In places where offline admissions are done, the academic session begins in July itself,” said Shinde. In Nagpur usually the academic session begins from August. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (HA) said “I think government must really think of shifting to offline mode because in Nagpur we have more seats than demand. The online thing works only if demand is more and supply less. There are multiple rounds where people choose and a waiting list but that’s not logical here because seats are always vacant.” Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA), said in offline mode students can go to colleges and complete admission process. “There are multiple rounds in online admission which lead to the delay. In offline mode, students go only to the college where they seek admission thus ruling out huge crowds. Process of admission or elimination moves much faster too,” he said. He added that some city colleges could also facilitate online admissions for this for their respective institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/go-for-offline-admissions-for-std-xi-says-teachers-union/articleshow/75361838.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 25, 2020||Kochi||On bicycle, via forest paths people sneak into Kerala||KOCHI: Though Centre has enforced lockdown in India to control the spread of Covid-19, there are many who try to reach home, from other states, playing the odds. On Friday, eight people from Kodagu in Karnataka, who reached Kannur by trekking through forest, were sent to corona-care centres for quarantine. CM Pinarayi Vijayan cited that this was not a rare instance as 57 persons from Kodagu had trekked through forests and crossed the border this week. “They were taken to two corona-care centres in Iritty. We need to maintain vigil at border as they are sneaking in through byroutes and forests,” he said. On Tuesday, three persons, who came from Tamil Nadu, tested positive here. On April 18, police came across a Malappuram youth in Palakkad who told that that he had hitchhiked from Chennai in trucks and had even walked along the way to reach his home state. He was shifted to the district hospital on April 21 after he tested positive. Next day, police stopped a 22-year-old on a cycle, who confessed that he too was on his way home (Tirurangadi) from Chennai. He was intercepted at Palakkad-Malappuram border. He also informed police that a six-member team had started from Chennai on cycles a week ago and police then managed to find the rest. On April 21, a man from Kulathupuzha in Kollam visited Tenkasi in TN to attend the funeral of a relative and returned, keeping authorities in the dark. He later tested positive and the next day prohibitory orders were imposed in the panchayat and its neighbouring areas. Police arrested 178 persons in Kollam rural on April 22 and seized 171 vehicles for violating lockdown orders. In searches conducted by police and health officials, five persons from Anchal in Haryana and three that came from Chennai were placed under quarantine. In another case, a person who reached Malappuram from Chennai tested positive on Tuesday. At the same time, 118 persons sneaked into Wayanad from Karnataka and TN by walking through walkways into border villages during lockdown, said collector Adeela Abdulla, adding that they were kept under observation at covid care centres. Most of them are residents who were working in neighbouring states who were stranded following lockdown. Police and forest officers conducted a joint patrolling along the forest routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/on-bicycle-via-forest-paths-people-sneak-into-kerala/articleshow/75360177.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 54 officers off to 18 Covid-hit districts||LUCKNOW: Intensifying the government’s intervention in coronavirus sensitive areas, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has deputed 54 senior officers to spend at least a week in 18 districts where there are 20 or more Covid-19 cases and assess how the lockdown is being implemented. The three-member teams, each comprising a senior administrative officer, one health department official and a senior police officer, were dispatched to their respective areas on Friday. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that the team would review the lockdown situation, condition of quarantine shelters and community kitchens and arrangements in hospitals. “They will also check the sanitation condition, review cases related with the Tablighi Jamaat, distribution of foodgrains and emergency services in hospitals. The CM will review their work twice a day and the officers are required to send reports to him, the health department, home department and any other department which will be specified,” he said. On Thursday, the government had identified 15 districts, but after a review on Friday the CM added three more sensitive areas, taking the tally to 18. The 18 districts are: Agra, Firozabad, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Basti, Auraiya, Sambhal, Sitapur, Shamli, Saharanpur, Kanpur, Moradabad, Bijnor and Amroha. The CM has also stressed on maintaining a strict lockdown in hotspots where nobody other than medical personnel, sanitization staff and home delivery personnel are allowed. Awasthi said that in each district, Covid and non-Covid hospitals are to be identified and new coronavirus patients should only go to designated Covid hospitals for treatment. “The CM has said that personal protective equipment should be made available in all hospitals. Emergency services should be started as soon as possible so that patients with other serious illnesses can get treatment. Pool testing should be increased and beds in Covid hospitals should also be increased,” he said. The CM has laid stress on making telemedicine available at the earliest. For this, all district magistrates and chief medical officers should hold meetings with government and private doctors and request them to join this facility. Awasthi added that labourers registered with the labour department have been given Rs 27.24 lakh as financial assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/54-officers-off-to-18-covid-hit-dists/articleshow/75363790.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Autorickshaw drivers demand bailout package||Nagpur: Faced with an unprecedented uncertainty to earn livelihood and pushed to the brink due to the lockdown, autorickshaw drivers under the banner of Vidarbha Autorickshaw Chalak Federation have demanded a special bailout package and free foodgrains from chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. The lockdown has prevented about 1 crore autorickshaw drivers across the state from plying their vehicles. In a memorandum to the CM, Vidarbha Autorickshaw Chalak Federation’s president Vilas Bhalekar said that there are 15 lakh permit holder autorickshaw drivers and five lakh driving licence badge holders in Nagpur. “Autorickshaw drivers earn their livelihood on a daily basis. A large number of drivers and their families are in a precarious situation, but neither the state nor the centre government has offered any package for them,” he said. “The government must financially help autorickshaw drivers who are abiding by the restrictions,” Bhalekar said and demanded other interventions like postponement of vehicle loan instalments and rebate in taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/autorickshaw-drivers-demand-bailout-package/articleshow/75361865.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Constable in dog squad unit ends life||MADURAI: A police constable in the dog squad unit office allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself inside Armed Reserve ground at Madurai on Friday. The deceased was identified as Vijayakumar, 42, of Silaiman in Madurai district. He joined the service in the police department in 2002. Vijayakumar, who is a head constable, is presently working in the dog squad unit attached to Madurai city police. On Thursday, he deputed for the nigh duty in the dog squad unit office situated in the Armed Reserve ground at Madurai. On Friday, a policeman, who reported for morning duty in the dog squad unit, found Vijayakumar dead hanging from ceiling inside the office. On information, police officials rushed to the spot and sent his body to the government Rajaji hospital for postmortem. The Tallakulam police have registered a case and are investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/constable-in-dog-squad-unit-ends-life/articleshow/75363792.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Home services provider unveils disinfection services||New Delhi: Taking on the fight against Coronavirus, salon at home services provider Yes Madam has launched disinfection services for homes, cars and offices. These services have been initially launched in Delhi-NCR and Bengaluru. The cities in Delhi-NCR where disinfection services will be provided include Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad. The company claimed that disinfection services provided by Yes Madam is available at a very affordable starting price. The company further said that the disinfection services will be provided by trained professionals who are allowed by local authorities to carry out the tasks. The disinfection service providers will be equipped with a full-body protective suit to ensure the safety of customers as well as their own. Talking about the disinfection services, Mayank Arya, co-founder, Yes Madam, said, "We have launched disinfection services for homes, cars and offices on the request of thousands of our customers. Moreover, we felt that it was necessary to disinfect both the homes and cars to provide our customers with a safe and healthy ambience.” Arya added that the disinfection services will soon be soon launched in 20 cities across India, including Lucknow, Jammu, Bareilly, Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Jalandhar, Jaipur, Kanpur, Meerut, Bengaluru, Agra, Dehradun and Bhubaneswar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-services-provider-unveils-disinfection-services/articleshow/75363811.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt announces relief for farmers, agri sector||Dehradun: In a relief for farmers, the state government has announced relaxation measures in transport of produce as well as facilitation of agricultural and horticultural research. An order to this effect was issued by secretary (horticulture) R Meenakshi Sundaram on Thursday. Other relaxations include — allowing the inspection and treatment of seeds and horticulture products, nod to all agriculture and horticulture activities in the state, and the movement of saplings for plantation and activities related to keeping of bees. The order was sent to commissioners, district magistrates, and senior police officials of all districts. In the letter, Sundaram has asked the authorities to ensure the strict compliance of relaxation norms laid by the Union home ministry during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-announces-relief-for-farmers-agri-sector/articleshow/75361846.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Three villages of U’khand bag awards on National Panchayati Raj Day||Dehradun: On the occasion of National Panchayati Raj Day (April 24), a village each from Dehradun, Haridwar, and Nainital districts were awarded for their exemplary works by the Central government. The prestigious Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Award has been conferred upon Kheldi village panchayat of Hardiwar’s Bahadrabad block for this year. The panchayat has won Rs 10 lakh for its outstanding work in regards with development of the village. On the day, the award for most child-friendly gram panchayat of Uttarakhand was given to Belpadav gram panchayat of Nainital’s Kotabagh block. The panchyat will get Rs 5 lakh in reward to further enhance its works. Additionally, Kedarwala gram panchayat of Dehradun’s Vikasnagar was felicitated with “Gram Panchayat Development Plan Award, 2020” and a sum of Rs 5 lakh. The representatives of these three gram panchayats, on Friday, were also part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s session with village heads from across the country via video conferencing. Tabbasum Imran, gram pradhan of Kedarwala, told TOI, “I owe this award to all the villagers of Kedarwala, who contributed in the upkeep of this panchayat. We are looking forward to win many more national awards in the future.” On the day, two schemes — e-Gram Swaraj Yojana and Swamitav Yojana — were also launched for development of rural areas of India. The e-Gram Swaraj App will provide panchayats with a single interface to complete development projects and thereby, enhance accountability and responsibilities of respective gram panchayats towards their villages. Meanwhile, under the Swamitav Yojana, drones will be used in mapping of properties in villages and ensure that the ownership of land is intact with the villagers. Harish Chandra Semwal, director of Panchayati Raj, Uttarakhand, told TOI, “Land surveys will be conducted through drones and villagers will get digital land record. This record will be a valid document to get bank loan under the Swamitav Yojana. This mega initiative is being started in six states, including Uttarakhand, of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-villages-of-ukhand-bag-awards-on-national-panchayati-raj-day/articleshow/75361871.cms||Shivani Azad
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Will pay full MSP amount for wheat to farmers: State govt to HC||Nainital: The state government on Friday told the Uttarakhand high court that it has decided to pay the full amount of Minimum Support Price (MSP) for wheat that it will procure from all the farmers in the state. The advocate general appearing for the state government said that the entire amount will be paid to the farmers within a period of two to seven days. The decision from the state government comes just two after the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani, while hearing two public interest litigations (PIL), had asked the state government to consider the possibility of paying 50% of the MSP to the marginal and small farmers selling less than 100 quintals of wheat. While the written order of the case is still awaited, the petitioner in the case, Ganesh Upadhyay, told TOI that while the state government had been asked to consider the possibility of the giving half of the MSP in two days to marginal and small farmers, the government has said that the entire amount will be paid to all the farmers. "The court welcomed the state government’s decision to pay the entire amount to the farmers," said Upadhyay who is also a petitioner in the case. Since the nationwide lockdown was imposed a month back, several farmers in the Terai region of Uttarakhand have complained about the lack of the agriculture labour as well as the breakdown of supply chain to sell the crops into markets and mandis. The farmers also worried that due to the lack of demand they will also not be paid the MSP by government. The petitioners however have now asked the court to direct the government to make sure that the jute bags are available at the procurement centres so that the officials do not turn away any farmer selling wheat. Upadhyay also urged the court to direct the government to run the procurement centres even on Sundays. "We worry that some of the farmers might be turned away because off the non-availability of jute bags to pack the grains. We have also urged the court to direct the government to open the centres even on Sunday," Upadhyay said while adding that the HC has given state time till April 29 to respond and the case will be heard next on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-pay-full-msp-amount-for-wheat-to-farmers-state-govt-to-hc/articleshow/75361866.cms||Prashant Jha
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Bail denied for man accused of sexual abusing minor girls||Madurai: Observing that ‘the fence itself has been eating the crops’, the mahila court in Madurai dismissed the bail plea of a children’s home founder who was arrested for sexually assaulting girl inmates in 2018.Devapitchai, founder of a children’s home in Madurai district, had sexually assaulted minor girl inmates of his shelter. The Usilampatti police had registered a case under sections of the Pocso Act and arrested him in 2018. Devapitchai had filed an e-bail application which was recently heard through video-conferencing. The petitioner’s counsel stated that the charge-sheet was filed in this case and since the petitioner is 72 years old, and is in prison for the past one-and-a-half years, bail has been sought. However, the public prosecutor objected the grant of bail stating that he had sexually abused several inmates. Hearing the plea, sessions judge of Madurai mahila court, J Flora said a perusal of the statements of the 11 victim girls reveals that the petitioner had committed sexual assault on them. Considering the gravity and magnitude of crime, the judge dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-denied-for-man-accused-of-sexual-abusing-minor-girls/articleshow/75363787.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: No bail for man in sexual assault case||MADURAI: Observing that ‘the fence itself has been eating the crops’, the mahila court in Madurai dismissed the bail plea of a children’s home founder who was arrested for sexually assaulting the girl inmates in 2018. Devapitchai, founder of a children’s home in Madurai district had sexually assaulted the minor girl inmates. The Usilampatti police had registered a case under sections of the Pocso Act and arrested him in 2018. Devapitchai had filed an e-bail application which was recently heard through video-conferencing. The petitioner’s counsel stated that the charge-sheet was filed in this case and since the petitioner is 72 years old, and is in prison for the past one-and-a-half years, bail has been sought. However, the public prosecutor objected the grant of bail stating that he had sexually abused several inmates. Hearing the plea the sessions judge of Madurai mahila court, J Flora said that a perusal of the statements of the 11 victim girls reveals that the petitioner had committed sexual assault on them. Considering the gravity and magnitude of crime, the judge dismissed the petition. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-bail-for-man-in-sexual-assault-case/articleshow/75363786.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Smart city works resume in phased manner||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Smart City Limited (DSCL) resumed work on its projects on Friday after receiving the go-ahead from chief minister Trivendra Rawat. Renovation work at Paltan Bazaar will be the first project to be taken up, followed by others in a phased manner, said officials. Talking to TOI, DSCL chief executive officer Ashish Srivastava said, “Smart city projects have been resumed with the aim of completing them within the targeted time. We will monitor the projects regularly to ensure the work is done efficiently.” DSCL officials also said that locally available labourers and those workers staying at relief camps will be deployed for the smart city projects, as interstate movement is restricted for now, due to the extended nationwide lockdown. Surya Kotnala, assistant general manager, Dehradun Smart City Limited, said, “In the interest of residents, the smart city projects will take place between 1 pm and 7 am, for maximum utilization of time.” This has been done to allow a free access to residents, who are allowed to step out from 7 am to 1 pm to buy essential household items. The project of smart roads is being built with an estimated budget of Rs 22 crore. The roads will have facilities like LED street lamps, ducts dedicated for placing underground telephone and electricity cables. The makeover work at Paltan Bazaar will include a pedestrian path, uniform signboards for all shops as well as golf carts to ferry senior citizen, disabled persons and pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smart-city-works-resume-in-phased-manner/articleshow/75361874.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||ICU at Mapusa will relieve load on GMC: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||SALIGAO: The government will make efforts to set up an intensive care unit (ICU) at the district hospital in Mapusa. “If an ICU is set up at Mapusa then the load on GMC will reduce,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. On his birthday, Sawant visited the district hospital, where he used to work as an ayurveda physician, and checked patients in the hospital OPD and wards. “I decided to dedicate my birthday in support of the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff who are at the frontline of the fight against Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sawant, who spent half of his day at the hospital. “In Goa everybody respects and supports the medical professionals, but the whole country should also support the doctors and medical staff who are in the frontline of the coronavirus battle,” Sawant told reporters. Port minister Michael Lobo, MMC councillor Franky Carvalho and the hospital’s in-charge Dr Mohandas Pednekar accompanied the CM during the ward rounds. Lobo requested the chief minister to allow hardware shops and those that deal with construction materials to open as many people undertake repairs of their houses during this time of the year. Asked about the steps the government was planning for the Goans stranded outside India, Lobo said, “We can’t home quarantined all those whom the government is getting from abroad, so we have convinced the CM during the cabinet meeting that he needs to give free quarantine to the seafarers who will be brought from international ports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/icu-at-mapusa-will-relieve-load-on-gmc-sawant/articleshow/75363799.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Relief from sultry weather as heavy rain lashes district||MADURAI: As a welcome respite from the hot climate, heavy rain accompanied by lightning and thunder lashed the district on Friday afternoon. The rain lasted for around 45 minutes with the entire district also witnessing power cut. After weeks of temperatures soaring over 40C, it rained heavily across various areas including Goripalayam, Vilakkuthoon, Simmakkal, Anna Nagar, KK Nagar, Theppakulam, Anuppanadi, Melamadai and Vandiyur. The whole district witnessed power cuts lasting for at least an hour. In some areas, trees and branches also fell down on roads because of the heavy winds. In Thirupparankundram, a tree on the roadside was uprooted and fell on a parked car. No one was injured. For the few who had stepped out amid lockdown, the rain sent them rushing for cover. Many shared photos and videos on social media celebrating the rain from the confines of their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relief-from-sultry-weather-as-heavy-rain-lashes-district/articleshow/75363797.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Monthly pay cut for PM Fund irks WCL staffers||Nagpur: There is widespread resentment among employees of Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL) as the management has decided to deduct a day’s pay every month till March 2021 and deposit it in Prime Minister Citizen Assistance and Relief Fund. S Q Zama, secretary general of Indian National Mineworkers Federation, has opposed the move stating employees could not contribute a day’s pay every month. “We happily donated a day’s salary in March but this should not happen every month. The Class IV staff doesn’t get much salary and they will be put to inconvenience,” he told TOI. The circular to deduct a day’s pay was issued by department of revenue, union ministry of finance, on April 17. It has been stamped by Coal India Ltd (CIL) and forwarded to WCL head office in Nagpur. The circular though mentions that if any employee has objection to their pay being deducted, they could register the objection. A finance department official of WCL told TOI on condition of anonymity that government was planning to deduct as much as five days’ pay in future. Meanwhile, central government employees’ unions are angry over freezing of their dearness allowance (DA). All India Defence Employees’ Federation (AIDEF) has decided to pressure the government to revoke this decision. A circular issued by Federation general secretary C Srikumar to all members stated that DA was expected to increase to 25% from July 1 due to inflation. “If DA is frozen then house rent allowance (HRA) will be frozen too. Employees stand to lose a lot due to the decision,” Srikumar stated. The central government has decided not to hike the DA of its employees from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021. This means DA will be frozen at present levels even if inflation shoots up. The cash-strapped government will save Rs 38,000 crore through this move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/monthly-pay-cut-for-pm-fund-irks-wcl-staffers/articleshow/75361872.cms||Ashish Roy
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||13-year-old hangs self after fight with younger brother over TV remote in Doon||DEHRADUN: A 13-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan following a tiff with his younger brother over switching television channel. The incident took place at Salaan village near Kothal gate in Rajpur police station area of Dehradun on Friday. Aditya Singh, 13, was alone with his younger brother who was watching cartoon on television. Aditya had a quarrel with his younger sibling when the latter refused to give the remote control to him for watching the movie. "Aditya left the room saying he will kill himself to scare his younger brother. However, he went to another room and hanged himself from the ceiling fan," according to a police officer. On seeing his brother hanging, the younger sought help from the neighbours. The father of the boys, who works as a gardener, was out for work, while their mother works as a guard in a school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/13-year-old-hangs-self-after-fight-with-younger-brother-over-tv-remote-in-doon/articleshow/75361879.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Man held for blackmailing, extorting money from women||MADURAI: An unemployed youth from Nagercoil has been arrested for shooting intimate videos and photographs of more than 100 young women, many of them doctors and medical students in Chennai, he had befriended and extorting lakhs of rupees from them. The case, which has echoes of the Pollachi sexual assault and extortion incident that shook the nation last year, came to light when one of the women lodged a complaint online with the Kanyakumari superintendent of police on Thursday night. The youth, T Kasi alias Suji, 26, of Ganesapuram Main Road in Nagercoil, targeted well-to-do girls he identified on social media with the help of (at least) four other men. Kasi would befriend the women, claiming to be a businessman or a pilot trainee or a lawyer, and would send them photographs and videos of his gym workouts. Once he met them, he would take intimate photographs and videos, often without their knowledge. He took screenshots of intimate video chats with the women he couldn’t meet. Suji would threaten to upload the photographs and videos on social media if the women refused to give him money. He has uploaded photographs and numbers of a few girls. “In most cases the women did not come forward to lodge a complaint for fear of being exposed by the accused,” said Kanyakumari SP N Sreenath. More than 100 girls and women may have been exploited by Kasi, the SP said. “Most of women are in Chennai and they include many doctors,” he told TOI. Kasi was arrested on Friday after a medical student from Chennai lodged a complaint with the SP online on Thursday night. Sreenath said that they had recovered mobile phones, hard disks and CDs among other gadgets from Kasi’s house. Sreenath has asked survivors to directly reach out to him on his mobile number ‘9498111103’ or send complaints in the form of a message to the number. “Strictest action will be taken against the culprits and identity of the complainants will be kept secret,” the SP added.  Preliminary inquiry revealed that he has been cheating low profile girls in Kanyakumari district and high profile educated girls in Chennai over the last six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-blackmailing-extorting-money-from-women/articleshow/75363796.cms||M K Ananth
April 25, 2020||Madurai||He fixes punctures free of cost for hapless tribals||Madurai: “People of this locality provided food to my family for 22 years and will continue to feed us in the years to come. During these tough times it is an opportunity for me to return the favours,” says M Sathish Kumar, 46, of Kaliyal village near Thirparappu water falls in Kanyakumari district, close to tribal habitations uphill Pechiparai. He fixes punctures free of cost during the lockdown.His shop ‘Amma Tyres’ was closed during the lockdown and reopened a week ago when the restrictions were marginally lifted. People of the locality are mostly from tribal settlements such as Pathukani, Arukani, Maruthunamparai, Pechiparai, Kothayar or Netta. They work as rubber collectors for average daily wages ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 300.“They are jobless now and are struggling to buy essential commodities from the little left over in their hands or borrowed from others. Their tyres go flat when they come downhill to buy essential items in small quantities,” he said, adding that he realised that they will not be able to pay Rs 150 to Rs 200 to fix punctures.He said he travels 20km to fix a puncture as he travels five kilometres from his house cum shop to collect the tyre at the spot, fix the puncture at his shop and take the tyre back to the spot to fix it and return home. “I fixed around 70 tyres in the last one week,” he said.Stating he does not demand money as they hardly have anything after buying essential items, he said some give Rs 30 or so for fuel expenses. He has also fixed punctures of government vehicles from the health, police and panchayat departments for which they have paid.On normal days, he used to make around Rs 1,200 a day when things were normal he is hardly making a tenth of the same now but is content fixing punctures free of cost and enthusiastically rushes to the spot when he gets a call on his mobile number – which is also circulated in the social media as a helpline number to fix punctures in that locality.Sporting a pair of shorts and stained t-shirt, he hurries to any place within a 6km radius to fix punctures of those who call him on his phone, which is circulated on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/he-fixes-punctures-free-of-cost-for-hapless-tribals/articleshow/75363817.cms||M K Ananth
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: In solemn Ramzan, families to be together on video calls for iftar||LUCKNOW: Aiman Qazi’s (22), who is due to be married in October, had big plans for Ramzan and Eid this year with her parents. The BSc student was eagerly waiting to shop for a family get-together, but due to the lockdown, she is confined at home. “We had plans to visit my grandparents in Jaipur where the whole family was coming together for a grand celebration. Not only is that cancelled, but we won’t even get together for prayers, iftari, sehri or other customs. We will break our rozas at home as this is what will keep us safe,” said Qazi. Many others will observe the holy month of Ramzan at home on a solemn note amid the lockdown to contain coronavirus spread. For Tauriq Beg, the holy month will be spent alone at his flat in Noida. The Lucknow resident, who was planning to come home, said he will break the fast virtually over video call with his family. Animesh, a Hindu who has been observing rozas for past two years, said, “Iftar gathering this year will be on video and WhatsApp calls.” Masooma Rizvi, a teacher, is finding it difficult to prepare for Ramzan along with taking online classes. “On parents’ requests, we have reduced the number of classes during Ramzan so that students may strike a balance between studies and religious activities,” she said. Homemaker Tarannum Hasan has made sure that no one has to go out for essential shopping and has already got all that is required for sehri and iftar for at least 15 days. “It is going to be a spiritual Ramzan. We have started reading the Quran and helping the needy with money reserved for iftar gathering,” said Tarannum. “I will cut down on the items I cook during Ramzan. It is better to avoid oily dishes and keep immunity strong,” she said. Bloggers cancel plans Food bloggers and aspiring photographers who look forward to capturing scenes from the bylanes of Chowk and Akbari Gate during Ramzan have cancelled their plans. “The food at Akbari Gate is something that everyone will miss. I have been visiting the place for two years for my Vlogs but won’t this time,” said Karan Lakhmani, food stylist and photographer. ‘Will pray for virus to go’Many said Ramzan is about fasting and not feasting and they will pray that the country is free from the pandemic soon. Gomtinagar resident Rubina said, “This is a time for self-discipline, restraint, reflection, renewal and helping poor.” Saheba Ramzi Khan said the holy month is for zakaat (dues for poor), praying and reading the Quran, which the lockdown would not affect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-solemn-ramzan-families-to-be-together-on-video-calls-for-iftar/articleshow/75363810.cms||Aditi Singh
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Doon Hospital to start Covid-19 tests from today; Nainital resident tests positive||DEHRADUN: With one more Covid-19 positive case reported from Nainital on Friday, the number of coronavirus patients in Uttarakhand has now reached 48. The patient, who has been tested positive on Friday, was found negative in his previous Covid-19 test on April 9. Additional Secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant told TOI that the 40-year-old man was kept in institutional quarantine since April 8 and his swab sample sent for Covid-19 test was found negative on April 9. “The man’s sample was sent for test again after he completed 14 days under observation in the quarantine facility. His reports came positive on April 25, 17 days after he was tested negative. He had come in contact of a Covid-19 positive patient earlier this month,” the official said. On Friday, another Covid-19 patient, who was undergoing treatment at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, was discharged after he recovered fully from the disease. With this, as many as 25 patients out of the total 48 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the last 40 days in Uttarakhand. Also, the state has done 4,767 Covid-19 tests so far. Meanwhile, the authorities of Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) announced that they will start coronavirus testing from Saturday. This comes almost a month after getting the nod for the same by the government. Earlier, the samples of patients from Dehradun were being sent to Government Medical College in Haldwani and to AIIMS Rishikesh. In Dehradun, which has reported the maximum coronavirus positive patients in the state so far, GDMCH has been earmarked as a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal, GDMCH, told TOI that the staff and all required arrangements for Covid-19 tests are in place and the medical college is now geared to start tests. “Till now, samples of the cases from Dehradun were being sent to AIIMS Rishikesh or Haldwani Medical College but once we start doing the tests, the reports of cases in the city will arrive in just eight hours,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-hosp-to-start-covid-19-tests-from-today-nainital-resident-tests-positive/articleshow/75361890.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Govt urged to form panels to fix prices of fruits, vegetables||Madurai: A consumer body has urged chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to form committees at district and local body levels to help consumers get vegetables, fruits and essential commodities at nominal prices. This would put an end to fleecing by traders and hoarders during the lockdown period, it said. It stressed that this would be instrumental in ensuring social distancing as people will avoid going to other localities in search vegetables and fruits at nominal prices . “On one side, farmers are sharing videos in distress, explaining hardships faced by them as traders are offering very less price for their produce. On the other side, the prices of many essential commodities are skyrocketing and are pinching the pockets of consumers,” says A Sankar executive director of Empower Centre for Consumer and Environment Education, Research and Advocacy that has written to the CM. He said one kg of coconut is available at Rs 15 to Rs 50 and is a clear indication of fleecing consumers by traders. Sankar said that in some places the markets are fixing the price fixed at the nearest uzhavar santhai. But the number of such markets is limited to towns and is not easily accessible for people from smaller localities and in rural areas. He said that this is why they have emphasised the need for opening such markets at the micro level on open grounds and for the committees to be appointed to check the quality of items and their prices. “These committees should comprise officials from agriculture, horticulture, agricultural marketing and food safety and standards act department and officials from local bodies like corporation, municipality, town panchayat and panchayat union to check hoarding and their price every day. They can also check and ensure availability of vegetables and fruits so that people need not travel to other places in search of it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-urged-to-form-panels-to-fix-prices-of-fruits-vegetables/articleshow/75363801.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||3 areas have bulk of Covid-19 +ve cases in Madurai district||Madurai: Madurai has been witnessing alternate periods of highs and lows in the number of cases in the last one month ever since the first Covid-19 positive case was recorded in the district on March 23. As on Friday, as many as 56 cases have been reported. The spread of cases has so far been sporadic across the district with Elumalai, Melur and Anna Nagar areas showing a concentration. While initially the rise in Covid-19 cases was mainly from single source infection, post mid-April more cases started to spring up from other primary sources. The first positive case and death in Madurai was a 54-year-old man from Anna Nagar. While just six cases were reported in March, the number in April till Friday stands at 50. There has been an alternative rise and fall in cases every five days throughout the month so far. If one spell of five days saw around five cases, the successive period saw a rise up to over 10 cases with the maximum at 16. The most cases to be reported in a day in the district was 14 on April 13. The second death of a Covid-19 patient here, the 70-year-old mother of a priest at Meenakshi Amman Temple, was reported 30 days after the first. In terms of age and gender, the district has seen more men than women patients, while the most number of cases are of people aged between 30-50 years at a total of 27 cases. Only four positive cases of those below 18 have been reported. As many as 18 positive patients were aged between 50 and 80 years who also include the two casualties. Out of the 56 Covid-19 positive cases, 27 patients have been discharged so far, indicating that more than half of them have been discharged already, apart from the two deaths. Three Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) staff tested positive recently. As many as 21 different localities in the district have recorded Covid-19 cases so far. A total of 27 cases have been reported in rural limits while the corporation limits have seen slightly more cases with 29. With various measures including strict lockdown and active screening in place in the containment zones, district officials are set to crack the whip further on violators and halt the spread. With Madurai corporation slated to enforce complete lockdown from April 26 to 29, the situation is expected to turn for the better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-areas-have-bulk-of-covid-19-ve-cases-in-madurai-district/articleshow/75363803.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 15 recovered agree to donate plasma||HYDERABAD: Even as the Centre gave its nod to conduct plasma therapy in Telangana, none of the Covid-19 patients at the Gandhi Hosptial require this therapy as of now. In another interesting development at least 15 discharged patients agreed to donate their plasma whenever it is required. “While being discharged many patients wanted to offer donations but we have asked them to be ready for plasma donation. The plasma therapy can take place under certain conditions when there is compatibility between both donor and the patient, who need to be under the ventilation with the described comorbid condition” Dr Raja Rao, Gandhi hospital superintendent said. Earlier, during a video conference union minister for health Harsh Vardhan told Telangana health minister Eatela Rajendar to go ahead with plasma therapy. Later, at a press conference Eatela said that Harsh Vardhan applauded the measures taken by the state to control the spread of the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-recovered-agree-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/75363819.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: School association seeks permission to collect fee||NAGPUR: Pushed to the corner by vocal parents’ groups, a school owners association from the state has done away with political correctness and sought permission to collect fee during lockdown. State education department had asked schools to refrain from collecting pending and upcoming fee during lockdown period. Maharashtra English Schools Trustees Association (MESTA) has written to education minister Varsha Gaikwad saying that the state government should in fact be asking parents to be part of an initiative to support schools. Sanjay Tayade-Patil, president of MESTA, said that government must allow schools to break up the quarterly fee and collect it on monthly basis to ease financial pressure on parents. “Education department should encourage parents to support the solution since this would be in the interest of ensuring continuity of academics for their child/ward,” said Tayade-Patil. MESTA has also sought a stimulus package from the government to get the education sector back on its feet. “As education is one of the sectors under priority sector lending, loan benefits provided to other priority sectors should also be extended to the education sector in these times of crisis. Interest free loans should be made available for parents to fund their child’s education including school fees, tuition fees, purchasing books and other study material etc,” said Tayade-Patil. He added that even schools must be provided interest-free loans to fund their expenses. “That loan will be used for paying recurring costs such as teachers’ salaries, overheads and capital expenditures. Government must urgently take cognisance of the plight of teachers across Maharashtra and take remedial measures to save them from losing out on salaries and jobs. It must also prevent schools from shutting down,” said Tayade-Patil. He quoted data from Economic Survey of Maharashtra tabled in 2018, saying there were 22,477 private unaided schools in the state, which is an increase of over 111% since 2013-14. “These schools, employing lakhs of teaching and non-teaching staff, are reeling due to paucity of funds to pay salaries due to non-payment of fee by parents,” said Tayade-Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-association-seeks-permission-to-collect-fee/articleshow/75361883.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: Mussoorie residents worried about daily commuters from Dehradun||MUSSOORIE: As Dehradun district has been demarcated in the “red zone” with regards to the number of Covid-19 cases, the residents of Mussoorie have raised concerns regarding the daily commuters from Dehradun who come to Mussoorie in the morning and return to Dehradun in the evening. Residents of the queen of hills opine that although no Covid-19 case has been reported in Mussoorie so far, the daily influx of a large number of officials from the state’s capital city is likely to spread the deadly virus in the hill town. “The officials who come to Mussoorie from Dehradun could pose a risk to the local community. The local administration needs to be careful about this,” warns Pushpa Padiyar, a member of Landour Cantonment Board. According to sources, the administration has prepared a list of around 100 daily commuters from Dehradun. These people are employed in banks, postal services, electricity and water department, and supply of other essential services. “The staff of banks and post offices are into regular public dealing and they meet a large number of people every day. They pose the greatest risk to the local community,” said PS Patwal, a local resident. There also have been reports of violation of social distancing norms at some departments and in many cases, the staff was allegedly found without face masks. Residents urge the administration to take adequate steps to ensure that the risk of spread of Covid-19 via these daily commuters is minimised. “It must be mandatory for all officials of banks, post offices and other essential services to wear face masks and gloves at all times and the local administration needs to strictly ensure this,” suggests Hugh Gantzer, noted travel writer and local resident. Anuj Gupta, chairman of Mussoorie Municipal Council, said that the thermal screening of commuters must be strictly enforced at Kolhu Khet check post by the police. Meanwhile, sub-divisional magistrate Varun Choudhary avoided commenting on the matter and asked TOI to contact police and heads of concerned departments. According to Vidhya Bhushan Negi, station officer, Mussoorie, “These officials were engaged in providing essential services. Therefore, they had been issued passes to commute between Dehradun and Mussoorie. However, we are ensuring that safety procedures — like thermal screening, sanitation of these offices, wearing of masks and gloves — are being followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-residents-worried-about-daily-commuters-from-dehradun/articleshow/75361881.cms||Anmol Jain
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||Short film ‘Namma Policearu’ creates a buzz||Hubballi: ‘Namma Policearu,’ a short film to create awareness on Covid-19 has created a buzz on social media within six days after it was uploaded on YouTube. The short film of 5.4 minutes duration has been produced by Avinash Chouhan, a Koppal-based young director in association with police. Many have uploaded it on their Facebook pages. Chouhan claimed the film, uploaded on April 18, has reached over 3.5 crore viewers. In the film, a police constable wields lathi at a man, who is on his way to the medical shop to buy medicine for his daughter who is suffering from headache. The cop admonishes him for not wearing a mask and violating the lockdown. The man returns home after buying the medicine. He realises the crucial role being played by police in creating awareness on Covid-19 and preventing the spread of the disease. He packs some food from home, goes back to the place where the cop is on duty and gives it to him. In turn, the constable gives him a mask. Both convey the message of staying safe from the virus. Chouhan said the lockdown scene was shot at Ashok Circle in Koppal and the father-daughter scene was shot at a house in Kinnal village. Traffic police KH Kalakbandi, Durgappa Kambli (father) and Harshita (daughter) have acted in the short film. Ganesh Rayabagi has given the background music. Town police inspector Mouneshwar Patil said, “I am very happy over the overwhelming response from the viewer. We express gratitude to the superintendent of police and other staff for their support to make this film.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/short-film-namma-policearu-creates-a-buzz/articleshow/75358505.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||No testing lab should remain underutilized: HC||NAGPUR: Concerned over under-utilization of Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL), the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed the divisional commissioner here to remove this discrepancy and balance the samples better. He was also told to take steps to expedite starting of VRDLs at NEERI and Nagpur University where Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) Machines are available. Quoting example of VRDL at Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (MAFSU) that started on April 16 and was testing only 40 samples per day, Justice Nitin Sambre noted it was underutilized and samples pending at various other centres should be transferred here. “It will be appropriate to direct the commissioner to take every day stock of number of pending samples in each VRDL and pass all consequential orders of their diversion where the capacity is underutilized or the pendency is comparatively less,” the judge said. Before adjourning the hearing till April 30, the bench directed the commissioner to inform on steps taken in this regard by that date. “The commissioner will be competent to take appropriate decision regarding RT-PCR machines utilization in consultation with AIIMS medical superintendent in case there’s rise in patients’ number in any of the districts or failure of any centre due to technical snag in machines,” Justice Sambre said. The directives came while hearing a case filed by CH Sharma through amicus curiae Anup Gilda which is clubbed with a PIL by Subhash Zanwar through counsel Ram Heda. Earlier, the IGGMC dean in an affidavit informed that the VRDLs at Yavatmal, Chandrapur, and Gondia would be made operational by May 20 due to lack of infrastructure. “It’s informed that necessary machinery required for VRDL is made available by Haffkine Institute by procuring the same from Singapore and shipment is consuming certain time. Once the labs are installed, their operation shall not be withheld for want of testing kits,” the judge said. He added it shall be the duty of competent authority, including the government, to make available sufficient number of testing kits for making them operational. “The fact remains that VRDLs are required to be made operational at the earliest and the government appears to have taken steps for establishing those,” Justice Sambre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-testing-lab-should-remain-underutilized-hc/articleshow/75361896.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Principal of Christian College dies||Lucknow: Principal of Lucknow Christian College Prof Mukesh Pati (59) passed away on Friday. He had been admitted to King George’s Medical University where he breathed his last due to kidney failure. He is survived by his wife and daughter. Pati had joined as the principal of the college in 2016 after serving as an associate professor at Ewing Christian College in Prayagraj. The academic fraternity is grieved by the untimely demise of the principal, with college faculty remembering his contribution to the upliftment of the institute. “We have lost a great academician who had taken the institute ahead. It was under his leadership that the college transformed from a boys’ college to a co-educational institute. He worked towards imparting quality education,” said Prof Maulindo Mishra, from LCC’s physics department. Lucknow University vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “It is extremely sad that we have lost an honoured member of the University of Lucknow family today. Prof Mukesh Pati was not only an efficient administrator but also a remarkable teacher. My heartfelt condolences to his wife Isha Pati and daughter Mansa Pati.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/principal-of-christian-college-dies/articleshow/75363821.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Online classes sans books take a toll on Raj students||Jaipur: As most of the schools in the state have switched to online classes in the wake of lockdown, students are facing difficulties due to the non-availability of textbooks. Most schools sell books on the day of announcement of results, the day the parent-teacher meeting is held. Private schools call the stationery shopkeepers and uniform sellers at the school, from where the parents can purchase books and uniforms. With the lockdown in place, students from Classes I to IX and Class XI are being promoted to the next class without examinations. Due to the pandemic, schools are shut and students attending online classes are suffering without books. President of Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan Damodar Goyal has written a letter to the additional chief secretary (home) stating to allow schools to sell books in the school premises or open shops. “It is expected that the schools or any educational institute will not be opened till August. Until then, we want permission to provide the parents the facility to purchase books’ sets from the school which will be convenient rather than going to different shops around the city. We will make sure there is social distancing and will allow only a few parents to enter the premises at a time. But there has to be some decision made regarding this or else there will be academic loss for the students,” said Goyal. Ministry of home affairs on April 21 issued a notification that shops selling school books should be exempted from the lockdown. This however has not been implemented in Rajasthan yet. Some private schools have started providing chapter-wise PDFs to the students for online classes. Atul Sharma, a resident of Civil Lines, said that studying from the PDF is very tiring. He explained, “My elder daughter, who is in class VII, and younger one who is in class IV, have to attend online classes and study from the PDFs provided by schools. However, this strains their eyes due to the increase in screen time. I am trying to arrange second-hand books so that it will provide some relief to the children.” Not every school is providing PDF content for teaching and students have been either asked to arrange second-hand books or look online for the study material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/online-classes-sans-books-take-a-toll-on-raj-students/articleshow/75362863.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Move to implement pass backfires as thousands throng collectorate||Madurai: About two thousand people descended on the district collectorate to apply for vehicle passes on Friday throwing wind to social and physical distancing. People were seen vying which each other to get a QR code pass after a WhatsApp message in which the police commissioner is hears directing his subordinates to heavily penalise vehicles during the lockdown. "As it will take a day for the passes to be distributed we can be lenient on Friday, but strict action should be taken from Saturday," police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham is heard saying in the voice clip being circulated. The message was circulated so wide and fast that in one family, three members got the same clip from different sources. By 8am on Friday, about 2,000 people were seen waiting in front of the office, so big was the crowd that police personnel had to close the gates. "What was worse was that many of them did not wear masks and did not bother about crowding in their desperate attempt to get a pass,’’ said S Ganeshan, who witnessed the crowd. Rajan of Anna Nagar who had come to the district collectorate seeking a pass, said that he could only afford to buy medicines for his parents only once in four days. "I was worried that I would not be able to buy medicines for them if we are not allowed to go out," he said. The pass issuance was put on hold due to crowding as collector Dr T G Vinay urged people to stay indoors and purchase their groceries and vegetables from their neighbourhood stores. In a statement, he said that anyone found loitering around without a valid reason would be quarantined in one of the four quarantine locations for 14 days. NGOs and people’s representatives have condemned the unplanned move by the police and district administration to make the QR code passes mandatory. Peoples Watch executive director Henry Tiphagne said that the hard work of the police officials was appreciated in the current situation. "But people may be forced to go out by their requirements like medicines, hence action should be taken after 2pm during lockdown days, as shops are allowed to function till 1pm in the city." Madurai central MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan condemned the lack of planning by the police and district administration which led to crowding at the collectorate. "Proper planning along with sharing information with the public well in advance is a must during such crisis."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/move-to-implement-pass-backfires-as-thousands-throng-collectorate/articleshow/75363820.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Empty rakes a parking headache for SCR||HYDERABAD: With around 750 passenger train services suspended, South Central Railway (SCR) is having a hard time stabling trains at railway yards in the zone. “It is for the first time that these many trains have stopped and hence we are struggling to find places to park these trains. Even though all major stations have a huge yard, all areas are flooded with empty rakes,” an SCR official told TOI. “We don’t have large spaces in railway vicinities for maintaining them,” he added. According to officials, the zone has coach maintenance depots and railway yards at Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Kacheguda, Lingampally, Kazipet, Vijayawada, Tirupati and Guntakal. “These depots can provide stabling for limited trains while most stations do not have enough space to accommodate trains. With freight trains still running, it is also important to keep the tracks clear,” the official added. Since only goods’ trains are running, most station’s tracks are empty and they are parking empty rakes there, inform officials. With no public entry allowed on railway station premises, Railway Protection Force (RPF) has also increased surveillance at the stations and yards as hundreds of trains are parked there. A huge number of rakes from the zone are also scattered in different parts across the country, and officials are also focusing on bringing back the stopped trains to their origin depots. “Each rake has around 20-24 coaches and occupies a lot space. Security is tightened near unattended rakes to avoid theft and malpractices,” head constable, RPF, Secunderabad railway station told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/empty-rakes-a-parking-headache-for-scr/articleshow/75363828.cms||Arya Sharan
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Didn’t force anyone for drop at Police Lines, say Kota students||LUCKNOW: Eight students brought to Lucknow from Kota in Rajasthan, who skipped rapid test for Covid-19, on Friday claimed they did not pressurize anyone to drop them at Police Lines in Mahanagar in place of BBD Institute in Chinhat where all other students were tested. In charge of Police Lines, assistant commissioner of police SQM Abidi had on Monday alleged that the students forced the driver to drop them at Police Lines. However, in his inquiry report a day later, UPSRTC regional manager Pallab Bose claimed that students had asked the police head constable travelling as an escort in the bus to take them to Police Lines. When TOI spoke to five of the eight students to find out the sequence of events, they said they did not force the policeman escorting them or the driver of the bus to drop them at Police Lines. They said the cop escorting the bus asked them to talk to their parents and decide a common point from where they could be picked. It came to light that the eight students had taken a bus which was not exclusively for Lucknow students and was going to Rae Bareli, Prayagraj and Sonbhadra. In the absence of clear cut instructions in such a situation, the students were dropped at Police Lines. At least 281 students studying at various coaching institutes in Kota were brought to Lucknow through UPSRTC buses on Monday. Anti-body rapid test was done on 273 while eight students, who deboarded at Police Lines were allowed to go home after thermal screening only. Juhi Ahmad, one of the eight students, said: “We reached Agra bus depot from Kota on a bus arranged by our coaching institute. In Agra, a man in white and blue uniform was announcing from a loudspeaker that this bus will pass through Lucknow. I along with four of my friends and three others boarded the bus. In the way, we came to know it would go to Rae Bareli, Prayagraj and Sonbhadra.” Noori, another student, said: “Soon after departure, the cop announced that Lucknow students will be dropped at Police Lines and asked us to inform our parents.” “After reaching Police Lines, he called our parents from our mobile phones and asked them to receive us,” she added. “Our thermal scanning was done at Police Lines but nobody informed us about rapid test. The policeman also helped us with our baggage,” said another student. Joint commissioner of police (crime), Lucknow, Nilabja Choudhury said, “After going through the inquiry report, we spoke to the head constable who told us that he tried to contact some officers in Lucknow and Agra but could not connect to them. In the absence of any clear instructions, he chose the safest place to drop students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/didnt-force-anyone-for-drop-at-police-lines-kota-students/articleshow/75363838.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Pregnant woman forced to walk from GH as police seize vehicle in which she came||Madurai: A pregnant woman, who had gone to the Government Hospital in Theni, claimed that police made her walk a long distance as they impounded the auto rickshaw in which she had come to the hospital.Karthiga of Bodi, came to the Bodi police station on Friday, with her mother. She said that she was due to deliver on April 26 and as it was going to be a C-section, doctors had asked her to do a Covid-19 test.She had come in the auto rickshaw of her neighbour, who had dropped her off at the GH, but when she finished her check-up and called the driver, he told her that his vehicle had been seized by the police. As there was no vehicle to travel back, she said she walked to the police station and lodged her complaint.When contacted, Theni SP, E Sai Charan Tejaswi, said that the auto rickshaw was seized and the auto driver booked but let out on bail later as he was found to be roaming in the town without proper uniform or without passengers. “He was booked at about 9am and the woman had completed her check-up after 12 noon. The auto driver could have stayed in the hospital and picked her up. As autos are not allowed during the lockdown, action was taken against him. People are free to use their own vehicles or ambulance services to come to hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pregnant-woman-forced-to-walk-from-gh-as-police-seize-vehicle-in-which-she-came/articleshow/75363831.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra toll crosses 300, but cases fall 50% in Mumbai, state||MUMBAI: With 18 new Covid-19 deaths reported from across the state on Friday, the toll in Maharashtra breached the 300 mark, touching 301. Ever since the toll crossed 100 on April 10, Covid-19 deaths have increased by 100 every seven days across the state. The daily tally of cases in both Mumbai and Maharashtra hit a surprising 50% drop on Friday—a day after registering the highest single-day tally. The state recorded 394 cases, against 778 on Thursday. Mumbai reported 242 cases on Friday, 53% fewer than 522 on Thursday. Maharashtra on Friday got approval from the Centre for pool testing that would increase the number of tests by 5 to 10 times and also to conduct plasma convalescent therapy for seriously ill Covid-19 patients. A senior official said the state would conduct pool testing in various cities, primarily Mumbai and Pune, which are among the worst-hit in the country. Pool testing is a method of testing batches of samples instead of just one. The state has so far carried out one lakh Covid-19 tests since January. The total number cases in Maharashtra now stand at 6,817, while Mumbai has 4,447 cases. A closer look at the toll data showed that it took the state a month from the detection of the first case on March 9 to register its first 100 deaths; on April 10, the death toll was 110. A week later, on April 17, the toll touched 201. The next 100 deaths were also recorded in seven days. The case fatality rate in the state on Friday was 4.4%. Of the 18 deaths reported in the state on Friday, Mumbai registered 11, pushing the toll here to 178. Mumbai accounts for 60% of the total deaths in the state. The CFR of Mumbai was 4% on Friday. Out of the 11 deaths reported in the city, seven were of people with co-morbidities. The BMC update said seven patients were men and four were women. One of the dead patients was over 80 years old, while another was just below 40 years of age; the remaining were in the 40-80 age-group. Of the remaining deaths in the state on Friday, five were reported from Pune and two from Malegaon. In Mumbai, the Dadar area reported one death —of a 73-year-old from Haji Ibrahim Patel building. The total cases in Dadar now are 29. Mahim, too, reported one new Covid-19 positive case on Friday, of an 86-year-old from Manmala Tank Road. The cases in Mahim now stand at 25. Containment zones in Mumbai increased from 930 on Thursday to 993 on Friday.Meanwhile, an analysis done so far of 269 deaths in the state showed that the mortality rate among patients below 50 years of age is comparatively less. It is 0.64% in the age-group of 21-30 years, and it rises with increasing age beyond this age-group. It is highest (17.78%) in the 61-70 age-group. Of the one lakh tests in Maharashtra, the results of 94,485 have turned up negative. There were 38 laboratories testing in the state as on Friday, with a total per day capacity of nearly 7,200 tests, officials said. Three more BEST staffers tested positive on Friday, taking the number of positive patients in the undertaking to 7. In another incident, the mother of an ex-BEST employee died due to Covid-19. She resided at the BEST’s Parel staff quarters. One of the buildings in the staff colony has now been sealed and 59 family members, mostly those of drivers and conductors, have been put in home quarantine. A 49-year-old general physician became the eight doctor from neighbouring Thane city to be test positive on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-toll-crosses-300-but-cases-fall-50-in-city-state/articleshow/75363824.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Clear signs of community spread in Madurai, say officials, docs||Madurai: As the number of Covid-19 positive cases keeps rising in Madurai district, there has been a corresponding spike in cases in which the source of infection could not be traced immediately — indicating community transmission. In fact, the contact history of the state’s first Covid-19 victim, a 54-year-old man from Anna Nagar here, who died on March 25, still remains a mystery. He was chaperoning some Tablighi Jamaat pilgrims from Thailand, but they tested negative. A 68-year-old man from Vandiyur and another man from Anna Nagar, both falling under containment zones now, subsequently tested positive. They had no immediate travel history and were tested because one of them had cough and cold and the other fever too. The other case that strengthens the community spread theory is the 71-year-old mother of a priest at Meenakshi temple testing positive on Thursday and passing away on Friday. Sources say she was confined to her home in West Masi Street and had not ventured out for a long time. While it was claimed that her son had travelled abroad recently, this was opposed by the association of priests through a statement. She was a diabetic and had other co-morbidities. A senior official from the health department said this was the time people had to be extra careful and cooperate with the district administration, as community spread could not be ruled out. Meanwhile, the effects of the disease moving into danger zone were witnessed by people in the containment zones on Friday. The Reliance Fresh shop at Anna Nagar, which was close to the residence of the man who tested positive on Wednesday, did not allow shoppers to enter it. A staffer at the entrance collected the list of items and delivered them in about 15 minutes. ``This prevents people from going around browsing the products and moving in crowds,’’ said the manager. In K K Nagar, people were allowed to enter shops maintaining social distancing. Bharathi store took orders on phone, but remained closed. People were asked to collect things from the back entrance when informed. All fruit stalls were once again closed, though some meat shops were open. Many of the streets which were earlier opened in the containment zones, like the one near the Saraveswarar temple, were cordoned off on Friday. A senior doctor at Government Rajaji Hospital said all signs of community spread were there in the city. ``When the source of infection cannot be traced immediately, it is a matter of grave concern, which makes tackling the disease even more tougher and difficult,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/clear-signs-of-community-spread-in-madurai-say-officials-docs/articleshow/75363825.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Pernod Ricard India business grew just 1%||Bengaluru: Pernod Ricard, the second largest drinks maker in the world, said volume growth in its India business shrank to just 1% for the nine months of this fiscal, compared to 19% in the same period in the year before. The French company said it grew at “mid-single digits” till February but the nationwide lockdown imposed towards the end of March resulted in an overall soft third quarter performance. Pernod’s financial year is from July to June. Business in India was already under pressure for the maker of Chivas Regal whisky and Absolut vodka due to weak consumer demand resulting from slow economy. Covid-19 is expected to further dent business with malls, pubs, bars and restaurants shut across major cities. Pernod is taking cost cutting measures including cancellation of advertising and promotion spending when no longer relevant, and freeze on recruitment, travel expenses. Larger rival Diageo, which owns United Spirits, said earlier this month that the lockdown has impacted its India business. The company has withdrawn growth guidance for the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pernod-ricard-india-business-grew-just-1/articleshow/75362866.cms||Avik Das
April 25, 2020||Goa||Don’t disown Portuguese passport holders: Cong||Margao: Congress on Friday urged the government to ensure that Goans holding Portuguese passports, including seafarers be allowed to return, and not “disowned”. “Most of our sons opted for Portuguese passport for getting easy jobs in Europe, but always maintained ties with their motherland. They have supported Goan economy with foreign exchange earnings. Their families survive on the hard-earned money of seafarers, some are Portuguese passport holders,” president of Goa Pradesh Congress committee Girish Chodankar said. He urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to take speak with the Prime Minister and, “ensure that Portuguese passport seafarers are given easy entry in their own motherland.” Pointing out to the Union home ministry’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for disembarking seafarers, Chodankar said, “Government should ensure they are not kept waiting at sea and protocol is in place for their disembarkment immediately on arrival. The 40-day ordeal faced by Marella Discovery crew should not be repeated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-disown-portuguese-passport-holders-cong/articleshow/75363830.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||With prayer in his heart, CM talks of corona fight||Lucknow: It was a condolence meet to mourn the death of chief minister Yogi Adityanath's father. The CM, however, did not forget to exhort his ministerial colleagues and party functionaries to unitedly fight against novel coronavirus in the state. Conducting the meeting at the official residence of the CM here on Wednesday, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya invited UP assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, state president of BJP Swatantra Dev Singh, finance minister to address the gathering comprising cabinet colleagues and state ministers. General secretary of the UP BJP, Sunil Bansal, was also present. All the persons who attended the meeting offered floral tributes to Anand Singh Bisht. The CM's father had passed away at AIIMS in New Delhi on April 19. However, Yogi Adityanath had decided not to attend his last rites as he needed to be in UP for the fight against the novel coronovirus pandemic. Addressing the condolence meet at his official residence, Yogi said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken a right decision by extending the lockdown till May 3. The lockdown is being enforced strictly in the state, he said, appealing to the ministers and party functionaries to maintain proper social distancing as it was a must to tackle the spread of Covid-19. The meeting, it is learnt, was convened on the initiative of Maurya. However, an official spokesman of the state government stated that the CM had decided to meet ministers and party functionaries on Wednesday to discuss with them steps being initiated to check the spread of novel coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-prayer-in-his-heart-cm-talks-of-corona-fight/articleshow/75325088.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||On day of mixed emotions 3 cases added, 15 test negative||Thiruvananthapuram: Friday proved to be a bittersweet day for a state in the throes of the novel coronavirus outbreak as a four-month-old baby died at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital and a 62-year-old woman was discharged after 48 days of hospitalization in Pathanamthitta. Only three new positive cases were reported and all of them in Kasaragod. However, 15 patients tested negative; five in Kasaragod, three each in Pathanamthitta, Malappuram and Kannur, and one in Kollam. To date, 450 cases have been reported in the state, of which 116 are admitted to various hospitals. Of the 21,725 persons under surveillance, 21,243 are in home isolation and 482 are admitted in designated isolation facilities. Of the 21,941 samples tested in the state so far 20,830 have returned negative. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, at his press briefing, said at present there are no active cases in Alappuzha and Thrissur. However, these two districts will continue in the orange zone. Moreover, positive cases were reported in Kottayam and Idukki after the two districts were classified as green zones. Hence it has been decided that no districts will be accorded green-zone status. The restrictions will continue till May 3. At present, Kannur has the more number of active cases, with 56, followed by Kasaragod (17) and Kozhikode (14). The health department has decided to enforce strict lockdown rules in these three districts and Malappuram, which has just two cases. The CM said there have been some reports of dialysis patients and those who have undergone organ transplants finding it hard to get hold of life-saving drugs. All emergency medicines, including insulin, will be made available in all Karunya pharmacies and Neethi medical stores. Local bodies have also been asked to ensure the supply of drugs through these stores. Nearly 560 people from Kanyakumari district of Tamil Nadu depend on follow-up treatment at Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram. Keeping this in mind, RCC, with the support of the two state governments, has converted the district hospital in Kanyakumari into a cancer care centre, Vijayan said. The CM said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking urgent intervention in bringing back the mortal remains of people who lost lives in Gulf countries. He urged the PM to issue specific directives to the embassies in the countries to clear hurdles in bringing back the bodies. Vijayan said necessary relaxations for automobile workshops, electric and mobile shops are being considered. Of these, auto workshops are allowed to open for two separate days a week and the others on Sunday. However, there have been demands that workshops be allowed to open for two consecutive days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/on-day-of-mixed-emotions-3-cases-added-15-test-negative/articleshow/75360223.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Coronavirus in Tamil Nadu: 29 of Tenkasi’s 33 infected hail from Puliyangudi||MADURAI: Puliyangudi has turned a Covid-19 hotspot with 29 of Tenkasi district’s 33 positive cases hailing from four streets in the town. The worst hit is Muthu Street where a 72-year-old man tested positive on April 11. It is strongly suspected that a 30-year-old man from Kollam in Kerala who came to attend his uncle’s funeral could have been the prime source of infection for nearly 25 others in Puliyangudi. “But we as well as our counterparts in Kerala are unsure if he had contracted the infection in Kerala and brought it here or vice versa,” a health official told TOI. A 76-year-old man from Puliyangudi who was not suffering from Covid-19 passed away in the third week of March. The 30-year-old man and his mother, his close relatives, came for the final rites on March 19. While Kerala was a hot bed of the infection at that time the lockdown was yet to be enforced in Tamil Nadu since there were not many cases here. Around 40 people attended the funeral. A few days after his 16th day rites, the 72-year-old man, suffering from bronchial asthma, diabetes and hypertension, tested positive on April 11. “He may not be the first person to contract the infection. But for him, others were asymptomatic,” the official said and added that they tested over 1,000 primary and low risk contacts in the vicinity of whom 29 tested positive. On cross verification it came to light that the Kollam native tested positive on Wednesday. “What we need is ensuring that all positive cases and their contacts have been tested and if the area is properly contained. These are the priorities we have been asked to focus and we are doing it,” Tenkasi district collector G K Arun Sundar Thayalan told TOI. One man in the town who attended the Delhi religious conference and his neighbour also had tested positive. Those who tested positive are under treated in the Tirunelveli government medical college hospital and there has not been any casualty till date. Health officials recalled that one of the 10 Malaysian nationals who travelled from Tenkasi to Chennai on a van to fly to Kuala Lumpur earlier this month had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/29-of-tenkasis-33-infected-hail-from-puliyangudi/articleshow/75363823.cms||M K Ananth
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Demand rapid test kits from ICMR within 72 hours: HC to Maharashtra||NAGPUR: After the Centre informed that Maharashtra government hadn’t place any demand for rapid anti-body test kits with it, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed asked the state to raise it with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) within 72 hours. On perusal of government’s affidavit, the court tersely noted that Maharashtra has highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. “The ICMR shall deal with such demand expeditiously. The centre and state shall place on record the steps taken on this issue before the next hearing on April 30. The HC is sensitive to the fact that the use of rapid anti-body test kits is kept on hold,” Justice Nitin Sambre said. In reply, assistant solicitor general of India (ASGI) Ulhas Aurangabadkar informed that the ICMR would be taking an appropriate decision in this regard and change of protocol, if any, in the use of such kits. He informed that procurement of rapid anti-body test kits at the Centre’s level was completed, but its use is put on hold in view of divergent outcome of the result of some sample tests. “The ASGI has placed on record a pursis intimating that the rapid anti-body test kits, which are at the ICMR’s disposal, will be distributed as per the demand made by the states. It was informed that these kits are used only for surveillance and the same can’t be used for VRDL centres,” the judge said. The HC was hearing an intervention application by Dr Anup Marar through counsel Tushar Mandlekar highlighting importance of rapid anti-body test to identify and screen Covid-19 patients. Earlier, additional government pleader Deepak Thakre informed that the appropriate demand for the rapid anti-body test kits will be placed with ICMR, if so required within 72 hours after knowing the requirement from local bodies like Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Zilla Parishad among others. According to Mandlekar, the facilities for sample testing, which is time consuming and costly, are available only at limited places in the city. He also highlighted the aspect of home isolation contending that it wouldn’t be necessary to admit all positive patients in hospital as home quarantine for 14 days is also recognized by the ICMR and it would prevent crowding of isolation centres. The intervention was filed in a plea by CH Sharma, wherein Anup Gilda is appointed as amicus curiae, and PIL by Subhash Zanwar through counsel Ram Heda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/demand-rapid-test-kits-from-icmr-within-72-hrs-hc-to-state/articleshow/75361903.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 25, 2020||Kozhikode||Intense vigil at borders: Kerala DGP Loknath Behera||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief Loknath Behera has said the force will intensify checking at state borders and check-posts in the wake of cross-border movements the last few days. “It is a matter of real concern. We have decided to deploy senior officers to man the check-posts. Drones will also be used for surveillance along the borders,” said Behera. The police will also check goods vehicles after it was noticed that people are being moved in such a form of transport. Behera said that the lockdown that has crossed over a month has been a new experience for the force. He said that till Thursday, community police visited 3,27,000 houses including that of those in isolation and senior citizens. A toll-free number has also been set up for senior citizens, he added. The police also created as many as 412 videos lasting from 15 seconds to 19 minutes for creating awareness. Besides, hundreds of posters and thousands of troll-posts have been created for the purpose, the state police chief said. The student police cadets have distributed at least 2.3 lakh food packets at 26 places across the state with the help of the civil society, Behera added. He also informed that the 10 police hospitals in the state will be modified for Covid-19 treatment. Behera said the government has a system in place to ensure the safety of 4,03,626 workers lodged at 13,656 camps across the state. He also said that 1,16,871 cases have been registered and 81,156 vehicles have been seized over lockdown violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/intense-vigil-at-borders-behera/articleshow/75369766.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Intense vigil at borders: Kerala DGP Loknath Behera||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief Loknath Behera has said the force will intensify checking at state borders and check-posts in the wake of cross-border movements the last few days. “It is a matter of real concern. We have decided to deploy senior officers to man the check-posts. Drones will also be used for surveillance along the borders,” said Behera. The police will also check goods vehicles after it was noticed that people are being moved in such a form of transport. Behera said that the lockdown that has crossed over a month has been a new experience for the force. He said that till Thursday, community police visited 3,27,000 houses including that of those in isolation and senior citizens. A toll-free number has also been set up for senior citizens, he added. The police also created as many as 412 videos lasting from 15 seconds to 19 minutes for creating awareness. Besides, hundreds of posters and thousands of troll-posts have been created for the purpose, the state police chief said. The student police cadets have distributed at least 2.3 lakh food packets at 26 places across the state with the help of the civil society, Behera added. He also informed that the 10 police hospitals in the state will be modified for Covid-19 treatment. Behera said the government has a system in place to ensure the safety of 4,03,626 workers lodged at 13,656 camps across the state. He also said that 1,16,871 cases have been registered and 81,156 vehicles have been seized over lockdown violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/intense-vigil-at-borders-behera/articleshow/75360250.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Minister inspects paddy procurement centres||MADURAI: Minister for revenue, dsaster management and IT R B Udayakumar said that paddy procurement centres functioning in 87 places in Madurai district will help farmers to sell their paddy directly. He was speaking after some of the paddy procurement centres in the area. He said that paddy was the most important essential commodity and steps were taken through the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to procure the paddy from the farmers. Madurai district had 87 procurement centres, including seven in Vadipatti block, eight in Alanganallur block, five in Madurai east, eight in Madurai west, 12 in Melur block, two in Kottampatti block, three in Thiruparankundram, one each in Thirumangalam and Sedapatti and 42 in Chellampatti. Apart from this, steps were taken to help farmers in Ariyapatti, Kancharampettai and Nilayoor to sell their paddy. Last year only 75 procurement centres have functioned in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-inspects-paddy-procurement-centres/articleshow/75363835.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||Three held for hunting endangered animals in Sirsi||Karwar: Three hunters were arrested for killing endangered animals in Bandal village in Janmane forest range in Sirsi taluk a few days ago. According to Pavitra U, forest officer of Janmane range, Rama Ittu Marathi, 60, Gopal Ittu Marathi, 45 and Ramesh Ishwar Marathi had killed mouse deer (Barka) and barking deer (Kadu Kuri) in the forests last Sunday . On receiving information, forest officials searched their house and seized the meat. Both mouse deer and barking deer are classified under endangered animal species and the killers will not get bail for the crime. The officials also seized one-country made gun, two sickles and one headlight used for the hunting. The accused have been produced in a court in Sirsi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/three-held-for-hunting-endangered-animals-in-sirsi/articleshow/75360229.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||From Kuala Lumpur to Nagpur, Indians feeding the needy||Nagpur: With daily wagers and even professionals bearing the brunt of Covid-19 lockdown, two Indians separated by over 5,500 kms are working for a common cause. Nagpur-based businessman Aslam Belawala is spending his own savings to feed over 200 people affected by the lockdown while Kuala Lumpur-based restaurateur Pradeep Batra is serving 100 Indians stranded in Malaysia. Batra (62) belongs to Panipat in Haryana and had moved to Kuala Lumpur in 2002. He has been running a chain of Indian restaurants since 2003. Before leaving India, Batra used to run a textile unit. That business is now being looked after by his younger brother. Batra is living with his wife and son, who helps in his business in Malaysia. “We have been providing free meals between 1pm and 3pm from Spice Garden outlet in Kuala Lumpur. Many migrants working on daily wages are stranded here. Another outlet in Johor Bahru is open for deliveries and takeways,” he told TOI on phone. Batra started the initiative two weeks ago and decided to keep it on till movement control order (MCO) is lifted on May 12 or beyond. “The Malaysia government has announced MCO extension till May 12. We will continue to provide meals in case MCO continues after May 12,” he said. Batra, who is president of Overseas Friends of Bharatiya Janata Party (OFBJP), said the Indian High Commission had asked him to collaborate to cover more stranded people. Over 3,000 Indians are left without jobs, money and medicines following the lockdown. He said daily wagers from India, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Pakistan and Myanmar were working there. “We are not refusing food to anyone,” he said. With the embassy’s collaboration, Batra said he would be able to now extend the meals to over 200 Indians from Saturday. Each food packet of vegetable, chapati/rice is costing him around 8 Malaysian Ringgit which comes to around Rs140. Back home, Aslam Belawala has been serving food and snacks to not just migrant labourers but also doctors, paramedical staff and cops in different parts of the city. As the lockdown brought his business to a standstill, Belawala decided to start distributing food to stranded migrants on Central Avenue. Gradually, he found people in distress in other areas and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) and helped them. Belawala, who is a garment wholesaler, said he hasn’t taken a single paisa in donation. The intiative comes against the backdrop of NGOs seeking government intervention in making foodgrains subsidized for them. “When lockdown was announced, I immediately took food to IGGMCH as I knew relatives would be left in the lurch. Then I distributed 168 ration kits. To ensure social distancing, I go alone on my two-wheeler with water cans and food packets distributing them from hospitals to roadsides. Around 5pm daily, I take tea and biscuits for cops, medical workers, doctors at IGGMCH and GMCH,” he said. Personal experience of similar plight compelled Belawala to serve the poor. “Allah is great. He will reward in multiples of what I am passing on to people. I am just spending from what he has given. There was a time when we experienced hunger. Next year, Insha Allah we will recover,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/from-kuala-lumpur-to-nagpur-indians-feeding-the-needy/articleshow/75361908.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 25, 2020||Madurai||Woman tests +ve on Thursday, dies on Friday||Madurai: With the death of the 71 year old woman from Madurai who tested positive on Thursday, the death toll in the southern districts climbed to four and with eight new cases, including four from Madurai, and the total cases now standing at 367. The woman hailed from West Masi street in Madurai. The first case of death due to Covid-19 in the state was a 54 year old man from Anna Nagar in Madurai on March 25, followed by two women in Theni and Tuticorin districts. All four cases reported in Madurai include a 47-year-old woman from Race Course Colony and a 50-year-old man from S Alangulam and two men aged 59 and 34 from the containment zone of Vandiyur in the Madurai Corporation. The woman who tested positive is said to be a staffer at the government hospital. Two people from Ramanathapuram and one each from Virudhunagar and Tenkasi also tested positive for the disease on Friday. From Paramakudi, a 78-year-old woman and a 23-year-old man without travel or contact history tested positive. A 33-year-old woman works as a lab technician at a primary health centre at Srivilliputhur taluk in Virudhunagar district tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. According to sources, the lab technician was involved in Covid-19 prevention works at Rajapalayam. Nearly 25 of her close contacts were identified and they are being monitored by health officials. The patient from Tenkasi was a 60-year-old woman who came in contact with an infected person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-tests-ve-on-thursday-dies-on-friday/articleshow/75363840.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Mindtree Q4 revenue rises 6.3%; no call on increment||BENGALURU: Mindtree’s revenue grew 6.3% year-on-year on a reported basis in the fourth quarter ended March. It added $3 million in incremental revenue in the quarter to end at $278 million. Net profit was up 5% to $28.2 million. “Looking ahead to fiscal 2021, we anticipate softness in demand due to the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic,” Debashis Chatterjee, CEO and managing director said. Travel, manufacturing and retail are the most hard-hit sectors, while in BFSI, discretionary spending is being deferred, he added. But the company saw good traction in high tech media and consumer and packaged goods businesses. Operating margin was up 150 basis points to 17.1%. The company said it would have been up 250 basis points but for the donation made for coronavirus relief. Out of that, 170 bps was achieved through operational efficiencies and 80 bps came from favourable currency movement. For the full year, revenue stood at $1.1 billion, a growth of 9.4% (in constant currency), and net profit was $88.5 million, a decline of 18%. Mindtree said it has not taken a decision on salary hikes or cuts, hiring freeze or promotions. “We will honour all offers made, but till the future is clear, we do not want to take multiple steps,” Chatterjee said. It had 21,991 employees at the end of the fiscal, with attrition at 17.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mindtree-q4-revenue-rises-6-3-no-call-on-increment/articleshow/75362881.cms||Avik Das
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||PM ignores state on Panchayati Raj Divas||Jaipur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday did not speak with any sarpanch from the state during his video-conferencing with village heads from across the country even though Rajasthan had laid the foundation of Panchayati Raj system in the country in 1957.He interacted with sarpanches from Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Assam. Modi also launched the e-gram swarajya app and Swamitva Scheme on the occasion. The scheme will be launched on pilot mode in six states - Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand. However, Rajasthan was not included. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot remembered the efforts of former prime ministers Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi in strengthening the panchayati raj institutions. He also thanked the panchayat representatives for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and helping the poor. Deputy chief minister and rural development and panchayati raj department minister Sachin Pilot stressed on strengthening panchayat-level institutions on the occasion.“Best wishes on National Panchayati Raj Day. The soul of India lives in the villages, so the development of the country will be possible only when the villages develop. Gram panchayats are the pillar of development in a democratic system. Let us together build a strong panchayat-empowered India through strong panchayati raj,” Pilot said.“Greetings to Panchayati Raj representatives on National Panchayati Raj Day. We remember the efforts of our two PMs, Pt Nehru ji & Sh Rajiv Gandhi ji behind this. Rajiv ji’s vision was to give power to the people and bring democracy to the doorsteps of Indians,” Gehlot tweeted. “I thank all panchayat representatives on Panchayati Raj Day for standing with the government in this time of crisis. Panchayats in state are not only taking care of the poor & needy but are also ensuring success of lockdown, encouraging people to stay inside and follow quarantine measures,” the CM added. “To fulfill Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of Swaraj, Pandit Nehru started Panchayati Raj by lighting a lamp in Nagaur district. Today, on the occasion of Panchayati Raj Day, we take a pledge to empower the panchayati raj institutions so that the idea of panchayati raj remains strong,” tweeted the CM in Hindi. The e-gram swarajya app would help in preparing and executing gram panchayat development plans. The portal will ensure real-time monitoring and accountability. The portal is also a step towards digitisation down to the gram panchayat level. The Swamitva Scheme would help in mapping rural lands using drones and latest survey methods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-ignores-state-on-panchayati-raj-divas/articleshow/75362872.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kochi||Intense vigil at borders: Kerala DGP Loknath Behera||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief Loknath Behera has said the force will intensify checking at state borders and check-posts in the wake of cross-border movements the last few days. “It is a matter of real concern. We have decided to deploy senior officers to man the check-posts. Drones will also be used for surveillance along the borders,” said Behera. The police will also check goods vehicles after it was noticed that people are being moved in such a form of transport. Behera said that the lockdown that has crossed over a month has been a new experience for the force. He said that till Thursday, community police visited 3,27,000 houses including that of those in isolation and senior citizens. A toll-free number has also been set up for senior citizens, he added. The police also created as many as 412 videos lasting from 15 seconds to 19 minutes for creating awareness. Besides, hundreds of posters and thousands of troll-posts have been created for the purpose, the state police chief said. The student police cadets have distributed at least 2.3 lakh food packets at 26 places across the state with the help of the civil society, Behera added. He also informed that the 10 police hospitals in the state will be modified for Covid-19 treatment. Behera said the government has a system in place to ensure the safety of 4,03,626 workers lodged at 13,656 camps across the state. He also said that 1,16,871 cases have been registered and 81,156 vehicles have been seized over lockdown violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/intense-vigil-at-borders-behera/articleshow/75369769.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Mindtree Q4 revenue rises 6.3%; no call on increment||Bengaluru: Mindtree’s revenue grew 6.3% year-on-year on a reported basis in the fourth quarter ended March. It added $3 million in incremental revenue in the quarter to end at $278 million. Net profit was up 5% to $28.2 million. “Looking ahead to fiscal 2021, we anticipate softness in demand due to the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic,” Debashis Chatterjee, CEO and MD said. Travel, manufacturing and retail are the most hard-hit sectors, while in BFSI, discretionary spending is being deferred, he added. But the company saw good traction in high tech media and consumer and packaged goods businesses. Operating margin was up 150 basis points to 17.1%. The company said it would have been up 250 basis points but for the donation made for coronavirus relief. Out of that, 170 bps was achieved through operational efficiencies and 80 bps came from favourable currency movement. For the full year, revenue stood at $1.1 billion, a growth of 9.4% (in constant currency), and net profit was $88.5 million, a decline of 18%. Mindtree said it has not taken a decision on salary hikes or cuts, hiring freeze or promotions. “We will honour all offers made, but till the future is clear, we do not want to take multiple steps,” Chatterjee said. It had 21,991 employees at the end of the fiscal, with attrition at 17.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mindtree-q4-revenue-rises-6-3-no-call-on-increment/articleshow/75362878.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: With lockdown, no Ramzan bounty for hawkers this year||HYDERABAD: Ramzan and the days in the run-up to the Muslim month of fasting is the period when daily wage earners, petty traders and hawkers make an extra earning. But with the lockdown, many lost not only their regular earning but also the extra income, reveals a study based on door-to-door survey in slums south of the river Musi. The study revealed that about 85% of the habitants of urban slums in the old city are daily wagers and work in the informal sector. A little over half (56%) of them work in ‘kirana’ or grocery stores, hotels, welding and mechanic shops, and as push cart vendors, electricians, plumbers, centring labour, factory labour and cooks. The most affected, however, are the auto drivers, who constitute 24% of the daily wagers. Less the 8% work on salaried jobs like security, salesmen in retail shops, car drivers, DCM drivers, and other blue-collar jobs. According to the study, 12% of women, who are mostly widows, work as housemaids and do menial ‘karchob’ (hand embroidery) or ‘zari’ (brocade) work on low daily wages. The study was conducted by city-based NGO, Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), to find out the impact of lockdown on daily wagers in urban slums particularly with reference to Ramzan. The study revealed that 41% of auto drivers have more than one member in the family with health issues. “About two-third of auto drivers stay in rented houses and 83% have white cards that make them eligible for subsidised ration through public distribution system and Arogyasri. A significant number of daily wagers are at high risk of slipping into poverty in the present circumstances,” it said. HHF managing trustee Mujtaba Hasan Askari told TOI that with a high density of population and closed clusters, the old city is also vulnerable to novel coronavirus spread. “Tight containment and provision of supplies will need to be balanced well,” he said adding that the only silver lining in this crisis, expressed by one-third of the households, is their out-of-pocket expenses have come down due to closure of eateries, hotels, push card food vendors. As roadside eateries and push card food vendors have closed, preparing food at home is returning to slums after a long time. Almost two-third of auto drivers stated that in normal times they face huge challenges in meeting rent, food, education and medical expenses of their families. They said the lockdown has made their life miserable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-lockdown-no-ramzan-bounty-for-hawkers-this-yr/articleshow/75362883.cms||Syed Akbar
April 25, 2020||Goa||Lockdown delays bridge construction in Sakhali||KERI: Covid-19 outbreak has affected the bridge construction work over river Valvonti linking Vitthalapur to Sakhali. People will be put to great inconvenience during the monsoon, if the construction work is not undertaken. In February, chief minister Pramod Sawant had laid the foundation stone for the project to be constructed by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) in 4 months. Hitherto, people were using a wooden bridge to cross over either by walking or using bicycles, until the bridge was renovated and iron plates were installed in it besides embankments. From then onwards, the movement of 2-wheelers and 4-wheelers was restricted. Though GSIDC had begun work of the new steel bridge, the remnants of the existing bridge are lying in the river bed. It will obstruct the flow of water and the situation will worsen in the rainy season. Sandeep Chodnekar, general manager of GSIDC, told TOI, “For resumption of work, there is a need of skilled and trained work force. Presently, the entrusted workmen as well as the contractor are in Kerala. After May 3, we will try to remove the debris.” Aanand Kanekar, councillor of Sakhali Municipal Council said, “We are aware of the problems and the chief minister has been informed. When the gates of anicut at Makadsheno will be removed, the water level in the river will get reduced drastically. It will help in removing the bridge remains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-delays-bridge-construction-in-sakhali/articleshow/75363864.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
April 25, 2020||Mysuru||No new cases in Mys for 3rd straight day||Mysuru: The number of daily new coronavirus cases in Mysuru fell for the third straight day as no new cases were reported on Friday. One patient was discharged from the Covid hospital on Friday. As many as 193 samples were tested in the last three days and 184 samples have tested negative, while results for the rest are awaited, said sources. Active cases in Mysuru stands at 54 on Friday. As many as 34 of the total 88, who tested positive in the district, have been discharged from hospital. With the decline in number of positive Covid-19 cases, state government has asked the district administration to collect the samples of media and police personnel working on the ground during lockdown period for testing. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “State government has ordered to subject journalists and police personnel to test in a bid to rule out infection.” Patient’s condition remains critical Even as the new cases dipped, condition of a 72-year-old patient in the district remained critical on Friday. The patient, who was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of SARI, was later rushed to Covid-19 hospital. He tested Covid-19 positive later and subsequently the private hospital in Siddartha Layout where he underwent treatment was sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-new-cases-in-mys-for-3rd-straight-day/articleshow/75358548.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Enquiry against officials for booking 6-month old & 3-year-old for violating quarantine rules||UTTARKASHI: The revenue police of Chinyalisaur area booked as many as 45 people, including a six-month-old and a 3-year-old child for violating quarantine norms during the lockdown. On getting the information, district administration has removed the names of both the children, as FIR under Juvenile Justice Act can't be registered against those under 8 years of age. Administration has also set up an enquiry against the concerned officer for negligence. Sources said that the revenue police filed a case on April 11 against 47 people, including two children and their parents in New Khalsi village of Chinyalisaur block for floating home quarantine norms, on the basis of a report given by the magistrate deputed to oversee the area for Covid-19 cases. Soon after getting the notice, family members expressed resentment over filing of case against children. The district administration also immediately cancelled the complete report and said that action is being taken against the Covid-19 magistrate for filing wrong report without doing ground survey. Akash Joshi, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Dunda said, "We have cancelled the complete report, as the officials concerned seemed to have made it without conducting any ground survey. District magistrate is also setting up an enquiry and suspending the Covid-19 magistrate for showing negligence in his duty."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/enquiry-against-officials-for-booking-6-month-old-3-year-old-for-violating-quarantine-rules/articleshow/75360257.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||8 years on, Lucknow Municipal Corporation cleans plot used as dumping ground||LUCKNOW: A vacant plot in Qutubpur in Daliganj area, which was being used as a dumping ground for last eight years, was cleared by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation on Friday. Residents said had coronavirus pandemic not taken place, they would have been still living under unhygienic conditions for more years. Residents claimed they had been regularly lodging complaints with the civic body for past few years but no action was action. After fresh complaints were lodged at LMC’s control room and local corporator Ranjeet Singh intervened, the civic body sent a team of six sanitation workers to clean the plot. Tarun Jaiswal, a resident, said: “My house is just in front of the plot and the stench coming from it is unbearable. We are taking all precautionary measures to save ourselves from coronavirus but living in such unhygienic condition can cause other diseases.” “The plot had become space for drunkards and gamblers. If this pandemic had not occurred, we would still be living in such filthy conditions,” said Vijay Gupta, another resident. LMC supervisor of the area Dinesh Valmiki said, “A few years ago, we asked senior officers to provide us manpower to clean the vacant plot but did not get any response.” Zonal officer Naresh Babu was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8-yrs-on-lmc-cleans-plot-used-as-dumping-ground/articleshow/75363853.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||HC seeks IPM, govt reply on disinfectants||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Friday directed the state and the director of the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) to inform the court whether any safe chemical is available to be used at disinfectant tunnels. These disinfectant facilities are set up at the entrance of public places such as markets and people who enter these markets are sprayed with disinfectants. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Ronald Raju sought to know the truth behind the apprehensions that chemicals such as sodium hypochlorite used as disinfectants may cause skin problems. The CJ who had earlier okayed setting up of two such tunnels at the high court has now put those proposals on hold. He sought to know from the IPM director and the state whether any chemicals are available that can be used as disinfectants. The case was adjourned to two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-seeks-ipm-govt-reply-on-disinfectants/articleshow/75362884.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Business||Cognizant’s CEO-staff pay ratio widens sharply in ’19||Bengaluru: Cognizant CEO Brian Humphries received $16 million as compensation in 2019, of which $10 million was in stock awards, according to company filings with the US stock market regulator SEC. He joined on April 1 last year, so the compensation is for nine months. In comparison, his predecessor Francisco D’Souza earned $14 million and $12 million in the 2018 and 2017 financial years respectively, and rival Accenture’s former chairman and CEO Pierre Nanterme received $22 million in 2018, the last year for which data is available. The current CEO pay to worldwide median employee pay is 514:1, with median employee compensation at $32,084.  The ratio has widened sharply. It was 412:1 in 2018, and 390:1 in 2017. D’Souza’s total compensation increased 107% to $29 million in 2019 compared to the previous year. D’Souza earned $28 million in stock awards and received $750,000 in bonus and $375,000 as salary. D’Souza left the company and its board on March 1. The firm said for both of its performance-based compensation components (annual cash incentive and performance stock units), it increased the weighting of revenue to reflect its strategic emphasis on revenue growth. It has also floated a new retirement policy where employees at the VP level and above are eligible for seeking voluntary retirement upon 55 years of age and at least 10 years of service. This is in line with the practices of the peer group companies, it said. The company’s audit committee has been given additional responsibilities of assisting the board with respect to the review and evaluation of the company’s management of security (including cybersecurity) and data privacy risks. This appears to be at least partly because of the recent ransomware attack on the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizants-ceo-staff-pay-ratio-widens-sharply-in-19/articleshow/75362891.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Attacks: HC seeks new affidavit||Hyderabad: The State on Friday informed the high court that all Covid hospitals in the state were covered with special police security and that the floors of the hospitals where Covid patients are being treated are manned by senior police officials. Advocate General B S Prasad informed this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy that was hearing a batch of PILs filed by advocate K Karuna Sagar and others seeking protection to the doctors. CJ asked police to file a fresh affidavit as he felt that though there are more number of attacks on health workers, the affidavit spoke only about four FIRs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attacks-hc-seeks-new-affidavit/articleshow/75362900.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Zoom scores high in education sector, fares poorly with big companies||HYDERABAD: Despite security concerns surrounding Zoom Cloud meetings, many educational institutions — schools and colleges, continue to use it for conducting online classes. While quite a few of them said they moved to a licensed version of the application after facing issues, others are still using the free version as they “have nothing to lose”. A few schools and colleges have, however, moved to Cisco Webex, Google Meet, GoToMeeting, TeamLink, among other applications, due to security concerns, a limit on participants, etc. “We are not sharing any confidential information through the app. Even if an unauthorised person enters into our network and accesses the info, there is nothing to lose as they will get their hands only on our subject content,” said Anjali Razdan, CEO, GD Goenka School, Hyderabad. Agreeing, D Srinivas Varma, MBA department head, Sree Dattha Group of Institutions said they too are continuing with the licenced version of Zoom for online classes. Varma, however, said that for HODs or faculty meetings, they make use of Cisco Webex as the institute does not want to take any risk. Narayana Group of Institutions too continues to use licenced version of Zoom for live classes, said a lecturer. Teachers and lecturers, who have been hosting live classes through the app, said faced several instances where unauthorized persons or students took control of the screen and disturbed a class. “On the first day of the online class, we had intruders and were forced to shut down the class. We immediately bought the licensed version and have been using it for almost a month now,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zoom-scores-high-in-edu-sector-fares-poorly-with-big-cos/articleshow/75362887.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||This 15-member group of youths sanitises 25k houses in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Identifying sanitation as a major tool for defence against the spread of Covid-19, a group of young men in Jodhpur has taken up the cause of disinfecting the city. They are the members of a group ‘Sare Jahan Se Achha’ and in the 10 days since its formation, the 15 members of the group have voluntarily sanitised about 25,000 houses apart from the government offices, police stations, bank premises, mosques and temples and other functional places. Convener of the group Man Singh Gaur (31), who is a gym trainer took the initiative, talked to his friends, formed the group, collected money and began with the disinfection drive across the city. “I was free after lockdown. So I thought of doing something instead of idling away the time in lockdown and considering the importance of sanitisation, I decided to do something on it,” said Gaur, who shared his views with his friends and all of them readily agreed. This group includes members of diverse professions and trades as well as students, who have been provided the services voluntarily keeping every precaution. Elder of the two brothers, Gaur then got to the task allaying their fears of getting infected in the field. “I remember that on very first day of our mission to disinfect the city, we chose various locations of Pratap Nagar and we kept on doing our work for 11 hours straight,” Gaur said adding that now the team has fixed a work schedule from 7 am to 2 pm daily. A member Ravindra Singh Sisodiay (26), who is a home guard and is currently on night duty under Khandafalsa police station, takes a small nap after reaching home in the morning before rushing to join others in sanitation work. “My mother terms my work as a very noble one. She is very happy and proud and says that there will always be times to rest later but this is the time that young people like me should contribute to the society,” said Sisodia adding that his father and wife also motivated him. The group chooses the area, which is not a hotspot but has all the merits to be so if neglected. “We choose the densely inhabited areas where the people are not so qualified or educated and have limited source of earning. These are the people, who have to come out of their homes for some or the other need and thus are vulnerable to infection”, said Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-15-member-group-of-youths-sanitises-25k-houses-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75362892.cms||Ajay Parmar
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||2 flee from quarantine centre in Jobner, booked||JAIPUR: Two youths, who were taken to a quarantine centre in Jobner near Jaipur, absconded from there on Friday. According to the police, they were suspected of being infected with Covid-19. The police have registered a case against them. The youths were quarantined at the centre set up at Jyoti Mahila Vidyapeeth University in Jobner. They had been shifted to the centre from Jaipur on April 14. Kailash Chand, assistant sub-inspector, Jobner police station said, “We received a report that two persons who hailed from Delhi fled from the quarantine centre without informing anyone and we are trying to locate them as absconding in such a way is a criminal offence.” Police have registered a case under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Disaster Management Act, 2005, and others. On Friday, cops arrested 18 persons in Jaipur for violating Section 144, thus taking the total to 492. Police also seized 306 vehicles and ever since the lockdown was imposed over a month back, over 13,000 vehicles have been seized. “We have been enforcing the lockdown strictly to prevent the spread of coronavirus as much as possible. Essential goods are being delivered at home to ensure that people do not need to go out of their homes. We will continue to arrest those who are found violating the lockdown without any valid reasons. Only those in emergency situations can go out, including for medical services,” said a police officer. In the state, 1,350 cases have been registered for defying Section 144 and over 3,000 persons arrested for the same. Nearly 10,000 persons have been arrested under CrPC Section 151 for loitering on the roads during the lockdown period across Rajasthan. Approximately one lakh vehicles, including both two-wheelers and four-wheelers, have been seized for violating the curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-flee-from-quarantine-centre-in-jobner-booked/articleshow/75362911.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Seven contacts of infected man among 19 new cases in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: As many as 19 more people were found positive for novel coronavirus infection in the city on Friday. This includes seven contacts including the wife of the cable operator found positive on Thursday in Naka. The tally of Covid-19 patients in the city has crossed 200 now. The fresh cases included two elderly patients—a 63-year-old resident of Gomtinagar Extension and a 70-year-old resident of Shravasti who is undergoing treatment in a private hospital on Faizabad Road. Suffering from kidney ailment and undergoing dialysis at the private hospital, the test reports of the two elderly patients created a flutter in the health department. While both patients were shifted to SGPGIMS, officials restricted fresh admission in the hospital and directed it to close OPD and dialysis unit, besides isolating staff and other patients. Swab samples of 100 people including 11 ICU patients, 35 of hospital staff including doctors and 54 other patients and their attendants were sent for testing. 17 out of 19 fresh patients in city asymptomaticThe remaining 10 fresh cases include two from Saadatganj and one each from Topkhana and Kasaibada, apart from six are residents of Delhi. They all had been in quarantine in Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Urdu Arabi Farsi University after people in their neighbourhood had tested positive. The Delhi residents are associated with Tablighi Jamaat. They were in quarantine for 14 days, had tested negative earlier but the second test came out positive. “The cable operator’s contacts were in self-isolation at home since Thursday. Samples of 30 of his close contacts were sent for testing and seven are positive. We are trying to trace how he got the infection,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesperson of the chief medical officer (CMO). Barring the two elderly, the 17 patients are asymptomatic. Director of the private hospital Dr Farukh Ansari said, “Both the elderly patients had kidney problems and used to come to the hospital for dialysis. On Wednesday, they came with breathing difficulty and were admitted in the isolation ward where doctors examined the patients following safety protocol and sent their swab samples for testing. As soon as the reports on Thursday evening confirmed that they had Covid-19, we informed CMO office and stopped taking fresh admissions.” CMO Dr Narendra Agrawal said, “The private hospital has been categorised as level 1 Covid-19 facility. Doctors took necessary precautions, hence there is no need to panic. We are trying to find out how the two patients got infected.” 126 of city tally are residents A total of 204 people have been tested positive in Lucknow till now. Health officials have put the Shravasti case in that district, keeping the city tally at 203. However, the actual number of city residents found positive is 126. The others, 77, are outsiders with 26 from Saharanpur, 22 from Delhi, 17 from Assam, 10 from Rajasthan and one each from Andaman and Jharkhand. Most outsiders have the Tablighi Jamaat connection and were found taking refuge at various places in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-contacts-of-infected-man-among-19-new-cases-in-city/articleshow/75363889.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Worker hangs himself||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old labourer hanged himself at his house in Moinabad allegedly after his father stopped him from going out at night during the lockdown. He was identified as Sai Kiran Sagar, a resident of Peddamangalaram village. According to police, a tiff occurred between him and his father on Thursday night. “Between 9.30 pm and 10 pm, Sagar wanted to go out. But his father questioned him and stopped him from going out during the lockdown. After this, an argument occurred between the son and father,” said Moinabad inspector Janaiah. On Friday morning, when Sai did not come out of his room for breakfast, the family grew suspicious. They found him hanging in his room. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worker-hangs-himself/articleshow/75362910.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 casualty in Sassoon Hospital up to 50 in three weeks||PUNE: The Sassoon General Hospital reported the 50th Covid-19 casualty on Friday, 22 days after the state-run health hub registered the first death due to the contagion. The two casualties reported at Sassoon hospital on Friday were that of woman (61) from the Parvati Darshan area and a 40-year-old man from Shikrapur. While the woman had existing conditions of myocarditis, hypothyroidism and obesity, the man was a chronic alcoholic for 20 years, hospital officials said. On April 2, the designated Covid-19 hospital of the city had registered its first Covid-19 casualty when a 50-year-old woman from Raviwar Peth succumbed to novel coronavirus (Covid-19)-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome. Health experts monitoring the Covid-19 outbreak in Pune said the Sassoon hospital was receiving patients mostly when their condition has already worsened. Besides, a major section of these patients was from the densely-populated peth areas of the city. Murulidhar Tambe, deputy dean of BJ Medical college and Sassoon General Hospital, said, “The chances of recovery are high if a Covid-19 patient is brought to hospital at the early stage. Patients and their relatives must ensure early reporting to hospital. Besides, additional care is a must for patients with comorbidity factors Hospital officials said though infrastructure and facilities, such as medical equipment and ventilators, were reaching the institute, its limited space was a big concern. “Intensive care units at hospital are in limited numbers. Admission of critical patients has been high. Accommodating all of them is a tough task. The private hospital should come forward and assist us in providing ICU facilities,” said a senior official at Sassoon hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-casualty-in-sassoon-up-to-50-in-three-weeks/articleshow/75363921.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Local produce brings down veggie prices by half in Jaipur||JAIPUR: With the arrival of local produce, the prices of vegetables have come down by 50%. Majority of the vegetables are coming to Muhana mandi from areas situated on the outskirts of city like Chomu, Bagru and Chaksu. According to wholesale traders, farmers could not bring their produce to mandi as they were not aware of procedures to get passes from the government for movement during the lockdown period. Now, things have become streamlined and more and more vegetables are arriving at the mandi, traders said. According to Pappu Lal Prajapat, president of Fal Sabzi Thok Vyapar Mahasangh, the prices of vegetables are much cheaper now as compared to March. “Price of ladyfinger was Rs 45 per kilogram in the wholesale market which has come down to Rs 20 now. The retail price varies between Rs 30 and Rs 45, he said. He added that there is a significant dip in the prices of tomatoes, potatoes, onions, chilli and coriander. “The main reason is that we are getting locally harvested vegetables from Chomu, Bagru and Chaksu of Jaipur. We are getting vegetables like cucumber, Indian round gourd and bottle gourd from Lalsoth (Dausa) and Deoli (Tonk),” he added. Wholesale traders, however, said that many retailers have not been able to reach Muhana mandi due to restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/local-produce-brings-down-veggie-prices-by-half-in-city/articleshow/75362914.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Dehradun||Azaan from mosques allowed only in low volume, subject to permission from district authorities: Uttarakhand Police||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Police said on Friday that they have allowed azaan (prayer call by mosques) in low volume during Ramzan, although this will be subject to permission from the district officials. Earlier, the state had prohibited the use of loudspeakers in mosques for azaan in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 threat-induced lockdown due to which any kind of religious gathering has been banned. Police officials said that following requests by religious leaders of the Muslim community that azaan be allowed during Ramzan, it was being allowed in low volume subject to approval by the respective district authorities. Ashok Kumar, director general (DG), law and order, told TOI, “With due permission from district magistrate and superintendent of police in the district, azaan will be allowed in low volume from mosques during the month of Ramzan. But community prayers and community iftars (evening meal to end fast at sunset) will be prohibited.” Kumar further said that the decision to allow broadcast of azaan in low volume was taken after a series of meetings held between officials and Muslim community leaders, adding that it was also decided that to maintain social distancing, “no one except the Imam will be allowed to go inside the mosque for the azaan.” He added that sirens—one in the morning just before first azaan and another in evening—will be allowed from mosques, again in low volume during the Ramzan period. “The sirens were already used during Ramzan to alert people regarding prayers. The only change is that now they will be played out in low volume too,” said Ashok Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/azaan-from-mosques-allowed-only-in-low-volume-subject-to-permission-from-district-authorities-ukhand-police/articleshow/75360351.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: No mask in public? Now, be fined Rs 100||PANAJI: The state government, which made mandatory the wearing of face covers in public places from Monday, has now said that violators will be fined Rs 100. Additionally, those refusing to pay will be liable for action under Section 188, IPC, which involves six months imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1,000 or both. The government has said that face covers, which include masks, are available with chemists, and homemade masks can also be used and re-used after proper washing and disinfecting. The government order states that face covers must be used in all public places and work places — including streets, hospitals and at working sites. Soon after TOI launched the #MaskIndia campaign to promote the use of homemade masks in public, PM Narendra Modi and CM Pramod Sawant endorsed it. Meanwhile, reports of 178 Covid-19 suspects came back negative on Friday. The government is awaiting the results of another 69 reports. On Friday, the government sent 118 fresh samples for testing. One Covid-19 suspect was placed under hospital isolation at GMC, while 14 have been place at facility quarantine centres. There are a total of eight patients in GMC’s isolation ward, 13 persons quarantined at Old Goa residency, 34 quarantined at Margao Residency, 17 at Mayem residency and 24 at Mapusa residency. The six cured patients have completed seven days facility quarantine and have now been placed under home quarantine for the next seven days. There is only one cured patient under quarantine at Acron Seaway Resort, Candolim. Also, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the government intends to complete testing of all seafarers within 24 hours of their arrival. “The health secretary will monitor and ensure that tests are conducted seamlessly and our seafarers are sent home safety,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-rs-100-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-public/articleshow/75363949.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa teachers flummoxed as bad internet logs out live lectures||PANAJI: Amidst the fight against Covid-19, Goa’s schools and colleges are fighting a different battle as they try to teach students online: Poor connectivity. With live lectures and classes being logged out, these schools and colleges have ruled out the possibility of hosting live classes and instead are relying on other methodologies like sending PowerPoint presentations via WhatsApp. “Our students come from all parts of the state and we have a group of 40 or more students in a class with different levels of internet connectivity. Due to this, the audio, video and the online white board are not in sync leading to confusion and students are unable to understand the topic properly,” said director of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School Vyankatesh Prabhudesai. The lag in receiving the teacher’s voice or seeing the teacher’s actions on screen leads to break in flow and the student quickly loses interest, he said. For teachers, too, it is difficult to gauge how much the students have understood because of lack of personal interaction, Prabhudesai said. Cuncolim Educational Society’s College of Arts and Commerce principal Sanjay Dessai said, “My college students are from rural area, so doing real time online teaching-learning is a big challenge. Connectivity in rural areas is very poor. To overcome this, our teachers have started creating content in PowerPoint presentations and sending it to students through WhatsApp.” He, however, said that this teaching method is not as effective as the institute would have liked. DM’s College and Research Centre, Assagao, had introduced a learning management system during the last academic year itself. All its 1,700 students have been provided a log in and they can access notes and videos of lectures online. “Our college is a WiFi zone and when colleges were open, students would download the content while on campus to access later. But now, in cases where students do not have good internet connectivity, teachers send the lecture videos through WhatsApp to them. Videos are more easily downloaded over WhatsApp. Teachers also inform students through WhatsApp if they have uploaded new content on the learning management system,” principal D B Arolkar said. Dr K B Hedgewar High School headmaster Vilas Satarkar said the institute’s teachers were already trained in using Google Classrooms and are prepared to take up teaching using the software if reopening of schools is delayed. “In Google Classrooms, students can access the content any time and revert within a given time. So, it is comparatively better than Zoom or Webex because students need not be online. Also, I presume that because of the lockdown most people are using internet at home and that is leading to slower access speeds. We are hoping connectivity will improve once other offices begin work, so we can use web tools if schools have to reopen online,” he said. Government College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Khandola, principal Purnakala Samant said that soft copy of the teaching material for the remaining syllabus of the current academic year is being uploaded on the college website for students to access. “The faculty also approached the students through WhatsApp audio clips and via email,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-teachers-flummoxed-as-bad-internet-logs-out-live-lectures/articleshow/75363933.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 25, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP fears Hongasandra outbreak could snowball||BENGALURU: The cluster outbreak in Hongasandra, southeast Bengaluru, is growing. Until Friday night, 20 of the 153 primary contacts and 30 secondary contacts of a 54-year-old migrant labourer from Bihar, who tested positive on Wednesday, have been infected. The worry, BBMP officials say, is that the number of positive cases could swell. They say communication is turning out to be huge hurdle in identifying those at risk in the locality. “We collected throat swab samples of all contacts and 23 were negative. We are awaiting other results,” a senior health official told TOI. The official said that while they traced only 23 primary contacts on Thursday, the number swelled to 153 on Friday. The official said there are only 30 secondary contacts. “The big challenge is communicating with them. They don’t know Kannada or English and we don’t understand their Hindi dialect,” the official said. All 20 labourers who tested positive on Friday lived in the same ‘vatara’, as a group of houses in a single structure is called in Kannada, as the Bihar man did in Nithyajyothi Layout, Hongasandra. “They lived in small tenements with zero social distancing,” the official said. “There are close to 200 people living in these tenements and all of them have interacted with each other at some point or the other. It makes for a tricky situation. We have sealed the entire locality, but the virus may have already spread.” Officials are bracing for the possibility of a majority of the 200 being infected. The Bihar man suffered from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). He is believed to have contracted the virus from another patient in Mangammapalya, where he was employed at a scrap segregation centre. “He had come to Bengaluru about a month ago and was at home without a job when the lockdown was enforced. He then began working at the scrap yard in Mangammapalya from April 13 where he is suspected to have been infected,” a source in BBMP said. Asked whether the government is reviewing relaxations introduced to the lockdown in the wake of the spurt in cases in Hongasandra, Karnataka’s Covid-19 spokesperson S Suresh Kumar said there is no such move. ‘“The lockdown was relaxed considering various issues. However, Hongasandra is a lesson for us. Physical isolation is not possible in small houses where labourers live. All contacts of the first patient from Hongasandra have been identified and are under public quarantine,” said Kumar, who is also the primary and secondary education minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-fears-hongasandra-outbreak-could-snowball/articleshow/75362345.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Rural police to provide vegetable, fruits to daily wagers in Malegoan||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have decided to provide fruits and vegetables to as many workers as possible in the city of Malegaon. Superintendent of Police Arti Singh said they had approached a few people, who have decided to donate fruits and vegetables to the poor in Malegaon during the month of Ramzan. Singh said that for over a month, daily wagers were out of work. With the month of Ramzan getting underway, we have decided to provide the poor people with vegetables and fruits. “The fruits and vegetables will be distributed to the poor at the door steps or in their vicinity. The people should not come out of their containment areas,” she added. Meanwhile, she also conducted a meeting with the corporators and eminent personalities of Malegaon. Appealing co-operation from the corporators, the SP said, it is important that the holy month of Ramzan is observed while being at home. The administration is taking the responsibility of providing, food, fruits, etc. “If there are some shortcomings on part of the administration, people should inform about it,” she said. She emphasized that no one should take the law in their hand. The lockdown is underway and most deaths related to Covid-19 are from Malegaon. “People need to keep this in mind. If someone is suffering from Covid-19 like symptoms, they should get checked in the hospital and seek immediate treatment,” she said. If there are certain areas where food is not reaching, it should be informed to the administration. The administration would put in best efforts to reach the help at the earliest. Additional SP Sandeep Ghuge was also present at the meeting among other senior police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rural-police-to-provide-vegetable-fruits-to-daily-wagers-in-malegoan/articleshow/75360400.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Anand’s tally touches 43 as three more test +ve||Vadodara: With five more testing positive for Covid-19 in Umreth and Khambhat towns, total number of positive cases in Anand district touched 43 on Friday. Umreth’s Vohrvad area, which has been declared containment zone, witnessed three fresh cases on Friday as a 65-year-old man and another 45-year-old man apart from a 73-year-old female tested positive. Gujarat’s coastal town Khambhat too continued witnessing fresh cases as two middle-aged men from Aling crossroads area and Akbarpur masjid area tested positive. At the same time, two patients, including a 30-year-old woman from Khambhat’s Aling crossroads and a 45-year-old man from Hadgud village, neighbouring milk city Anand, were discharged from Anand Civil Hospital and Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. With this, of the 43 positive cases reported in the district, 13 have been discharged while two passed away. A total of 28 patients are currently under treatment of whom two are being treated with oxygen support while condition of 26 others is stable. Of the 28 patients, 13 each are being treated at Civil Hospital, Anand and Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad while one patient each is under treatment at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad and S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. So far, health teams have collected and tested 446 samples of which 403 tested negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/anands-tally-touches-43-as-three-more-test-ve/articleshow/75362940.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||IGP urges citizens to exercise caution, not to resort to vigilantism at state borders||Panaji: Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh said there is no need to panic, or create an environment of fear with regards to people entering the state without permission. Reacting to media reports which indicate that people from neighbouring states are entering Goa at the border checkposts, Singh clarified that as per the guidelinesby the ministry of home affairs, goods vehicles bringing essential items and other goods have been permitted two drivers and a cleaner, each. “People are requested to first study the safety precautions employed at the checkposts while permitting vehicles to pass, and then react. Without understanding the screening system adopted at checkposts, reporting that people are being allowed to enter the state creates unnecessary panicin the minds of people,” Singh said  Goa police urges citizens to first contact the local police, and not to adopt vigilante methods. “This can spoil the peaceful environment and also diverts the attention of police from the essential task of ensuring an effective lockdown,” he added. In addition, a slew of measures has been taken to strengthen the border checkposts. Apart from Goa police, the incident commanders appointed by the state executive committee (SEC) and senior secretaries to the state who are observers, also visit the checkposts and other vulnerable points of entry. To keep a tab on permitted individuals who enter through checkposts on goods vehicles Department of Information Technology has developed a Digital Application to ensure that they return along with the vehilces. This app facilitates to keep a check on such drivers/ cleaners if they do not return back. Goa Police is also educating villagers along the border to remain vigilant and report any attempt by people to enter the state illegally. Staff from the special branch and local intelligence branch of the police have also been activated to detect any case of illegal entry as state borders are long,hilly and forested, and every inch of territory cannot be manned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/igp-urges-citizens-to-exercise-caution-not-to-resort-to-vigilantism-at-state-borders/articleshow/75363978.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Police trace 451 contacts of Covid-19 patients||Pune: The designated coronavirus team of the city police has so far traced 451 people coming in contact with Covid-19 patients. The 15-member crime branch team was constituted five day ago to assist the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) after several contacts of patients were found to be missing. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “The PMC gave us a list of 490 patients, who had tested positive for coronavirus, for identifying the people coming in contact with them in the last 14 days. The list gives details like name, address and cellphone numbers of patients.” He said, “Our team conducted technical investigations like analysing the phone calls made by the patients. Phone calls were made to the contacts of the patients to trace their locations and convince them to cooperate with the PMC. We have submitted the list of 451 identified contacts of the patients to the civic body for keeping them in home or institutional quarantine.” Morale said, “The PMC classified the contacts into primary, low risk and secondary contacts. Its medical staffers are also collecting history from the patients for identifying their contacts.” He said, “The technical investigation for identifying the contacts is important because some patients are not in a proper state of mind to share information, while a few conceal information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-trace-451-contacts-of-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75363961.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 25, 2020||Pune||Steep cost of testing at private labs in Pune puts load on 3 government facilities||PUNE: Very few sick people with the coronavirus symptoms are going to the four private labs in the city for testing. Instead, they are flocking to the three government labs for the checks, health officials said. Such a test costs Rs 4,500 in private labs while it is done for free in government facilities. Pune district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said the testing of samples has been scaled up in Pune and most of it goes to government laboratories. Over the last week, the number of tests in Pune has gone up to 500-600 samples a day. Of these, less than 50 tests are conducted in private laboratories, health officials added. This trend is in sharp contrast with Mumbai’s where more people are going to private laboratories even if it is costly. State director of health services Satish Pawar said nearly 50% of testing is being done by the private facilities across the state, but it is not the case in Pune. “Those with the entire family to be tested may prefer a government facility where it is free. One has to pay Rs 4,500 at a private lab,” he told TOI. He said some private laboratories had sent their staff to collect samples at home but it was stopped after the curfew. A health official said government facilities in Pune are closer and thus more reachable than in Mumbai. “In Mumbai, maximum tests are being done in private hospitals as they have better infrastructure, but families shell out a lot of money for such testing,” he added. Laboratories conduct tests after getting referrals from the flu clinics or from health experts. A private laboratory in Pune said they get about 20-30 samples for testing a day when they can test 500. Another private laboratory that has full-fledged operations in Mumbai will start in Pune from Saturday and test 200 samples a day. Another private facility said some high-risk persons in contact with a patient come for testing without realising that it will take five to seven days for the viral load to increase enough to be detected, and the tests are almost wasted. A medical health expert said the Maharashtra government must increase free testing facilities. The Centre has fixed Rs 4,500 as the cost for a coronavirus test but states like Karnataka have capped the price at Rs 2,250. Diagnostic centres want simpler processes and prerequisites to make it more convenient for patients to get tested. An official from a laboratory chain said the volumes are largely being handled by government hospitals. “The testing being done at quarantine centres is all by government laboratories which has kept our volumes low,” another private laboratory chain owner said. Families will end up paying tens of thousands of rupees for tests in private labs, a Kondhwa resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/steep-cost-of-testing-at-pvt-labs-puts-load-on-3-govt-facilities/articleshow/75363974.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 25, 2020||Pune||PM Narendra Modi checks lockdown mood in six-minute talk with Pune village sarpanch||PUNE: A six-minute conversation between Priyanka Medankar-Choudhari, Medankarwadi’s 28-year-old woman sarpanch, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, covered the steps that the village has taken to check the coronavirus and the lockdown mood in the hinterlands. Medankarwadi, near Chakan, is about 34km from Pune on the Nashik highway, interacted with Modi on a live television programme to mark Panchayati Raj Diwas on Friday. Just after she had apprised him about the measures, Modi said,“Priyankaji ab to gaon wale thak gaye honge, logon ko gussa aata hoga yeh Modiji kaise hai, itne dino se band karke rakha hai.” (People in your village must be tired now and might be angry now about what Modi has done and why he has kept them confined to home all these days). Medankar replied, “Logoko ghar pe rehne ki aadat nahi hai isliye gaon vale thak gaye hai, par unko pata hai ki humare desh ke Pradhan Mantri jo kar rahe hai wo humare desh ke liye kar rahe hai. Log samajte hai.” (People are not used to sitting at home and hence are tired of it but they know and understand that you have done this for the safety of the nation) Medankar has been the sarpanch of the village of 12,500 residents according to Census 2011 since 2015, and the 45,000 migrants since the village falls in an industrial belt with automotive multinationals. On Thursday night, she was too excited to sleep. She went online for ‘videos of the PM talking to common people’. She also recited a poem she wrote for him. She told the PM that they had distributed soap to all households and sanitised the village, kept open the shops every alternate day for grocery and vegetables were directly delivered to housing societies. “The Asha health workers distributed over 7,500 sanitary napkins and the women self-help groups made over 5,000 masks for the poor,” she told Modi. He praised the work done by the farmer producer organisations in Maharashtra and encouraged her to use e-National Agriculture Market and GeM to help farmers get a better price for their products and for women self-help groups to be able to sell directly to the government without commission or tenders. Medankar also told the Prime Minister about a survey that identified 5,000 families to give ration kits to last a fortnight. As of Friday, 2,000 kits had been distributed through CSR efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/modi-checks-lockdown-mood-in-six-minute-talk-with-pune-village-sarpanch/articleshow/75363980.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Motorists pay 15Lfine for violatingrules in a month||Nashik: Police collected Rs 16 lakh in fines from motorists caught violating the lockdown and traffic rules in the city between March 25 and April 23. Traffic police officers said that although the number of vehicles may has drastically reduced on the roads due to the lockdown, the tendency of people to violate traffic rules continues. “Most of those caught violating traffic rules were two-wheeler riders, who were found either triple-seat or without papers and licence,” said the officers Those driving four-wheelers were also among those fined for venturing out of their homes for no reason or driving without wearing the seat-belt, said the officers. A senior police officer said that they have become even more strict on erring motorists as there are comparatively very few vehicles on the roads. “Police are checking the documents of most of them as motorists are coming out of their houses for no reason during the lockdown period.” Apart from booking the motorists under Section 188 of the IPC for not adhering to the lockdown orders issued by the district collector, police are also checking all the things of the motorists like if they were having the PUC, insurance and other documents of the motorists. Police said except those falling in the category of essential services or those in medical emergency, people have no reason to venture out of their homes on vehicles as grocery shops and vegetable vendors are plying their trades in their areas during the permitted hours. Police said that if motorists come out on roads, it is unlikely that they will go unnoticed, given the fewer number of vehicles. Police appealed to motorists to not venture out of their homes unnecessarily and co-operate during the lockdown period because such behaviour will only lead to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city. According to the officers, such erring motorists are not only endangering their own lives but also the lives of their family members and policemen who are out on the streets doing their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/motorists-pay-15lfine-for-violatingrules-in-a-month/articleshow/75360440.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Chemist, newspaper vendor attacked in Nandesari||Vadodara: A medical store owner and a newspaper vendor were attacked by a man in Nandesari on Thursday. The duo suffered minor injuries when they were hit with a baseball bat and a video of the attack recorded by a local went viral on the social media. According to the newspaper vendor, Dilipsinh Parmar, the accused Ketan Yadav arrived at the medical store owned by Hamir Desai on Thursday morning. Yadav entered the shop and started hitting Desai. When Parmar, who has his shop beside the medical store, noticed the melee tried to intervene, and Yadav started hitting him too. Parmar told the police that Yadav hit them repeatedly and hurled abuses until some persons gathered outside the shop and started to make videos on their mobile phones. After Yadav fled from there, Parmar and Desai were taken to a private hospital for treatment. Later, Parmar lodged a complaint of assault . Police said that Yadav had personal enmity with Desai and hence attacked him. Yadav is yet to be arrested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chemist-newspaper-vendor-attacked-in-nandesari/articleshow/75362955.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goan mental health helpline gets calls from Kashmir to Kanyakumari||PANAJI: The restive Union territory of Jamm and Kashmir has been on lockdown since August 5, and for residents, the sight of steel barricades, razor wire and armed soldiers on the streets has been a part and parcel of life even before Article 370 was abrogated. Separated by 2,000 kms, the northern most region of the country has little in common with Goa. Yet, Kashmiris have been dialling the sunny state for support during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. When a team of mental health professionals from the Psychiatric Society of Goa, Sangath, Antarman and COOJ decided to set up an online platform — Covidav.com — to help individuals deal with stress, loneliness or any other mental health issues due to the lockdown, the volunteers did not expect to get calls from all across the country. “There is a general anxiety that the pandemic has caused. Many people are not doing well with isolation. There are times when individuals are in conflict with the people they are living with,” said psychotherapist Preetha Mathews, who has helped two Kashmir residents during the lockdown. Given the confidentiality and sensitive nature of the conversations Mathews does not divulge further information but says that the individuals sought help to deal with Covid-anxiety. Covidav is a free initiative by a Goan startup Octo Internet and mental health professionals who decided to come together and offer online support for those struggling with their emotions during the pandemic. In the two weeks since the portal went live, 120 counselling sessions have been conducted, with each session lasting 30 minutes. Once someone seeks a session, the appointment is given in around two minutes. “It is a mix of people who are accessing the services,” said Dr Abhijit Nadkarni, co-director Addictions Research Group, Sangath. “On one hand, we have people who are experiencing distress due to the lockdown. Then we have people who are developing mental health problems that they did not have earlier. The third group is those who had existing mental health problems which are getting exacerbated by the situation.” The team of nearly 100 counsellors have got calls from Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka Bihar and Tamil Nadu, apart from Goa. “This entire situation takes a toll on our mental health and the situation does not allow us to walk out of the house to visit the therapist. We developed our own video tool and are not dependent on any third-party video platform,” said co-founder of Octo Internet, Nishadh Amonkar, who got the idea from his wife, who is a psychiatrist. The directorate of health services announced that it is collaborating with Covidav to provide mental health services to those in quarantine and in isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-many-throng-goan-mental-health-helpline/articleshow/75363972.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 25, 2020||Goa||You can’t repair roof or fix leaky taps, but can buy cashew nuts in Panaji||PANAJI: The Corporation of the City of Panaji has said that only shops in four categories will be allowed to operate during the extended lockdown. While three of those feature arguably essential items or services — fans, school books and mobile repairs — it’s the fourth category — cashew nuts — that has left many scratching their heads. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the CCP would shut down all shops that have illegally opened during the lockdown. This includes hardware shops, which supply cement and other essentials for construction — an activity the government has said can now start. So, while a leaky faucet, broken tiles or pre-monsoon repairs will have to wait for more clarity and permission, your craving for cashew nuts can be satiated right now. Madkaikar said that according to government guidelines, only four types of vendors are allowed to operate. “Those who want to start operating (from these categories) will have to seek our permission first,” he said. “There are conditions regarding social distancing that they will have to follow.” He added that the government’s hasn’t given its nod to the reopening of hardware shops. “Many have opened hardware and other shops. We had a meeting on Friday with the commissioner and inspectors,” he said. “We will give permission to shops in the four categories and close all others.” The mayor said that the people of Panaji should follow their guidelines for their own good. “Although the government has said that construction can start, no permission can be given for shops selling cement, plumbing wares, pipes, etc,” he said. “We are following state government guidelines. We are only a licensing authority and can only give permission to those the government permits. There is pressure from people, but everyone has to wait for a few days.” Meanwhile, some areas in the capital prone to flooding — near the KTC bus stand and Ambedkar Garden — have had their drains cleaned by the corporation, he said, adding that 70% of pre-monsoon desilting work has been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/you-cant-repair-roof-or-fix-leaky-taps-but-can-buy-cashew-nuts/articleshow/75363979.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 25, 2020||Mumbai||New script: Exchange vows, not pens, remove mask only for marriage photo||MUMBAI: Masks are a must, work-fromhome is the new normal, Indians are queueing now—that too a metre apart—and classrooms have moved to the digiverse. The Covid pandemic is changing the way we live, and weddings are no exception. After the coronavirus-caused lockdown ends, couples looking to register their marriages must now bring their own pens. Vows can be exchanged, but pens cannot be shared within the registrar’s office, said norms released by authorities. And, the newly hitched couples will be allowed to remove their face masks briefly, for a quick photograph to be clicked. Only the couple and three witnesses will be allowed to enter the registrar’s office at a time. A home guard will be posted to ensure the new rules are strictly followed. The Great Indian Wedding jamboree, as we know it, will have to shrink and evolve to abide by social distancing norms post-lockdown. It is difficult to even imagine how it will be, but perhaps limited guests, makeup wasted behind masks, and a regulated banquet may be the norm. Advisories handed out on dealing with new normalThe marriage registration diktats are part of a detailed note released by the office of the inspector general of registration and controller of stamps on measures that will come into force once the lockdown is lifted. Other agencies are also preparing for a new normal. A central government advisory to its health staff mentioned a list of post-lockdown measures: Call your family before entering the building so that they can keep the door open, don’t touch the doorknob, sanitise your hands as well as your wallet and keys before entering your home, among others. When the lockdown was announced a month ago, the Maharashtra inspector general of registration and controller of stamps stopped registration of leave and licence documents till July. Physical filing of ‘Notice of Intimation’, too, has been stopped till July-end. Terming registration of gift deeds, release deed, correction of errors as less important, the authority asked citizens to stay away from its offices. Instead, citizens can now go through the documents on the department’s website. In a major change, the department has allowed all fee payments to be made online. The government had earlier offered home visits by registrars for stamp duty registration. It has now allowed registrars the option of refusing home visits. Home visits are often sought by bed-ridden citizens or those who are unable to visit the registration office. A senior official told TOI that the department expects the changes brought about by Covid to linger. More and more citizens will not come to the registrar’s office, which could increase the workload online. To meet the increased demands on its time, it has proposed to keep the office open on the 2nd and 4th Saturdays, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-script-exchange-vows-not-pens-remove-mask-only-for-marriage-photo/articleshow/75363997.cms||Clara Lewis
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Trouble at forefront: Two sanitation workers, one inspector test Covid-19 positive in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two sanitation workers in south Delhi and one assistant sanitary inspector (ASI) in Rohini have tested positive for novel coronavirus, raising concerns about the safety of staff deployed at the forefront. The ASI, who is from Wazirpur, is currently admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital, a senior corporation official said. The assistant commissioner of Rohini zone, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, has directed 39 sanitation workers who were in direct contact with the inspector to go into home quarantine. North commissioner Varsha Joshi said the official had no contact with any positive patient, but was asked to stay at home when he started to show symptoms. “All his contacts have been sent into home quarantine, while his family is being tested. We will take every care till he fully recovers,” she added. All the 39 employees are currently asymptomatic, but are being monitored. A South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official said that one of two sanitation workers who tested positive was posted in Bhogal of Daryaganj ward. “The worker was suffering from liver-related ailment and was admitted to AIIMS on Wednesday. He is currently on ventilator,” the official added. SDMC spokesperson Radha Kirshan said the worker had only reported for duty twice this month and had not been posted to any hotspot or disinfection work. In the second case, a woman employee from 6S Tagore Garden ward was also admitted to LNJP. “Her husband is a safai sainik and has tested negative. He has been called for a fresh test. Both of them are residents of Mangolpuri,” Krishan said. Nine of her colleagues in Tagore Garden have been sent on home quarantine. Meanwhile, to protect its sanitary staff, north corporation has issued new guidelines according to which every worker will undergo thermal screening before their shift. In the past few days, multiple cases of sanitation workers testing positive have emerged and unions have threatened the civic bodies to either improve the working conditions or face their ire. Sanjay Gahlot, head, Delhi Akhil Bharatiya Safai Mazdoor Sangh, said two cases in east and multiple cases emerging from other local bodies have shown that sanitation workers were not being provided adequate protection. “Only some workers have been given masks and gloves, which should be changed daily. Sanitation staff are going well beyond their duties, but it is shameful that the corporations are playing with their lives,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trouble-at-forefront-2-sanitation-workers-one-inspector-test-ve/articleshow/75363982.cms||Paras Singh
April 25, 2020||Delhi||In Delhi's red zone, crowd causes big scare||NEW DELHI: Alarm bells started ringing in central Delhi after the district administration saw photos and videos of hundreds of people gathered at Chandni Mahal, Matia Mahal and Lal Kuan in the Walled City on Friday afternoon. Police immediately conducted a flag march to force the shoppers back into their houses. A senior police officer said, “We conducted a flag march immediately after being asked by the district administration and the area was cleared.” Also, police and the district magistrate addressed the locals asking them to stay inside during Ramzan. It was found that people had been allowed to step out of their homes between 4.30pm and 7pm for purchasing groceries and daily need items as per the rules. However, a large crowd had gathered since Saturday is the first day of the holy month of Ramzan. A part of Chandni Mahal near Jama Masjid was declared a containment zone on April 10. The district authorities were particularly troubled since 12 people of the area belonging to two families, including a two-month-old baby, had tested positive for novel coronavirus. An individual who had returned from Uzbekistan is suspected to have infected the 12 people. The new positive cases were detected during screening operations and the patients were sent to Lok Nayak Hospital for treatment. The district authorities have enhanced surveillance in and around the containment zone, which has many narrow lanes making it difficult to ensure that no movement occurs. The entire area has been barricaded and police and paramilitary personnel have been deployed to ensure compliance to the containment plan that prohibits people from venturing out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-walled-citys-red-zone-crowd-causes-big-scare/articleshow/75363009.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Hirings delayed for over 2,000 posts||PANAJI: Government job aspirants will have to wait a little longer as the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the recruitment of over 2,000 class ‘C’ employees through the Goa Staff Selection Commission (GSSC). Class ‘C’ employees comprise positions of clerk, peon, driver, superintendent, police constable, ticket collectors, upper division clerk, etc. It is almost a year since the government has not undertaken a major recruitment drive. Speaking to TOI, GSSC chairman Punit Kumar Goel said that at present the government is focussing on the lockdown. “As soon as lockdown is lifted, we will commence the recruitment process. The recruitment rules have already been notified, but regulations are yet to be notified,” he said. If the GSSC starts the process, more than 1,200 persons would be recruited for the health department, while around 600 police constables will be hired. With rising unemployment in the state, professionals like engineers, lawyers and post graduates are seeking government employment keeping in the mind its job security, a senior government officer said. However, the economic revival committee has suggested a complete ban on recruitment in government services, except specialised personnel who are required on priority viz health, sanitation, education, civil services, decision-making posts, etc. The 16-member committee was constituted by the state government to study the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and suggest measures for the revival of Goa’s economy. The committee had submitted its preliminary report to the government on Monday. On August 28, 2019, Goa Medical College (GMC) advertised 1,200 posts comprising nurses, technicians, pharmacist, occupational therapist, speech therapist, ECG technician, medico legal worker, senior technician, physiotherapist, lower division clerks, store keepers and multi-tasking staff. Later, chief minister Pramod Sawant, on September 6, issued a note stating that since GSSC was passed by the legislative assembly, all recruitment of group ‘c’ posts will be carried out only through the commission. The 1,200 posts for GMC were cleared on August 14 by the high level empowered committee which is headed by the chief minister. The notification stated that a prior clearance conveyed by the department of personnel needs to be quoted while referring the proposal for filling up of these posts to the GSSC or Goa Public Service Commission, as the case may be. ** gfx EYE ON EMPLOYMENT - Class ‘C’ employees comprise positions of clerk, peon, driver, superintendent, police constable, ticket collector, upper division clerk, etc - Around 1,200 persons for health department, and 600 police constables expected to be hired - Recruitment to likely commence after lockdown is lifted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hirings-for-over-2k-state-posts-delayed/articleshow/75363984.cms||Murari Shetye
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||With son away in US, cops make retired teacher’s b’day special||Hyderabad: Kutty Hadassa Paul, a retired teacher in Sainikpuri, turned 60 on Friday but did not have big plans of celebrating it because of the lockdown. However, she was in for a big surprise as the Rachakonda police turned up at her doorstep to wish her. Kutty is the wife of celebrated cricket coach and former Hyderabad player late T Vijaya Paul, who coached former India players Ambati Rayudu and Pragyan Ojha. She stays alone and her younger son Aaron Paul, who runs his father’s cricket academy, stays 1.5 km away from her house. Her elder son, Alfred Asher Paul Talluri, who lives in Denver, USA was supposed to visit on her birthday but had to cancel his travel plans due to Covid-19. He reached out to DCP Malkajgiri, Rakshitha K Murthy, requesting the cops to celebrate his mother’s birthday on his behalf. Responding to Alfred’s plea, the DCP directed the Neredmet inspector to pay a visit and celebrate her birthday. “On Friday noon, I along with a few of my staff members, went to her colony, put on the birthday music and sang for her. She came out of the house and was surprised. All the colony people also came out to their terraces and balconies and clapped,” said Neredmet inspector A Narsimha Swamy. The cops also distributed masks, gloves and sanitisers to the colony people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-son-away-in-us-cops-make-retired-teachers-bday-special/articleshow/75362997.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sitting idle & longing for home, event firm workers want lockdown to get over||By: Ashish Gupta PUNE: Far from the usual high-octane activities, a large tin shed housing the decorative items of an event organizing firm near Pashan-Sus Road looks all desolate and bereft now, with four workers still occupying it desperately waiting for the lockdown to get over. Seated amidst king-size masks, artificial trees, colourful cotton tents placed in large stainless steel containers, Sooraj Vegle and Shyam Tadhawale from Madhya Pradesh spend time listening to music on their make-shift home theatre music system. “We had got the last decoration order on February 15,” Vegle recalled, adding “I don’t know when will we start getting orders again. Due to Covid-19, it appears that people have locked themselves in their homes and have stopped partying.” As of now, food, stay and monthly payments have not been a problem for the workers. They, however, have doubts about their finances in the future. “We had decided to go back home. But, had to stay back as lockdown was implemented. So, now we are stuck here,” said Tadhawale. Most of Tadhawale’s co-workers left for their home towns much before the lockdown. Though, he is kind of comfortable staying at the tin shed, it’s the longing to meet his family members that bothers him a lot. As the day progresses, the heat engulfs the tin shed, prompting the workers to look for a cold corner. “We are just waiting for the customers and orders to get back to work. Creativity is my passion. Initially, I utilized time giving finishing touches to one of our installations. However, with no new orders, I’m just killing time listening to news and waiting for the lockdown to end,” Tadhawale said. The long narrow passage outside the shed bears different expressions of joker masks. Due to Covid-19, these masks have been kept in a stash, as if waiting for good times to arrive and decorate the walls for yet another event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sitting-idle-longing-for-home-event-firm-workers-want-lockdown-to-get-over/articleshow/75363983.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Is TN shy of uttering the ‘C’ word?||CHENNAI: Aweek before the country went into lockdown on March 24, Tamil Nadu had logged its first ‘unlinked’ case. A 25-year-old hairdresser from Rampur, who had travelled by train to Chennai via Delhi, tested positive. The state’s health team was worried as it had no way of tracing the patient’s source of contact. By Friday, the state added 13 more cases to the ‘unlinked’ column, taking the tally to 68. As the TN government prepares to slam a total lockdown in some cities including Chennai from April 26 to 29, the move has triggered another round of debate on the Covid-19 transmission status in the state. While health officials grudgingly, but privately, admit to community transmission in Tamil Nadu, independent health experts advise the government to publicly acknowledge it and roll out containment measures. “When contacts cannot be traced, it is a clear indication of community transmission. States need not feel shy about declaring it. Acknowledging it does more good,” said senior epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology. Calling for ending the lockdown and shoring up resources to protect the vulnerable, he said, “Lockdown isn’t working if cases are going up. We can no longer hide from the virus. We should lift the lockdown and resources should be invested in protecting the vulnerable.” State authorities have stubbornly refused to officially acknowledge the possibility of community transmission, labelling cases, whose prime contacts could not be traced, as ‘unlinked patients’. On Thursday, when the state reported 1,683 Covid positive cases in Tamil Nadu, officials in the state Covid-19 control room said they could not identify the source of infection in 55 cases. The state had registered 83 people, including 28 of their contacts, under ‘unlinked cases’. “We have a number of patients without known contacts. We seem to be obsessed with a few chains of transmission instead of looking at all chains of contact,” said public health expert and former dean of Tata Institute of Social Sciences T Sundararaman. Since the Rampur case, officials in the Covid control room have seen several similar cases. A staff working at a Phoenix mall in Chennai tested positive on March 27. Her colleague tested positive a week later. Many frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, policemen, sanitary inspectors and conservancy workers, have picked up the infection. In most cases, officials have not been able to identify the source of infection. On Friday, a pregnant woman who had no travel or contact history, tested positive. “The risk of non-recognition of autochthonous transmission (indigenous rather than from migrants or travellers) is bad news for public health,” said virologist T Jacob John, a former headed of Indian Council for Medical Research’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology. “Your controlled measures are inadequate because autochthonous transmission is mistaken for imported infection,” said Dr John. Several other states too have been reluctant to reveal the true transmission status. World Health Organisation’s Covid-19 situation dashboard continues to show India’s transmission classification as ‘clusters of cases’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/is-tn-shy-of-uttering-the-c-word/articleshow/75362978.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur Covid cases touch 14||Vadodara: Two persons tested positive for coronavirus in Chhota Udepur town on Friday taking the total number of cases in the district to 14. The two new patients are family members of a patient who had tested positive on April 22. According to the district administration officials, the two new patients – Aspak Yusuf Khalpa (30) and Sayma Khalpa (24) – are family members of Irshad Khalpa. They have been moved to government quarantine facility and their samples were also collected along with other family members. While others’ reports were negative, Aspak and Sayma’s reports tested positive. Health officials said that reports of 17 other persons are still awaited. Meanwhile, the district administration has ordered to close the branch of Dena Bank in Chhota Udepur town as another patient identified as Faizal Mala had visited the branch for banking purposes before he was admitted for treatment. “We have asked the staff of the branch to quarantine themselves as per the protocol and shut banking operations for the mandatory period of time,” said district collector Sujal Mayatra. On April 22, when four cases were reported in a single day, the administration had asked to close the operations of a private bank on station road too as two of the positive patients had visited the branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-covid-cases-touch-14/articleshow/75362970.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to bring back 5 lakh workers from other states||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Aditynath announced here on Friday that his government would bring back labourers who hailed from UP but were in quarantine at present in other states. The decision comes days after the state government sent around 300 buses to Rajasthan to bring back more than 7,000 students stuck in Kota and offered to help other states in taking back their people who are in UP. The state government is looking at more than 5 lakh people who are at quarantine centres in other states and would need to be evacuated over the next 10-odd days. Haryana, according to a state government spokesperson, would be the first state from where workers would be brought back. Around 2 lakh migrant workers from other states have already made their way back into UP after the lockdown was implemented and many of them are now in home quarantine after completing two weeks in institutional quarantine. उत्तर प्रदेश के ऐसे श्रमिक, कामगार तथा मजदूर बहन-भाई, जो अन्य राज्यों में निवासरत हैं और 14 दिन की क्वारंटीन अवधि… https://t.co/Vzcb8m7ibr— Yogi Adityanath (@myogiadityanath) 1587721543000“We will help such workers from UP, who live in other states and have completed 14 days in quarantine in these states, to get back to their homes. I have directed officials to prepare a list of such people statewise and a phase wise plan for bringing them back,” the chief minister tweeted on Friday. उत्तर प्रदेश में वापस लाए जाने से पूर्व इन श्रमिकों, कामगारों की स्क्रीनिंग व टेस्टिंग कराई जाएगी। तत्पश्चात, बस… https://t.co/fv2mPW5Gpw— Yogi Adityanath (@myogiadityanath) 1587721624000He added that before being brought back, their screening and testing would be done. After that they will be sent by buses to their districts. “Officials have been directed to sanitise shelter homes and make arrangements for their food. After 14 days institutional quarantine, they will be given a ration kit and Rs 1,000 and sent into home quarantine,” he added. Officials said that in collaboration with other states, labourers and daily wagers who have spent 14 days in quarantine, would be tested and the states will ensure that they are brought to the UP border. From here, the official said, they will be taken first to their respective district headquarters and kept in quarantine there. Where required, UP may send its buses to the other states as well. “When the lockdown was implemented, lakhs of workers started walking from states like Delhi, Haryana and Punjab to get back to their homes in UP. Eventually, the state government had to send buses to bring them back from the Delhi border. But many more are stuck after leaving their respective places. It is the responsibility of the government to bring them back. However, the CM has said categorically that only those who have completed 14-day quarantine can be brought back,” said a senior officer. Sources said that other states have already sent details of how many people from UP are in quarantine there. “These states have claimed that people have been kept in quarantine but we do not know what sort of facilities these have been. We can also assume that when we start operating buses to bring back people, there may be others from UP who would want to return as well but are not in quarantine. A plan will have to be worked out with all states to avoid any such issues,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-bring-back-5-lakh-workers-from-other-states/articleshow/75363981.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Will bring Madhya Pradesh’s migrant workers home, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced that his government would bring back migrant workers stranded in other states due to the lockdown, and would allow labourers from other states to leave. Chouhan said he has spoken with the CMs of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra – where the bulk of labourers from MP are stranded -- and that their response was encouraging. They assured full cooperation and help in bringing back MP workers from these states, according to a government statement. Significantly, the CM said that people will be allowed to travel outside the state to bring back family members stuck in other places. Migrant workers of other states will be allowed to go in vehicles they may arrange or those provided by their respective governments, he added. The MP government will ensure that norms of social distancing and other guidelines issued by the Union government to avoid crowding would be observed while bringing back workers, the CM said. Once back in MP, they will be screened and quarantined as a precaution. The chief medical officers of districts will make the necessary arrangements. Workers stuck in different districts will be allowed to travel within the state to return to their homes. Instructions are being issued to ]officials in this connection, said the press release. Congress welcomed the decision, but said that the Chouhan government acted late, and only after former CM Kamal Nath demanded that the state bring back its workers. “When migrant workers were in distress without food and money, when they walked hundreds of kilometers to reach their villages and died on the way, then this government's heart did not melt. Today, it is too late,” said Congress national media convener Abhay Dubey said. Narendra Saluja, spokesperson for Kamal Nath, said that senior Congress leader Kantilal Bhuria sat on dharna in Jhabua on Friday to demand that all migrant workers from MP be brought back but a case was registered against him. “At the same time, the state government had to concede to our demand. UP has already made an announcement to this effect but the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government was reluctant. After we mounted pressure, they took the decision and we welcome it,” Saluja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/will-bring-mps-migrant-workers-home-says-shivraj/articleshow/75362995.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Two held for raping woman in Miraj||KOLHAPUR: Two youths were arrested hours after they allegedly raped a 19-year-old woman near the Miraj railway station on Wednesday night. The suspects, Abhay Kalshetti (19) and Raju Achyudhan (30), both residents of a locality near the railway station have been remanded in police custody for seven days. According to Miraj police, the woman is married and stays in a village in Kolhapur district. She had come to visit her parents in Miraj and was staying with them. On Wednesday, the youths approached her while she was on her way to meet a friend. They forcibly took her to a nearby vacant plot near the railway station. According to the complaint lodged by the woman, the youths forced her to consume alcohol. The youths themselves partook of the alcohol and then raped her. The girl was spotted moving near the railway police station late at night. She was taken to the police station where narrated the entire incident. Police said by the time they reached the crime scene, the youths had already left. Preliminary investigation reveals that the woman was familiar with the youths. Police are also investigating from where the did the youths get alcohol as its sale has been banned following the nationwide lockdown introduced to curb the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-held-for-raping-woman-in-miraj/articleshow/75362070.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Curbs take backseat, over 450 mining trucks pass every hour at Sanvordem||MARGAO/QUEPEM: While the directorate of mines and geology has restricted the number of trucks leaving the mines to 25 trucks per hour, over 450 trucks pass through Sanvordem-Tisk per hour. This was pointed out at a meeting convened by the Curchorem police with representatives of mining firms held on Friday, highlighting the gross impunity with which the restrictions are violated. While the state mining department maintains that the truck movement from mines to jetties has been restricted, the chaotic movement of the ore-laden trucks in South Goa tells a different story altogether, especially considering only three to four mining firms have resumed transportation of their iron ore from their mines to the jetties in the past few days. Locals affected by the traffic congestion and dust pollution caused by the movement of mining trucks have been demanding that the authorities keep a strict watch for violations of mining transportation rules. “The limit of 25-30 trucks per hour looks fine on paper, but it is not being followed. With no regulatory authority monitoring the situation, oftentimes, the number of trucks leaving the mines reaches even upto 50 or 60 per hour,” a source closely associated with mining transportation said. At the meeting of mining firms held by the police on Friday, Curchorem PI Ravi Dessai directed them to deploy their security personnel to regulate mining traffic at the Sanvordem Tisk road junction. “It appears that the restriction on number of trucks leaving the mines is violated leading to congestion on the roads. As the police are busy enforcing the Covid-19 lockdown, we have directed the mining firms to deploy their own security personnel to assist the police in regulating the mining traffic,” Dessai said, adding that the mining firms have also been directed to clean the roads and ensure safe driving of mining trucks. Meanwhile, after Cavrem villagers blocked trucks transporting iron ore from Cavrem to Curchorem on Thursday for around two hours in protest against haphazard transportation, Quepem PI Santosh Dessai on Friday held a meeting with representatives of mining firms and elected representatives of Cavrem over the issue. Villagers alleged that more than 170 trucks were plying on the road per hour with rash and negligent driving, rendering the road unsafe for the locals. Director of mines Arvind Bugde said that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) has been issued by the district collector in consultation with mine owners but failed to disclose the number of trucks allowed to ply per hour as per the SOP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curbs-take-backseat-over-450-mining-trucks-pass-every-hour-at-sanvordem/articleshow/75363989.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Finance secy to officiate Mapusa Urban’s liquidation||Panaji: The central registrar of cooperative societies has appointed finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar as official liquidator of the Mapusa Urban Cooperative Bank (MUCB). As the liquidation process commences, MUCB’s board of directors and shareholders will lose control over one of Goa’s oldest cooperative banks. Top sources said that Hawaldar, who has been appointed for a period of one year, was picked as the central registrar couldn’t depute an officer due to the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, Hawaldar confirmed that he has been asked to officiate the liquidation process. “We had proposed names for the liquidator for MUCB, and before the end of this year, most depositors will probably get their money back,” said cooperation minister Govind Gaude. He said that 80-85% of depositors have less than Rs 5 lakh in their accounts. “The Goa government will make efforts to ensure that these people get their money first.” On April 16, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cancelled MUCB’s banking license, paving the way for the bank’s liquidation since multiple attempts at the merger route have failed. The central registrar of cooperative societies has jurisdiction over MUCB as it was a multi-state cooperative bank. With the liquidation process commencing, Hawaldar has his task cut out. After undertaking an official account of the bank’s assets and liabilities, Hawaldar will begin closing down the bank by retrenching staff, selling government bonds and returning deposits to account holders. “This process takes time, and the finance secretary will also have to auction the properties or collateral that the bank has,” said a government officer. All account holders are covered by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation, a subsidiary of the RBI, and each depositor has been insured up to a sum of Rs 5 lakh. The bank had deposits to the tune of Rs 350 crore, of which Rs 230 crore is held in government securities. “When the curbs were announced, the bank should have gone for an asset light model, given compulsory retirement to its staff, and closed down branches where the office space was not its own,” said a government official who has studied the bank’s financial woes. “All these were eating into the deposits at a time when the bank was not earning any revenue.” In July 2015, the RBI imposed financial sanctions on the bank after its non-performing assets surged, its accumulated losses crossed Rs 100 crore and the capital adequacy ratio fell well below RBI’s 9% stipulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/finance-secy-to-officiate-mapusa-urbans-liquidation/articleshow/75364001.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Over 100 booked by rural police for Thursday’s commotion||Nashik: Over 100 people have been booked by Nashik rural police for causing commotion near Alamma bridge and Khayabannisa Chowk in Malegaon on Thursday morning. This incident was a fallout of an altercation between police and some citizens at Khayananissa Chowk around 7.30 am. Following this some local residents created a commotion at Alamma Bridge while demanding that they be allowed to cross the barricades and move out. Since both the areas fall under the jurisdiction of different police stations, two separate cases have been registered. The situation was soon brought under control, though the people managed to break the barricades, chairs and the temporary checkposts. A senior police officer said the cases have been registered at Killa and Chhavani police stations. "We have registered an offence against unidentified mob of around 100 under sections 109 (abetment), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, Bombay Police Act and Epidemic Prevention Act. We have managed to identify three people and are in the process of arresting them," an officer from Killa police station said. Meanwhile, Chhavani police have booked 30 people for unlawful assembly, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and other sections of the IPC after they created ruckus near Alamma bridge. Khanybanna Nishant Chowk and Alamma Bridge are at a distance of around 500 metre from each other, falling under the jurisdiction of two police stations. Malegaon town has already reported over 100 positive Covid-19 cases along with 11 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-100-booked-by-rural-police-for-thursdays-commotion/articleshow/75360474.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Six more test positive in Vadodara, three in Godhra||Vadodara: Six more people, including a man working on EME School campus of Indian Army in the city, have tested positive for Covid-19 since Thursday night. A major sanitation drive was taken up in Harni area where this man and three other positive persons, working at the school, used to stay. The man from EME was the fourth case from the cantonment. On Thursday, four cases had been reported from the same area. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) sources said sanitation and other measures were taken up in the area. They added that details were being collected from the four personnel to identify the cause of the infection. One of the new cases was reported from Gotri area of the city where a man tested positive. This is the first case from Gotri area of the city. The four other cases were reported from Nagarwada, Sardarbhavan Lane in Raopura and Khodiyarnagar. With the fresh cases, the total number of cases in the city and district went up too 223. Of these, 11 people have died and 53 discharged. Of the active Covid-19 patients, eight are on oxygen while four others on ventilators. The civic body also conducted 211 tests using rapid antibody test (RAT) kits. Of these, two persons tested positive. They included one from Nagarwada and one from Navapura. Both the positive tests came from the red zones. Meanwhile, with three fresh cases, total number of cases from Godhra in Panchmahal district went up to 15 so far. The fresh cases included one from Polan Bazaar and two from Shehra Bhagol in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-more-test-positive-in-vadodara-three-in-godhra/articleshow/75363005.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Seamen undergo Covid tests, three more ships awaited||Panaji: The Goan seafarers who were disembarked from the Marella ship on Thursday, began receiving their Covid-19 test results at the Mumbai port where many are reported to have tested negative. “We’re hoping all their tests come back negative,” president of the Goa Seamen Association of India, Frank Viegas said. The seafarers were informed that they would have to spend no more than 48 hours in Mumbai once tested negative, and are now awaiting the next step from the government to bring them back to Goa. Their accommodation was sorted out after a tumultuous night where hotels wouldn’t accept them and locals in Andheri protested the seafarers’ presence in their neighbourhood. “The government must now bring them back in the safest way possible - bus or ship. If they are quarantined outside their homes, they should be provided with decent accommodation, unlike the pathetic rooms they were given in Mumbai once they disembarked. They should be not be asked to pay for it. They can be given an option of government or paid accommodation,” Viegas said. Meanwhile, some seafarers questioned the need for institutional quarantine in Goa once they have tested negative, as they have been stamped in Mumbai. Founder of the association Dixon Vaz said the government needs to have a better plan for seafarers from Karnika who will be signed off, after the Marella seafarers were exposed to the outside world without safety and concern in Mumbai. At the state executive committee meeting on Friday, secretary ports informed that three additional ships carrying Goan crew are about to berth in Mumbai or Goa. The seafarers will be brought to Goa after testing negative and placed in paid quarantine facilities where the government is presently negotiating with room rentals, he said. The committee observed that the negotiated prices offered by the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa can be shared with the employer company who will be free to further negotiate for a better deal or suitable hotel. As per the cabinet decision, the employer company has to pay for the quarantine facilities, it was stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seamen-undergo-covid-tests-three-more-ships-awaited/articleshow/75363994.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Govt school in Banswara village earns ISO label||JAIPUR: Tucked in a remote part of the state, the Government Senior Secondary School in Sagwadiya village of Banswara district recently bagged the International Organization for Standardization Certificate (ISO) 9001:2015. Situated around 25 km from Banswara city, a dilapidated school building and low turnout of students were major concerns for the school authorities. Around 70% population of the village consists of tribals. Mahipal Singh Charan, principal and the man behind this makeover, joined the school in June 2019. He explained that initially it was difficult for him to make the changes. “Students were not interested in studies as there was no discipline. I decided to bring some changes in the school but faced resistance from villagers who said a government school can never change,” said Mahipal. The first thing that Mahipal introduced was the uniform with shoes, tie and identity card. With the help from Bhamashah, uniforms were distributed among students to help them feel like they belong to an academic institution. Help from wealthy villagers working in Gulf countries was sought. “We asked the owners of textile industries in Banswara for their contribution. They helped us with facilities like water cooler, RO, furniture, digital classroom, computer lab, CCTV cameras and painting the entire school. We have a parking facility and boring for uninterrupted water supply. As the condition of the school improved, students’ attendance improved,” said Mahipal. In e-classrooms, students of primary sections are shown motivational cartoons and rhymes. Documentaries on lives of famous people, UPSC success stories and videos are shown to build interest of students. Moreover, IAS and RAS officers, district judges were invited by the school to interact with students and motivate them to aspire for something big. Mahipal says, “Parents who are sending their children to private schools have approached us to shift their children here from the next session. With this feedback, I wrote to the ISO officials to get a certificate from them. With the certificate, I expect more people to come forward to make donations for the school.” School gets makeover in a year - School renovation and repair - E-classroom, projectors and a computer lab - Uniform and identity cards for all students - Water cooler, boring and RO facilities - Evening visits to homes of students in board classes to check if they are studying - Painting syllabus on the classroom walls of Class I - Sanitary pad vending machines - Parking lot, temple School Staff – 15 teachers and principal School Strength – 300 students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-school-in-banswara-village-earns-iso-label/articleshow/75363072.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
April 25, 2020||Mumbai||Centre clears Maha plans for pool tests, plasma therapy to power Covid fight||Mumbai: Given the rising graph of Covid-19 cases and deaths, the state on Friday received permission from the Centre for pool testing as well as plasma therapy treatment. Pool testing—a method of testing batches of samples instead of just one—will help the state conduct 10 times more tests. It is also likely that the BMC-run Kasturba Hospital at Chinchpokli will be able to start plasma therapy soon, said an official. Permissions were granted during Union health minister Harsh Vardhan’s video-conference with state health ministers and secretaries, held to discuss ways to reduce the death rate and check the rise of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra was asked to conduct pool testing and plasma therapy in accordance with Indian Council for Medical and Research (ICMR) guidelines. ICMR had earlier refused to permit Mumbai to do pool testing due to the high rate of positivity of samples. In pool testing, multiple samples are put through one real-time polymerase chain reaction test kit. If the results are negative, the entire pool of samples is considered free of the virus. If it tests positive, all swab samples are individually tested to identify the infected one. The method is usually used in low infection clusters for surveillance. It is learnt that ICMR has suggested some new sampling sizes to resolve the problem. Currently, the state conducts over 7,000 tests a day but the World Health Organisation has said more testing will help identify more patients early in the infection stage. State health minister Rajesh Tope has said Maharashtra intends to conduct over 75,000 tests using pool testing. An official, who attended the meeting with Tope, said the state will conduct pool testing in the cities which are among the worst affected. “Our major concern is Mumbai and Pune. We are considering implementing pool testing in Mumbai by taking precautions, like collecting a group of only five samples instead of 10,” said the official. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said Covid-19 patients will soon receive plasma therapy in state-run hospitals in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Solapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-clears-maha-plans-for-pool-tests-plasma-therapy-to-power-covid-fight/articleshow/75363063.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
April 25, 2020||Surat||Postal dept to deliver essentials in Surat||Surat: The postal department will soon deliver essentials to elderly people in the city and talks are on advance stage with the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to enable this at the earliest.According to municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, SMC is in talks with the Postal department to set up a helpline number where elderly people can get essential items through home delivery. “Senior citizens are the most susceptible to this virus and we are devising ways to ease their lives in these tough times,” he said.Pani said that highest number of Covid-19 cases, 192 positive have been reported from Limbayat Zone till Thursday evening. He blames disobeying of social distancing norm to be the major reason behind the rise of such cases. Of the total Covid-19 positive cases in the city, 37 percent positive cases are from Mandarwala and Mithikhadi area alone, he said.Total 14 patients have been discharged and 14 people have died in Surat city till April 24. So far, 2,879 people are under quarantine in the city.“We are consistently asking people to stay at home and maintain social distancing in public and wear masks besides ensuring that elders in the family do not get expose to Covid-19. If cases doubles every third day, city would have 1.64 lakh cases by May 31. We have seen this jump in Mandarwaja area in city,” Pani warned.“We have started rapid antibody testing in Surat and through this testing, one person was tested Covid positive,” the civic body chief informed.Meanwhile, death from coronavirus climbed to 14, after a 53-year-old woman from Nanpura’s Kalapeshi Mohalla passed away at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Friday.Savita Nagar, 53, a resident of Kalapeshi Mohalla in Nanpura had tested positive and she was also suffering from co-morbid condition including diabetes and blood pressure. Two tested positive at the EWS housing quarters at Honey Park Road in Adajan. One Savitri Trivedi, 40 and a grocery shop owner identified as Keshav Rathod, 33, tested positive. The SMC has placed the entire EWS quarters, having about 300 flats and 1,200 residents, under quarantine till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/postal-dept-to-deliver-essentials-in-surat/articleshow/75360523.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||30 kin of deceased man test negative for Covid-19||Kolhapur: The Sangli administration was relieved after it learnt that the throat swab samples of the 30 family members and relatives, who attended the funeral of a man who tested positive for Covid-19 after his death, returned negative on Friday. However, the district administration has decided to keep the 30 people under institutional quarantine as a precautionary measure and continuously monitor their health. The Sangli health department had collected the throat swab samples of the ones who had attended the last rites of the deceased man on Wednesday night and kept them under institutional quarantine at Kadegaon—around 62km from Sangli city. The last rites were performed without the mandatory protocol of dead body management issued by the Union government’s ministry of health and family welfare. Meanwhile, taking cognisance of a major administrative lapse, Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI that he would report the entire incident to Pune divisional commissioner so that better precautions were taken and such incidents did not repeat in future. District health officer for Sangli Bhupal Girigosavi said that the wife of the deceased man and her father were in the ambulance which transported the body from Mumbai to Kheradi Wangi village in Sangli. After the funeral, they returned back to Mumbai in the same ambulance. Girigosavi added that the driver of the ambulance, the deceased man’s wife and her father have been kept under quarantine in Mumbai. Officials from the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) hospital, Kolhapur, who have witnessed three to four deaths of Covid-19 suspects, said that if the throat swab sample of the deceased had been taken suspecting he had contracted Covid-19, ideally the body should not have been handed over to his family until and unless the reports came negative. CPR dean Minakshi Gajbhiye said, “If the family members were insistent about taking the body, it should have been covered properly in a plastic bag and then taken directly to the cremation site for the last rites. In such a case, since the Covid-19 analysis report is awaited, it is assumed that the person is positive and the last rites are performed accordingly.” The deceased used to work as an autorickshaw driver in Mumbai and passed away due to a heart attack at Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College and General Hospital early morning of April 18. His mortal remains were transported via an ambulance to his native village, where the last rites were performed the same evening. According to Sangli district administration, the family members got to know that the deceased was Covid-19 positive after they contacted the Mumbai hospital where he was admitted four days after performing his last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/30-kin-of-deceased-man-test-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/75362089.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Pondy seals border with Tamil Nadu||PUDUCHERRY: The porous border with the Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 ‘red-zone’ districts of Villupuram and Cuddalore has become a major concern for the Puducherry district, categorized as a green zone. There are only three positive cases undergoing treatment in Puducherry. However, neighbouring Villupuram has district reported 42 positive cases and two deaths while Cuddalore district has 26 positive cases so far. The Puducherry government, after containing the spread of Covid-19 infection, has now shifted its focus on preventing people from Tamil Nadu from entering the territory. It has sealed 87 porous areas along the interstate border. Police have appealed to the village community along the border to monitor the movement of people from the neighbouring state and block their entry. "We have sealed the borders. We are not permitting anyone to enter the territory unnecessarily and the personnel manning the five major interstate borders have been given thermal scanners to screen people entering the territory. People with Covid- 19 symptoms will be segregated," said SSP Mahesh Kumar Barnwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pondy-seals-border-with-tamil-nadu/articleshow/75363027.cms||Bosco Dominique
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa government cell reunites eight-year-old Karnataka girl with parents||PANAJI: The state government’s one-stop centre on Thursday helped an eight-year-old girl from Belagavi, Karnataka, reunite with her family after being stranded at her uncle’s home in Goa for a month. Constituted under a central government scheme, one-stop centres are primarily aimed at providing support and assistance to women. They are also integrated with a helpline to provide medical assistance, legal aid and shelter, among other services. The Goa centre’s administrator, Emidio Pinho, told TOI that the girl had arrived in Goa on March 17 to spend a part of her summer vacation with her uncle. But when the nationwide Janata Curfew was implemented a few days later, on March 22, and the state administration decided to continue with the lockdown thereafter, the little girl had no option but to stay put in Goa. Although her parents made regular phone calls to her, the girl began getting distressed and said she wanted to return home. Her tears and discomfort finally prompted her uncle to call the police for help, who in turn referred him to the one-stop centre. Officials at the centre got to work immediately. They decided to file an application on April 1 seeking permission that the girl be allowed to travel back to Belagavi in a vegetable truck driven by her father. “The father comes into Goa with vegetables once a week or once in 15 day. We sought that he be allowed to take his daughter with him during one of his return trips,” Pinho said. When the permission was obtained with assistance from the CMO on Thursday, Pinho and other staff of the centre dropped the girl at the Keri border checkpost, where her anxious father was waiting. “The moment she laid eyes on her father, she ran to him and threw herself into his arms,” Pinho said. A doctor from Pune, whose daughter is also stuck in Goa due to the lockdown, has now approached the one-stop centre seeking similar assistance, Pinho said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-cell-reunites-8-yr-old-ktaka-girl-with-parents/articleshow/75364000.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||Workforce away, food companies can’t hit peak capacity in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Essentials and food product factories in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are ready to hit peak production but they can’t. Reason: lack of manpower. Labour availability in food, FMCG and essential commodity factories both for regional and national brands is now less than 30%. As companies ramp up to replenish empty shelves, manpower is playing spoilsport, for either they have left for their native towns and villages or there are mobility issues to bring them to factories. ITC’s food product plants are functioning at 75-100% capacity keeping an eye on catering to growing demand. "ITC will continue to focus on manufacturing its essential items like food products, hygiene essentials as well as paperboards and packaging solutions in select factories. We have ramped up production across our factories which are now operational," an ITC spokesperosn said. With four weeks of lockdown, the pipeline is dry so factories have to hit peak demand to catch up. An FMCG factory in Puducherry is not being able to hit peak production because its workforce, particularly those coming from Villupuram and Tindivanam, is away. "Currently we are functioning at 50% efficiency and capacity," said the plant head of a biscuit-making unit. Ditto for another food factory in Puducherry which is hobbled both by lack of its skilled manpower and the fact that all its 18 Chennai distributors are in shutdown mode. "Workers who went back to their villages are not coming back because there is a fear psychosis," said the owner of the factory. Companies are using different strategies to get around the staff shortage. Padmasingh Issac, MD, Aachi Masala, said that for his factories in Gummidipoondi and Tiruvallur, he went in for local hiring. It now has up to 80% staff after nearly 200 local workers came on board few days ago. "The production capacity was less than 50%, but now we can see up to 80% with the additional staff recruited," he said. Other factories are making their staff work overtime to get by since staff strength is currently at 50-60%. Yogan Shunmugavel, partner at VVS & Sons, manufacturers of VVS range of edible oils, said that they are able to reach 80% of the capacity in their factories with the available manpower. "There is fear existing among the employees and we aren’t able to have the entire workforce coming in. While production has been happening without hiccups, we are facing problems with distribution," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/workforce-away-food-cos-cant-hit-peak-capacity/articleshow/75363074.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Caution out, frenzy aplenty at Colva’s snap fish ‘markets’||COLVA: A young woman with her year-old child in one hand and mobile phone in the other gleefully took pictures of her husband holding a good sized kingfish before daybreak, at Colva, on Friday. None of the three was wearing a mask. The family was among hundreds of people, including bike-borne fish vendors and seafood agents from other states, who throng Colva every morning to buy various types of fish brought in by trawlers. Social distancing and face masks appear to be unheard of at this wholesale ‘market’ — which opens at around 3am and shuts by 5am — as vendors and consumers alike jostle for their share of the day’s catch. Closure of the SGPDA wholesale fish market at Margao and restrictions on the transportation of seafood have provided Goan trawler owners a golden opportunity to sell their catch at various places in Colva before daybreak ever since the lockdown was imposed. While the Colva police are aware of these impromptu markets and have instructed vendors and consumers to wear masks and maintain social distancing, neither has been followed. Law enforcement, too, appears to be virtually non-existent. On Friday, for instance, a Colva police patrol vehicle merely passed by the crowded area, making no effort to warn the people or enforce social distancing. Margao resident Zavipov Fernandes said he has complained to the Colva police — with a copy to South Goa superintendent of police Arvind Gawas — about the unauthorised wholesale fish market, where vehicles loaded with fish and small pick-ups converge before dawn. When contacted, Gawas told TOI, “If the complaint has been sent to me, I have not seen it yet. However, I will immediately direct the Colva police inspector to look into the matter.” Former Colva panch member Calvert Gonsalves said people buying fish from trawler owners at slightly cheaper rates was fine as long as face masks were worn and social distancing maintained. “But people crowd the place to make sure they get their pick before migrants and agents buy entire batches of fish and immediately increase the price,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/caution-out-frenzy-aplenty-at-colvas-snap-fish-markets/articleshow/75364009.cms||Nisser Dias
April 25, 2020||Mumbai||Union govt weighs state request to reuse PPE after disinfection||As personal protection equipment (PPE) for healthcare workers are in short supply, the state has appealed to the central health minister to allow their reuse after a round of disinfection. State health minister Rajesh Tope made this request during a virtual meeting with union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday. A senior official said the union minister appreciated the suggestion but said the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) will study the matter and issue guidelines on the reuse of PPE kits. PPE comprises overalls, gloves, face masks and head covers. The US FDA had recently given permission to all hospitals to reuse N95 face mask after disinfection. — Sujit Mahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/union-govt-weighs-state-request-to-reuse-ppe-after-disinfection/articleshow/75363090.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Blacklist medical officers saying no to Covid-19 work’||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai issued an order on Friday stating that all the newly appointed medical officers, who were refusing work related to Covid-19 management, would be blacklisted and not be able to apply for government service in future. Desai said that it had come to the fore that many individuals, who were applying and getting selected for Covid-19 management work, were refusing to join on one or the other context. When TOI contacted him, the district collector said that there were atleast four medical officers in different parts of the district, who were selected in the latest appointments. However, they refused to join work stating reasons like they lived far from the city or that they were not interested in the role any more. Desai added that after the order for blacklisting those who were refusing Covid-19 management duties were issued on Friday evening, at least three of them agreed to join the workforce from Saturday. E-pass facility for government employees With the lockdown in place, a few government employees who had travelled to their hometown have got stuck there. Such employees can apply for e-pass at kolhapur.gov.in website. The respective taluka’s tehsildar will send an e-pass on the employee’s mobile number. Meanwhile, an online payment facility has been made available for the district disaster fund on kolhapur.gov.in website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/blacklist-medical-officers-saying-no-to-covid-19-work/articleshow/75362112.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Tigress dies of kidney failure in Delhi zoo, no Covid-19 link||NEW DELHI: A Delhi zoo tigress died after suffering kidney failure, zoo officials said on Friday. The animal — Kalpana (13) — whose postmortem examination has been carried out, was also the oldest big cat at the zoo. The zoo later sent the samples for testing for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure. Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) later confirmed that the tiger had tested negative for the virus. “After the positive case from the Bronx zoo, we had received strict instructions from the Central Zoo Authority to improve sanitation measures and maintain suitable distance from carnivores, especially during feeding. The food is also being sanitised and boiled before it is fed to the animals,” said a zoo official. Tigers have an average age of 10-15 years, depending on the habitat and living conditions. A source said the animal was found to be ill on Tuesday, with high creatinine levels in the body, along with dehydration. The animal didn’t respond to the treatment and died on Wednesday. Delhi zoo director, Dr Suneesh Buxy, said the death occurred due to old age and kidney failure, stating it was a natural death. “She was the oldest big cat at the zoo, at thirteen years and 7 months. She had stopped eating over the last week. A postmortem examination has revealed renal failure as the cause of death,” said Buxy. A Union environment ministry official said only a few veterinary officers were present during the autopsy “Samples were sent to IVRI in Bareilly for testing,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tigress-dies-of-kidney-failure-in-zoo-no-covid-link/articleshow/75363077.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Lockdown unlocks communal harmony, blind teacher gets help||Vadodara: Had this 28-year-old woman been otherwise all alone and far away from her family, it wouldn’t have been that worrisome for her kin but for the fact that Riddhi Soni is visually handicapped. Her parents in Ahmedabad were very worried after she couldn’t get any means of transport to come back home after the lockdown was imposed last month. Stuck all alone at her residential quarters in Narmada district, the story of this English literature teacher at Birsa Munda Tribal University in Rajpipla would have been truly pathetic, but thanks to her neighbour and colleague, 26-year-old Numa Ansari, life has been very smooth sailing. “Our biggest religion at this time of crisis is humanity and Ansari is a living example of it,” said Soni, who had joined the tribal university two years ago and had shifted to Rajpipla. “I don’t know how I could have managed my life under the lockdown without Ansari. She is not only taking care of my other needs, but the way she has been ensuring that I don’t get infected with coronavirus is exemplary. In fact, everyday she sanitizes everything that I would probably be using or will have to touch,” said Soni, who lost her vision to retina cancer in her childhood Talking to TOI, 26-year-old Ansari, who works as junior clerk in the tribal university, said: “We work in the same university and are good friends. Her quarter is right next to my building. After the lockdown, when I knew that Soni couldn’t get any transport to return to her family in Ahmedabad’s Memnagar area, I took it upon myself to ensure that she stays happy and comfortable even when she is all alone here.” Ansari has been looking after Soni ever since the lockdown started. “Under lockdown, getting essential things would have been very difficult for Soni. I, therefore, began buying everything for her — from milk, groceries and vegetables to medicines — so that she doesn’t have to step out of her house and come in contact with unknown persons or touch anything in public place. I don’t want her to get infected with the virus!” said Ansari, who stays with her husband in Rajpipla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lockdown-unlocks-communal-harmony-blind-teacher-gets-help/articleshow/75363069.cms||Tushar Tere
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Police nab externed criminal||Nashik: The city police on Thursday booked an externed criminal entering the city with any police permission. The criminal is identified as Sohail alias Babu Pappu Khan Rajiulla Khan Ansari (26) and is a resident of Shivaji Nagar, Bharat Nagar. He was externed from city limits for a period of two years on February 22 this year. He has been booked under the Bombay Police Act and would be sent back outside the district. The crime branch received a tip-off that Ansari was spotted in the Bharat Nagar area. Acting on that the police raided his house by maintaining proper social distancing and arrested him. The police said that during the arrest, one more criminal – Gulab Irshad Ansari (30) resident of the same area was found and subsequently arrested. The police said that Gulab Ansari was wanted in a robbery case registered in 2015, he was later handed over to the Bhadrakali police station. Police officials said that they were keeping a close tab on criminals, who have been externed from the city. Close to 150 criminals were externed by the city police last year. This year too, a large number of criminals were externed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-nab-externed-criminal/articleshow/75360517.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Happiness classes now online, a hit at home too||NEW DELHI: Jyoti Sharma, a teacher at a Delhi government school in south Delhi, has been sharing pictures and videos of her students on social media. For Sharma, these images are more special because they were created when the students were practising mindfulness as taught in the happiness curriculum. Sharma tweeted a video of a student undertaking mindfulness with the video of the curriculum co-ordinators playing in the background. “Happiness classes at home under the guidance of parents and our teachers. Irrespective of barriers, the students of Gargi SKV, Green Park, are practising mindfulness regularly,” she posted. To help students cope during the Covid lockdown, students from nursery to class VIII started happiness classes on April 19. Two curriculum coordinators, Neeru Puri and Avinash Kumar Jha, began the classes with a video on how to perform mindfulness and shared different stories with a message. They post new videos for the happiness classes at home every day at 4pm. Aksa, a student of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Timarpur, posted a video showing her parents attending the online happiness classes with her. “Since we cannot go to school, I am happy that happiness classes are taking place online,” Aksa said. Her mother added in Hindi, “Since the classes started, we have seen a change in her. It is wonderful this class is being continued even during the lockdown.” Vikram Bhat, consultant to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, told TOI, “We have uploaded four episodes so far and each has had almost 60,000 views. The clips are also aired on YouTube and have around 10,000 views. We have also launched a blog with all curriculum resources that has had 13,000 views.” Bhat added that the happiness classes could be important in helping children deal with stress and anxiety during the corona crisis. “At a meeting with the heads of over 300 private schools, they shared how they were working to help children cope with the pandemic,” said Bhat. Even parents have been sharing their impressions after sitting with their children for the happiness classes. Anil Kumar who listened to a story with his kid said, “My son told me that my good qualities were helpfulness and kindness. But he just did not state this. He supported each assertion with his experiences with me in the past. It was a wonderful session.” The session Kumar sat in was one on recognising the good qualities of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/happiness-classes-now-online-a-hit-at-home-too/articleshow/75364007.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 25, 2020||Bhopal||Plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients may start by next week in Bhopal||BHOPAL: AIIMS-Bhopal, Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and Chirayu Medical College could begin therapeutic plasma exchange for critically ill Covid-19 patients as early as next week. The hospitals have asked for permission from Indian Council of Medical Research to begin plasma therapy. A list of healthy recovered people is being drawn up to act as donors. Over 200 patients in MP have been cured of Covid-19 and returned home. Doctors hope to choose some of them as donors for plasma therapy in which antibodies from the blood of those who have recovered from the infection are used to treat severely ill patients. Top health officials met to discuss this, after which proposals were sent to ICMR said GMC dean Dr AK Shrivastava on Friday. “We have applied (for permission) and are ready to conduct therapeutic plasma exchange as soon as we get clearance. It could be as early as next week,” said Chirayu Medical College MD Dr Ajay Goenka. The hospital has the most number of Covid-19 patients. About 80 of them are said to be on oxygen support. Over 135 people from the hospital have recovered after being tested positive for the deadly contagion. At this moment ICMR does not recommend plasma therapy as a treatment option outside of clinical trials. Recently, ICMR invited letters of intent from institutions with the equipment and infrastructure to participate in a clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of the therapy on Covid-19 patients. Therapeutic plasma exchange is an experimental procedure. Hospitals and institutions planning to provide this form of treatment will have to do so in a clinical trial with protocols that are cleared by the institutional ethics committee. The protocols must be registered with the Clinical Trial Registry of India and they should be approved by Drugs Controller General of India, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization. Mechanisms to report adverse and serious adverse events need to be put in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/plasma-therapy-for-covid-patients-may-start-by-next-wk/articleshow/75363083.cms||Jamal Ayub
April 25, 2020||Puducherry||Workforce away, food companies can’t hit peak capacity in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Essentials and food product factories in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are ready to hit peak production but they can’t. Reason: lack of manpower. Labour availability in food, FMCG and essential commodity factories both for regional and national brands is now less than 30%. As companies ramp up to replenish empty shelves, manpower is playing spoilsport, for either they have left for their native towns and villages or there are mobility issues to bring them to factories. ITC’s food product plants are functioning at 75-100% capacity keeping an eye on catering to growing demand. "ITC will continue to focus on manufacturing its essential items like food products, hygiene essentials as well as paperboards and packaging solutions in select factories. We have ramped up production across our factories which are now operational," an ITC spokesperosn said. With four weeks of lockdown, the pipeline is dry so factories have to hit peak demand to catch up. An FMCG factory in Puducherry is not being able to hit peak production because its workforce, particularly those coming from Villupuram and Tindivanam, is away. "Currently we are functioning at 50% efficiency and capacity," said the plant head of a biscuit-making unit. Ditto for another food factory in Puducherry which is hobbled both by lack of its skilled manpower and the fact that all its 18 Chennai distributors are in shutdown mode. "Workers who went back to their villages are not coming back because there is a fear psychosis," said the owner of the factory. Companies are using different strategies to get around the staff shortage. Padmasingh Issac, MD, Aachi Masala, said that for his factories in Gummidipoondi and Tiruvallur, he went in for local hiring. It now has up to 80% staff after nearly 200 local workers came on board few days ago. "The production capacity was less than 50%, but now we can see up to 80% with the additional staff recruited," he said. Other factories are making their staff work overtime to get by since staff strength is currently at 50-60%. Yogan Shunmugavel, partner at VVS & Sons, manufacturers of VVS range of edible oils, said that they are able to reach 80% of the capacity in their factories with the available manpower. "There is fear existing among the employees and we aren’t able to have the entire workforce coming in. While production has been happening without hiccups, we are facing problems with distribution," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/workforce-away-food-cos-cant-hit-peak-capacity/articleshow/75368350.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
April 25, 2020||Goa||Registrars to start with 5 appointments a day||Panaji: A day after the state executive committee asked the law department to restart the document registration process, NIC has set up a mechanism to create five slots per day for people to register their documents on the National Generic Document Registration System. “NIC Goa has been informed to provide five appointment slots per day for registration of documents in NGDRS with a gap of 30 minutes from April 27,” said a government official. The services of marriage registration with five appointments and other services of the department have resumed while adhering to norms of social distancing.Hand sanitisers have been placed at all entry and exit points and mandatory thermal scanning will be done. On Thursday, the SEC had asked the law secretary to restart the registration department as it would help the state earn revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/registrars-to-start-with-5-appointments-a-day/articleshow/75364014.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||Councillor infected||Congress councillor from ward number 16 in Puna, Vijay Pansuriya’s mother, Rama Pansuriya, 58, tested positive on Friday. The councillor and his other close contacts have been put under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/councillor-infected/articleshow/75360566.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Patients satisfied with Gandhi Hospital: Telangana minister Eatala Rajender||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Friday said some people are unnecessarily creating ruckus about treatment and food arrangements in Gandhi Hospital. Addressing a press conference on Friday, he said all patients are very satisfied with arrangements and those discharged are thankful about the service. “Some are unnecessarily campaigning about the food in social media, there is no truth in it. They have to stop doing it,” he said. Meanwhile, Gandhi Hospital management sent videos of discharged patients who expressed satisfactions about the service and treatment. “I have been given good food and medicines were given in proper time. We were given non-veg food and enough water,” a 60-year-old patient from Vikarabad said in a video. Another patient from Warangal thanked the hospital administration for the treatment. Another patient said they were given transport facility to reach their homes from the hospital. The minister added all the patients who died so far had comorbid conditions. AIMIM MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi had alleged that the facilities in Gandhi Hospital were poor and subsequently, a video had gone viral on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-patients-satisfied-with-gandhi-hospital/articleshow/75363087.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||ICU to be set up at SUK’s tech-hostel for Rs 29 lakh||Kolhapur: The district administration has allotted Rs 29.42 lakh to set up an intensive care unit (ICU) as part of the institutional quarantine facility at the premises of the department of technology hostel of Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK). According to the April 23 order issued by district collector Daulat Desai, they had received a proposal of Rs 33.79 lakh to set up the ICU at the said premises. Four different works had been proposed for setting up the ICU, all of which have got the approval from the district administration. The works include architecture work worth Rs 8.82 lakh, setting up electricity lines worth Rs 10.07 lakh, making provisions for oxygen supply worth Rs 6.15 lakh and air-conditioning work worth Rs 4.38 lakh. The concerned officials have been asked to make sure that the work does not exceed the approved amount. The amount has been sanctioned from the district planning and development committee (DPDC) funding of Rs 6.77 crore. Minister of state for public health and welfare Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar said that apart from Shivaji University, they were also identifying other places across the region that can be tapped for setting up quarantine facilities in the face of an unprecedented emergency. Earlier, the report of the district administration stated that both the ICU and isolation wards with a total strength of 1,476 beds could be set up in various buildings on the university campus. Later, the hostel of the department of technology with its 500-bed capacity was finalised. The arrangements were asked to be made in such a way that one room would have only one bed. The report had asked the university officials to repair the toilets, doors, windows of the buildings and set up the facilities like clean drinking water and communication systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/icu-to-be-set-up-at-suks-tech-hostel-for-rs-29-lakh/articleshow/75362132.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Vadodara||Guj Refinery employee tests Covid positive||Vadodara: An engineering assistant working in Indian Oil Corporation’s Gujarat Refinery has been tested positive for coronavirus. After feeling uneasy for a few days, he went to the refinery hospital that referred him for Covid-19 test. His results were positive following which he was hospitalized. In its official release, Gujarat Refinery said it has tracing employees who might have come in contact with this engineering assistant. The refinery spokesperson said that all Covid-19 guidelines including social distancing, hand sanitizing and wearing of face masks at all times are being strictly followed in the premises. The refinery is working with minimum essential manpower and work from home model in general and administrative offices. To ensure minimum movement of employees and people from the city, arrangements for stay for employees executing essential functions has been done. “The transport buses are sanitized daily and number of buses plying inside the refinery have been increased with the increase in number of trips to ensure social distancing in seating in these buses,” the refinery said in a release issued on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/guj-refinery-employee-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/75363094.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Centre moves NCLT to change Gymkhana management||NEW DELHI: The Centre has accused Delhi Gymkhana Club of breaching its Articles of Association by having more members than the prescribed 5,600 and also inducting children and grandchildren of existing members through categories such as “green card” and “use of club premises” (UCPs), while applicants, who were asked to cough up higher than the prescribed registration fee waited for up to 37 years. In a petition filed before the National Company Law Tribunal - seeking change the current management and appoint an administrator with a set of nominated members of the of the Governing Council – the ministry of corporate affairs has also alleged that its probe has shown multiple violations of the Companies Act. The NCLT, which heard the matter on Friday, has allowed the 107-year-old club to respond with the next hearing scheduled for May 13. The government has argued that the club had 5,505 permanent members in 2019, 5,333 green card holders (who are children of existing members waiting for membership) and another 2,878 in the use of club premises (UCPs) categories. Including the 1,663 “lady subscribers”, the government argued there were 7,168 members, in excess of the limit prescribed in the AoA. Through GC meetings, the company created other memberships such as eminent members and NRIs, which are not of the AoA. The petition has also alleged that the club violated the basic purpose for which it was set up — promoting sports — as they accounted for a meagre portion of its revenue and expenditure. “Promoting sports doesn’t meant that you have to earn large amount of revenue from it,” said Delhi Gymkhana president Lt Gen (Retd) DR Soni, which countering the other allegations. He said that the fee had been increased by the governing council to keep the club functioning. Asked about the allegations regarding violation of norms in grant of membership, the club president said: “We have quite a robust system. If anyone is aggrieved, he or she can approach the management for redressal of their grievances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-moves-nclt-to-change-gymkhana-mgmt/articleshow/75363098.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 25, 2020||Nashik||More 50k Shiv Bhojan thalis in state||Nashik: The total number of Shiv Bhojan thalis to be served in Nashik district is likely to reach 6,200 per day. The state government on Thursday decided to distribute additional 50,000 thalis on daily basis to the needy people during the lockdown period. With this, the total number of thalis served across the state is 1,50,000 thalis per day. “There are numerous people who have been stranded across the state in the various districts and put up in shelters. While there is an arrangement by the non-governmental organisations there is also a need for food for the other labourers who have been rendered jobless. We, therefore, have decided to increase the limits of thali so that they also can be served,” said Chhagan Bhujbal, food, and civil supplies minister. On Friday, the district served approximately 5,489 thalis and with an addition of 800 more thalis the number will be reaching 6,200 from Saturday. The timings of the Shiv Bhojan has already been increased to ensure all the people get time to eat food without compromising on the social distance norms. “Though the numbers of thali will be increased to serve the people from 11 am to 3 pm, the ones involved in serving the food will not be allowed to compromise with the social distancing norms,” the officer added. Currently, the thalis are being provided through 39 different centres across the district to facilitate the laborers in the smaller towns as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-50k-shiv-bhojan-thalis-in-state/articleshow/75360561.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Hydroxychloroquine shortage a pain for Bengaluru arthritis patients||BENGALURU: Due to its use as a prophylaxis for Covid-19, anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is not available to those who consume it regularly — arthritis and lupus patients. The government’s bulk purchasing of HCQ directly from manufacturers has led to a drug shortage for patients with rheumatoid arthritis, general arthritis and Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or simply lupus, an autoimmune ailment in which the body’s immune system fiercely attacks healthy tissue. Thousands of patients take HCQ 200 mg twice a day. Arthritis and lupus patients are doing the rounds of pharmacies across Bengaluru, but in vain. “The last tablet I had was on Wednesday. By then, we had searched everywhere. There is no supply. We need this medicine and the government should understand the plight of patients like us,” said a 53-year-old woman from JP Nagar who suffers from arthritis. Her family members even visited government hospitals in search of the drug. Originally an anti-malarial drug, hydroxychloroquine has been useful in treatment of arthritis and lupus too. “Lupus affects 1 of every 2,000 people, mainly women. It is potentially a serious disease. HCQ is an essential medicine for such patients. Suddenly stopping the drug may cause the disease to flare up, resulting in kidney issues. It is effective in cases of rheumatoid arthritis too. If I see 50 patients a day, 30 of them use HCQ. Some autoimmune skin diseases also get better with it,” explained Dr BG Dharmanand, consultant rheumatologist, Vikram Hospital. Indian Rheumatologists’ Association has raised the matter with the Centre, seeking availability of the drug, he added. According to Dr Narayana Hulse, director, orthopaedics, Fortis hospitals, HCQ’s anti-inflammatory quality provides relief to arthritis patients. Some patients have reported side-effects like acidity. But there are many who have been using it for decades,” said Dr Hulse. HCQ is now being widely used as a prophylaxis by healthcare professionals, frontline health workers and even cops on Covid-19 duties. Some doctors TOI spoke to said the government is blindly using the medicine without any proof that it has a prophylactic effect on Covid-19. “Medicines like Leflunomide and Sulfasalazine are of similar molecular formulations but are produced by different companies. Arthritis patients can be suggested alternatives drugs. However, they must take them only on the advice of doctors,” said Dr Hulse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shortage-of-hcq-a-pain-for-arthritis-lupus-patients/articleshow/75362305.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||‘On Basava Jayanti, recite Basavanna’s vachanas at home’||Hubballi: Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Lingayat mutts and organisations will celebrate Basava Jayanti on April 26 -- not the usual way, but in a meaningful manner. Pontiffs have urged Lingayat community members to recite the vachanas of 12th-century social reformer Basavanna and discuss his preachings with family. They also suggested that the videos of their discussions be shared on social media. Guru Mahant Swami, pontiff of Vijay Mahantesh Sansthan Mutt (Chittaragi-Ilal), said he has appealed to Lingayats to celebrate the jayanti by complying with the lockdown norms. “Lingayats must feed the poor living nearby. Our devotees have agreed to read five vachanas at home and analyse one of them. Women will also participate in discussions and share their thoughts,” the pontiff said. Gurusiddha Rajayogindra Mahaswami of Sri Jagadguru Moorusavir Math (Hubballi) said they have advised their devotees to make their home a platform on the lines of Anubhava Mantap, said to be the first parliament of the world. Basava followers will also perform Ishta Linga puja and recite vachanas. The math’s Veerashaiva Sanghatana Samiti will also celebrate in a simple manner, the seer added. Jagatik Lingayat Mahasabha said Ishta Linga puja will be performed for the welfare of the world. Former bureaucrat Shivanand Jamdar, who is also the officebearer of the Mahasabha, has appealed to Lingayats to hold ‘dasoha’ by buying fruits and vegetables from farmers and distribute them to Covid-19 warriors and the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/on-basava-jayanti-recite-basavannas-vachanas-at-home/articleshow/75360332.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Dist admin to acquire 173 private establishments to fight Covid-19||Nashik: The district administration is set to acquire 173 private establishments across the district to treat people suffering from the Covid-19 disease. These include private hospitals, hostels, wedding halls, schools, hostels, and even colleges. The administration has decided to acquire these facilities with whatever equipment they have in place. Zilla Parishda chief executive officer (CEO) Leena Bansod has been appointed as the incident commander under whose leadership the acquisition programme for the entire district will begin. “It is a long battle against Covid-19.When a person is found positive, there is a compulsory 14-day treatment and that too in isolation only to prevent others from getting infected. Since every bed will be occupied for the said period and considering the rate of new persons getting the infection, the current facilities are likely to fall short,” sources from the district administration said, adding that the officer has been assigned the responsibility of preparing the infrastructure to fight the disease. As per the central government’s advisory, three-tier hospitals should be identified to treat the patients by segregating them based on the symptoms — mild, moderate and severe. The administration has decided to prepare the facilities at the taluka and village levels where people with mild symptoms can be treated, leaving the specialist hospitals to handle critical patients. Considering the same, the list of establishments that are to be acquired in first, second and third phase has been prepared by the administration. Since a large numbers of cases fall in mild symptoms category and that they can be treated at the Covid Care Centres (CCC), the government has also allowed the health teams to seek help of AYUSH facilities for treatment at the centres. Around 8,470 beds will be made available in the rural areas of the district for the purpose. “In rural areas, there are a large number of hostels, primary and secondary schools, ashramshalas in tribal areas, facilities of the government establishments, junior and senior colleges of government and private establishments as well. All these facilities will be utilized for treatment of Covid-19,” an officer said. In case of Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC), all hospitals, eye hospitals, colleges and hospitals of trusts, trauma centres, rural hospitals, will be prepared for treating people with moderate symptoms. The Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) will look after the treatment of critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-admin-to-acquire-173-private-establishments-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/75360592.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Survey complete, will not focus on slums: Kalshetti||Kolhapur: The door-to-door survey started by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) to find Covid-19 suspects and people with travel history in the city concluded on Friday. The survey was carried out with the help of health staff from 11 urban health centres. The survey that began on March 18, four days before the janata curfew, found 543 people with travel history to the affected countries and cities. These include those with mild symptoms who are being tested for Covid-19 infection. All these people were put under institutional quarantine for a specific period, after which, 540 people were allowed to go home. Three people who tested positive for Covid-19 were kept in isolation and were being treated for the same. The survey teams visited 1,44,000 houses in the city and around 6,52,000 people were tested. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have now completed the survey. During the survey, three people tested positive for Covid-19. All three have been treated successfully. Now, we have decided to carry out a fresh survey, mainly focusing on slums. There are 44 slums in total and I have appointed one officer for each slum. Also, we have started mobile clinics which are visiting these areas and looking for Covid-19 suspects.” Kalshetti also said that regular disinfection of public spaces is being carried out. If the lockdown is lifted after May 3, the civic administration will continue with the disinfection drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/survey-complete-will-not-focus-on-slums-kalshetti/articleshow/75362154.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Collections at toll plazas in Rajasthan drop 70%||JAIPUR: As a result of the ongoing modified lockdown in the state due to nationwide Covid-19 crisis, the overall collections at the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) toll plazas have gone down by 70% and the total loss incurred would be around Rs 288 crore since March 25. “Even as the central government has resumed inter-state flow of traffic on national highways and toll collections from April 20, the collections at toll plazas have not been more than Rs 3 to 3.5 crore per day compared to pre-lockdown collections of around Rs 10 crore each day. Even now, there is a loss of Rs 7 crore per day in the state,” said M K Jain, chief general manager, NHAI regional office (Rajasthan). On March 23, the collections at Manoharpur toll plaza near Jaipur was Rs 14.81 lakh, at Daulatpura toll plaza it was Rs 10.91 lakh, at Thikariya toll plaza it was Rs 18.39 lakh, at Kishangarh toll plaza it was Rs 11.63 lakh and at Tatiyawas toll plaza the collection was Rs 4.27 lakh. However, earlier the collections at these toll plazas used to be over Rs 52 lakh at Manoharpur toll plaza, at Daulatpura toll plaza it was over Rs 38 lakh, at Thikariya toll plaza it was over Rs 62 lakh, at Kishangarh toll plaza it was over 40 lakh and at Tatiyawas toll plaza the collection was over Rs 14 lakh per day. The NHAI had suspended toll collection on all national highways after the announcement of 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24. It was resumed on April 20. In his address to the nation on April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the extension of lockdown till May 3. However, restrictions were relaxed in places where there were no hotspots on April 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collections-at-toll-plazas-drop-70/articleshow/75363103.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Shirdi priest donates Rs 21,000 to CM relief fund||NASHIK: A priest of Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, on Thursday donated Rs 21,000 to the chief minister’s relief fund to help the state government in its fight against Covid-19. Narayan Rajaram Bhise handed over the cheque to the trust’s chief executive officer Arun Dongre. “Bhise gave the cheque to the CEO so that he can send it across to the government. It was his personal wish to contribute towards the chief minister’s relief fund,” said Dongre. Bhise, who hails from a small village in Pune, works at the temple since last 33 years. “The trust has donated Rs 50 crore to the CM relief fund, but I also wanted to give my own contribution. When I told this to the CEO, he welcomed my feelings and encouraged my efforts,” Bhise told TOI. “Covid-19 infection is spreading in the state and the country and the government is trying hard to break the chain. The hospitals, administration, police and everyone is working hard to fight this pandemic. I could only stay indoors and offer small monetary support,” he said. Coincidentally, it was also his father’s 94th birthday on Thursday. “I came here to serve at the temple and then this place became my home. My wife passed away four years back. My father lives with me here. He turned 94 on April 23. It is a mere coincidence that I thought of this donation on the same day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shirdi-priest-donates-rs-21000-to-cm-relief-fund/articleshow/75360620.cms||pragya jain
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Senior citizens murdered in sleep by son for property in Delhi||NEW DELHi: An elderly couple was stabbed to death in sleep by their son in Deenpur village near Chhawla in southwest Delhi. The accused had a property dispute with his parents. He was arrested along with his wife, who aided him in the murder. Their children were in the room when they committed the crime. Police were informed about the murders around 11.15am on Friday by a relative who had gone to meet the couple, Raj Singh (61) and his wife Omwati (58). The relative told police that when he called Singh’s son Satish and daughter-in-law Kavita, both claimed the elderly were not at home and disconnected the call. Finding their action suspicious, the relative went to the house, forced open the door and found the couple lying in a pool of blood in their bedroom. They were stabbed multiple times on the face, chest and neck. During interrogation, Satish and Kavita first tried to first mislead police, but later confessed to the crime . “We have registered a case of murder against the son and are trying to establish his wife’s role,” said DCP (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse. Satish was unemployed and was planning to sell the ancestral house. Singh was opposed to this. Singh used to work as a supervisor with the municipal corporation and had retired last year. Neighbours said that their dispute had reached such proportions that Singh had thrown his son out of the house. However, he returned later. A probe revealed that Satish reached his parent’s bedroom around 11pm on Thursday and stabbed them with a kitchen knife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sr-citizens-murdered-in-sleep-by-son-for-property/articleshow/75364029.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Chennai||E-Akshaya Tritiya as jewellers sell gold online amid lockdown||CHENNAI: This Akshaya Tritiya, the largest gold buying festival in South India, don’t give up on the auspicious day and the sentiment because the shops are shut. Jewellers are lining up offers online to make the most of the occasion. Over the past few days, they are calling their regular customers, urging them to make a deposit online and get gold delivered, or collect it from the shop after the lockdown ends. "It came out of the blue and I do not know why someone from Thangamayil was concerned about my wellbeing," said S Usha of Anna Nagar in Madurai. Usha said the caller asked her if she was "unhappy" that she would not be buying gold on the auspicious day. "The caller said I can book the jewellery online and get it delivered when the shop reopens," she said. Larger national brands, including Tanishq and Kalyan, have begun advance online with Akshaya Tritiya in mind. They have launched a video-calling feature and live chats to help customers choose their piece of jewellery. "Contactless shopping experience will be a new experience for us and for our customers. We have trained our retail team in the process. They are prepared to deal with our customers in the virtual world," said Ajoy Chawla, CEO, jewellery division at Titan Company Limited. Kalyan Jewellers has launched a gold ownership certificate that can be purchased on the company website on or before Akshaya Tritiya. Customers can purchase gold from 2 grams upwards, and the certificate will be sent to them on the day of Akshaya Tritiya. "Owing to the extension of the lockdown, our social media channels and customer relationship managers are flooded with queries about purchasing gold on the auspicious day," said T S Kalyanaraman, MD, Kalyan Jewellers. Ananthapadmanabhan N, MD of NAC Jewellers said, "We have sent messages to customers. They make a deposit on the occasion and can buy when they want for the lowest rate. But while people such as Usha don’t want to purchase jewellery, some are making deposits. Ranjani of Chinthamani in Madurai said she was waiting to buy something on the website of her "favourite shop" on the auspicious day. "I have browsed through some designs and put them in the wishlist," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/e-akshaya-tritiya-as-jewellers-sell-gold-online-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75363108.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi bids fond farewell to cured pregnant patient||UDUPI: The temple town bid a warm farewell to a 29-year-old pregnant woman, designated P-176, from neighbouring Uttara Kannada, after she was successfully treated for Covid-19, on Friday. The district brass, including deputy commissioner Jagadeesha G, superintendent of police N Vishnuvardhan and ZP CEO Preethi Gehlot, were there to bid her farewell, even as she exuded confidence of returning here to deliver her child. Gehlot made the occasion memorable, by presenting the soon-to-be mother a bowl of fruits and the famed Udupi jasmine. The district, that has maintained a clean slate, with regards to Covid-19 cases, since March 29, added the discharge of P-176, as a feather in its cap. An elated Jagadeesha said, “It is an important day for Udupi. P-176 getting discharged is a feather in our cap,” he said, adding that the challenge arose, as the facilities were inadequate in Uttara Kannada to treat P-176. “They couldn’t treat a pregnant woman with Covid-19 in Uttara Kannada. It was difficult, since the challenge involved saving the unborn child,” the DC said. The district administration initially rejected the request, as their agreement with TMA Pai Hospital—the designated Covid-19 Hospital—was to treat patients from Udupi alone. However, later, based on directions from the chief minister and chief secretary, we took up this case as a challenge, he said. Noting that she had her share of worries before coming here, since she was pregnant, the patient said the treatment that she got here was excellent, and the doctors and nurses did a fabulous job in looking after her. “I don’t have any words to express my gratitude. I felt like it was my home, and that I am not admitted in a hospital. I got whatever I wanted, and the staff were helpful,” she said. Noting that she is feeling back to normal now, the patient said if she had the option, to come back to deliver her child here, she would do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-bids-fond-farewell-to-cured-pregnant-patient/articleshow/75358984.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 25, 2020||Bareilly||10-year-old Moradabad girl sells face maskson bicycle to earn a living for family||Bareilly: Wearing a little face mask herself, a 10-year-old girl, riding her bicycle, has started selling face masks around the city daily to earn a living for her family. The family, like many others in Moradabad, has been struggling to make their ends meet during the Covid-19 lockdown. The girl's father, Intezar Hussain, who is into tailoring, said that work has come to a halt as no one is turning up to get dresses stitched. As a result, the family started going through a very difficult time. Then came an innovative idea. The family began working round the clock for a week to produce face masks out of the residue cloth materials and sell them to locals, police personnel, among others, on corona duty. Hussain, who is in his 50s, said, “Ever since the lockdown came into force, we were left with no work. People were not turning up to get their dresses stitched. This ultimately led to severe hardships as I was struggling to run my family. However, we then decided to utilize this difficult time in stitching face masks. The idea was to protect people from the infection while also earn some money. During the past week, we made 300 to 400 face masks and sold them in our locality and adjacent areas.” Hussain, who is a resident of Meena Nagar in Jayantipur under Majhola police station, added, “My daughter carry these masks on her bicycle daily in the morning and evening hours. We have been selling 15-20 face masks, sometimes at one go. People give us 10 to 15 rupees for one mask and in this way, we are able to earn around Rs 200 per day. I also ensure that my daughter wears a face mask herself when she is outdoors.” The family is also making tri-coloured face masks and locals have appreciated their efforts. “We distributed some face masks among the poor and destitute for free,” Hussain added. Welcoming the idea, local residents have appreciated the family’s innovative efforts. They have applauded their assistance and also praised the efforts for earning a living through hard work during a crisis. A few of city's well offs have lend a helping hand to the family as well. Poet and politician Mohammad Imran Pratapgarhi said, “We have reached out to the family to provide them financial assistance during the lockdown. We will also provide them 15-day ration to ensure they do not face any more hardships during this period, and we requested the family to stay at home. They will be provided all the necessary help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-moradabad-girl-sells-face-maskson-bicycle-to-earn-a-living-for-family/articleshow/75362184.cms||Maria Khan
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||4 test positive in Bhavnagar||Four more persons tested positive in Bhavnagar on Friday. This included a 60-year-old woman who tested positive on Thursday night. She is resident of Matwa Chowk, a containment area. A 40-year-old man tested positive during surveillance drive. A 45-year-old woman and 49-year-old man from containment zone were also found infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4-test-positive-in-bhavnagar/articleshow/75360652.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Plasma therapy trial offers hope||AHMEDABAD: One of the country’s first open label randomized and controlled convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials, under way at SVP hospital, has shown a glimmer of hope in the war on Covid. The recipients of the therapy — a 50-year-old male and a 50-year-old female — have shown some improvement. They require less oxygen support, compared to the control group of patients, in this Phase 2 clinical trial. But experts have warned that the trial is statistically too small and so it will be premature at this stage to draw conclusions on the efficacy and safety of plasma therapy. “After two days of receiving blood plasma from the donors, the two patients have required less oxygen support, which is a positive development.” said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health. Ravi made the announcement shortly after the Delhi government made a similar announcement earlier in the day on Friday. “There have to be at least 20 patients along with a control group before anybody can comment on whether the therapy works or not,” said a senior medical expert. “It totally depends on the antibodies present in blood plasma.” Two women donors who had recovered from Covid had donated their blood plasma. A third young woman has consented to be a donor. Another expert said that any scientific experiment requires to clear the ‘null hypothesis’. “The ICMR, which is India’s apex biomedical research body, has clearly directed that no premature announcement regarding the therapy should be made as it will be against scientific ethics,” said the senior medical officer. As for blood plasma donors, the choice was scientifically made. They should have no co-morbid conditions and should have no habits such as smoking. In the case of women, they should either be unmarried or married without children. In the case of recipients, only those who are either on light oxygen or no oxygen and have no co-morbid conditions are chosen for the trial. The recipients’ immunity shouldn’t be compromised. One donor can give 400-500 ml of blood plasma. A donor can donate again three months after the first donation. “Through a special machine, only the plasma of the blood is extracted while the rest of the blood components are returned to the patient,” said a senior AMC official. “Only marching blood groups are supposed to be involved in the trial.” Another important criterion is that only donors who have tested negative twice for Covid even after 36 days are included in the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plasma-therapy-trial-offers-hope/articleshow/75363110.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Exempt bakeries from closure list, demands owners & citizens||Kolhapur: The bakeries were exempted from the closure list last month, however, after cases of people gathering at sweet shops and snacks shops were reported, the state government directed to keep bakeries along with sweet and snacks shops closed. The district administration while continuing the closure of the bakeries, has decided to allow manufacturing of bread. It will be available in the shops selling essentials, as per the order. The bakery shops owners and the citizens have demanded the exclusion of bakeries from the closure list. Earlier, the sweet and snacks shop were closed but during the period of the extended lockdown, they were given the permission to remain open only through delivery system following social distancing. Following cases of people rushing at sweet shops, the state government has directed the district administrations to ensure the bakeries along with the sweet and snacks shops to remain close. The citizens are facing a shortage of bread, biscuits and even milk due to shutting of the bakeries. Indrajit More, a resident of Ruikar Colony, said, "The bread, biscuits are commonly used unlike cakes, pastries and other sweets sold in the bakery and sweet shops. The bakery shops were only selling bread and biscuits along with milk. Now, there is a shortage of these items." One of the bakery shop owners from Kasba Bawda said, “Why should all of us bear the brunt if there was a crowd at some of the sweet shops.” “The bakery shops sell the baked products which are part of a regular diet and comes under the essentials. We also sell eggs, milk, jams, sauces and other ready to eat items. These items will be available at the ration shops. After two weeks of the lockdown, the supply of these items was normalised. Now, what will we do with the bread and other items that we bought?" said the bakery shop owner requesting anonymity. The bakery shop owners have approached the Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, the district body of the traders. Sanjay Shete, president of KCCI said, "On the one hand the government has approved the opening of the industries processing agriculture produce and on the other, it is not allowing the sale of the products. We have discussed the issue with the district authorities who have assured that the government will asses our demand. Bread and biscuits are consumed daily. If the shops selling these items remain shut as per the recent orders, these items will be in shortage and there will be an increase in the prices."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/exempt-bakeries-from-closure-list-demands-owners-citizens/articleshow/75362166.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||Surendranagar opens Covid diary with first case||Rajkot: The driver who was booked on Wednesday for lockdown violation in Botad for illegally transporting a fruit trader’s son from Aurangabad, tested positive for coronavirus in Surendranagar on Friday. This was the first Covid-19 case recorded in Surendranagar district, which also happen to be an asymptomatic one. The 61-year-old driver was nabbed by the Surendrangar police from his residence in Thagadh town on Thursday night. He was sent to isolation ward in Surendrangar civil hospital where his report turned out to be positive on Friday. The driver has no co-morbid conditions, said doctors.He along with five others were booked by the Botad police for illegally transporting people along with consignment of fruits in his truck. According to Surendranagar collector Rajesh K, the truck driver had gone to Andhra Pradesh to deliver some goods. On his way back he came through Aurangabad in Maharashtra, from where he had to load fruits for a trader in Botad. The Boatd trader asked the driver to bring his son along with the goods. The trader’s son was kept under quarantine in Aurangabad but was released after he tested negative, he added. “The Botad police alerted us about the driver who was booked with five others on Wednesday. We tried to trace him near Limdi but in vain. Later we found his address of Thangadh and nabbed him from his residence on Thursday morning and sent to isolation ward,” Rajesh told TOI. Area in 1km periphery of the driver’s house has been put under containment. There were two drivers in the fruit truck, the other driver has tested negative for the virus, said Rajesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/surendranagar-opens-covid-diary-with-first-case/articleshow/75360635.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Thane||Now, central team to visit Thane to assess Covid situation||MUMBAI: After visiting Dharavi and meeting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to suggest augmented efforts to combat the Covid-19 threat in Mumbai, the central inter-ministerial team led by additional secretary Manoj Joshi will now visit Thane. A senior official said the central team found blatant violations of lockdown measures in Mumbai. “Implementation of the lockdown measures are indeed very poor and as a result, despite best efforts, we have not been able to halt new cases of Covid-19,’’ he said. The central team will make on-the-spot assessment of the situation in the coronavirus hotposts of Mumbai, Thane and Pune and issue necessary directions to the state administration for redressal and submit its report to the ministry of home affairs. The visiting central team has been focusing on a range of issues, including compliance and implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines prescribed by the ministry, supply of essential commodities, preparedness of health infrastructure, hospital facilities, availability of testing kits, PPEs, masks, safety equipment and the condition in relief and shelter camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/now-central-team-to-visit-thane-to-assess-covid-situation/articleshow/75363145.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||KMT buses to transport industrial workers||Kolhapur: The civic administration has decided that the buses of the municipal transport would be roped in for taking industrial employees to their work place. Over 800 industrialists have applied to reopen their establishments in the industrial zones. District guardian minister Satej Patil said, “There is a need to bring the economy of the district back on track. Hence, we have allowed a handful of industries to open during the remaining period of the lockdown. We have decided to make the buses of the Kolhapur Municipal Transport available to the industries. However, considering the strict lockdown in the city, we cannot grant permission to the industries to start operations. I will consult the government to resolve this particular issue.” Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti has appointed transport officer P N Gurav to make arrangements for the buses and chalk out routes as per the location of the workers. Kalshetti said that further planning couldbe done only after the big and small industries decided how many workers have to be transported. Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said, “Two different passes will be provided to the industry owners and managers. The administration has agreed to allow movement of vehicles carrying raw materials and finished goods. Industries will be ready in a week to start manufacturing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmt-buses-to-transport-industrial-workers/articleshow/75362182.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bareilly||Forest dept to use18 impression pads in rubber factory to capture tigress||Bareilly: Forest department has created 18 impression pads on the roads in the defunct rubber factory, 18 km from Bareilly city, to study the movement of the tigress that has taken shelter there for over a month.Officials said once they have the pugmark impressions, they would block the routes frequently used by the big cat to isolate it for tranquilising purpose.Divisional forest officer Bharat Lal said, “A mixture of soil and sand has been placed on 18 spots on the cemented roads to create impression pads. Impression pad has been created on those roads where the big cat has been spotted in the past. We will study the pugmark impressions to zero in on the places where it prefers to rest. We will then use a net to block these areas. Once the tigress is isolated, it will be safe to tranquilise the feline. Due to presence of old tunnels, trenches and tanks in the abandoned rubber factory complex, experts have been looking for a safe spot to tranquilise the tigress. So far, it has eluded them.”TOI had earlier reported that the tigress was last spotted in Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) in 2018. Officials have identified the tigress after matching its stripes from national repository. According to officials, as the crow flies, Kishanpur Sanctuary is nearly 150 km from Bareilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-dept-to-use18-impression-pads-in-rubber-factory-to-capture-tigress/articleshow/75362191.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||Covid relapses in 3 more Patan patients||Palanpur: Patan district is seeing a major relapse of coronavirus in patients who were discharged earlier.On Thursday too, three more patients who had recovered tested positive for Covid-19, a day after the virus relapsed in two people. The patients include two men - one aged 83 years and other 35 years and a 54-year-old woman, said DK Parikh, district development officer, Patan. All these patients are from Nendra village near Siddhpur. In all, seven patients were discharged on April 17 of whom Covid1-9 has relapsed in five now.They were in government quarantine facility for 14 days at Siddhpur after being discharged. The three were re-admitted to Dharpur Medical College & Hospital in Patan.District health officials are struggling to ascertain the reason for relapse.Meanwhile, two more cases surfaced from Umaru and Bhilwad villages in the district on Thursday. “A 50-year-old man from Umaru and a 65-year-old woman from Bhilwad village near Patan town have been admitted at Dharpur hospital,” said chief district health officer, Dr Alpesh Savli.The woman was first admitted to Sadbhav Hospital in Patan and all hospital staffers who had come in her contact have been quarantined, said Dr Salvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-relapses-in-3-more-patan-patients/articleshow/75360686.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: RIL, NBC, others contribute to CM Covid-19 fund||JAIPUR: Despite donations to Chief Minister Relief Fund Covid-19 Mitigation Fund not coming under CSR activity, several companies are either making donations or taking up social work to help people during the pandemic. Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, on Friday announced to to donate Rs 5 crore to the CM relief fund. The National Engineering Industries, which sells bearings under the brand name of NBC, has donated Rs 1.30 crore, while Suravi Charitable Trust has committed Rs 1 crore. The trust has contributed Rs 21 lakh to PM Cares fund and pledged to spend the rest of the amount to undertake relief work in Rajasthan like paying school fees of 1,000 needy children and giving free medicines to the poor in remote villages of Bikaner. Similarly, CII has committed to provide 10,000 face shields free-of-cost to the state government. Udaipur-based Narayan Seva Sansthan that runs charitable hospitals across the country has formed a ‘Corona Relief Force’ comprising 50 people to take care of distribution of food and essentials among the needy. However, a senior official in the state government clarified that the donations to CM fund should qualify for CSR activity and that the order of corporate affairs ministry clarifying that the donations are not covered under CSR is wrong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ril-nbc-others-contribute-to-cm-covid-19-fund/articleshow/75363139.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bareilly||Help the needy, avoid iftar partiesthis Ramzan: Dargah Aala Hazrat||Bareilly: Sajjadansheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat Mufti Ahsan Raza Khan has appealed to people to avoid throwing or participating in iftar parties during the holy month of Ramzan. He also asked people to maintain social distancing while shopping for Ramzan or Eid. The Ramzan month begins in parts of South Asia from Saturday. Media coordinator of Dargah Aala Hazrat, Nasir Qureshi, said, “Mufti Ahsan Raza Khan, sajjadanasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat, has asked people to refrain from participating in iftar parties. He said people have to follow Shariat as well as lockdown. Events, wedding parties and religious programmes should be postponed. People should pray during shehri and iftar times for end of novel coronavirus across the world.” Khan reiterated that people should offer prayers at home, instead of going to mosques. He also asked people to help the poor and the needy. Salman Hasan Khan, national vice-president, Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, has also appealed to the people to follow lockdown norms during Ramzan and pray for the quick end of the deadly disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/help-the-needy-avoid-iftar-partiesthis-ramzan-dargah-aala-hazrat/articleshow/75362205.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man takes wife along to buy veggies, booked||Ahmedabad: Vastrapur police on Friday booked a Bodakdev resident for violation of the lockdown because he took his wife along to buy vegetables on his scooter. The FIR filed by Vastrapur police states police were enforceing the lockdown at Subhash Chowk when Arpan Gandhi tried to pass on his scooter with his wife riding pillion. Police flagged him down and asked him why the two of them were out on a scooter, to which Gandhi said they were going to buy vegetables. “We did not accept his reasoning that two persons needed to go out to buy vegetables. So we booked the man for violation of the notification and began an investigation,” said inspector M M Jadeja of Vastrapur police. Jadeja said they came across another couple on Friday who said they were out to buy milk products. “When the cops stopped them, the woman told police that her husband could not differentiate between certain milk products, so it was necessary for her to go with him,” he said. Jadeja said that people roam about on the pretext of buying vegetables and milk. In many cases, husband and wife go out together to buy these things. People should refrain from violating lockdown rules like this, said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-takes-wife-along-to-buy-veggies-booked/articleshow/75363133.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mysuru||Harsh Gupta to probe Nanjangud cluster case||Mysuru: Senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta, who was appointed nodal officer to monitor the situation in Mysuru, has now been tasked with the responsibility of probing the country’s first novel coronavirus ‘cluster case’ in Nanjangud. Chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar has asked Gupta to submit a report on the case in a week’s time. An investigating team, headed by an ADGP, has been trying to trace the source of the cluster case for the past few weeks, but the lack of solid results has prompted the government to appoint an IAS officer to look into the matter. The move comes against the backdrop of the Centre’s efforts to trace all sources of multiple infections. Police have been looking into all possibilities to get to the root. Cops are also checking records to see if any of the employees or any of their friends and intimates attended the Tablighi Jamaat convention in Delhi. Jubilant Generics, the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud, was the epicentre of the cluster case, and the sharp spurt in of Covid-19 cases was traced back to the firm. Of the 88 cases reported in Mysuru, 72 have been traced to the pharmaceutical firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/harsh-gupta-to-probe-nanjangud-cluster-case/articleshow/75360542.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||No sacking, but IT firms, startups send staff on leave without pay||JAIPUR: Fear of administration taking action against companies for laying off has not deterred firms getting rid of employees and reducing their financial burden at a time when revenues have dried up. Many medium- and small-sized IT companies and almost all the startups in the state, having workforce below 200, have resorted to leave without pay in recent weeks, said IT entrepreneurs and sector experts. “Most of the projects of mid- and small-sized IT and BPO firms are short in duration. In this situation, the flow of new projects has slowed down. When they had orders, employees were allowed to work from home. But now, after the projects were completed, lesser projects are coming in. That’s why many companies have asked employees to take leave without payment,” said Puneet Mittal, an IT entrepreneur from Jaipur. He said big companies have absorbing power and the delivery period of their orders are longer that’s why they can manage the short-term hiccups better than mid or small-sized firms. Normally, impact on big companies takes time, but it lasts longer. “The revenue of small companies has gone down by 50-60% and so their employees have come on bench without projects. Since they are not generating any revenues, companies do not have money to pay the idle staff. So, companies are sending these people on leave without pay for the time being as one of the best solutions available to them,” Mittal added. However, for early stage startups it’s a battle for survival as cash flows have come to a standstill and investors have disappeared from the market as they have adopted a wait-and-watch approach. Mahavir Sharma, global president of TiE, said, “If the situation does not improve quickly, many early stage and pre-series A startups are likely to bite the dust. These ventures depend on regular cash flows and periodic funding. Both lifelines have snapped for now. Retaining staff is another big challenge because they don’t have money to pay salaries. A few are giving ESOPs and have agreed on deferred payments, but there are many for whom this option is not available because of their size and uncertainty of their ventures,” said Sharma. Besides matured ventures like CarDekho and Voylla, there are about 4,000 youths in the state engaged in the startup sector and most of them, barring those operating in online education and healthcare, paying staff is almost impossible. “The next one month will decide the future of many early stage startups. Now, investors are only discussing and not committing any funding,” added Sharma. CEO of Startup Oasis Chintan Bakshi shared similar concerns. Bakshi said many startups have slashed salaries of their employees by 50%. “Well-funded startups can take the hit and survive, but the same is not the case for early stage ventures. About 90% of the startups in the state are in distress,” added Bakshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-sacking-but-it-firms-startups-send-staff-on-leave-without-pay/articleshow/75363151.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ramzan begins, moon sighted on Friday||Ahmedabad: With the sighting of the moon on Friday evening, the Muslims here will start observing Ramzan, the holy month of fasting. However, the Covid-19 threat and the nationwide lockdown will result in timid observance, which otherwise is marked with community feasting and prayers being offered in packed mosques. City police commissioner Ashish Bhatia and others met community leaders and told them to take proper precautions, such as not to gather at one place in large numbers or flock on the road. The city of Ahmedabad, is feeling the ravages of Covid-19 more keenly than many other parts of the state, with a large area of the Walled City marked as red zone. The regular night prayers, known as taraweeh, in mosques and the iftar parties will be missing this Ramzan. With the curfew lifted on Friday morning only in the old city, but the lockdown still in place, the overcrowded streets full of eateries will also look different this time around. The Muslim clerics have appealed to people not to throng streets and mosques to offer prayers, but to remain confined in houses and follow what the state government and medical fraternity have been advising.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ramzan-begins-moon-sighted-on-friday/articleshow/75363147.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Surat||Asha worker in Valsad tests +ve||Surat: A 32-year-old Asha worker from Kelvani tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. Vandana Jadav had visited Lila Patel, 27, who was five months pregnant, in the same village a few days ago. Thus, she became third person from Dharampur taluka and fifth in Valsad district to test Covid positive. Asha workers visit pregnant women in villages to inform them about nutritious food and medicines. Health officials said Jadav probably got infected during her visit to Patel’s house. Patel had visited Surat and her parents' house a month ago, health officials in Valsad said, adding that it is not yet clear how she got infected. Samples of Jadav's husband, her daughter and another 50 people of the village who may have come in contact with her were collected.Kelvani and 3km area adjacent to it has been declared containment area, while 7km radius is a buffer zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/asha-worker-in-valsad-tests-ve/articleshow/75360717.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Goa||Tar desilting initiated, locals push for holistic approach||Panaji: Water resources department (WRD) has responded positively to Mapusa municipal council’s (MMC) initiative to desilt two main nullahs to improve rainwater flow into the Tar. Other stakeholders suggest a larger effort to clear more areas which were reclaimed indiscriminately. WRD has agreed to desilt Gaunsavaddo and Morod nullahs of the Tar after MMC chief officer Clen Madeira urged North Goa collector in a letter to carry out the work before the monsoon. “The work of desilting Mapusa’s longest nullah from Khorlim has already begun,” Madeira said. Elsewhere, illegal dumping of debris in the river’s flood plain and mud-filling for road widening along NH 66 choked the tributaries, sources said. Locals have called for a holistic approach to the flooding problem. “The inundation worsened last year and one doesn’t see flood waters receding soon,” Tulio de Souza, president of Guirim comunidade said. A part of Tar river at Bastora was buried while a connecting nullah on the Guirim side was also choked due to mud-filling. Guirim comunidade had complained to WRD about it and the department had issued a show-cause notice to the contractor. WRD officials and the comunidade had agreed to a slight deviation in the river course near Green Park hotel to retain the alignment of the highway, the service road and the flyover. “This deviation was on condition that a necessary retaining wall on both sides would be built and the river width would be left untouched,” de Souza said. A WRD official said the contractor has maintained the river width by excavating on the southern side. But local residents said that its tidal course has been affected due to clogging and its flow dynamics should be assessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tar-desilting-initiated-locals-push-for-holistic-approach/articleshow/75364074.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Bareilly||Now, Tharus can get medical aid at 6 sub-health centres in Kheri||Bareilly: In the wake of upgradation of six sub-health centres in Lakhimpur Kheri district, members of the Tharu tribe will no longer have to travel 50 km to Palia town or cross over to Nepal for medical treatment. Now, the Tharus can undergo treatment near their villages. Pregnant tribal women will have access to safe institutional delivery system and avail of immunization schemes for themselves and their babies. The Tharu tribals live in remote areas adjacent to forests of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve along the Indo-Nepal border. For years, these tribals, numbering over two lakh in Kheri district alone, had no access to proper medical facilities. Not anymore. Each sub health centre will cover at least five villages. At these centres, regular immunization of children will be done. The Tharus can also avail of medical counselling. On Friday, CMO Manoj Agarwal and chief development officer Arvind Singh, in the presence of project officer UK Singh, inaugurated the newly developed sub centres in Ghusakia, Ramnagar and Chedia West villages under Chandan Chowki area of the district CMO Agarwal said, “Tharu women can visit the sub-centres for regular check-ups during pregnancy, which will reduce the complications and child mortality rate. Vaccinations for children will also be available here. There will be a dedicated staff at each centre with required stock of medicines. In case of an emergency, a patient can be referred to a higher facility in Palia or Lakhimpur city.” Arvind Singh said, “We have also provided a dedicated ambulance service to these Tharu villages. The ambulance will be available at Chandan Chowki as there is no mobile connectivity in the area. We are regularly trying to improve the living and economic conditions of the Tharu tribals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-tharus-can-get-medical-aid-at-6-sub-health-centres-in-kheri/articleshow/75362233.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 25, 2020||Bareilly||Namesake confusion: 2 positive persons released from Moradabad quarantine, brought back||Bareilly: In a scary move that could have potentially led to more people coming in contact with Covid-19 positive cases, the health department in Moradabad on Thursday evening mistakenly discharged two Covid-19 patients from a quarantine centre as their names were similar to two other persons, who tested negative, in the same ward. On Friday, after realising their mistake, a medical team brought the two individuals back to the quarantine centre. On Thursday evening, as soon as the test report arrived, doctors discharged the two men after confusion due to similar names. Meanwhile, district magistrate RK Singh said that no action was initiated against the doctors as it was a “human error that was timely rectified.” With one more fresh case having tested positive, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Moradabad has now reached 96. The DM said, “Covid warriors are braving the odds tirelessly. Soon after the novel coronavirus patients were discharged by mistake, a team reached their houses and brought them back to the quarantine centre.” Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said, “Two persons at the quarantine centre have similar names as that of two others. Two of them were found positive while the other two were found negative for Covid-19. By mistake, the two positive cases were discharged." The CMO said, “It was indeed a mistake, and an enquiry headed by the additional director of health has been set up. Appropriate action would be taken after the enquiry report comes.” The CMO said that on Friday they received a report of 90 cases, out of which only one was found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/namesake-confusion-2-positive-persons-released-from-moradabad-quarantine-brought-back/articleshow/75362225.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Indian Security Press prints 1.10 lakh tags for seeds bags||Nashik: After carrying out emergency printing of over 20,000 passport certificates for the external affair ministry, the India Security Press (ISP) Nashik has printed 1.10 lakh tags for seed bags for the Maharashtra State Seeds Certification Agency (MSSCA). The tags are attached with the seeds bags as part of certification in order to avoid duplication of seeds along with curbing sale of fake seeds in the markets. ISP Nashik — a unit of Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Ltd (SMPCIL) — printed the tags and dispatched them around two days back. "We had shut our operations on March 24 after the lockdown was imposed. But we are providing emergency services in case there is demand from various wings of the government," an official from ISP Nashik said. An MSSCA official told TOI that they had given the order for printing the tags to the Nashik-based India Security Press (ISP) as per their requirement. “These tags indicate certification of the seeds,” he said, adding that the seed bags are soon to be distributed for the upcoming kharif season. The SPMCIL, which prints currency notes and coins along with other security documents, has a total of nine units across the country. Of these nine units, two are in Nashik — Currency Note Press (CNP) and India Security Press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/indian-security-press-prints-1-10-lakh-tags-for-seeds-bags/articleshow/75360676.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 25, 2020||Pune||Stuck in Malaysia, Puneites seek government help||PUNE: Hadapsar resident Jyoti moved to Malaysia on a dependent visa to be with her husband Vishal (names changed on request), who works in a private company in Petaling Jaya as a software developer. Vishal came to Pune on March 11 and was to return on March 17, when the lockdown was imposed. Jyoti has been stranded and scared ever since. Jyoti has not moved out of the house since March 11 out of a fear of getting infected, she has nearly exhausted her stock of food and groceries and is distraught. “I am worried as I am new to the city. I don’t know anybody here and I am actually on a dependent visa and my husband is not with me, which is scary,” Jyoti told TOI over the phone. The lockdown in Malaysia has now been extended till May 12. Both Vishal and Jyoti have tried to contact the Indian embassy in Malaysia, but received little help. “I contacted them via WhatsApp, but the response was far from helpful. They were not aware or the situation, neither were they clear about evacuation or any help for stranded passengers,” Vishal said, Abhilash Parida, his sister and brother-in-law — all residents of Pune — had gone on a vacation to Kuala Lumpur on March 12 and have since been stranded there, They are now they are finding it difficult to manage their finances. “We have not received any help with respect to accommodation, food or anything else. We have been changing our Airbnb stay every 10 days and it is very expensive. Even buying groceries is difficult as we have to hire a taxi to reach the store and only one person is allowed per taxi,” Parida said. They were supposed to return to India on March 21. Parida has been trying, in vain, to contact the Indian high commission in Kuala Lumpur, tweeting at their official handles. G Jayaraman is part of a group of Indians stranded in Malaysia. He says approximately 3,000 Indians are stranded there on various visas — business, student and tourist. “The high commission has been taking information of Indians stranded here via online forms,” he said. They all requested the Indian government to help them get back to the country. When TOI sent a message on WhatsApp to the high commission of India to check on provisions made for stranded Indians, there was no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stuck-in-malaysia-puneites-seek-govt-help/articleshow/75363149.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Odd-even for shops in Laxmipuri to reduce crowd||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has initiated odd-even formula for the shops in Laxmipuri market to ensure lesser crowd. The TOI had reported on Thursday about the situation of the social distancing in one of the largest markets of the city for food grains, spices, vegetables and other essentials. The traders there had claimed that the crowd will continue to remain till the end of the lockdown since the supply of the essentials is inadequate. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “Some shops will open on odd days and the remaining on even days. We have found on Friday that it led to lesser crowd. The fruits and vegetable vendors have been asked to stay at 20 feet distance from each other. We are adopting different ways to ensure the social distancing is followed.” He added that they had controlled the crowd in suburban localities by decentralizing the markets. We have reduced the vendors from Gangavesh area. The teams have been appointed to take strict action against the violators. “We are ensuring that the citizens get the essentials any time of the day so that they do not make rush to buy the things in the case where the shops were open for few hours of morning. We have asked the shops to keep open from 9am to 5pm,” he said. The civic administration is thinking over the idea of coupon system, which has been adopted by cities like Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The citizens are given coupon with the timing during which he or she can move out to buy the essentials. The officials have held the preliminary discussion and are planning to make the shop owners part of its implementation. The administration is considering issuing coupons to citizens that will allow them to move about at given time. Such system is possible in the large residential localities such as Shahupuri and Rajarampuri. “Now we are planning to put restriction of time on the citizens for moving them out for buying things. We are deliberating on it and soon will roll it out. Meanwhile we have started city wide campaign through various means to digital mode to get the essentials at their doorstep. We want people to stay at home for longer time. Moving out has high risk of getting infected by coronavirus,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/odd-even-for-shops-in-laxmipuri-to-reduce-crowd/articleshow/75362199.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Let life bloom, an apt motto for this volunteer||NEW DELHI: What does a gardener focused on flowers, foliage and fertilisers know about the perils posed by a lump of genetic material enclosed in a coat of protein and fat? Perhaps not a thing. But that hasn’t stopped Dinesh Bhadana from marching to battle against the novel coronavirus. Instead of a watering can in south Delhi’s Saket, the municipal corporation gardener today goes around with a disinfectant pump on his back or atop a tanker spraying sodium hypochlorite on the lanes. Life took an interesting turn for Bhadana 20 days ago when the horticulture department of South Delhi Municipal Corporation asked young maalis to volunteer for an anti-pandemic mission. “This came at a time when I had been struck for 8-9 days at home due to the nationwide lockdown,” the 30-year-old says. “But the municipal corporation was short of manpower in this awful crisis. Since a large number of gardeners are elderly, some nearing retirement age, and therefore vulnerable to Covid infection, the younger ones were asked if they were willing to do something more for society. It was all voluntary, there was no pressure on anyone to agree.” He stepped forward, and now goes out daily to disinfect localities and gather data. After two days of training and orientation sessions on the dos and don’ts of grappling with the novel coronavirus so as to avoid being a victim, Bhadana and his fellow gardeners were deployed as frontline field staff. Hand sanitisers and disinfectant sprinklers are now temporarily the tools of their trade rather than the humble hoes, rakes and lawn movers. “Earlier, locations and parks where we would work were fixed. But these days, we gather at a nursery in Saket around 9am where we don masks, protective hats, gloves and gumboots before being deployed for the day. I am covering Lado Sarai areas in recent days,” Bhadana smiles. The unfazed gardener adds, “I never imagined doing these things, but we are trying to meet the health challenge. Parks right now are less important that people’s lives.” Bhadana says that while people in villages are supportive of them, it isn’t quite the same in other areas. “There are times when we aren’t even allowed entry into upscale colonies. People there think we will transmit the coronavirus,” he says, clearly mystified by this social behaviour. The young man had joined the horticulture department in 20090 on compassionate grounds after his father, also a corporation employee, died, but he says he had never imagined he would one day be assigned such tasks as fighting a pandemic. At home in Chhatarpur, Bhadana has a mother, wife and two younger brothers, both of whom are working from home. “My family sometimes asks me why I am leaving the house in such times, but not everyone’s work is on laptops,” he shrugs. His risky forays mean the family has to be extra cautious. Bhadana’s 65-year-old mother Suresh Devi makes him remove his clothes and take a soapy bath before entering the house in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/let-life-bloom-an-apt-motto-for-this-volunteer/articleshow/75363174.cms||Paras Singh
April 25, 2020||Bareilly||On World Malaria Day, experts fear focus on Covid-19 weakens fight against malaria in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Experts feel that with the Bareilly health department focusing all its efforts on the novel coronavirus pandemic threat, the fight against malaria outbreak has been weakened. In April this year, only 24 malaria cases were detected after screening 1,413 patients, compared to 252 malaria cases reported in April 2019, after screening 6,046 patients. Experts told TOI the number of malaria cases has reduced due to screening of fewer suspects. Health department data shows 612 people were found positive for malaria between January and March this year, after the health department examined blood samples of 30,893 people in the district. This is in comparison to 308 malaria cases detected in the same period in 2019, after screening 12,097 people. Sources told TOI that ASHA workers, who were conducting tests for malaria using rapid diagnostic tests kits, are busy this year surveying Covid-19. Similarly, most lab technicians and lab assistants, who prepare blood slides for malaria tests, are occupied with novel coronavirus work. Though the number of patients examined for malaria rose from January to March this year, in comparison to same period in 2019, the groundwork to screen patients reduced drastically since April. A senior official who did not wish to be named, said, “If people carrying malaria parasite remain undetected due to reduced screening, the number of cases will go up drastically later. If it rains, the situation may worsen. The aim of health department has been to detect all hidden patients and treat them to contain the spread of the malaria parasite. However, our past efforts will be wasted if we neglect malaria in highly-sensitive Bareilly.” The official added, “Active case finding — in which a health staff team holds a camp in a village to test all fever patients for malaria — has been stopped from March 11. Besides, as out-patient department (OPD) at primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs) has been suspended, suspected malaria patients are not visiting hospitals for treatment.” Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “As Bareilly is endemic zone for malaria, on Friday, I directed all medical officers in-charge of PHCs and CHCs to focus on malaria. I have asked them to test migrant labourers for malaria and conduct blood tests of patients coming to CHCs and PHCs. We will rope in ASHA workers to create awareness on malaria too.” In 2018, Bareilly district reported 37,482 malaria cases, which increased to 46,717 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/on-world-malaria-day-experts-fear-focus-on-covid-19-weakens-fight-against-malaria-in-bareilly/articleshow/75362242.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 25, 2020||Bareilly||Vegetarian cook thrashed by 3 for stealing chicken pieces from dish, battling for life||BAREILLY: A local businessman and his two aides forced a vegetarian man, 30, to cook chicken at an eatery and allegedly thrashed him mercilessly on suspicion that he took away a few pieces. The man is struggling for life at a hospital in Bareilly. Bablu Saini, who worked as a cook at the eatery on National Highway, was living there with his wife and a daughter since the lockdown. Police initially refused to file an FIR. But, a case was registered on Thursday night after this issue came to the notice of SSP Shailesh Pandey. The eatery is owned by Neeraj Gupta. The FIR was registered on the complaint of Saini’s wife, Anita. But no one has been arrested so far. Doctor treating Saini said that his condition is still critical. Neeraj Gupta, the owner, told TOI, “Saini and his family were staying in the dhaba which was closed due to lockdown. Mahendra Rana forced him to cook chicken, and later thrashed him mercilessly with Dharamveer and his servant Tasleem claiming that he had stolen a few pieces of meat. I informed police but no action was taken for four days. Police instead threatened to arrest me. Rana is quite influential and police is also supporting him.” While Anita said, “They were inebriated and didn’t listen to my husband that he is vegetarian and kept on thrashing him.” SSP Pandey said, “We have registered an FIR in this case at Izzatnagar police station and action will be taken against the accused for sure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/vegetarian-cook-thrashed-by-3-for-stealing-chicken-pieces-from-dish-battling-for-life/articleshow/75362249.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nine ‘bored’ persons booked in same village||Ahmedabad: Cops are keeping a hawk’s eye on every possible spot to prevent violation of lockdown. On Friday, a team of Kheda district police spotted a man sitting near a burial ground in Kathlal village and booked him for disobeying lockdown. The FIR was filed in Kathlal police station. Until now, police have booked nine persons from the same village in separate cases, all of who stated that they had come outdoors to break boredom. The FIR stated that a patrolling team was moving on Nadiad Road when they spotted Sohelakhtar Shaikh, 25, sitting near a ‘kabrstan’ or cemetery. When cops asked him what he was doing outdoors during lockdown, Shaikh replied that he was getting bored inside home, so went out and sat near the cemetery. However, his response was not deemed satisfactory by the police, as all non-essential movement has been barred during lockdown. So police booked him for lockdown violation. Apart from this, another eight persons were booked in the same police station for going outside to break boredom. Two of them had gone to religious places of Hindu and Islamic faiths. Four women among these eight also said they had gone outdoors to relieve themselves of boredom. Kathlal police have begun investigations against all the accused. Last week, a team of Sabarmati riverfront (West) police had booked a 35-year-old woman from the Usmanpura area of Ahmedabad, who had said she had come outdoors because she was getting bored at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-bored-persons-booked-in-same-village/articleshow/75363154.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||4 more test +ve for Covid-19 on Friday||Aurangabad: Two Covid-19 cases from Samata Nagar near Kranti Chowk and one case each from Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura and Asifiya Colony have been reported on Friday, said Sundar Kulkarni, the district civil surgeon. With four fresh cases, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city rose to 44. A 24-year-old man and a 37-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 from the area on Friday, taking the total number of cases from the same source in the area to eight. Due to the number of Covid-19 cases reported in Samata Nagar, it has become declared as a hotspot for the virus spread. In Asifiya Colony, a 38-year-old man, a contact of a Covid-19 patient from the area, also tested positive on Friday. On Tuesday, a 76-year-old woman who was a resident of Bhimnagar had died and her funeral had witnessed a large gathering. Later, the deceased patient was confirmed to have Covid-19. A close contact of the deceased patient, 27-year-old man, tested positive on Friday. On Thursday, the woman’s 45-year-old daughter-in-law had also tested positive for coronavirus On Friday, 39 people including high-risk contacts of the Covid-19 patients were placed in institutional quarantine and 252 people were put in home quarantine. Two patients are currently seeking treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Kanan Yelikar, the dean of GMCH, informed that no Covid-19 related death was recorded at the hospital in the last 24 hours. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has declared 11 localities in the city as containment zones in which 113 health teams have screened 32,126 people from 6,798 houses. Altogether from district civil hospital, GMCH and private hospitals, 148 throat swabs samples were collected. Reports of 38 throat swabs samples are awaited. So far, 1,797 throat swabs samples have been tested from the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-on-friday/articleshow/75360711.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Pune cases cross 1,000-mark, Maharashtra casualties go past 300||PUNE: Pune on Friday recorded 109 fresh coronavirus cases, taking its tally to 1,094 and making it the second city in the state after Mumbai to breach the 1,000-case mark. It took 47 days for Pune to cross 1,000 cases since it reported its first two cases on March 9. It crossed the 500-mark on April 17 and took just another eight days to cross 1,000. The Pune Metropolitan Region reported six deaths on Friday, including that of an 83-year-old ex-serviceman, taking the toll up to 67. With 18 new Covid-19 deaths reported from across the state on Friday, the toll in Maharashtra breached the 300 mark, touching 301. Ever since the toll crossed 100 on April 10, Covid-19 deaths have increased by 100 every seven days across the state. The daily tally of cases in both Mumbai and Maharashtra hit a surprising 50% drop on Friday — a day after registering the highest single-day tally. The state recorded 394 cases against 778 on Thursday. Mumbai reported 242 cases on Friday, 53% fewer than 522 on Thursday. Pune had seen 104 cases on Thursday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra stand at 6,817, while Mumbai has 4,447 cases. In Pune, two deaths were reported from Sassoon hospital — a 61-year-old woman from Parvati Darshan area with myocarditis, hypothyroidism and obesity and a 40-year-old man from Shikrapur, a chronic alcoholic for 20 years. Two other casualties were a 40-year old woman from Bhavani Peth who died at KEM Hospital and a 52-year-old woman from Dhankawdi who died at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. The fifth death was that of a 65-year-old Nigdi resident suffering from respiratory troubles. The ex-serviceman who died at the MH-CTC at Wanowrie had served in the Army’s Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC). He had fought in the 1971 Indo-Pak war in East Pakistan and retired in 1980. The toll data showed it took Maharashtra a month from the detection of the first case on March 9 to register its first 100 deaths; on April 10, the death toll was 110. A week later, on April 17, the toll touched 201. The next 100 deaths were also recorded in seven days. The case fatality rate in the state on Friday was 4.4%. Of the 18 deaths reported in the state on Friday, Mumbai registered 11, pushing the city’s toll to 178. Mumbai accounts for 60% of deaths in the state. CFR of Mumbai was 4% on Friday. Out of the 11 deaths reported in Mumbai, seven were of people with co-morbidities. (With inputs from Sandip Dighe & Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-cases-cross-1000-mark-state-casualties-go-past-300/articleshow/75364064.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra told to expedite release of prisoners||PUNE: The Bombay high court on Thursday directed the state government to expedite steps for the release of prisoners on interim bail or parole according to the Supreme Court’s order of March 23 to decongest jails in view of the Covid-19 situation. Hearing the matter in a suo motu proceeding, Justice G S Kulkarni passed the order after public prosecutor Deepak Thakare placed on record a letter issued to him on April 20 by the additional director-general (prisons) stating that as of now none of the prison inmates in jails across the state was affected by coronavirus. It also recorded that 4,060 prisoners/undertrials were released on bail so far after a decision of the high-power committee set up as per the Supreme Court (SC)’s directive and the state home minister’s statement on March 26 that 11,000 prisoners would be released in phases. Thakare submitted that further action was being taken to release the prisoners falling within the parameters of the decision of the committee. Justice Kulkarni observed, “As the state government is already in the process of releasing 11,000 prisoners by following the appropriate procedure, it is not necessary to issue any immediate directions. However, it is clarified that the state government may expedite such steps which are being taken, so that the orders of the Supreme Court are implemented in letter and spirit.” The bench also urged the high-power committee to decide at the earliest senior lawyer Satish B Talekar’s representation for reconsideration of the norms it set on March 25 for the release of prisoners. The court posted the matter for next hearing on April 30. Talekar had earlier written a letter to the chief justice of the high court raising an exception to the “discriminatory” norms set by the committee. The letter has since been converted into a suo motu petition. It is Talekar’s case that the committee ought not to have made a distinction between offenders under the Indian Penal Code and those under the other special enactments for release on interim bail or parole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-told-to-expedite-release-of-prisoners/articleshow/75363162.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||MHA’s clarification on penalty fails to satisfy industrialists in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The ministry of home affairs’ clarification on penalties for companies violating modified lockdown norms seems to have fallen short with industrialists seeking more clarity so that they are not subjected to criminal action by police or administration. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Thursday clarified that the CEO of the factory owner would not attract any jail term as punishment if a Covid-19 positive case is found. But Navneet Jhalani, joint secretary of the Federation of Rajasthan Textiles and Handicrafts Exporters (Forthe), said the clarification order is silent on the punishment or penalty. “There is a risk that factory owners would be exploited under the cover of this provision and inspector raj would begin. If a corona positive case is found in any unit by mistake, then the administration will try to detect deficiencies in compliance of precautionary measures,” Jhalani said. The second point of the clarification by the home secretary is that the factory premises will not be sealed for three months in the event of a Covid-19 positive case. Responding to this, Jhalani said why the home secretary did not clarify as to how many days the factory will remain closed. Recently, a factory in Noida was sealed and the local administration there closed the factory indefinitely. The MHA’s clarification also mentioned that the news of shutting down the unit and restarting it after two days for non-compliance of precautions is a rumour. Jhalani said the government should then clarify if the unit would be shut down or not and also if punitive action would be taken against the owner or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mhas-clarification-on-penalty-fails-to-satisfy-industry/articleshow/75363164.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard gets stuck in tiger trap in Paratwada range||Nagpur: The worst memories of tiger poaching cases in Maharashtra came back to haunt the forest department on Saturday when a leopard got stuck in a steel trap ostensibly laid for a tiger in Paratwada range. As per the latest All India Tiger Estimation AITE)-2018, India’s tiger population has increased by 33% from 2,226 in 2014 to 2,967 in 2018. It is possible that organized gangs of poachers may target tigers in the country. The three-year-old male leopard was found trapped in a farm in Khairi village early morning. Poaching tigers for their body parts and skin by laying steel traps is the modus operandi of organized gangs of Baheliya poachers from Katni in Madhya Pradesh. The trap is suspected to have been laid with an intention to poach a tiger. “We learnt about the incident when reports came in that a leopard had injured one person. When our teams went there they found the leopard in the steel trap. It was rescued after tranquillizing by veterinarians and shifted to transit treatment centre (TTC) at Paratwada,” said Praveen Chavan, chief conservator of forests (CCF), Amravati. “The leopard suffered injuries in the right paw of the hind leg. It is a steel trap with chains. We will have to investigate whether the leopard walked into the farm with the trap or was the trap itself laid in the farm,” Chavan said. Sources said there were temporary camps of Pardhis, who are traditional hunters, near the water tank in Khairi. The village is isolated 1km away on Asegaon-Daryapur road. In 2013, the Maharashtra forest department had nabbed over 100 tiger poachers and those harbouring them from Baheliya community and 20 of them were also convicted. However, many of them are still at large but the department gave up on them and it may be possible that these dreaded poachers must have become active again with local support. Achalpur-Paratwada was a big hub of organized poachers who were involved in removing tigers in Vidarbha region. As reported by TOI, organized gangs of poachers removed at least 25 tigers from Vidarbha region between October 2012 and May 2013. Chavan said, “It is a serious issue and we will look into all possible angles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-gets-stuck-in-tiger-trap-in-paratwada-range/articleshow/75384267.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 25, 2020||Hubballi||One more discharged from hospital in Dharwad||Dharwad: A 27- year-old Covid-19 patient, P-194, who is a resident of Mulla Oni in Hubballi, was treated at KIMS hospital in Hubballi, and discharged on Thursday night, after test results came out negative. Deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said the man had returned from a trip to Delhi, and tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. As his health improved, his blood and throat swab samples were sent for testing on April 20 and 21, and the results came out negative for the novel coronavirus. After ascertaining that his respiratory system was functioning normally, he was discharged from the hospital on Thursday night, she said. Dharwad has recorded 9 Covid-19 cases, of which two have been cured and discharged. Currently, there are seven active Covid-19 cases being treated at KIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/one-more-discharged-from-hospital-in-dharwad/articleshow/75359049.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur a new hotspot? Cases reported from 40 areas||JAIPUR: Jaipur is turning out to be the biggest hotspot for Covid-19 as 40 places, including 10 from the Walled City, have constantly been reporting positive cases. The Centre has also included Jaipur among cities where the situation is ‘serious’ and sent an inter-ministerial team which inspected the affected areas and treatment facilities earlier this week. Jaipur accounts for at least 37% of the total cases reported in the state. While the Walled City has reported more than 550 positive cases, cases are sporadically being reported from other areas too such as Raja Park, Adarsh Nagar, MD Road, Vaishali Nagar and Vidhyadhar Nagar. Cases are coming up even from rural areas such as Jamwaramgarh, Phagi, Luniyawas and Kotputli. In the Walled City area and even in the state, Ramganj has turned out to be the most vulnerable area with 510 people infected with the virus till April 23. Apart from Ramganj, nine other areas of the Walled City such as Purani Basti (22), Subhash Chowk (2), Manak Chowk, Badi Chaupar (9), Ghat Gate (31), Bhrampuri (2), Ganga Pole (17), Johari Bazaar (3), Chhoti Chaupar (1) have also reported Covid-19 cases. Till April 23, the entire Walled City area reported 597 cases. However, the infection is spilling over to other areas outside the Walled City too. MD Road area, which is close to the Walled City is the worst-affected after Ramganj. The area is under curfew as 53 persons have been found infected. Shastri Nagar has reported 15 cases. On Agra Road, sporadic cases have been reported in Kho Nagoriyan area. Four persons have tested positive in the area. Health department teams are camping in the area and have quarantined more than 50 people from the area, who were in close contact with the victims. Six more people have tested positive in Raja Park area. in nearby in Adarsh Nagar area, a 85-year-old man, who had returned from Dubai had been found infected. Posh areas of the city such as C-Scheme and Bani Park have reported one case each. In Vaishali Nagar too, three persons have tested positive for Covid-19. Several areas in the city have reported one case each including Jhotwara, Heerapura, Mahesh Nagar, Amber, Ramgarh Mod, Sodala, Vidhyadhar Nagar and Hasanpura. The health authorities are closely monitoring these areas to keep the situation under control. Besides, the virus has also started penetrating the rural areas as sporadic cases have been reported from Jamwaramgah, where two persons tested positive and one died. Luniyawas, Phagi and Kotputli have also reported one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-a-new-hotspot-cases-reported-from-40-areas/articleshow/75363180.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||Pune teachers skipping key survey may be suspended||PUNE: Municipal school teachers missing work related to the Covid-19 survey will face action, a senior civic official said. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to issue show cause notices to over 170 teachers, who have been skipping duty. The civic body is conducting a survey to identify suspected and positive patients as part of a containment plan to control the spread of coronavirus in municipal limits. “The PMC has given a deadline of 24 hours to the teachers for reporting on the project. If they don’t, action of suspension may be taken against them,” said Anil Mule, head of PMC’s labour department. According to PMC officials, the survey is being conducted by over 750 teams across sealed areas and slums. The surveyors, including civic officials and municipal school teachers, check if anyone is showing symptoms of the coronavirus infection and conduct contact tracing. “The teachers have been roped in to conduct the survey as they have experience. Along with housing societies, the teachers are able to reach out to citizens even in slums,” said a senior official. Some teachers have not attended the survey and they have been served notices seeking an explanation. Teachers, who have remained absent without a genuine reason, will face action. Civic officials have also started repeat surveys in areas where there has been a rise in Covid-19 positive patients or deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-skipping-key-survey-may-be-suspended/articleshow/75363167.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nashik||124 high risk contacts in 5 containment zones, four test positive||Nashik: As many as 124 high risk contacts were found by the civic teams carrying out the door-to-door in the five sealed containment zones of the city. Of these, the throat swab samples of four people tested positive while the remaining 120 people tested negative. Those who tested positive are from Sanjeev Nagar area along the Satpur-Ambad link road. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sealed five areas in the city for 28 days after positive Covid-19 cases were reported from there. The first Covid-19 case in Nashik was reported on April 6 when a resident from Govind Nagar tested positive for the disease. Following this, the civic body sealed the area for 28 days and found a total of 17 high risk contacts. They all, however, tested negative for the respiratory disease. Two more people, residents of Anandvalli on Gangapur Road and Rajlaxmi Lawns area on Nashik Road, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 10. From these two areas the civic body managed to trace 43 high risk contacts of which the throat swab samples of two tested positive. On April 15, a Mumbai resident, who was living in a shelter home near Nasardi bridge, also tested positive for coronavirus. As many as 12 high risk contacts were also checked, but they all tested negative. The following day, April 16, a 62-year-old woman from Sanjeev Nagar area had tested Covid-19 positive. The NMC had traced 52 high risk contacts, including her six family members. Of the six family members, four had tested positive, while the remaining 46 tested negative. A civic official said that they are carrying out door-to-door survey in all five containment areas on daily basis. "So far, as many as 3,559 houses have been surveyed in all the five containment areas," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/124-high-risk-contacts-in-5-containment-zones-four-test-positive/articleshow/75360749.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 25, 2020||Surat||Seven discharged in Bharuch, one more tests positive||Surat/Bharuch: A 38-year-old man from Bharuch district tested positive for the coronavirus on Friday taking the total cases to 25. Health officials said seven fully recovered Covid-19 patients were discharged from the Jayaben Modi hospital in Ankleshwar on Friday.Moinuddin Saiyed, 38, a resident of Apsara apartment in Bharuch’s Kasak locality tested positive on Friday after coming in contact of a positive person.Those discharged in Ankleshwar include Anish Bhagat, 25, a resident of Mota Faliya, Minal Patel, 42, of Narmada Bungalow; Amruta Ahir, 34, a resident of Mittal Apartment in Zadeshwar; Sujal Chauhan, 16, a resident of Narmada Bungalow; Bhavin Patel, 29, of Muktanand society; Diwan Abbas, 23, resident of Razi Street and Mobin Solanki, 20, resident of Nanu Faliyu.Epidemic Medical Officer (EM), Bharuch, Dr Nilesh Patel said, “Ten discharged so far. Seven discharged on Friday have been advised quarantine for 14 days.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-discharged-in-bharuch-one-more-tests-positive/articleshow/75360745.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sarpanch booked for vigilantism||AHMEDABAD: A 45-year-old farmer from Kaniyal village in Kathlal taluka of Kheda district on Thursday filed a complaint against the village sarpanch and his two aides who had assaulted him for violation of lockdown orders on April 18. The sarpanch identified as Chiman Sodha along with his two aides Arjan Sodha and Niranhan Rao have been booked by Kathlal police of Kheda district for assaulting the farmer, Jagdish Sodha, and they have been also booked for violation of the lockdown notification. In his FIR with Kheda police, Jagdish states that he was going to a village temple on April 18 when Chiman and his aides attacked him. “They rushed towards me in a car and began asking me why I was roaming on village roads despite the lockdown. Before I could clarify, Chiman (sarpanch) began abusing me and when I resisted, he began beating me with a stick,” said Jagdish in the FIR. Police have booked the sarpanch and his two aides and begun an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sarpanch-booked-for-vigilantism/articleshow/75363170.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Pune||RPF thwarts late night goods train dacoity bid||Pune: With supplies running short in the markets due to the continued lockdown, goods trains ferrying foodgrain and other commodities may become a target for people desperate to secure essentials. In one such case, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of the Pune division foiled a theft attempt on a goods train ferrying essential commodities from Ghorpadi to Satara early on Friday morning. “A goods train had departed carrying rice, wheat and sugar. Two RPF men BT Kadam and DV Kanade were deputed to escort the train, which departed at 11.20pm and reached the outer signal of Salpa railway station, which falls under the Pune division, at 2am on Friday. The train had stopped there for around 15 minutes as the guard of the train had to be changed,” a senior official said. While the train was getting ready to leave, both RPF men flashed torch-lights on both ends of the train to ensure things were fine. “While they were flashing the torch, they saw around 10-15 men at a field about 50 meters away from the rail tracks. The men were moving towards the train. The RPF men were unable to recognize them and some of the men also flashed their torches towards the train,” the official said. The RPF men sought to know who the men were and what they wanted. When they got no reply, they warned that they would shoot at the mob. “Our men continued to warn them so the men led away. The train started and finally reached Satara station around 3.25am These men had come to steal essentials from the train thinking that the train was not escorted. Further investigations are on,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rpf-thwarts-late-night-goods-train-dacoity-bid/articleshow/75363176.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 25, 2020||Meerut||Mumbai man shifted to temporary jail after quarantine tests Covid-19 positive||MEERUT: A Mumbai man, who was recently shifted to a temporary jail in Saharanpur after he completed the mandatory 14-day quarantine, has now tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, the man, who had attended the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, was shifted to the temporary jail along with 60 others recently as they had completed the quarantine period and tested negative. Saharanpur superintendent of police (city) Vineet Bhatnagar said, “Some Jamaatis who had tested negative and completed the mandatory 14 days in quarantine were shifted to a temporary jail on Tuesday. However, one of them subsequently tested positive. His sample had come negative in the test conducted on April 4.” With an inmate testing positive even after the quarantine period, authorities are now mulling sample collection of the other 60 too. The SP added, “With the help of health officials, he has been shifted to a separate medical facility. The entire jail premises is being sanitised and the process of fresh sampling of the others lodged there has been initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mumbai-man-shifted-to-temporary-jail-after-quarantine-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75363172.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Eight government staff injured as speeding container truck crashes into SUV||COIMBATORE: A block development officer (BDO) and seven other government staff were critically injured after a speeding container truck collided with the sports utility vehicle (SUV) that they were travelling in on Kariyampalayam-Ponnegoundenpudur Road on Friday. The Karumathampatti police identified the injured as Annur BDO Mohan, 57, his assistants Sornavelammbal, 47, Geetha Lakshmi, 47, Vijayalakshmi, 45, overseers Rajammal, 51, Sivakami, 48, road inspector Bakyalakshmi, 40, and driver Sampathkumar, 55. According to a police officer, the incident took place when they were on their way to the office. “When they neared IDPL company on Kariyampalayam-Ponnegoundenpudur Road, a speeding container truck coming from the opposite direction crashed into the SUV. They were trapped in the mangled vehicle.” When alerted, the Karumathampatti police pulled them out of the vehicle with the help of other motorists and took them to the Annur government hospital, where doctors provided them first aid. They were later admitted to a private hospital. The officer said while the BDO and the driver were in a critical condition, the others were stable. Police have registered a case against container truck owner cum driver S M Narayanasamy, 65, of Sengalipalayam near Avinashi. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eight-govt-staff-injured-as-speeding-container-truck-crashes-into-suv/articleshow/75363169.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s every 5th case is from one of the 6 congested localities||JAIPUR: One-fifth of the 2,000-odd Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan are from the six narrow lanes or mohallas of three cities. These lanes, which have reported 426 cases till April 23, have an average population ranging between 1,000-2,000, making them micro coronavirus hotspots. Each lane has reported more than 50 cases The four lanes in Jaipur — Bisatiyon Ka Rasta, Ramganj Road, Jagannath Shah Ka Rasta and Futa Khurra — one in Ajmer — Muslim Mochi Mohalla — and Tonk — Mohalla Bamor Gate — are under intense monitoring of the state government. Leading in terms of number of cases are Ramganj Bazaar with 92, Mohalla Bamor Gate with 88 and Muslim Mochi Mohalla with 82 active cases. “Cramped living conditions with 20-30 people in each building or an average of 4-5 persons in each room in these lanes at a time when a distancing of 1-3 metres is prescribed by the authorities as a main precautionary measure has resulted in the disaster,” said Aqeel Khan, an area magistrate, Ramganj. Positive cases are just one side of the coin. Almost 200-300 people in these mohallas are quarantined at their homes or at government facilities. Several houses are without any occupants now. The number of patients will continue to rise in these areas as a huge number of samples are awaiting results. Already, all the occupants of these lanes have been screened and extensive testing is being done to identify the positive cases. Divided by cities, these lanes share a list of common tales, making them a perfect ground for the spread of any infectious disease. They are densely populated with doors opening to each other’s house, making social distancing next to impossible. These are low-income families with a high proportion of people living on rent. It has single entry and exit points making the spread of virus much easier. Putting all reasons together, it has the unique distinction of having entire families down with the virus, including children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajs-every-5th-case-is-from-one-of-the-6-congested-localities/articleshow/75363196.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 25, 2020||Pune||Pune cops detain minor on charge of burglary||PUNE: The Wakad police on Thursday detained a minor on the charge of burgling unattended houses during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the coronavirus spread. Police have recovered ornaments and three motorcycles, collectively valued at Rs75,000, from the minor boy. Balu Ubale (64), a resident of Rahatani, had lodged an FIR with the Wakad police on April 16 stating that gold and silver ornaments worth Rs10,000 were burgled from his nephew’s house in Shree Samarthnagar on April 16. Police received another complaint on April 17 from a resident of the same colony, Balaji Ambipure. He said that cash and gold ornaments, collectively worth Rs11,000, and a motorcycle were burgled from his flat. Police said that during the investigation, constable Bibhishan Kanherkar received a tip-off about the involvement of a minor in the burglaries. “We laid a trap took the minor into custody. The minor admitted to his involvement in two burglaries in Wakad and a motorcycle theft in Chinchwad,” assistant inspector Harish Mane of Wakad police said. The officer said the minor at present has 13 cases of thefts registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-detain-minor-on-charge-of-burglary/articleshow/75363191.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Pvt hospitals struggle to stay afloat||Coimbatore: Hospitals are an essential service, but private players are struggling to continue their operations on a minimal scale. Besides a huge drop in revenues due to cancellation of all elective surgeries and non-emergency appointments, other issues that they confront are safety of their patients and doctors, availability of imported emergency medications and retention of the panicked paramedical staff, who want to return to their native places. A majority of hospitals have seen 50% to 80% drop in patient flow and cancelled all non-emergency surgeries and procedures. An administrative officer of a multi-speciality hospital on Avinashi Road said, “Truth is majority of our revenues come from elective surgeries and procedures. While we have cancelled all the elective check-ups and tests, many patients too are scared to come to hospitals, which in turn has led to a massive drop in revenues.” Pointing out that the health industry is a highly labour-intensive industry, Dr S Rajasekharan, chairman, orthopedic and spine surgery wing, Ganga Hospital, said to accept emergency cases they had to keep their ICUs, pharmacy, radiology department and resuscitation wing open, among other things. “Salaries are our biggest expense and how could we meet that without revenue? The health industry works on lower profit margins and reserves, compared to other industries.” He said unless the government either allowed pay cuts or offered massive subsidies in some form in terms of taxation and electricity charges, hospitals could not sustain. Hospitals are also nervous about protecting the doctors and patients from getting infected. Dr Praveen Raj, bariatric surgeon, Gem Hospital, said, “There are not only guidelines on running a hospital, but also standard systems in place. Many surgeons find it hard to perform four to five-hour laparoscopic surgeries wearing the personal protection equipment (PPE) suits, because the face shields start fogging. So, they want to remove it.” He said while they have two staff nurses outside in full PPE suits to check every patient for influenza like symptoms, people who don’t reveal a fever and have a paracetamol could get in. “And a Covid-19 test may not be foolproof, because throat swab has a sensitivity of only 32% and can give false negatives.” The fear of getting infected and restrictions on public transport and travel have also made it difficult for hospital staff to reach the workplaces. “Many of our staff are stuck in other districts, unable to get passes to come to work. Even with letters and id cards, they get stopped and questioned. A hospital can only function with its staff,” Dr Praveen Raj said. Dr Mirudhubashini Govindaraj, clinical director, Womens Center by Motherhood Hospital, said retention of staff has been a huge challenge now. “Many of our staff want to go back to their native towns. For them to stay back, we have to keep them happy always. We are now picking them up for work.” Ensuring patients’ adherence to new instructions is also a big concern for them. “Many pregnant women had meltdowns when we said they could be accompanied by only one attender. We had to stop all fertility treatments because many of the drugs are imported and have a shelf-life,” Dr Govindaraj said. Now, some hospitals like Gem has issued letters to all their employees to show police, if they are stopped when coming to or returning from work. Motherhood has started webinar and teleconsultation services for the patients, who have been advised not to come for simple check-ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-hospitals-struggle-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/75363194.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Aurangabad||6 more Covid-19 patients discharged from hospital||Aurangabad: The total number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the city reached 22 after six more patients were discharged from the civic card centre at the district civil hospital on Friday. A total of 17 Covid-19 positive patients are now being treated at the hospital. As per the standard procedure, the swab samples of all six patients were tested twice. Only after both the tests came out negative, the doctors decided to discharge them. They, however, have been asked to remain under home quarantine for 14 days. Assistant civil surgeon Archana Bhosale, doctors Padmaja Saraf, Padma Bakal, Bharti Nagare along with other members medical team bid adieu to the discharged patients by giving them flowers. The first patient to walk out of the hospital was a 59-yea-old woman, a resident of Cidco N-1. She was first admitted to a private hospital before being moved to the civil hospital. "Guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare were followed while discharging the patients," Kulkarni said. Those went home from the hospital on Friday also included two women from the same family (aged 37 and 30 years) from Deolai Road area, 29-year-old man from Yadavnagar, a 11-year-old girl from Kiradpura, 33-year-old woman from Kiradpura and a 17-year-old girl from Jalal Colony. Mayor Nandkumar Ghodele appreciated the unrelenting work of the doctors and the hospital staff at all the Covid-19 treatment facilities. Altogether, a total of 44 Covid-19 cases have been detected in city of which 22 have been discharged after recovery, while 5 succumbed to the disease during treatment. With the fresh set of patients stepping out of the hospital, Aurangabad has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-more-covid-19-patients-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/75360763.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Milk van driver, friend robbed||AHMEDABAD: On Friday, a youth and his friend driving a milk van were robbed by four persons in Shahibaug. The accused first threw stones at the van to bring it to a halt and then robbed the milk van driver and his friend at knifepoint. Shahibaug police have registered a case of robbery and are looking for the accused. This is the second petty robbery in two days. On Wednesday, a man was robbed by persons who stopped him on the pretext of asking for an address. According to the complaint lodged by Pakaram Meghval of Khokhra, who works as the driver of a milk van, he and his friend Sanjay Raval had gone to Bhat village on Thursday night to collect milk crates for delivery to Jashodanagar. “On way to Jashodanagar, when their van reached near Holi Chakla in Shahibaug the robbery happened,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/milk-van-driver-friend-robbed/articleshow/75363189.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan’s every 5th case is from one of the 6 congested localities||JAIPUR: One-fifth of the 2,000-odd Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan are from the six narrow lanes or mohallas of three cities. These lanes, which have reported 426 cases till April 23, have an average population ranging between 1,000-2,000, making them micro coronavirus hotspots. Each lane has reported more than 50 cases The four lanes in Jaipur — Bisatiyon Ka Rasta, Ramganj Road, Jagannath Shah Ka Rasta and Futa Khurra — one in Ajmer — Muslim Mochi Mohalla — and Tonk — Mohalla Bamor Gate — are under intense monitoring of the state government. Leading in terms of number of cases are Ramganj Bazaar with 92, Mohalla Bamor Gate with 88 and Muslim Mochi Mohalla with 82 active cases. “Cramped living conditions with 20-30 people in each building or an average of 4-5 persons in each room in these lanes at a time when a distancing of 1-3 metres is prescribed by the authorities as a main precautionary measure has resulted in the disaster,” said Aqeel Khan, an area magistrate, Ramganj. Positive cases are just one side of the coin. Almost 200-300 people in these mohallas are quarantined at their homes or at government facilities. Several houses are without any occupants now. The number of patients will continue to rise in these areas as a huge number of samples are awaiting results. Already, all the occupants of these lanes have been screened and extensive testing is being done to identify the positive cases. Divided by cities, these lanes share a list of common tales, making them a perfect ground for the spread of any infectious disease. They are densely populated with doors opening to each other’s house, making social distancing next to impossible. These are low-income families with a high proportion of people living on rent. It has single entry and exit points making the spread of virus much easier. Putting all reasons together, it has the unique distinction of having entire families down with the virus, including children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rajs-every-5th-case-is-from-one-of-the-6-congested-localities/articleshow/75367045.cms||Shoeb Khan
April 25, 2020||Pune||Soldiers in Pune told to maintain daily contact register||PUNE: The Indian Army’s Southern Command, headquartered in the city, has directed its soldiers to maintain a log noting down the names of people they come in contact with daily. “The Southern Command is strictly following social distancing and other instructions issued on Covid-19. Each soldier has been directed to maintain a record of all persons s/he has come in contact with ... This will enable quick and correct contact tracing in the event of any soldier testing positive for Covid-19,” Southern Command stated in an emailed response to a TOI query. “The resident welfare associations of the cantonment are facilitating the supply of essential services to the residents at their doorstep. All offices and residential areas are being sprayed with essential chemicals at regular intervals. Thermal screening of all ranks is being undertaken to safeguard against the pandemic,” the email further read. “Contact between army personnel and civilians has been kept at a minimum. All other measures necessary are in place at the residential quarters of all ranks. Many officers are working from home. Only those whose presence is required at the office are reporting for duty,” a senior officer said. “Our priority is to maintain the highest level of fitness and health of our troops, especially if we get orders for deployment to cities to control law and order or crowd management,” the officer said. Defence minister briefedSouthern Army Commander Lt Gen C P Mohanty and other senior officers on Friday briefed defence minister Rajnath Singh via video conference about the overall preparedness and measures taken to deal with the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/soldiers-told-to-maintain-daily-contact-register/articleshow/75363183.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 25, 2020||Coimbatore||If lull in +ve cases continues, Nilgiris will be in green zone||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris is inching closer to becoming a green zone with the lull in positive cases, seven of the nine Covid-19 patients getting discharged from ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and all the 1471 people with travel history completing 28 days of quarantine. According to health officials, the remaining two patients, who are undergoing treatment at ESI Hospital, are recovering well and likely to be discharged in a day or two. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said, “About 500 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the four containment areas in the district since March 19 and they have all tested negative. In addition, we had screened 30 primary contacts of the patients and two of them had tested positive for the virus.” Seven of the nine cases in the district are attendees of Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. While all the nine were admitted to ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, four were discharged on April 19, one on April 22, and another two on April 23. Balusamy said, “Depending on the cases, at least 30-50 samples are collected a day. The samples are sent to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for test.” He said screening of people in the containment areas would continue. When asked about the use of rapid test kits, the official said, “We are yet to receive instructions from the government.” The district had received 300 rapid test kits and 100 were used to test health workers, police and sanitary workers. However, the government had instructed all the district health officials to stop using the kit as mandated by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Stating that all the discharged patients have been asked to remain in home quarantine for another 14 days, district collector J Innocent Divya said, “Except the two who are undergoing treatment in ESI Hospital, there are no cases of Covid-19 in the Nilgiris. We are strictly monitoring all the four containment zones in Ooty, Coonoor, Kotagiri and S Kaikatty.” She also appealed the people to extend their support to the administration till the lockdown ended. If the Nilgiris doesn’t report fresh coronavirus cases until May 9, the hill district will fall under the green zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/if-lull-in-ve-cases-continues-nilgiris-will-be-in-green-zone/articleshow/75363181.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Rajkot||Cops in private cars catch violators unawares||Rajkot: Despite drones and heavy cop deployment to ensure lockdown, the city police had a tough time to rein in people sauntering on the roads. Seeing police vehicles or drones, most of them used to have a lucky escape by fleeing into their homes or lanes.However, there is no escaping now. The city police are now patrolling the roads and lanes in private cars!Policemen in plain clothes are travelling in these cars to nab people who are venturing out of their houses without any plausible reason. The cars have especially come handy for the cops in nabbing people in the internal roads where people used to escape as police vehicles could be sighted from a far distance. In the last four days alone, 90 people have been caught completely unawares and booked for violating of prohibitory orders. As many as 250 vehicles have also been impounded in as many days.The cars of different models have been given to the police department by a local showroom owner for the purpose of patrolling.Talking to TOI, police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said, “We are using drones, but by the time cops reach the spot, people used to run away. The sample problem happens on seeing a PCR van and people used to run and hide inside the societies. So we decided to patrol in private cars with cops in civil dress to catch them unawares.”Policemen have been deployed on all the main roads of the city, but people still come out in the internal roads of their societies. Cos have identified some areas which have become notorious for violation of lockdown. These include Sant Kabir Road, Morbi Road, Kuvadva, Soni Bazar and old city areas like Palace Road, Gundavadi, Bhaktinagar, Malviyanagar and Pradhyumannagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-in-private-cars-catch-violators-unawares/articleshow/75360806.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Getting surgical team into operation theatre is a huge challenge’||By: Dr Chethan Nagaraj and Dr Amit Kulkarni There have been many lockdown learning experiences for everybody, but the medical fraternity has been forced to fast-track them and implement them ruthlessly. Doctors and their teams must strive harder to serve those in need while ensuring their own safety at the workplace, which are now, by default, high-risk Covid-19 zones. Like Patient M (name withheld on family’s request). This 54-year-old worker at a furniture store in north-west Bengaluru had a niggling shoulder problem for a while and one surgery hadn’t really helped. When we suggested a second one, he decided to go in for it. The only problem was he had to come all the way to the Bannerghatta Road hospital for the surgery. Though it wasn’t an emergency case, a longer wait would have meant complications. The surgery had to be done as quickly as possible and the patient agreed, despite the difficulties. We gave him a note which said the surgery was imperative. His son, who drove him here in their car, had to show it to police personnel at many checkposts along the way. As his wife Bhavna told us, it was quite a harrowing experience. Nevertheless, the surgery was successful and Patient M was discharged after a few days. We’ve had to quickly adapt to the new circumstances and use available technology to keep track of our patients. It has been an invaluable learning experience for us. Many surgeons across the city have performed such surgeries, albeit far fewer than usual, as those couldn’t have waited for the lockdown to be completely lifted. Patient M is now back home and his shoulder should heal in a few weeks. We trained M’s son in the required physiotherapy and we’ll monitor that it’s done correctly via WhatsApp video calls. (Dr Nagaraj is an orthopaedic surgeon and Dr Kulkarni is a neurologist. Both are consultants at Sagar Hospitals, Bengaluru)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/getting-surgical-team-into-operation-theatre-is-a-huge-challenge/articleshow/75362280.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Longer incubation window throws up new challenge for Covid-19 fighters in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The recent cases of coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh have revealed that the incubation period of the infection in some patients was more than three weeks to a month. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the maximum incubation period — the time from the moment of exposure to an infectious agent to the onset of symptoms — is 14 days with symptoms surfacing around the fift day. While a shorter incubation period gives room to control the disease, asymptomatic carriers can unwittingly spread the disease. In a given situation, as soon as the patient gets sick or starts exhibiting any symptom, the patient in all likelihood seeks medical intervention without giving much scope for transmission. But as long as the patient remains asymptomatic, he continues with his normal chores. For example, a 27-year-old woman, who tested positive for covid on April 23 in Visakhapatnam, was believed to have been exposed to the infection at least three weeks ago when her husband was tested for Covid on April 1. Four family members also contracted the virus from the same male family member, who had a travel history to Mumbai. But his wife had tested negative for coronavirus in the first test. All the five family members were recently declared cured and sent home. But the same woman, who first tested negative, was diagnosed with the disease on April 23 in the second test. Another case in point would be the three Delhi returnees who tested positive in the last few days in East Godavari. A total of 35 people had been to Delhi in the first half of March from East Godavari. While two persons stayed back in Uttar Pradesh, the remaining 33 were screened in which three tested positive on April 2. But in the recent second round of tests, three more persons tested positive, raising concerns among health officials. Now, East Godavari district officials have identified about 245 first and secondary contacts of the patients who will be tested soon. Similarly, a 46-old-woman tested positive for the virus in the second round of screening on April 19 in Visakhapatnam. A group of 10 people from Tamil Nadu who had a travel history to Delhi, arrived in Visakhapatnam on March 15. Upon being tested, two persons were found to be Covid positive on April 6. Incidentally, on the same day (April 19) when the two persons were declared cured, the 46-year-old woman tested positive for the virus when the officials were supposed to discharge her from the quarantine facility after completion of her 14-day quarantine stay. Senior genetics professor of Andhra University, Prof G Sudhakar, said the virus mutation spreading in India seems to be less virulent. “In general, the persons who contracted the disease start displaying symptoms within two weeks. But sometimes, it depends on the individual’s immunity and other factors such as age, genes” said Prof Sudhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/longer-incubation-window-throws-up-new-challenge-for-covid-fighters/articleshow/75360826.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 25, 2020||Nashik||Over 100 builders get NMC nod to start construction work||Nashik: Nearly half of the builders and owners, who had sought permission to start construction activities in Nashik city, have received the approval. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had received applications from over 250 builders and developers to start the construction activities. It has given permissions to 120 builders, who had already received commencement certificate for their projects. Builders, developers or owners may start construction of buildings at the sites, but they will have to keep at the most five workers at the sites. Moreover, builders or owners will have to provide staying facilities at the constructions site itself. Also, the workers will have to maintain distance of one metre from each other while doing construction activities. Builders said that some workers were already staying at the construction sites since the lockdown. Hence, construction activities can be started with the help of such people. On Monday, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game had issued an order in this connection following the centre and state government’s decision to give relaxation to certain activities out of containment areas. The construction activities had come to a standstill after the first lockdown was announced. According to Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) Nashik, the construction activities were taking place at over 2,500 sites in the city. Considering it, the number of applications the NMC has received is very low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-100-builders-get-nmc-nod-to-start-construction-work/articleshow/75360834.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 25, 2020||Ranchi||NGO hands out sanitary napkins in Kolhan division||Jamshedpur: A city-based social outfit is distributing 2,000 sanitary napkins free of cost in the rural areas under Kolhan division, which have been reeling under its shortage owing to the ongoing lockdown. Nishchay Foundation secretary Tarun Kumar said the decision to supply sanitary napkins in rural areas was taken after some girls from various hamlets called up the outfit members to inform them about the crisis. “Stores in rural areas have run out of stock and moreover, the rural families do not have enough money to purchase pads at the moment,” Kumar added. Kumar claimed that the foundation has already distributed 500 sanitary napkins in Baharagora, Ghatshila, Musabani, Patamda, Chakulia, Potka and Dumaria blocks since April 13. “Given our limited funds, we cannot cater to all but recently, we generated about Rs 40,000 through crowd funding for our cause,” he said. Five volunteers from the outfit travel to the blocks every day and deliver the pads to the respective village volunteer there, who, in turn, delivers them to the beneficiaries. On an average, 90 sanitary napkins are delivered every day. Apart from distributing sanitary napkins, the outfit is encouraging the young girls to maintain a lockdown diary. “Taking inspiration from ‘The Diary of a Young Girl’ by Anne Frank, we are encouraging the girls to write down their experiences during the ongoing lockdown,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ngo-hands-out-sanitary-napkins-in-kolhan-division/articleshow/75361263.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ranchi||Stones pelted at cops from Godda mosque||Dumka: A police team was attacked in Mandro Bazar locality under Thakurgangti police station of Godda district on Friday after it tried to disperse a group of people gathered at a local mosque. Godda SP Shailendra Burnwal said the team was patrolling in the area when it saw slippers outside the mosque. “Cops found that the mosque’s rear boundary wall was demolished to facilitate entry. When police asked them to come out, the people, around 60 in number, began pelting stones. The vehicle was damaged and a constable received minor injuries,” he said. Burnwal said five have been arrested and an FIR has been lodged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/stones-pelted-at-cops-from-godda-mosque/articleshow/75361421.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Mysuru||Kapila river looks crystal clear, thanks to lockdown||Mysuru: No foam, no foul smell and no floating clothes. The water is so clear that you can see the bottom of the river. This is how Kapila, the lifeline of Nanjangud, has regained its glory. No devotee is taking bath or dumping waste. The pollution has eased since no industry is functioning. Thanks to lockdown, the river that flows across the temple town has managed to improve its health. According to Yuva Brigade district convenor S Chandrashekar, who is in the forefront of cleaning the river, its water quality has improved a lot. “It is very clear now,” he said. “In Nanjangud, over 140 industrial units are functioning. All these days, the river was forced to bear the brunt of these industries. Adding to this, now no devotee is visiting the temple. So the quality of river water has improved a lot. The water is flowing pleasantly,” he said. According to Chandrashekar, in the holy bath area, reeds have come up. “But in the entire stretch, the quality of water is very pure,” he said. According to local residents, the lockdown has come as a huge blessing to this river which is considered as one of the holy rivers. “All these days, it was the Kapila river which was paying the price for everying—for industrial activities to holy bath of devotees. Now, except the release of drainage water in a few places, the water quality has reached its peak. No one has seen such a high quality water in recent decades,” said Sudhami, a local teacher. Suraj R, another resident, said changes in the environment shall be taken seriously by the locals. “All these days, a majority of the locals have never cared for the health of this river. They were exploiting it. Now nature has shown a way. It is our responsibility to keep the river clean,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kapila-river-looks-crystal-clear-thanks-to-lockdown/articleshow/75359718.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ranchi||Upset with PMCH delay, Bokaro sends swabs to MGM||Bokaro: The district administration here is reportedly upset with the Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for its sluggish pace in testing samples from Bokaro. The delay has prompted the district authorities to send samples to Jamshedpur’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH) instead. The district civil surgeon’s office said that reports of 58 samples sent to PMCH between April 15 and April 19 were pending. “Sixteen samples were sent on April 19, of which only one report has arrived so far. The pace of work at PMCH is slowing down contact tracing and screening drives here,” an official said. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said: “Reports of more than 50 samples are pending with PMCH. The delay is making it difficult for us to draw up a future course of action.” “Every time we follow up, the hospital is citing problems of power cuts and staff shortage. Thus, we are sending samples to MGMMCH as they are sending reports within 48 hours,” a district health official said on the condition of anonymity. PMCH is mandated to test samples from nine districts, including Bokaro, since its testing facility became functional on April 14. Before that, samples from Bokaro were being sent to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi. After Ranchi, Bokaro has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/upset-with-pmch-delay-bokaro-sends-swabs-to-mgm/articleshow/75361299.cms||Divy Khare
April 25, 2020||Ranchi||Two fresh Covid cases from Hindpiri, one in Deoghar dist||Ranchi/Dumka: Jharkhand recorded three more Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 59. Of these, 48 are active cases, while nine have recovered and two died during treatment. Confirming the development, state health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We detected three cases on Friday — two from Ranchi’s Hindpiri area and one from Bhurkunda village in Deoghar’s Sarwan block. In Ranchi, a man and woman aged 36 and 25 from Hindpiri tested positive on Friday. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said: “The two are residents of Hindpiri and they were screened during a contact tracing exercise in Nizam Nagar locality. The likely source of infection in both of them are from a distant family member who lives in the same locality.” In Deoghar, the district administration sealed Bhurkunda village started a screening and contact tracing exercise after an 18-year-old migrant labourer who returned from Gujarat last month tested positive for Covid-19. Deoghar DC Nancy Sahay said: “This is the second Covid-19 case in the district. The patient was in a quarantine centre at Kasturba Gandhi residential school with his brother after they returned from Surat in Gujarat. “ Sahay said the patient has been transferred to Maa Lalita Hospital in Deoghar, which is exclusively treating Covid-19 cases. Both the positive patients in the district continue to be asymptomatic. Meanwhile, the 22-year-old Malaysian woman, who became the first Covid-19 case in the state when she tested positive on March 31, was discharged from Rims on and shifted to a quarantine centre at Khelgaon on Friday evening. The woman is a member of Tablighi Jamaat and had attended the outfit’s markaz in Delhi last month. Other members of the group who have tested negative are also lodged at the same quarantine centre. As police have registered a case against all the members of the group for violation of visa norms, they are set to be shifted to jail soon. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SSP Anish Gupta said: “The Malaysian woman has been shifted to a Khelgaon quarantine centre and the whole group will be sent to jail on Saturday after they are produced before a court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/two-fresh-covid-cases-from-hindpiri-one-in-deoghar-dist/articleshow/75361374.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 25, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro dist admin allows stores selling textbooks, sweets, fans to open with riders||Bokaro: The district administration on Friday allowed bookstores selling schoolbooks, sweet shops and stores selling electric fans to open shutters during the ongoing lockdown from Monday. However, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar informed that there will be certain restrictions. “Social distancing has to be maintained by the shops. People will not be allowed to have sweets or tea at the shops. If people are seen flouting the norms, the owners will have to face legal action,” Kumar said. He added, “Home delivery of sweets is permissible.” On bookstores selling schoolbooks, the DC said, “The bookstores have been asked not to cater to parents who bring their children along with them.” He added, “The school managements will coordinate with the bookstores for smooth distribution of books.” On Friday, a meeting was held between the principals of private schools and bookstore owners at the auditorium of DPS Bokaro. The meeting was headed by Chas SDPO Shashiprakash Singh. After the meeting, Singh said, “Parents will be provided books at the stores or at the school premises upon furnishing the identity cards of their wards.” The school managements were asked to take steps to ensure social distancing by setting up barricades if they distribute books from their campuses. Meanwhile, parents residing close to schools were asked to come on foot. Singh added, “The school managements should plan properly before distributing books. All parents should be informed through WhatsApp about the number of books to be distributed. Books of different classes will be distributed on different dates in order to avoid unnecessary crowding.” Additionally, the bookstores were asked to prepare bundles of books of all classes so that parents do not have to wait, Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-dist-admin-allows-stores-selling-textbooks-sweets-fans-to-open-with-riders/articleshow/75361339.cms||Divy Khare
April 25, 2020||India||18 have died of Covid, 39 with Covid: Bengal||KOLKATA: Making a clear distinction between “died of Covid” and “died with Covid”, Bengal on Friday officially pegged its virus death toll at 18, based on an audit of 57 cases by an expert committee that classified 39 of those deaths as being caused by “severe co-morbidities” and cited the presence of the virus in the deceased as “an incidental finding”. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha gave the break-up hours after a central team sought clarifications from the state on whether its expert committee was in line with guidelines framed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The central team, led by Union additional secretary Apurva Chandra, also sought records of all Covid-19 patients who had died and whose deaths had been attributed to other diseases (co-morbidities). Additional secretary Chandra said a large number of patients at MR Bangur were waiting for their test reports for over five days. “Why are the results taking so long?” he said. The central team suggested ramping up testing to between 2,500 and 5,000 tests a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/18-have-died-of-covid-39-with-covid-bengal/articleshow/75365936.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Doctor, I am a doctor and I am stressed about Covid-19’||AHMEDABAD: They are the frontline workers and see the ever-rising numbers of Covid-19 patients before their eyes. The doctors and paramedical staff are not devoid of stress induced by the pandemic, say city-based experts. The Government Hospital for Mental Health (HMH) recently carried out a session for healthcare workers across the state to address their issues and also provide a suggestion or two. It was third in the series for the different stakeholders ranging from Covid-19 patients, their relatives and doctors. Experts pointed out that the most common complaints are sleeplessness and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in form of excessive hand wash or expecting strictest hygiene protocols from those around them fearing that they could contact it. “The health workers often work in seven-day shifts. Next seven days are spent in isolation so that they don’t infect their family members. For many, it’s also a stress-inducing factor, especially in set-ups where a few of their colleagues have been reported positive,” said an official. In one of the instances, a doctor had taken up to smoking excessively as a side-effect of the stress felt at workplace. Counselling by the experts yielded result as the number of cigarettes went down by 80%, added an official. “They see the patients coming by scores, everyone anxious from what they have heard about the disease and working under completely new set of rules such as wearing PPEs which are not easy to wear for longer hours,” said a city-based psychiatrist. “But on a positive note, the majority of the doctors are determined to give their best in this unprecedented health crisis. We are sure that after a few weeks, many of these conditions could be new normal.” The experts said that akin to the advice to patients, they also encourage the medical professionals to engage in light exercise, keep positive outlook and talk about what they feel to their friends, colleagues and family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-i-am-a-doctor-and-i-am-stressed-about-covid-19/articleshow/75362583.cms||Parth Shastri
April 25, 2020||India||China opens green channel for medical supplies to India||NEW DELHI: China on Friday said it had opened a ‘green channel’ to India to transport medical supplies, including PPEs, ventilators and testing kits. The foreign ministry had said on Thursday that it was expecting 20 more flights carrying medical equipment from China in the next few days and this was like to be stepped up in the coming months. “China has opened ‘green channel’ for Indian air cargo transport during the epidemic and approved 35 cargo flights carrying medical supplies such as PPEs, ventilators and testing kits to India...,” Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong tweeted. Twenty-four flights with medical assistance have already arrived in India from China in the past three weeks. “Àround 20 more flights are expected to bring supplies in the coming days, and this is likely to be stepped up considerably in the next few months,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday. Chinese manufacturers, meanwhile, have issued statements saying they received import licence from India for rapid antibody test kits only after their product was validated and approved by ICMR through NIV, Pune. They said these kits were not for confirming infection or infection status. ICMR, though, has already issued guidelines on how these are to be used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-opens-green-channel-for-medical-supplies-to-india/articleshow/75365988.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Central Railway gearing up to produce 25,000 PPE coveralls||Nagpur: After setting up 482 isolation or quarantine coaches for Covid-19, the Central Railway (CR) is now gearing up to produce personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls. “Of the overall target of 1.5 lakh PPEs by Indian Railways, CR will produce 25,000 essential preventive coveralls for railway doctors and paramedical fraternity,” said chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar. These PPE coveralls will be as per the standard and specification approved by Defence Research Development Organization (DRDO) and of the sample submitted by Northern Railway. “The raw material will be picked up from government approved suppliers and each coverall made by the railways will cost Rs 422 including GST, whereas the one available in the market costs Rs 808 each. The manufacturing of PPE coveralls by CR itself will give a huge reprieve as it will protect its front-line railway staff from getting infected,” Sutar said. The PPE coveralls will be stitched at Central Railway’s Parel and Matunga workshops. The contribution to tackle Covid-19 by Parel railway workshop is immense. It recently manufactured 50 oxygen cylinder trolleys and supplied them to Central Railway hospitals to be used for quick movement of much needed oxygen cylinders, apart from its contribution in converting significant number of coaches into isolation wards. Sutar informed the 140-year-old Parel workshop has the unique distinction of rendering services to the armed forces during the world wars. Apart from PPE and converting coaches, CR loaded 70,374 wagons of freight in 1,415 rakes in last month. About 75 rakes are being handled at various terminals for loading and unloading daily from Mumbai, Nagpur, Bhusawal, Solapur and Pune divisions. Railway staff at various goods sheds, stations and control offices are working 24x7 to transport essential commodities like food grains, coal for power generation, fertilizers, steel, petroleum products, de-oiled cakes and miscellaneous commodities. Sutar informed about 220 timetabled parcel trains are being operated, in which essential items like medicines, vegetables, perishable items, postal bags etc are being transported across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-railway-gearing-up-to-produce-25000-ppe-coveralls/articleshow/75362546.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Workshops, yoga & dance make shelter inmates feel at home||Nagpur: From dancing to yoga to learning new vocational skills, inmates at shelter homes are keeping themselves busy through various activities while awaiting the time when they can finally go home. NGOs and shelter owners are continuously thinking of innovative ideas to keep all inmates busy as they too are aware of the growing impatience among them. MS Tuli, who has provided his school and college off Koradi Road as a shelter home, says everyday he ensures that the inmates are involved in some or the other activity. Tuli said, “Every evening, the inmates organize a dance performance. It reflects their culture and is a wonderful sight to see. Women and children take the lead and are ably supported by men in this cultural activity.” He added that the large campus provides inmates with a lot of freedom to move around too. “Home minister Anil Deshmukh visited us on Tuesday and appreciated the efforts made to accommodate almost 120 migrants and keeping them engaged,” said Tuli. In the evening, many of young boys engage in a game of cricket whereas the children make full use of the swings and play zone in the school. In other shelter homes, migrants are learning vocational skills. Tanveer Mirza, a Nagpur Heroes awardee and social worker, said “At the Government Polytechnic shelter home, we taught the inmates how to make wooden bird houses and it was a pleasant surprise to see what a wonderful job they have done.” Yoga and karaoke are the stress-busters for migrants housed at a Reshimbagh shelter. Vijay Chourasia, one of the administrators of the shelter home, said, “Right in the morning, we have a yoga teacher coming in who takes the classes. Then we have also put up a karaoke system so that the inmates can sing songs, do mimicry etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/workshops-yoga-dance-make-shelter-inmates-feel-at-home/articleshow/75362561.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Thieves target one more liquor outlet||NAGPUR: The burglaries in closed liquor outlets are not ending in city, with yet another bar in MIDC area targeted. This is the seventh such incident in city. The series of burglaries at liquor outlets clearly shows police’s failure in keeping a check on miscreants even when the whole city is under lockdown and several police checkposts have sprung up across the city. In the latest incident, the burglars stole liquor bottles and an old computer worth Rs 1.77 lakh in all from a bar on Wednesday. MIDC police on Thursday registered a case of burglary. According to police, the burglar sneaked into the bar by breaking lock of a gate. When the burglary came to fore, the manager of bar approached MIDC police. All the bars and wine shops in the city are closed since March 18 following lockdown over Covid-19 outbreak. All these establishments were sealed off by state excise officials. Earlier, a country-made liquor shop in Kamptee and bars in Jaripatka, Gaddigodam, Koradi, Mankapur and Nandanvan were targeted by miscreants who stole cash and liquor worth lakhs of rupees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thieves-target-one-more-liquor-outlet/articleshow/75362575.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Alert bank clerk detects fake GMCH cheque of Rs 6.76 crore||NAGPUR: Imambada police have launched a search operation to nab an unidentified person who submitted a fake cheque worth Rs6.76 crore in a bank in the area with forged signature and stamp of superintendent of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Thursday. However, a vigilant bank employee spotted the fake cheque. Police said a masked man, who was also wearing a cap, came to the Axis Bank branch at Medical Square and submitted a cheque for Rs6.76 crore with sign and stamp of GMCH superintendent. Cheques were in the name of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and Old Rajiv Gandhi Jivandai Arogya Yojana accounts. He had submitted the cheque with self RTGS to be deposited in the accounts of Sadguru Training Company and MD Medical Equipment Suppliers. The man left the bank soon after submitting the cheque. The bank employee suspected something fishy and called the dean of GMCH to confirm the big transaction. The employee learnt that GMCH officials have not issued any such cheque. Soon, an official from GMCH reached the bank and inspected the cheque, which turned out to be a fake. Imambada police were informed and they registered a case of fraud in the matter. Cops scrutinized CCTV footage from the bank to identify the accused who tried to dupe GMCH by submitting a fake cheque. Cops are now working on identifying the accused. The incident came even as most of the officials at GMCH are busy fighting the outbreak of Covid-19. Police are now tracking the route the accused used to reach the bank in a bid to identify.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alert-bank-clerk-detects-fake-gmch-cheque-of-rs-6-76cr/articleshow/75362603.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger cub rescued, sans protection measures for Covid-19||Nagpur: Even as Covid-19 has been detected in tigers and lions at the Bronx Zoo, and pet cats at New York, in the USA, a three-month-old tiger cub was rescued from a stack of paddy husk at Sushi-Dabgaon village on Friday, without any anti-Covid measures. Chichpalli range forest officials said the cub was first seen at 6.35am by villager Rupesh Kothare near the house of one Ajay Shende. After seeing villagers the scared cub entered the heap of dry grass. Villagers informed forest staff and also called wildlife lover Umesh Zire from Mul, who always coordinates with the department during rescue operations. As a mob gathered, Zire sought permission from senior officials to lift the cub to a safer place and was allowed to shift the animal. Videos and pictures show that no precaution was taken by forest staff while handling the cub. The handler did not wear a mask and lifted the cub with bare hands. Experts say, “Though intention of the handler may be to save the cub from the mob, in the wake of Covid-19 being detected in wild animals, this is not the professional way to rescue a tiger cub.” Zire said, “As the mob had started gathering from nearby areas, it was necessary to shift the cub, which was already showing sluggish movement, to a safer place. We shifted it to a nearby nursery at Kelzar and barred entry of people.” The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Central Zoo Authority (CZA) have already issued an advisory to take utmost care while handling tigers during rescue and treatment. The finding of the cub near a busy village beside Mul-Chandrapur road is surprising. Generally, in territorial areas, mother tigress doesn’t desert such small cubs, and they are rarely left unattended. However, Chandrapur CCF SV Ramarao said, “The tigress is still there and was sighted by the staff and volunteers in the morning during a search of the nearby area. I’m not aware whether the cub was handled poorly. ” “The cub has been shifted in the evening to the area where it was found so it can reunite with the mother. Post primary treatment, veterinarians had declared the cub fit for release. A tigress in Kawdapeth forest area has three cubs. We suspect the cub might be one of them,” said Ramarao. On April 11, a mahua flower collector from Kawdapeth, Gulab Nikure (45), was killed by a tiger. The distance between Kawdapeth and Sushi is 3.5km as the crow flies. Forest officials said during a search for the tigress in the area at 10.30am they sighted a tigress near a water body, around 3.5km away from the spot where the cub was found. It escaped on seeing the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-cub-rescued-sans-protection-measures-for-covid-19/articleshow/75362618.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Woman, family booked for entering Wardha illegally||WARDHA: A case has been registered against a woman and her family, who travelled from Satranjipura in Nagpur in an ambulance to Wardha, under the Epidemic Diseases Act on Friday night. Satranjipura is identified as a containment zone of Covid-19. Police filed a complaint against the driver and owner of the ambulance, who allowed this woman to enter the district. Family members of this woman have been sent to the isolation centre at ITI Tekadi. Police said an ambulance had taken the patient to Nagpur. On the way back to Wardha, the driver allowed a woman to go and meet her relatives at Mahadeopura in the city. When taluka health officer came to know that such woman travelled without permission to Wardha at around 8pm, he immediately informed subdivisional officer Suresh Bagale. Bagale asked police to take action and send all family members to the isolation centre. It is learnt the woman is not ready to reveal her details and her travel history. But her family members confirmed that she came from Satranjipura area. The woman has been admitted to civil hospital as a preventive measure. Offences were registered under sections 269, 270, 278 and 279 of IPC. Collector Vivek Bhimanwar has warned of action against all those who enter Wardha illegally from corona-affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-family-booked-for-entering-wardha-illegally/articleshow/75362635.cms||---
April 25, 2020||India||Covid-19: Slight dip in new cases but deaths surge to 54||NEW DELHI: The number of daily Covid-19 cases in India, after hitting a peak of 1,755 just the day before, dipped slightly to 1,433 on Friday, mainly on account of Maharashtra reporting a drop of nearly 50% from Thursday’s record high of 778. However, the number of deaths related to the virus jumped to what is probably the highest single-day toll of 54, taking the total to 780 so far — which translates to a case fatality ratio of around 3.2%. Maharashtra continued to report the highest number of deaths, with 18 on Friday, Gujarat (15), Madhya Pradesh (8), Rajasthan (4) and Delhi (3). Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh recorded two deaths each while one death each was recorded in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. India’s total Covid-19 count stood close to the 25,000-mark, with 24,546 cases reported from the states at the time of going to press. On the positive side, 5,154 people — 21% of all positive cases — have recovered from the disease, the data shows. Maharashtra, the worst-affected state by a huge margin, reported 394 new cases on Friday, taking its tally to 6,817. The state now also has the highest number of recovered patients at 957, although its rate of recovery remains much lower than the national average. Delhi, in contrast, has one of the best recovery rates with 857 patients out of a total of 2,514 having been successfully treated for the disease. The city, however, continued to report a surge in the viral infection with 138 fresh cases on Friday. The Covid-19 death toll in Delhi is 53, of which 23 deaths have taken place at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital alone. Hospitals are emerging to be new hotspots for Covid-19 in the city with more healthcare workers testing positive. Three doctors of Safdarjung hospital tested positive for the disease on Friday, sources said. Gujarat showed a slight dip in new cases with 191 positive cases being confirmed. The state’s Covid-19 tally is 2,815, the second-highest in the country, and showing the fastest growth among big states over the past few days. Madhya Pradesh, meanwhile, continued to show a surge in infections for the second straight day after reporting a sharp decline in the previous days. As many as 143 new cases were reported, taking the state’s tally to 1,846. Eight more deaths were also recorded — including four in Ujjain and two each in Bhopal and Indore. Uttar Pradesh also recorded 143 new cases taking its tally to 1,655. One more death was recorded in the state, where the toll now stands at 26. Like on Thursday, Bengal witnessed a surge in new infections with 58 more being added to the state’s total, taking it to 514. Karnataka reported 29 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 474. With two new deaths being reported on Friday, Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 toll rose to 29. Andhra leads the southern states in virus-related fatalities despite being behind most of the others in terms of cases. The state also recorded 62 new cases, taking overall positive tally to 955. The increased numbers have come at a time when AP has started testing more people – it has an average of 1,018 tests per million people, the highest in the country. The state has so far tested 54,338 samples. Telangana reported another 13 cases of coronavirus on Friday, taking its tally to 983. Kerala recorded only three new positive cases. To date, 450 cases have been reported in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-slight-dip-in-new-cases-but-deaths-surge-to-54/articleshow/75366016.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 25, 2020||India||Congress: ‘Vanity projects’, DA cut attacks on aam admi||NEW DELHI: Criticising the Modi government for freezing dearness allowance (DA) of central government employees, Congress on Friday alleged the Centre was attacking the common man during the coronavirus crisis while continuing with its multi-crore “vanity projects”. It accused the government of giving a signal to the private sector and state governments to cut salaries and dearness allowance. “It is an insensitive and inhumane decision of the government to cut DA of central employees, pensioners and soldiers serving the public despite battling coronavirus, instead of suspending the multi-million crore bullet train project and the Central Vista beautification project, Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “The government of India, instead of healing the people and giving them financial support during the pandemic, is hurting the people of India.” Surjewala said while DA had been taken away from 1.13 crore employees and pensioners and would save the Centre Rs 38,000 crore, the government was going full steam ahead on the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista project and has refused to deduct any expenditure on the Rs 1.10 lakh crore bullet train project. Congress questioned why the Centre had not imposed 30% cut on wasteful government expenditure which would come to around Rs 2.5 lakh crore. Surjewala said on March 23, the government passed a budget of Rs 30.42 lakh crore and any resource crunch has to be met by cutting down wasteful and vanity expenditure rather than hitting the earnings of the common man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-vanity-projects-da-cut-attacks-on-aam-admi/articleshow/75366113.cms||---
April 25, 2020||India||Free firms with up to 300 from govt nod for layoffs: House panel||NEW DELHI: The parliamentary panel on labour has supported the idea of allowing companies having less than 300 workers to go for retrenchment or closure without government permission. The proposal, which has been the bone of contention at tripartite discussions on the Industrial Relation Code and attracted criticism from trade unions, has found the backing of the parliamentary standing committee on labour. In its report on the proposed Industrial Relation Code 2019, the panel said, “Threshold be increased accordingly in the Code itself and the words ‘may be notified by the appropriate government’ removed because reform of labour laws through the executive route is undesirable.” States like Rajasthan have already increased the threshold to 300 workers which, the labour ministry said, has resulted in an “increase in employment and decrease in retrenchment”. Sections of the bill said special provisions relating to lay-off, retrenchment and closure shall apply to firms having not less than 100 workers or numbers as notified by the ‘appropriate government’. This was brought down from the proposed threshold of 300 workers in the draft bill following opposition by unions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/free-firms-with-up-to-300-from-govt-nod-for-layoffs-house-panel/articleshow/75366131.cms||Swati Mathur
April 25, 2020||India||In Ramzan wish, PM hopes for win over corona||NEW DELHI: Wishing people on the occasion of Ramzan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed hope that the country will emerge winner in the battle against the Covid-19 virus. “Ramzan Mubarak! I pray for everyone’s safety, well-being and prosperity. May this Holy Month bring with it abundance of kindness, harmony and compassion. May we achieve a decisive victory in the ongoing battle against Covid-19 and create a healthier planet,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Even while interacting with the sarpanchs on the occasion of the National Panchayat Day earlier, the PM had urged the panchayat representatives to work hard saying that the holy time of Ramzan has begun and it comes with new challenges for the elected representatives, who should ensure that “people are safely placed during the holy time”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-ramzan-wish-pm-hopes-for-win-over-corona/articleshow/75366132.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Death commuted to lifer for Yug Chandak killers||NAGPUR: The Supreme Court on Friday commuted the double death penalty of the two accused in the sensational murder case of Yug Chandak to 25 years life imprisonment without any remission till they complete the term. The eight-year-old son of dentist Dr Mukesh Chandak was murdered on September 1, 2014, sparking off huge outrage and protests across the city. It was the second such killing in the city within three years. Kush Katariya (8) had earlier been killed by Ayush Pugalia on October 11, 2011. The sessions court here on February 4, 2016, had awarded a rare double death penalty to Rajesh Daware (19) and Arvind Singh (23) for kidnapping and cold-blooded murder of the child for extracting Rs2 crore ransom. The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court upheld the verdict on May 5 the same year. The accused challenged this judgment in the apex court where the Maharashtra government roped in senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi. Dr Chandak also intervened through lawyers — Rajendra Daga and Raheel Mirza — praying for maintaining capital punishment to the murderers of his son. “Having considered all the circumstances and facts on record, we’re of considered view that the present case falls short of the ‘rarest of rare’ cases,” the bench comprising justices Uday Lalit, Indu Malhotra and Hemant Gupta said. While partly allowing the appeals of the accused, the judges added that the cause of justice will be effectively served by invoking the concept of special sentencing as evolved in the cases of Swamy Shraddananda and Sriharan. “The trial court’s judgement, later confirmed by the HC convicting the accused under Sections 302 and 364A, is confirmed. However, their death sentence is converted into life imprisonment. It means till the end of life and there shall not be any remission till the accused completes 25 years behind bars,” the bench ruled. The judges observed that the accused’s motive to take life was to become rich by not doing hard work and by demanding ransom after kidnapping an innocent boy. “The argument is that since they’re young and have no criminal antecedents, the sentence of death is not warranted. We don’t find any merit that being young or having no criminal antecedents are mitigating circumstances,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/death-commuted-to-lifer-for-yug-killers/articleshow/75362857.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy calls for more curbs in Guntur, Kurnool||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday directed the state administration to enforce more restrictions in Guntur and Kurnool cities to contain the spread of Covid-19. The CM asked the officials to see that the lockdown regulations were more stringent in the two cities which were reporting high number of positive cases for Covid-19. He directed the officials to set up small markets at the end of all the containment areas in Guntur and Kurnool to ensure that the locals do not move out of the colonies. Jagan asked the officials to focus on Nandyal town as it was reporting many positive cases without any delay. The chief minister reviewed the Covid-19 containment measures with the ministers and senior officials at the camp office on Friday. Noticing the huge number of Covid-19 positive cases getting reported from Guntur and Kurnool, the chief minister asked the officials to explore new ways to contain the virus spread. The CM said that only one member from the family in the containment zones should be allowed to visit the market places to be set up at the end of each street. Deputy chief minister (Health) Alla Nani said that only a few colonies in the two cities have reported high number of cases and the virus was not spread in all the colonies. He said they would go for more restrictions on movement of the locals in red zones to prevent the virus spread. The chief minister also asked the officials not to neglect other health emergencies at any cost. He directed that adequate measures should be taken to assist the patients of dialysis and thalassemia for providing emergency treatment. “No one should complain that they were denied treatment due to the conversion of major health facilities into Covid-19 hospitals,” said the chief minister. Special chief secretary (health) KS Jawahar Reddy said that they have made alternative arrangements to provide hassle-free treatment for dialysis patients. He said that information about alternative arrangements has been shared with patients and their kin. The CM advised the officials to negotiate with DRDO to set up a mobile virology lab in the state. He said that such a lab would help in screening migrant labourers in order to send them home. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Kannababu, chief secretary Sawheny and DGP Gautam Sawang were present in the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-calls-for-more-curbs-in-guntur-kurnool/articleshow/75360252.cms||Samdani MN
April 25, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Andhra Pradesh health department is auditing every Covid-19 death’||VIJAYAWADA: The state health department looking at deaths due to Covid-19 with special focus, said KS Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary of the department of medical, health and family welfare on Friday. He said that the health department is auditing every death due to Covid-19 and looking for reasons. Upon being asked about the reasons behind the higher mortality rate in Andhra Pradesh compared to other southern states, the special chief secretary said that the numbers are consistent with the national average and will hopefully come down soon. Jawahar Reddy said that Andhra Pradesh stands at the first place in the country in terms of testing as the state is conducting tests on 1,018 people per a population of one million. “District-wise, Visakhapatnam occupies the first place with 1,577 tests per million, followed by Kadapa with 1,474 and Nellore 1,456 tests per million,” Reddy said. He added that a total of 110 mandals have been classified as either red zones or orange zones and mentioned that 62 new cases were reported on Friday. Reddy said that the number of containment clusters has increased to 191 as Covid-19 cases were reported in 10 new clusters on Friday. Currently, there are 123 urban clusters and 68 rural clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/health-dept-is-auditing-every-covid-19-death/articleshow/75360269.cms||---
April 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy launches zero-interest financing scheme||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy hinted at launching the house sites distribution programme on July 8 to mark the birth anniversary of the late chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy. “If everything goes well (with containment of Covid-19), we will distribute the house sites on July 8 to commemorate the birth anniversary of YS Rajasekhara Reddy,” said Jagan during an interaction with women from self-help groups on Friday. The CM promised that they would not only distribute house sites but also ensure the construction of houses. The state government had initially planned to distribute about 27 lakh house sites to the poor on Ugadi on March 25. It was postponed due to the State Election Commission (SEC) directive as it was scheduled ahead of the local bodies elections. Now with the entire administration in the state engaged in the containment of Covid-19, the government is planning to take up the programme after easing of the health emergency in the next two months. The CM launched zero-interest financing scheme for women self-help groups from his camp office. The state government has remitted nearly Rs 1,400 crore into the accounts of over 8.7 lakh self-help groups in the state to ensure implementation of the zero-interest scheme. The amount is due to the banks for 2019-2020 financial year. The remittance by the state government would help the banks grant loans liberally to the self-help groups in the current fiscal. This is considered to be one of the biggest plans for monetary infusion into market in the times of Covid-19 crisis as it would help each group getting a financial assistance to the tune of Rs 20,000-Rs 40,000 depending on the group’s working capital. Speaking to the members of women self-help groups via video conference, the chief minister said that the government has decided to release the amount despite facing financial constraints as he wanted to keep his promise made to his sisters before the elections. The CM said that about 91 lakh women would get the benefit of zero financing scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-launches-zero-interest-financing-scheme/articleshow/75360330.cms||Samdani MN
April 25, 2020||Amaravati||Telemedicine helps provide healthcare as outpatient services remain closed in Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: In the absence of outpatient facilities in hospitals, the YSR Telemedicine project is helping extend primary healthcare to people across the state. More and more people have been registering online to seek advice from medical professionals through YSR Telemedicine. The state government launched the YSR telemedicine facility nearly 10 days ago to help people reach out to doctors as outpatient facilities in hospitals are closed. “Nearly 8,300 people have got themselves registered and are taking advice from doctors through YSR Telemedicine,” Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary (health), told the chief minister on Friday. Doctors who are taking calls from the control room are not only counselling patients but are also sending e-prescriptions in cases where patients require immediate medication. Around 300 doctors are extending their services through Telemedicine. Interestingly enough, around 92 suspected Covid-19 cases have been detected through the telephonic counselling mode. The suspected cases have been asked to visit the nearest government general hospital (GGH) for screening. The control room is sharing information about suspected cases with Covid-19 coordinators in districts so that they can take immediate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/telemedicine-helps-provide-healthcare-as-outpatient-services-remain-closed/articleshow/75360381.cms||Samdani MN
