April 26, 2020||India||After Delhi, 5 more states want lockdown extended beyond May 3||A day after the Delhi government said the lockdown would have to be continued till May 16 in the national capital, five states — Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Bengal, Punjab and Odisha — on Saturday veered towards extending curbs in hotspots of their respective states beyond May 3. Six other states — Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka — said they would follow the Centre’s directive, while Assam, Kerala and Bihar would take a call after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with states and Union territories on Monday. Telangana, the only state to have already extended the lockdown, said it would take a call two days before the curb ends on May 7. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope backed extension of lockdown in the containment zones in Mumbai and Pune, which account for 92% of the total cases in the state, till May 18. “A discussion on extending the lockdown will be taken in the video conference with the PM on Monday. If required, we will extend the lockdown for 15 more days after May 3. It may only be for the containment zones, if not for the entire Mumbai and Pune,” he said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete CoverageHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsMaharahstra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the country, also decided not to implement the home ministry’s order of opening standalone or neighbourhood shops. “As on today, we are of the opinion that there will be no change in the lockdown order and so we haven’t allowed any new shops to open in the state. We want the status quo to be maintained till May 3,” said Tope. The Yogi Adityanath government in UP, too, wants to wait before opening up shops. “It is crucial for UP to contain the number of cases. The government has already permitted shops selling essential goods, like groceries and medicines, and 11 kinds of industries to function. We will not permit any more shops to open up at this point,” said a senior official. Significantly, three opposition-ruled states of Bengal, Odisha and Punjab seem to be in favour of extending the lockdown in affected areas after May 3. Bengal is likely to continue with the restrictions in the red zones in Kolkata, Howrah, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, East Midnapore, East Burdwan and Nadia, government sources said. The Mamata Banerjee government is, however, unlikely to seek a statewide lockdown, sources added. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh is of the view that it may not be possible to lift the lockdown completely for some more time as the state has witnessed three peaks in the Covid-19 curve in the past 40 days. Odisha, too, thinks that complete lifting of lockdown is not advisable. State health minister Naba Kishore Das said relaxations should be given in a phased manner in areas not reporting positive cases and containment measures should continue in vulnerable areas. “The situation should be reviewed on May 1,” he said. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made it clear that the lockdown was unlikely to be lifted in Indore, Bhopal, Ujjain and Khargone on May 3. In fact, the government may add Jabalpur to the list since it has seen a spike in the past two-three days. As for the rest of the state, Chouhan wants the lockdown to be lifted in a staggered manner in line with the Centre’s guidelines. Karnataka will follow the Centre’s directive and the MHA’s order on neighbourhood standalone shops providing non-essential goods. “The government will issue an order on Sunday or Monday,” chief secretary TM Vijaya Bhaskar told TOI. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the state governments should be given the freedom to decide on the lockdown depending on ground situations. Gujarat deputy CM Nitin Patel, who also holds the health portfolio, said the state government would “strictly follow the Centre’s guidelines”. The Chhattisgarh government has written to the Centre to allow reopening of economic activities within the state as it has very few Covid-19 cases. As of April 25, there are five positive cases. Watch Covid-19: Delhi, 5 more states want lockdown extension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-delhi-5-more-states-want-lockdown-extended-beyond-may-3/articleshow/75384555.cms||---
April 26, 2020||India||10th Covid death in Bhopal, all gas victims||BHOPAL: The coronavirus pandemic is turning out to be hellish for survivors of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, the world’s worst industrial accident. Ten of them have been killed by the virus now, sparking panic in the community that is bound by tragedy rather than caste or religion. All of Bhopal’s 10 dead Covid-19 patients are gas victims. And nearly all of them tested positive after death, including the latest victim, 70-year-old Razaq Qureshi, a resident of Putlighar. He died at the state-run Hamidia Hospital on April 22 and his report came positive on Friday, said Qureshi's son. He had hypertension and diabetes. Gas victims are particularly vulnerable to Covid-19 as exposure to the gas in 1984 damaged their lungs and other organs, and left them with weakened immunity. Madhya Pradesh high court recently directed BMHRC – the hospital exclusively for gas victims – to test every visiting patient for the virus so that they could be treated in time. By then, seven gas survivors had died without knowing they had the coronavirus infection, and the court wanted to prevent this and facilitate early treatment. But this practice is yet to begin, leading to a complaint being filed with the Supreme Court monitoring committee that keeps a watch on gas relief hospitals, including BMHRC. Razaq Qureshi was among three gas victims to die on Friday of complications related to Covid-19. M S Qureshi, 68, a resident of Jumerati, died during treatment at AIIMS-Bhopal. He had suffered a paralytic attack in the past and had hypertension. Sixty-year-old Abdul Gaffar, a vegetable wholesaler, who lived in Bagh Umraodulha, also died at AIIMS-Bhopal a few hours after Qureshi. He was undergoing treatment there since April 3. He had diabetes and suffered from after-effects of a cerebral stroke. His son and wife have also tested positive for coronavirus. The seven gas victims, who died of coronavirus earlier, are Naresh Khatik, Jagannath Maithil, Imran, Rajkmuar Yadav, Ashfaq Nadvi, Yunus and Riyazuddin. The health bulletin issued by the Bhopal chief medical and health officer, however, reported only nine coronavirus deaths in Bhopal till Saturday evening. Asked about Razaq Qureshi’s death at Hamidia Hospital, the CMHO said: “Let me confirm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10th-covid-death-in-bhopal-all-gas-victims/articleshow/75384574.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 26, 2020||India||Covid-19: India cases cross 26,000 with another big spike in Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: India crossed the grim milestone of 25,000 Covid-19 cases — ending the day above 26,000 — as Maharashtra registered another record rise in patients. A staggering 811 new cases were added to the state’s tally on Saturday, 602 of these in Mumbai alone. Maharashtra accounted for nearly half of Saturday’s national Covid-19 count, which at 1,715 was the second-highest recorded for a single day so far, 30 short of 1,755 reported on Thursday. India’s total number of Covid-19 cases stood at 26,270, as per latest figures collated from state governments, placing it at 16th spot among countries with the highest coronavirus counts. India also crossed the 800-mark in coronavirus deaths, with 43 reported on Saturday, taking the total number to 821. Maharashtra led in the death figures too. It recorded maximum 22 fresh fatalities (13 of these from Mumbai), followed by six deaths each in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, three in Rajasthan and two in Andhra Pradesh. Delhi recorded one death, along with Tamil Nadu, UP and J&K. Gujarat, where 256 new infections were reported, became the second Indian state to cross 3,000 cases. Ahmedabad, which accounts for 65% of total cases in the state, also crossed the 2,000-mark in number of cases. Gujarat's death toll is now 133, the second highest after Maharashtra. Delhi recorded 111 new Covid-19 cases, a slight dip from Friday’s 138 cases, taking its tally to 2,514. With one more death, the toll in Delhi has risen to 53. At least 38 Covid-19 patients in the capital in ICU or on ventilator support, sources said. Uttar Pradesh registered Saturday’s third-highest number of new cases at 122, which included 13 cops. With this, UP’s tally has touched 1,796 and it has confirmed 15 deaths. With 602 more cases during the day, Mumbai further strengthened its position as the coronavirus capital of India. The Maximum City has so far recorded 5,049 cases, nearly double that of second-placed Delhi (2,625). Maharashtra’s Covid tally crossed 7,000 mark to 7,628 cases, almost equal to the combined tally of the next three states — Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan. Covid-19 cases in Bengal are also on the rise. The state, which has been mired in controversy over the visit by a central team to monitor the Covid-19 situation, recorded 57 new cases taking its tally to 571. Fifteen people have died due to the disease in the state, as per official figures. Madhya Pradesh, which had witnessed an explosion of cases last week, showed another dramatic drop in cases, with just 31 new ones on Saturday. Telangana’s Covid-19 graph too took a big dip on Saturday, in a marked shift from the last week’s fury. Only seven new positive cases were reported. With this, the total number of cases in the state reached 990, inching towards the 1,000 mark. The death tally remained at 25. Andhra Pradesh recorded its first Covid-19 cases on March 12. On Saturday, 40 days after the first case was reported, the state’s Covid-19 tally breached the 1,000-mark with 61 new positive cases. Two more deaths were also reported taking the Covid-19 toll to 31. Bihar reported 28 new cases, taking the total number to 251 in the state, out of which 45 people have recovered and two have died so far. The number of Covid-19 positive persons rose to 99 in Odisha with five more persons testing positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-cases-cross-26000-with-another-big-spike-in-maharashtra/articleshow/75384598.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 26, 2020||India||Voice sampling leads cops clad in PPE to blind woman’s rapist||BHOPAL: Voice-sampling technology and the steely nerves of two police officers braving Covid-19 have led to the arrest of a history-sheeter on Saturday for the rape of a blind bank employee in Bhopal a week ago. The case posed unique challenges for police. First, the survivor couldn’t describe the rapist, apart from his voice. So, police had to get suspects to say the same thing the attacker had told her during the sexual assault so that she could identify him. Second, the suspects were in a containment zone. SHO Chandrakant Patel, a batchmate of Devendra Chandravanshi, the first police officer to die from Covid-19 in MP, admits he was nervous about stepping into a containment zone. But determined to get justice for the 53-year-old survivor, he fought off his fears. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota, who led the investigation, joined him. Clad in PPE, the two of them patrolled narrow lanes and bylanes on motorcycles to track down suspects. The one they nabbed turned out to be a 25-year-old burglar, Sahulal alias Manoj Kol, who got back into crime as soon as he was released from a prison a few weeks ago. He gave cops a hard time, and confessed only when police showed an app on the woman’s mobile found on him — it was an app to follow commands from the visually challenged. Police had little to go on when they began the investigation. The woman had been assaulted at home by someone who had entered from the balcony and left by the main door, locking it from outside. At first, it was thought he had taken away only her phone. Then, police realised that the rapist had taken Rs 30,000 in cash and silver ornaments. Police managed to track the stolen phone to a containment zone after which the signal was lost as the rapist broke the sim card. “Five Covid-19 cases have been reported here. I had to ensure that I don’t expose my team to the risk of infection,” SP Thota told TOI. When the loot list came out, investigators started drawing up a list of hardcore burglars of the area, whose behavior pattern matched the crime scene and the survivor’s description, said Patel. The informer network was activated and 25 suspects were shortlisted. Thota and Patel, clad head to toe in PPE, patrolled the streets on bikes to track them down. “In fact, the PPE suits helped as people didn’t think we were policemen. They took us for health staff and the suspects didn’t try to run away,” said Patel. Police detained all 25 suspects and got them to repeat the threat the rapist had made to the woman. With these recordings, they went to the survivor, who picked out Kol, say police. He was brought in for questioning. Thota and Patel, clad in PPE, interrogated him. “He proved a tough nut to crack and denied everything. But when we confronted him with the evidence – the phone and the app for the blind – he knew there was no way out,” said Patel. He had spent all the loot on gambling and drinking. “He showed no remorse for the rape. I haven’t interrogated a more hardened criminal in 13-14 years of policing,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/voice-sampling-leads-cops-clad-in-ppe-to-blind-womans-rapist/articleshow/75384653.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 26, 2020||India||Coronavirus: India records 6% growth in 24 hours, lowest daily rate since crossing 100 cases, says Govt||NEW DELHI: India recorded a six per cent growth in new cases on a single day, from 8am Friday to 8am Saturday, which is the lowest daily growth rate recorded since the country crossed 100 cases, the government said on Saturday. Since Friday morning, an increase of 1,429 cases has been reported, taking the total number of Covid-19 confirmed cases to 24,506 from 23,077 reported on Friday by the health ministry. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 775. According to government data, the current death rate is around 3.1% while the recovery rate is more than 20% per cent, which is comparatively better than several countries and may be taken as a positive effect of the lockdown in the country, along with the cluster management and containment strategy. The average doubling rate of the country is 9.1 days as of now, the health ministry said. So far, 5,062 people have been cured with a recovery rate of 20.66 per cent. The government has said the situation is under control with timely measures and implementation of lockdown which helped improve the doubling rate from 5.2 days in the last week of March to almost 10 days in last three days. According to NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, who also heads an empowered group on emergency response for Covid-19, timely imposition of nationwide lockdown along with active contact-tracing and aggressive surveillance led the change in growth trajectory of India's Covid-19 cases. "The curve has begun to flatten. Had we not taken the decision of clamping the nationwide lockdown, we would have had around 1 lakh Covid-19 cases by now, as per a reasonable estimate. Now, the outbreak is under control,” Dr Paul had said on Friday. The government is now working out a strategy for post- May 3 when the lockdown is supposed to be lifted, at least partially. The government has indicated that it has built capacity to ramp up testing of samples, if required. Besides, the lockdown time was used to create hospital infrastructure dedicated for Covid-19 patients. In case of any surge, once the lockdown is lifted and movement of people starts, this health system will play a significant role. Watch India records lowest daily growth rate in Covid-19 cases on Saturday since crossing 100 cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-records-6-growth-in-24-hours-lowest-daily-rate-since-crossing-100-cases-govt/articleshow/75384703.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 26, 2020||India||With 208 R&D projects, IITs lead India’s fight against Covid-19||NEW DELHI: India’s scientific effort to contain and eliminate the threat of the novel corona virus is being led by 18 IITs with experts engaged in 208 dedicated R&D projects under seven different categories. As some of their work starts yielding results, IIT-Guwahati has shown the way cornering the biggest pool of projects, followed by IIT-Madras and IIT-Hyderabad. Nearly 50% of the key research in India’s premier technical schools are happening in six of the old IITs. Majority of the researches are happening in the field of personal protective care equipment (45 projects), followed by sanitisation (33) and treatment, both pharmacological and non-pharmacological (30). The other areas include testing kits, medical equipment/ robots, surveillance and data analytics, AI to model epidemic patterns and disease dynamics. IIT-Madras and IIT-Guwahati are researching in all seven categories. With projected funding of over 120 crore in the next 18 months for these research projects, even the comparatively new IITs are pitching in. The year-old IIT-Mandi has three research projects, IIT-Palakkad is researching in 10 key areas and IIT-Goa in one. Many of the researches are at advance stage. According to T G Sitharam, director, IIT-Guwahati, “Various projects are already in production stages, like the commercialised ones which include full PPE suits, UV-LED disinfectant, drone technology for disinfection of large areas which is not in use in a few states. Then there is full face protective shield which is being manufactured and being delivered on daily.” The IIT is also ready with prototypes of antiviral spray for PPE, hydrophobic coatings for masks, gloves, robots for waste collection and delivering medicine to patients in isolation wards. A diagnosis and vaccine development research has also been signed with a company for commercialisation. Sitharam added that “If all the submitted projects are to be implemented successfully it would require an investment of up to 3 to 4 crore initially.” Researches at IIT-Madras are divided into three groups – the startups reorienting and looking at COVID-19 related problems, faculty and research scholars who stayed back during the lock down and have submitted proposals based on calls from national and international funding agencies and faculty realigning their undergoing projects towards finding solution to the problems related to the pandemic. The institute is now looking at a month to three for some of its products to go on low cost mass scale production. According to professor A K Mishra, dean, academic research, IIT-Madras, “Majority of the advance stage researches are by the startups. Once the mobility starts the other research will pick pace. But there are quite a few innovative products which could be in mass production soon such as the ‘negative pressure medical cabins’ under the rapid shelter system where one can quickly deploy a reusable medical cabin specially for contagious diseases. Another interesting product at advance stage is a surveillance wide angle camera which can be installed at strategic public space which can detect and alert people with high temperature, then zoom in to detect for other symptoms.” Among those which have yielded results is the ICMR approved detection assay developed by IIT-Delhi using label-free technology, which would make a Covid-19 test cost just about a few hundred rupees. The team began working on the detection assay kit in 2020 January-end. On the research underway at the IITs, V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT-Delhi said: “There’s a lot of research happening in IITs. Almost every week we are releasing something to the society. If institutions don’t do it now it is not justifiable. At IIT-Delhi when lockdown was announced we told our faculty and students that we are open for research and IIT will fund the research and their stay on the campus.” IITs like Madras and Delhi are also receiving CSR funding for these researches. According to Rao, IIT-Delhi is in talks with at least five industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-208-rd-projects-iits-lead-indias-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75384724.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
April 26, 2020||India||Covid-19: Close to 6,300 Indians infected in 50 countries, toll stands at 40||NEW DELHI: Close to 6300 Indian nationals abroad have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, posing a serious logistical challenge to the government as and when it decides to evacuate Indians stranded overseas. The number has almost doubled in the past 8-9 days as it stood at 3,336 on April 16. The number of deaths of Indian nationals caused by Covid-19 abroad has also shot up to 40 from 25 during this period, official sources told ToI. The infections are spread over 50 countries. Singapore and Gulf countries together account for more than 50 per cent of the infections. Singapore, in fact, has now taken over from Kuwait as the country where the highest number of Indians - more than a thousand - are infected. Coronavirus pandemic: Complete CoverageHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsOfficial sources here said almost 90 per cent of Indians infected in Singapore were workers living in dormitories for foreign workers. They said the spread within the dormitories was expected. The Singapore government is said to be providing all medical and other assistance to the workers. Indian high commissioner Jawed Ashraf had earlier this month visited one of the dormitories where thousands of Indian workers live. Well over 2000 Indians have also been infected in Gulf countries like Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and UAE. Hundreds of Indians are also infected in Iran. The jump in number of those infected - from 3336 to 6300 - in a little over a week is significant. The foreign ministry had first said in Parliament on March 18 that 276 Indians had contracted Covid-19 overseas. However, 255 of those were only in Iran, one of the worst hit countries. It took a month for the number to increase to 3336, as the government confirmed on April 16. After that though, it has taken the number just 9 days to shoot up to almost 6300. While the Indian missions remain in touch with local authorities to ensure proper treatment for Indian Covid-19 patients, it remains open to speculation whether or not they can return to India anytime soon. The government has so far avoided bringing back from abroad Indian nationals who tested positive for Covid-19. It has said that this is not because India lacks quarantine facilities but because of the extremely infectious nature of the disease and the risk involved in their travelling. The government, in fact, stopped operating evacuation flights altogether after the lockdown, asking indian citizens in advisories across the world - from southeast Asia to Europe - to remain where they were because of the lockdown in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/close-to-6300-indians-infected-in-50-countries-toll-stands-at-40/articleshow/75384747.cms||Sachin Parashar
April 26, 2020||India||Covid-19: Evacuation exercise gathers steam across states||As the national lockdown entered its fifth week, an unprecedented cross-country evacuation exercise to bring back migrant workers and other people stranded in different states appeared to gather momentum on Saturday with Punjab sending 80 buses to ferry back Sikh pilgrims stuck in Maharashtra and UP preparing to bring back at least 9,500 labourers from Haryana by Sunday. Around 100 Sikh pilgrims stranded at Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra's Nanded left for their home states of Punjab, Haryana and New Delhi after a push from Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and a nod from Union home minister Amit Shah. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta asked his counterparts in UP, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh to take back 3.5 lakh migrants from these states stuck in Maharashtra. Mehta said Maharashtra was willing to ferry migrants to the borders of their states and hand them over. The Himachal Pradesh and Haryana governments, too, sent Kashmiri workers and those from UP back to their home states on buses on Saturday. A total of 3,800 pilgrims from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi who had come to Nanded on March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown started, have been stuck there since. Even as the first batch of pilgrims departed, the Punjab government on Saturday dispatched 80 more buses that are expected to reach Nanded on Sunday to bring the rest back. Each of these buses will be covering 3,300km. In Gujarat, the first batch of 2,400 labourers from MP set off for their native state on 98 buses arranged by the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Chouhan said migrant workers stranded in Rajasthan had also started coming back. In UP, CM Yogi Adityanath set up a committee and directed officials to prepare a plan to create at least 15 lakh jobs to provide employment to migrant workers expected to return to the state over the next two months. A total of 2,224 workers returned from Haryana on Saturday on 82 buses and another 9,500-odd will be brought back till Sunday, officials said. "The people who returned from Haryana belong to 16 districts. They have been taken to their respective district headquarters for institutional quarantine," additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said. After 14 days, each person would be given a ration kit, Rs 1,000 and sent home where they will remain in home quarantine for another 14 days. Sources in Maharashtra said CM Uddhav Thackeray had taken up the challenge of repatriating migrant workers with the Centre as well as with the visiting central team. Over 1,500 migrants had gathered on April 15 at Bandra railway station after rumours circulated that long-distance trains had restarted. Thackeray had told his Punjab counterpart that he had no objection to the pilgrims’ return, but it would require the central government's permission in view of the nationwide lockdown. Singh then took up the matter with home minister Shah, who granted permission for transportation of the pilgrims as a special case. "We have asked the pilgrims to follow social distancing norms in the buses. Accordingly, against the capacity of 52 passengers, only 35 will be allowed in each bus. We think that in order to send back 3,800 pilgrims, they may require more than 100 buses," the bureaucrat said. Before the pilgrims boarded the bus on Friday, a medical examination was conducted and they were allowed to go only after they had tested negative for the novel coronavirus. "After reaching their destination, we expect they would stay in quarantine for 14 days," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-evacuation-exercise-gathers-steam-across-states/articleshow/75384767.cms||---
April 26, 2020||India||Bringing back mortal remains allowed: MHA||DEHRADUN/NEW DELHI: A day after immigration officials at Delhi airport returned the body of Kamlesh Bhatt, a 24-year-old man who had died of a heart attack in Abu Dhabi, citing a ministry of home affairs (MHA) order that prohibited receiving of any such "cargo" from outside India, the MHA on Saturday released an office memorandum on the issue by its foreigners division (immigration section) that said “…immigration functions in respect of arrival of dead bodies and mortal remains of Indian nationals/OCI (overseas citizens of India) cardholders are permitted subject to strict adherence to guidelines/instructions issued by various ministries and government departments related with management of Covid-19 and submission of no objection/ approval/ concurrence from ministries of health & family welfare and external affairs in this regard.” A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for “importation of human remains of Covid-19 patients/suspects” meant for immigration officials, was also issued. The central government’s clarification on the issue came even as a petition was filed during the day in the Delhi high court by Bhatt’s cousin seeking repatriation of the mortal remains of his relative at the earliest. The additional solicitor general, representing the Union government, submitted in the court that “it was a unique case and the central government was in the process of framing SOPs so that in future there is no difficulty in similar matters.” The matter has now been listed for hearing on April 27. Bhatt, who was working at a hotel in Abu Dhabi, had died on March 17. After struggling for several days to get his body repatriated amidst the ongoing lockdown, his family members based in Tehri Garhwal were eventually helped by Indian-origin social activist Roshan Raturi who arranged to send the body back to India on April 24 after getting the requisite clearances. Bhatt’s cousin Vimlesh Bhatt, who is based in Dehradun, travelled to Delhi on Friday to receive the mortal remains but was told by immigration authorities that they had sent the body back. The family, that had completed all the preparations for the cremation, was left hanging. Rajesh Bhatt, 19, younger brother of the deceased, told TOI over phone from his village in Tehri Garhwal that his parents are devastated. “My mother has stopped eating. We got all the passes made for the cremation and now we have been told that the body is not arriving. My brother was the backbone of the family. It is difficult to bear the trauma that even though he did so much for all of us, we aren’t able to give him a decent cremation,” he said. Meanwhile, Raturi told TOI over phone from UAE that he will try to send the body again to India. “I just hope the government of India will help the family who only want to give a decent cremation to their son,” he said. (With inputs from Rohan Dua)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bringing-back-mortal-remains-allowed-mha/articleshow/75384782.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 26, 2020||India||Covid-19: Govt likely to announce second set of measures to help poor, MSMEs||NEW DELHI: Discussions in the government on the stimulus have pointed to the need to provide support to the poor, through the expansion of public distribution system and other steps, and also help micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), which are seen to be among the most vulnerable, through a variety of measures instead of offering across the board sops to the corporate sector, which is unlikely to benefit the consumers. While finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package for the poor last month, sources told TOI, there was a need to expand the coverage, with some of the proposed measures providing support beyond just the lockdown period. The government is set to announce a second set of measures in the coming days to counter the impact of the lockdown, which is seen to be essential to prevent loss of lives. Although, the lobby groups have been brandishing large numbers on the required size of support, the government, after extensive consultations with ministries and experts, believes there is a “stimulus industry” at work, which is using the pandemic as an opportunity to seek concessions. For instance, sops to the auto sector may not result in spurring demand as consumers are holding back expenses, especially of discretionary nature, due to the massive uncertainty in the global economy. The stand comes despite agencies such as NITI Aayog playing along with industry chambers in backing a large stimulus. In any case, the open-ended support offered by the UPA in 2008 is seen to have caused a lot of damage to the credit culture as well as price stability. Instead, senior officials said, the idea is to help the MSME sector, which is suffering heavily as it lies in an area where even a small setback pushes it into the red zone. Already MSME minister Nitin Gadkari has talked about a Rs 1 lakh crore fund to provide succour to the sector which accounts for a large chunk of manufacturing activity and jobs. The need to keep the package focused on a few segments is also necessitated by the realisation that the Centre’s fiscal headroom is limited, given that there are several off-budget items for the Centre and states, apart from the massive hit to revenues, both tax and non-tax, and the need for higher spending in focus segments such as healthcare. In any case, sources said, the stimulus should not be looked at only from the prism of government spending but also needs to factor in the steps that RBI has initiated, which come at a cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-govt-likely-to-announce-second-set-of-measures-to-help-poor-msmes/articleshow/75384805.cms||Sidhartha
April 26, 2020||Patna||100-bed ICU for AES patients set to open in Muz this month||PATNA: In a much-needed boost to health infrastructure in Muzaffarpur where AES had claimed the lives of 150 children last year, the 100-bed intensive care unit exclusively for AES patients is nearing completion at the Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH). “The ICU will become operational with 70 beds on two floors of the building by the end of the this month while the remaining 30 beds will be completed in a month or two,” hospital superintendent Dr Sunil Kumar Shahi told TOI over phone on Saturday, adding, “The construction work got delayed due to the nation-wide lockdown to check the spread of Covid19 pandemic.” In addition, the state health department issued a notification on Saturday authorizing DMs of AES-affected districts to hire private ambulances, as required, to transport patients to hospitals. “We have also fixed reimbursement for those who hire their own vehicles or ambulances to reach the health facilities,” principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar tweeted. A team of officials from the district administration as well as the hospital is monitoring the work on the ICU on a regular basis and hope to get it done at the earliest. DM Chandrashekhar Singh also reviewed the ongoing construction work last week. Earlier, CM Nitish Kumar at a review meeting in Patna had issued directives to complete the 100-bed ICU at the SKMCH as early as possible. “The work got accelerated after the CM’s instruction at the review meeting,” said a senior health department officer. Altogether 14 AES patients have been admitted at the SKMCH since January this year. While a three and a-half-year old died, eight others were discharged after getting cured. “At present five children, who have tested positive for AES, are undergoing treatment in the paediatric intensive care unit,” Shahi said. In addition, 17 cases have been reported from neighbouring East Champaran district. However, 14 of them have already been discharged. Meanwhile, all PHCs in Muzaffarpur have been equipped with two-bed ICU each and trained health workers deployed to attend to AES patients. Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Sheohar and Vaishali have been designated as AES-affected districts in north Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/100-bed-icu-for-aes-patients-set-to-open-in-muz-this-month/articleshow/75382858.cms||Ramashankar
April 26, 2020||Surat||3 Dang nurses hide travel details, booked||Surat: Three nurses from Dang and their three relatives were booked on Saturday for allegedly hiding their travel details from Surat.Of the three nurses, one of them had tested positive after coming to Dang, the first case in the tribal district. The 19-year-old nurse and her colleague, who worked in Surat’s Kiran Hospital, had returned to their native villages on April 13. They both had applied for job at a government hospital in Ahwa, the headquarter of Dang, and were immediately recruited. However, the 19-year-old tested positive for Covid-19 on April 22. She and her colleague had not revealed to the authorities about their Surat travel and the fact that several staffers of Kiran Hospital had also tested positive.The complaint was lodged against them in Subir police station.In a separate case, a 22-year-old nurse working with Rhythm Hospital in Surat city, who had returned to her native village Savarda in Subir taluka on April 14, was also booked. Police said they received a call from some unknown persons about her travel history. Two others who had dropped them to Ahwa and returned to Surat were also booked under the relevant sections and Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/3-dang-nurses-hide-travel-details-booked/articleshow/75383181.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Vadodara||Covid patient, four relatives travel to Padra from Surat, booked||Vadodara: A coronavirus patient from Padra taluka of Vadodara district and six relatives of his were booked at Vadu police station for flouting lockdown norms and travelling to their native place from Surat. According to police, Thakor Gohil, the patient, and two relatives – Sanjay Gohil and Ranjit Gohil – had returned to Chokari, their native place, from Udhna GIDC in Surat on March 31 during lockdown. Their travel activity was revealed when Thakor tested positive on Thursday and the other revealed about their travel movements to health officials. Thakor has been admitted at SSG Hospital’s isolation ward for treatment. Four other relatives of Thakor – Pradeep Gohil, Hemangi Gohil, Bhailal Gohil and Manjula Gohil – were booked in a separate offence. Police said that the four persons are natives of Chokari but are settled in Bhathena of Surat for several years. On Wednesday, they travelled to Chokari from Surat when they learnt that Thakor was unwell and his samples had been collected for coronavirus test. “On Thursday, health department officials informed that four of Thakor’s relatives had arrived from Surat on Wednesday. This is not allowed as they may spread the virus through their travel movement. So, we have registered a separate FIR against them and their samples too have been collected for tests,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-patient-four-relatives-travel-to-padra-from-surat-booked/articleshow/75383751.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Sheer madness||Coimbatore: It was nothing but the storm that was induced before the clam as people, who have hitherto been confining themselves to the four walls of their houses by and large, stepped out in large numbers and crowded vegetable markets and grocery shops on Saturday to stock up essentials for the four-day complete lockdown in the city corporation limits. And it seemed like any other normal day as they moved around in groups, throwing physical distancing norms to the wind.On Friday, the state government had unveiled the plans to bring the city corporation limits under complete lockdown from 6am on Sunday to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic by restricting the movement of public.But the day after the announcement, people flocked to the markets at RS Puram, Gandhipuram bus stand, Singanallur bus stand and Ramalinga Chettiar Higher Secondary School in Saibaba Colony without any restraint. While police managed to control the crowd and make them stand in a queue at the entrance of the markets, the situation was altogether different inside the market. In a hurry to purchase vegetables before they emptied out, people cared little for physical distancing.J Janaki, a resident of Thudiyalur, said, “What will we do if we don’t get vegetables and grocery items during the complete lockdown period? Already, police are stopping us at multiple points to know why we are out. We didn’t want to take any risk.”S Subramaiam, organizer of welfare association for farmers of Singanallur market, said the crowd was uncontrollable. “We sold out vegetables in just three hours, against the usual five hours. It was not just because of more number of customers, people were buying in bulk.” Pointing out that most vegetables were sold out as early as 8am, he said many had to return empty-handed. Nowadays, markets function from 5am to 10am.While people also thronged grocery shops, some shopkeepers managed to ensure physical distancing by the customers. However, RG Street that is filled with wholesale shops didn’t draw much crowd. “It might be because shopkeepers didn’t want to refill goods in view of the complete lockdown,” said a shopkeeper who didn’t want to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sheer-madness/articleshow/75384319.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 26, 2020||Erode||Farmers hoist black flags demanding Rs 10,000 relief||Erode/Namakkal: Farmers in Erode and Namakkal districts hoisted black flags on Saturday, demanding compensation for the lost crops. They urged the state government to issue a compensation of Rs 10,000 to each small and medium range farmers, and another Rs 5,000 to run their families. Talking to TOI, K Manickam Goundar, a farmer from Suripalayam in Gobichettipalayam taluk, said the entire farming community in the state was badly affected by the lockdown. “Many of us have not harvested vegetables as there is no mechanism in place to ensure us proper price.” Recently, the Madras high court had suggested the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 10,000 to small and medium range farmers for their crop loss or damage. Citing this, the farmers’ associations urged the government to pay them the same at the earliest. They also requested the state government delay repayment of loans that were taken for farming activities by a year. S Sivakumar, a farmer from Mohanur in Namakkal district, said, “It will be of great help if the state government were to divert 100 days of guaranteed wage employment under MGNREGA to agricultural based works.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/farmers-hoist-black-flags-demanding-rs-10000-relief/articleshow/75384313.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Vegetables, grocery items fly off shelves||Coimbatore: While the government’s latest move forced people to come out to buy essentials, everyone was not lucky to return home with enough items. While some people purchased in bulk, others had to deal with shortage of vegetables and grocery items.V G Praveen, a resident of Gandhi Managar, said he could not buy enough vegetables despite hopping from a store to another and waiting patiently in queue at each shop. “As a result of panic buying, vegetables were almost over at all the shops I visited. People were buying everything they could. All I could manage to purchase were some onions, potatoes and tomatoes.”Pointing out that they could manage with the items for another couple of days by making meals as simple as possible, Praveen said his family was completely dependent on mobile vegetable markets. “We could not buy a single milk packet. We don’t know how the situation would be in the coming days. So, we have purchased milk powder.”M Alagarsamy, a resident of Olympus, too had a similar story to say. “I went to the nearby provision store around 10am, but almost everything was sold out there. If this is the situation on the day before the complete lockdown, we are really sceptical about getting anything during the lockdown.”He said the situation would have been completely different had the government made the complete lockdown announcement at least two days in advance. “That would have given people more them to prepare.” A shopkeeper from Ramanthapuram said most of the products were sold out within two hours of opening the shop and that only a few had purchased items in limited quantities. “I was neither in a position to prevent them from panic buying nor assure them about availability of goods from Sunday. I am also not allowed to open my shop for the next four days.”Some of the shopkeepers closed the shops by 1pm as they didn’t know they could operate till 3pm, due to lack of proper communication from the government, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vegetables-grocery-items-fly-off-shelves/articleshow/75384321.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||Communication gap over MHA order confuses Kolkata cops, store owners||KOLKATA: The first day of opening of shops in non-containment zones was fraught with confusions. In the first half of the day, many preferred to wait and watch. At many places, some shop owners who did roll their shutters up were asked by cops to pull them down again. A communication gap regarding what was allowed to operate led to many barber shops opening up and frantic calls being made about liquor stores. Eventually, the MHA notification reached everyone, saying the exemption was not for liquor, barber or paan-bidi shops. However, markets like New Market, which is not a typical neighbourhood market, but located in the commercial hub, did not open on Saturday. “Unless the government allows public transportation and private vehicles to ply, we have no point in rolling up our shutters. We don’t cater to locals and our employees cannot come without public transport,” said Asok Gupta, president of SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association. The hardware market at Chandni Chowk was also reluctant to start full-scale operations. Unless transportation starts, and plumbers and carpenters resume their services, we will incur losses if we reopen. Most of them are not allowed entry into households at present. There is no demand,” asked Azim Mohammed, owner of a carpentry items’ shop. In Salt Lake, mostly smaller stores opened sporadically. “Many small store owners wanted to test the waters before full-fledged business. But the bigger shops cannot operate without employees,” said Arup Saha, owner of a jewellery shop near Karunamoyee. In Behala, a number of lottery shops had opened, but cops asked them to close up. “The cops don’t seem to have received the communication from Nabanna. But I have the MHA order. So I will attempt again tomorrow. All my resources are exhausted. If we don’t reopen, we will have to starve,” said Shankar Das, owner of a lottery store at Behala Manton. Few shops in Hatibagan and Shyambazar opened while the College Street book hub was shut. “It is congested here and we will not be able to maintain social distancing,” said Sudhangshu Dey, secretary of Publishers and Book Sellers’ Guild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/communication-gap-over-mha-order-confuses-cops-store-owners/articleshow/75384090.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Surat||Surat cargo terminal turns life saviour for cancer patient||SURAT: After decades of confabulations, Surat finally got its air cargo terminal, and on Saturday, it proved its worthiness too amid the nationwide lockdown. Along with doctors from an Ahmedabad-based hospital, the domestic cargo terminal became life saviours when it could manage to deliver a life-saving drug to a cancer patient in Ahmedabad on time from Chennai. Awaiting her next chemotherapy session at Apollo CBCC Hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday, Chhaya (name changed), 51, was fighting twin battles — one with lymphoma, a rare form of blood cancer, that she is afflicted with and another with patience. She was in urgent need of the drug, which the family usually gets shipped from a foreign country, but the lockdown and closure of airports, made it impossible this time. However, the hospital took the responsibility to procure the drug, anyhow. The drug is manufactured in the USA, gets imported to German distributor before it reaches Chennai via Hong Kong. So, they hunted for the first flight to land in Gujarat from Chennai and found one that lands in Surat. The hospital authorities immediately decided to bring the drug from Chennai to Surat and get it transported to Ahmedabad via road as soon as it lands at the Surat airport cargo terminal. “The entire situation was handled with absolute precautions and safety,” said Abraham Lincoln, in-charge of cargo terminal. He informed that the terminal has handled about 400 tonnes of cargo during the lockdown period,. Talking to TOI, Manthan Mehta of Apollo CBCC said: “I travelled by road from Ahmedabad but reached about an hour late. The terminal authorities were already waiting for us to hand over the life-saving drug. They first sanitized our vehicle and made us follow all the procedures at the airport before we were allowed to bring the drug safely to Ahmedabad.” Dr Naveen Keswani, deputy medical director and CEO, Apollo CBCC said that the drug was extremely crucial as it the patient needed it urgently for chemotherapy. “We were helped by the airline and the cargo terminal authorities for getting the drug delivered on time. In these stressful times, our team’s combined efforts to get this drug to Ahmedabad on time, was successful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-cargo-terminal-turns-life-saviour-for-cancer-patient/articleshow/75383079.cms||Melvyn Thomas
April 26, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘Spike in coronavirus cases due to contact tracing’||PATNA: Covid-19 pandemic seems to have started showing its contagious nature in the state with the number of cases rising sharply in the last one week. From 96 cases till last Sunday, the number jumped to 242 on Saturday. Altogether 53 positive cases were recorded on Friday alone. Also, the number of districts with Covid-19 positive cases increased from 10 on April 15 to 20 on Saturday. The first three Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on March 22 and average reporting of people affected with the virus in March was 2.2 positive cases per day. However, the scenario has now started turning from bad to worse. Maximum number of Covid-19 cases has been recorded in last five days. On Monday, there were 17 cases, followed by 13 on Tuesday, 17 on Wednesday, 27 on Thursday and 53 on Friday. Health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said there cannot be an exact explanation for increase in number of Covid-19 positive cases. “It is because of many factors. We are detecting more cases because of our accurate contact tracing,” he added. Another reason for the sharp rise in number of positive cases is transmission of virus from one person to many others, which the health department’s principal secretary describes as ‘super spreader’. State Health Society has shared a list of five super spreaders, who have alone infected more than 100 people. While one Munger native has infected 29 people who came in contact with him, another Siwan man passed on the virus to 22 people. Similarly, one Nalanda native has infected 19 of his direct contact. A Patna resident has infected 18 others. Even a Rohtas native with travel history from Hindpiri in Ranchi has so far infected 14 of her close contacts. “For us it is important to identify who are infected and then segregate them and break the chain,” Sanjay had said earlier this week. State epidemiologist and nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Ragini Mishra had also told TOI earlier this week that reason behind rising number of cases is more testing as well as commencement of door-to-door screening of people. As far as geographical spread of Covid-19 positive cases is concerned, maximum number of cases has been detected from Munger, followed by Nalanda, Siwan, Patna and Buxar. Opposition parties have also started cornering the state government over rising number of Covid-19 cases. “The speed at which the virus is spreading poses serious questions on the containment measures of the government and indicates its abject failure,” leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said on Saturday. Meanwhile, experts have claimed that situation is not alarming in Bihar. As per health department officials, 75% of cases in the state have been asymptomatic. “It is estimated that the number of infected cases are at least 10 times the number of officially declared figures as on date and expected to rise further in coming months. The only silver lining is that we are dealing with more number of asymptomatic cases and mild symptomatic cases,” said Dr Arun Shah, an expert in studying acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spike-in-corona-cases-due-to-contact-tracing/articleshow/75382926.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 26, 2020||Goa||Nearly 50% of fires due to dry grass burning||Panaji: The recent incidents of massive crop stubble burning in the fields in Taleigao and along the Mapusa highway has once again brought to fore the dangers of this practice. Nearly 50% of fire incidents reported in the state are due to burning of dry grass. The state government had last month banned the burning of crop stubble. Speaking to TOI, director of fire and emergency services Ashok Menon said that burning of dry grass, which is undertaken especially in fields, leads to plumes of smoke being released into the air that contributes to respiratory problems among people staying in the vicinity. Menon also said that at a time when air quality levels must have been improved due to the ongoing lockdown, dry grass fires could prove counter productive and lead to a spike in air pollution. During 2019-2020, the fire and emergency services had received 2,953 fire calls, which included incidents of dry grass, plantations, residential, electrical, commercial/industrial units and garbage. Menon said that dry grass fire is considered a man-made disaster as it is banned. He also said that steps have been taken to prevent such man-made disasters. Agriculture director Nevil Alphonso told TOI that his department is continuously creating awareness to prevent burning of dry grass, and their efforts have paid dividends. He also said that reports of dry grass fires is not much in Goa as compared to the rest of India. “Burning of dry grass is banned by law. At present, such incidents have declined due to awareness,” he said. In a bid to ensure that farmers don’t resort to burning the standing grass of the crop stubs from the previous season in order to fertilise the soil for the next crop, a method that is polluting and presents the risk of wildfires, the North Goa collector last month cautioned against the practice. “The burning of standing grass of the crop of the previous season is prohibited,” the order signed by collector R Menaka had stated. The collector’s order came after the directorate of fire and emergency services had written seeking preventive steps against the setting of fire in agricultural land. Earlier in his letter, Menon had highlighted that such instances could prevail given the government’s decision allowing farmers to restart agricultural activities under restricted conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nearly-50-of-fires-due-to-dry-grass-burning/articleshow/75512863.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: CM Nitish Kumar asks officials to break Covid-19 chain||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Saturday asked the officials concerned to take effective measures to break the chain of Covid-19. He said district-level plan on the basis of positive cases should be made. The CM also called for strict enforcement of containment zone protocol. Holding a meeting with senior officers to review the work being done to contain further spread of Covid-19 in the state, CM further asked the officials to ensure contact tracing, sample collection and testing with advance planning so that resources could be utilised efficiently. He said the identified hotspots and their adjoining areas should be completely sanitised to put a check on spread of the infection in other areas. The CM said the departments engaged in providing employment opportunities in rural areas should continuously monitor the ongoing projects and ensure that maximum number of workers, who have returned from other states due to lockdown, get employment in their own gram panchayat. He said the ongoing work of door-to-door screening of people on the pattern of pulse polio campaign should be done with more intensity. The CM asked the officials of the disaster management department to ensure continuous monitoring of all disaster relief centres across the state and ensure that people staying at such centres do not face hassles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-asks-officials-to-break-covid-19-chain/articleshow/75383086.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus hygiene beats summer diseases in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 pandemic may have scared people and alerted the authorities concerned, but adherence to hygiene standards to keep the virus at bay has led to sharp drop in other diseases this summer. The onset of peak summer season usually increases the risk of several foodborne and bacterial diseases, but doctors and health experts said the number of such cases was comparatively low this time. Health specialists have attributed the drop in non-Covid-19 cases to closure of industrial units and people’s appetite for homemade food. Dr Pratyush Kumar, a general physician at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), said he expected the number of patients to increase with the onset of summer. “Health ailments like heatstroke, diarrhoea, food poisoning and malaria are very common during summers. However, the lockdown and hygienic conditions have helped contain these diseases,” he said. Asked about waterborne and bacterial diseases, Dr Kumar said, “People are getting a healthier environment at their homes. In addition, improved air quality has also played a key role in containing these diseases. Hygiene practices like washing hands regularly and not eating roadside food have protected people from these diseases.” Paediatrician Dr Vivekanand, who owns a clinic in Kankarbagh, said staying at home has helped children too. “Now that the children are not able to go outside and play, the risk of fatigue, diarrhoea and other diseases has reduced. Besides, regular hand washing has stopped the spread of other diseases. Parents should make it sure that their kids exercise these practices on a regular basis,” he said. City-based general physician Dr Kaushal Kishore Keshari said the entire graph of diseases has changed due to lockdown. “Even though the temperature is quite high, I have received very few patients suffering from diseases that mostly occur during summers. More than physical ailments, people are seeking aid for mental ailments,” he said. People, on the other hand, are reluctant to visit hospitals. Boring Canal Road resident Amit Ranjan said, “The arrival of summer season has increased the risk of several foodborne, waterborne and bacterial diseases. However, visiting hospitals at this point of time is quite risky.” Health specialists at primary healthcare centres and other hospitals said non-Covid-19 patients were properly taken care of. They said OPD services have resumed at all major government hospitals and private hospitals have also started giving medical services following instructions by the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-hygiene-beats-summer-diseases/articleshow/75382830.cms||Archi Rani
April 26, 2020||Patna||41 bank employees quarantined in Patna||PATNA: The Patna district administration on Saturday sent 41 employees of a PSU bank situated at Dak Bungalow roundabout to quarantine centres a day after one of the bank employees was tested positive for coronavirus. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said apart from the 41 bank employees, five currency chest managers of other banks had also been sent to quarantine centres as a precautionary measure. He said the infection of the senior manager of the PSU bank was linked to the contact chain of currency handling firm whose four employees have so far been tested positive for coronavirus. “Samples of all these employees were collected for Covid-19 test on Saturday. Their reports would come by Sunday,” the DM said. He added that the functioning of the bank branch from Monday would depend on several factors, including the outcome of the test reports of quarantined employees. “Even if their test results come negative, they will be sent to 14-day home quarantine,” Ravi said. The DM said the residents of the apartment in which the Covid-19 positive bank employee lived have been home quarantined and asked to immediately inform the administration if the symptoms develop in them. “The building in which the bank branch in situated has been sealed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/41-bank-employees-quarantined-in-patna/articleshow/75382949.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 26, 2020||Surat||Two doctors fight back Covid, urge plasma donation||Surat/Rajkot: Four patients, including a young doctor who were detected with Covid-19, were discharged from the Jayaben Modi hosiptal in Ankleshwar after their samples tested negative on Saturday. With this about 14 patients have been discharged in Bharuch out of the total 25 positive patients. Seven patients were discharged in Bharuch on Friday. The patients discharged from the hospital have been identified as Dr Brijesh Narola, a 28-year-old gynaecologist of Bharuch Civil Hospital, Rajesh Rana from Bharuch town and Ankita Rana and Kinjal Gohil from Valia taluka of the district. Dr Narola, a native of Amreli, had joined the hospital one year ago. “I would urge all those patients who have recovered to donate plasma. This can be a life saviour for other Covid patients,” Dr Narola told TOI. Health officials said that the patients undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 hospital in Ankleshwar are stable and showing signs of recovery. Vadodara also saw six patients fully recovering within 24 hours ending on Saturday noon. While three patients including Dr Faizan Qureshi, a doctor from Mogalwada area got discharged on Friday evening, three other patients including two from hotspot Nagarwada and one from Bahar Colony on Ajwa Road got discharged on Saturday from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri after their repeat tests came negative. With addition of six patients, the total recoveries in Vadodara have reached 56. The district has so far recorded 234 positive cases. Talking to TOI, an emotional Dr Qureshi said, “It’s because of God’s grace and the commitment of hospital staff that I have recovered.” In Rajkot, two Covid-19 positive persons were discharged from the civil hospital on Friday night after they recovered fully from the infection. According to health department officials, Altaf Pathan and Zarina Patni, both 40 years, were discharged. They are residents of Jangleshwar area which has become the hotspot of Covid-19 in the city. Pathan was admitted on April 7 while Patni was admitted on April 10. In Bhavnagar, Yunush Qureshi, 52, a resident of Sandhiyavad area, a Covid hotspot, was also discharged from Sir T hospital on Saturday evening. He was admitted in the hospital on April 8. In all, 10 patients have been discharged in Rajkot out of total 41 who tested positive while 20 have recovered in Bhavnagar out of total 38.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-doctors-fight-back-covid-urge-plasma-donation/articleshow/75383156.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Surat||Migrants wanting to return can apply to administration||Surat: With many state governments like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha beginning the process to bring back their workers stuck in other states, the district administration in Surat has started inviting applications from the migrant workers wanting to travel to their native places. Official sources said that the migrant workers will, however, have to arrange their own vehicles to travel from Surat. They will first need to submit their applications at the office of Navsari MP CR Paatil for getting inter-state travel permission. Application forms are being distributed in the migrant-dominated localities in the city and that the workers are asked to fill up the details Talking with TOI, Paatil said that workers returning to their natives will have to undergo screening and 14 days quarantine there. A senior official said, “The government will not provide any transportation service and the workers will have to arrange vehicles on their own.” Chairman of Bihar Vikas Parishad (BVP), KK Sharma said, “They are yearning go home and we are ready to help our people in all possible manner to ensure they reach Bihar safely.” Meanwhile, Shramik Seva Sangh, an NGO working for Odisha workers in Surat has urged the Odisha government to arrange for special buses and trains to help the stranded reach their native places. The NGO alleged that the textile unit owners have not paid lockdown wages to their workers and most of the workers are living in congested spaces risking their health from the rapid spread of Covid in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-wanting-to-return-can-apply-to-administration/articleshow/75383211.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Surat||With 203 positive cases, Limbayat turns red hot||Surat: Limbayat zone under Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has turned into hot red on Saturday after the area alone crossed the 200th mark, recording a total of 203 Covid-19 positive cases. About 24 new cases had been reported from Limbayat, Rander, Varachha and Katargam zones on Saturday. The total positive cases in the city shot up to 480.Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that shops in 3km periphery of Covid-19 positive cases and hotspots areas in Surat city will not be allowed to open until May 5. Meanwhile, two SRP jawans identified as Shailesh Vaghela and Sagar Desai; ambulance driver of Kiran Hospital Dipak Dabhre, marshall of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) Kiran Mori and an aanganwadi worker Daxa Gaywala tested positive for Covid-19 in Surat.58-YEAR-OLD MAN SUCCUMBS TO CORONAVIRUS Surat: Death toll due to coronavirus in the city touched 15 after Dipak Bhatt, 58, from Amroli succumbed to the infection on Saturday at the New Civil Hospital (NCH). Bhatt was admitted with co-morbid condition of bilateral pneumonia and respiratory trouble on April 20. He tested positive of the virus on the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/with-203-positive-cases-limbayat-turns-red-hot/articleshow/75383098.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Surat||Killer of NRI son sent to judicial custody||Surat: A local court sent the 60-year-old man arrested for murder of his son to judicial custody here on Saturday. Police did not seek his custody. Meanwhile, wife of the deceased left the city with her one-year-old daughter to return to London, the United Kingdom after her husband's last rites were performed earlier in the day.Accused Abdul Hamid was arrested by police on Friday from his house soon after he killed his son Imran. The deceased was stabbed on shoulder and underarm by the accused over dispute of Rs1.80 lakh. The accused had lent the money to his son for renovation of their house at Bharbadhwad in Rani Talav area.Imran was to return to London with his wife Sufiya and daughter Ekra in a specially arranged flight for the UK citizens on Sunday morning from Ahmedabad. He had come to the city one and half month ago with his family. "She left with her daughter on Saturday for Ahmedabad from where she will catch the flight for London on Sunday morning. Her parents are in the UK," police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/killer-of-nri-son-sent-to-judicial-custody/articleshow/75383333.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amreli group seeks CM’s nod for azan on speakers||Ahmedabad: The Covid-19 pandemic has robbed Ramzan of the social gatherings and feasting, but Muslims in the Saurashtra town of Amreli are missing the most common feature of the holy month in this part of the world – the constant blaring of loudspeakers as repeated announcements for sehri and the recitation of azan are absent this time around. With the announcement of the nationwide lockdown last month, the Muslims in Amreli had locked all 12 mosques in the town. They had stopped going to mosques to offer namaz, and they also stopped giving azan. In other places outside Amreli, the community had restricted participants at namaz in mosques, but the service of reciting azan is regularly taking place. A month later, ahead of Ramzan, the Muslims in Amreli got restless about the regular announcement on loudspeakers for sehri and iftar, when the fasting begins in the morning and ends in evening. Feeling a requirement for the azan on loudspeakers, they approached the authorities for permission. But permission was denied. Saiyed Mehbob Rehman Qadri of Darul Ulum Mehboobiya said, “We approached the DSP for permission for azan on loudspeakers, but he flatly refused. We showed him the Gujarat high court order that regular service is permitted in religious places without any gathering, but he was adamant.” Upon refusal by the police authority, the president of Jumma Masjid Trust, G A Bukhari, sought permission for giving azan from additional district magistrate, who too refused it on April 22 saying that the lockdown notifications do not have “mention of azan, therefore the permission is denied”. When contacted, Amreli SP Nirlipt Rai said, “There is no prohibition on azan, but there is a ban on the use of loudspeakers. Because of azan on loudspeakers. We will not allow resumption of any such practice that could cause gathering of people. The loudspeakers are not allowed because of the same reason. One or two persons like the maulvi and muazzin can perform the rituals in mosque without the use of loudspeakers.” After district authorities turned down the request, the Amreli Jilla Samast Muslim Samaj on Saturday made a representation in this regard before the chief minister seeking his intervention, and said, “Ever since the invention of loudspeakers, azan is recited on them. Azan recitation is not a prayer or a sermon or gathering or a celebration. It is just a message for prayer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amreli-group-seeks-cms-nod-for-azan-on-speakers/articleshow/75383975.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Varanasi||18 of a family test +ve in Sant Kabir Nagar||Gorakhpur: Sant Kabir Nagar district recorded a sudden spike in coronavirus cases as 19 people tested positive on Friday night, taking the district count to 21. As many as 18 people of a family in Maghar and one other in Tilathi village of the district were found positive. Of all the students who returned to Sant Kabir Nagar from Deoband on March 27, a 23-year-old man of Maghar area was found positive on April 21. On Thursday, officials sent samples of 27 people who came in contact with the man to Gorakhpur BRD Medical College for test. On late Friday night, as many as 18 people—all relatives of the infected man—tested positive for coronavirus, informed ADM Sanjay Kumar Pandey. Another person who tested positive on Friday is a 23-year old man of Tilathi village, who returned from Mumbai to his village on April 23. Administration quarantined nine members of his family in the district hospital. Officials sanitized and sealed Maghar and Tilathi village and Sant Kabir Naghar DM Rabish Gupta declared them as hotspots on Saturday morning. Heavy police force has been deployed in the two areas. Earlier, a man from Chorha village in Dudhara area of the district was found positive on April 15.  Gorakhpur zone commissioner Jayant Narlirkar has directed officials to keep a vigil over the concerned areas. He also inspected the areas sharing border with Sant Kabir Nagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/18-of-a-family-test-ve-in-sant-kabir-nagar/articleshow/75383790.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Surat||Bootlegger who escaped from police station nabbed||Surat: A team of operations group of Surat range IGP nabbed absconding bootlegger Vinod Varma alias Vinyo Bhaiyo from Valsad district on Friday night. The accused had escaped from the custody of Palsana police station here on Thursday night. Varma was nabbed from Ramnagari in Vejalpor of Valsad at around 9pm on Friday. He was produced in a local court on Saturday and it sent him to judicial custody. "Police had requested for his custody, but it was rejected. We are yet to find out how he managed to reach Valsad," a police officer said.Varma was already in jail when Palsana police arrested him on transfer warrant in a 2016 case. He was produced in a court on April 22. The court had remanded him in police custody until April 25.Police investigation has revealed that diverting the attention of policemen present in the police station, the accused had escaped. He managed to reach Valsad within a few hours despite police presence on main roads to enforce lockdown. Varma has bootlegging cases registered against him at many police stations across south Gujarat. He had fired multiple rounds at a police team belonging to state monitoring cell (SMC) in November 2018. The SMC team had raided a spot where Varma was distributing liquor to his associates in Navsari. Varma was arrested by Surat city crime branch in January 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bootlegger-who-escaped-from-police-station-nabbed/articleshow/75383311.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six-year-old Rancharda kid discharged||Ahmedabad: A six-year-old boy from Rancharda, one of the youngest patients from the state, was discharged on Saturday after completing 14 days under observation. R R Rawal, Gandhinagar district development officer (DDO), mentioned that the child got discharged after his recovery was satisfactory. “One of the oldest patients from the district — an 89-year-old woman from Lodra — also got discharged on Friday, which is a matter of great satisfaction for us. About eight cases have been registered in the district outside of municipal corporation area,” said Rawal. The DDO mentioned that the district has 204 persons under home quarantine. “In eight areas, house-to-house surveys were carried out to find persons with Covid-19 symptoms. As a strategy to identify patients quickly, we have drawn a list of persons with co-morbidity and teams are calling on them periodically to check on their health,” he said. In an innovative initiative, the district administration has also asked the chemists to report if any person takes medicines related to cough, fever, breathlessness, etc., periodically to find out persons with symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-year-old-rancharda-kid-discharged/articleshow/75384335.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||IT, ITES sectors welcome restart nod||Ahmedabad: Companies in the information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITES) sectors will be allowed to operate with 50% staff, following a state government decision on this on Saturday. Companies not located in containment zones can resume business with up to 50% of their staff and proper social distancing. Despite being highly technology-enabled, certain businesses require in-office support, at least for some workers, industry players said. “The decision will benefit the industry because the presence of limited staff is necessary for certain operations. While companies operated during the lockdown, management and maintenance of servers were a great challenge,” said Jaimin Shah, board member, Nasscom Foundation. “Export clients often seek service delivery through secure networks. As our computers for this are IP-bound, it is not possible to shift them to homes,” Shah further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/it-ites-sectors-welcome-restart-nod/articleshow/75384334.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 dampens festive mood on Day 1 of Ramzan in Patna||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, popular markets in Sabzibagh, Raja Bazaar, Phulwarisharif and Alamganj wore an uncharacteristically deserted look on the first day of Ramzan on Saturday. The aroma of delicacies like ‘sewai’, ‘sheer chai’ and ‘sheermal’ was also missing and only a handful of people could be seen buying essentials for the ‘iftar’ (evening meal with which Muslims end their fast at sunset). Traders and shopkeepers claimed that the lockdown was likely to hit their businesses hard. Mohammad Sonu, who runs a dry fruit shop on Ashok Rajpath, told this newspaper, “Almost 100 customers buy dates, dry fruits and other items from me on usual days. Their number goes up five times during Ramzan. This time, however, we may suffer losses.” Patnaites, who wait eagerly for the holy month of Ramzan every year, pointed out that the lockdown had dampened the festive mood. 28-year-old Bilal Ahmed, a resident of Jamal Road, said, “It is sad that there will not be any social gathering for offering special prayers this time.” Like Bilal, Phuwarisharif resident Mohammad Talha rued that he and his friends would not be able to come together for ‘iftar’ every evening. Azimabad Colony resident Junaid Khan said, “I will miss ‘sheer chai’ the most this year.” Mosques remain shut: With curbs on large gatherings and public ‘iftars’ in place, city mosques will continue to remain shut during Ramzan. Only the ‘imam’ (who leads Muslim worshippers in prayer), ‘muezzin’ (who issues the call to prayer) and administrators will offer ‘namaz’ at the mosques. Imarat-e-Shariah general secretary Maulana Shibli Qasmi told this newspaper, “Mosques will be closed and ‘taraweeh’ prayer banned. People will, therefore, observe fast and pray at home.” Meanwhile, police forces have been deployed near popular markets to ensure that social distancing norms are followed during Ramzan. Pirbahore police station SHO Rizwan Khan said, “Two police officers and eight constables have been deputed in Sabzibagh locality. A large number of shoppers had gathered in the market, which opened at 6am and closed by 6pm, on Friday evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-dampens-festive-mood-on-day-1-of-ramzan/articleshow/75383107.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Free online counselling for alcoholics||MANGALURU: A group of like-minded people, from different walks of life, have launched an online counselling platform to help tipplers and alcoholics. The group, consisting of social workers and media professionals, launched a nationwide online counselling platform for alcoholics, who have been facing a tough time, due to the unavailability of alcohol, since the lockdown was clamped. Ecolink Recovery Online, a Mangaluru-based online therapeutic group, in cooperation with local web portals and TV channels, have initiated a national opinion survey in this regard, which is accompanied by online counselling for alcoholics. Ronnie Thomas, coordinator of Recovery Online, said that due to not getting alcohol since the lockdown was clamped, most alcoholics and tipplers suffered withdrawal symptoms and other complications. “The lockdown has caused forced detoxification for alcoholics and tipplers, like it happens in de-addiction centres. However, a person suffering from alcoholism also requires timely emotional support, which can help him to quit the habit permanently, and this where online counselling comes to his aid,” he said, stressing that there is a high chance that a person who has been completely detoxified from the ravages of alcohol abuse, is likely to get back to his old habits, once liquor shops are opened, when the lockdown is lifted. “This is a crucial time to provide them with counselling, otherwise almost every alcoholic or tippler will rush to liquor shops once the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Several counsellors and therapists have already registered to offer free counselling and guidance to tipplers and alcoholics. Clara D’Cunha, one of the first counsellors who signed up for the free service, feels that the lockdown could be a blessing in disguise for alcoholics and tipplers. “This is only if they convert this crisis into an opportunity,” she said. One can avail the free service by logging on to: www.ecolinkrecovery.com/recovery-online||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/free-online-counselling-for-alcoholics/articleshow/75383243.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Four entry-exit points in Salt Lake sealed||KOLKATA: At least four roads leading into and out of Salt Lake were sealed with guard rails on Saturday and round-the-clock naka checking was carried out at six other entrances as police tightened the lockdown in the township. There had earlier been complaints of rampant violation of lockdown norms and unrestricted vehicular movement from several blocks, especially those adjoining EM Bypass. Officers of Bidhannagar City Police first sealed the Bailey bridge between VIP Road and AE Block. Later in the day, they blocked off the road beside the Duttabad slums and the road between the VIP Road slip bridge and Salt Lake’s AA Block. “We had been receiving complaints of lockdown violation from these areas. There were also complaints that people in these neighbourhoods were heading out to other localities across Bypass and residents of other areas were entering Salt Lake. Hence, we decided to seal movement along these places,” said a senior officer. The roads that Salt Lake residents can still take to enter or exit the township include Broadway from Beliaghata crossing, the road beside Hyatt Regency, First Avenue from Hudco crossing and the three box bridges along Salt Lake Bypass opposite Nicco Park, Wipro and Technopolis. However, cops have been posted at all these points and will allow only those with valid passes to go through. Cops added they are also trying to deploy officers near the footbridges to check unnecessary movement of people to and from Salt Lake. The police exercise followed cordoning off two localities in Salt Lake after a suspected Covid-19 case emerged from GC Block a few days back. A civic official said there have been a few suspected cases reported from Duttabad earlier and, on Friday, a local slum dweller was admitted at a hospital with complaints of fever. “We are working on sanitizing and cleaning up the localities twice a day. All necessary steps are being taken,” said Nirmal Dutta, councillor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s Ward 38, under which a large area of Duttabad falls. Locals welcomed the strict vigilance. “It is a good step to keep an eye on motorists coming in or going out,” said Sankhadeep Roy Chowdhury, a resident of AE Block. Civic officials are, however, worried about vegetable, fruit and fish vendors selling their wares across the blocks since most of them do not have gloves and some have even been seen not wearing masks properly. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation health department officials said that although sanitization is going on across all the 41 wards, extra attention is being given to the containment zones. Along with the stretch from GD Island to FC Block, some pockets of Baguiati, Tegharia, Raghunathpur and Dhalipara in the Rajarhat side off VIP Road have been marked as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-entry-exit-points-in-salt-lake-sealed/articleshow/75384079.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 26, 2020||Surat||Multi-purpose health worker from Tapi infected||Surat: A 32-year-old multi-purpose health worker from Kalamkui village of Valod taluka in Tapi district tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. The health worker, Hiren Chaudhari, was posted at the Kamlapur primary health centre (PHC) in Surat district. This is the second case reported from Tapi. Chaudhari’s samples were taken on Friday at Mandvi PHC and the result was declared on Saturday. According to Dr Harshad Patel, chief district health officer (CDHO) at Tapi, they have conducted sanitization at Chaudhari’s navtiv Kalamkui as part a precautionary measure. Tapi district recorded it first Covid-19 case on April 21, when Kansaben Gamit (35), a resident of Maypur village near Vyara town tested positive. Following the detection of the first case, district health department has started quarantining her family members and close contacts. Besides this, they have also increased surveillance in the village. Reports of Gamit’s family members and close contacts were negative. FARMER FROM NAVSARI VILLAGE TESTS POSITIVE Surat: A 65-year-old man from Nasilpore village in Navsari district tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total positive cases in the district to four on Saturday. According to the health officials at Navsari, Ishwar Patel was suffering from mild cough and breathing problem since last couple of days. He was taken to the Mulla and Yasfin Hospital and from there he was referred to the Navsari Covid-19 hospital where he tested positive on Saturday. Patel is into animal husbandry business and delivers milk to the households in villages. His five family members have been shifted to the quarantine facility and the village has been designated as containment zone. Patel is also suffering from co-morbid condition like blood pressure and heart disease. Dr D H Bhavsar, chief district health officer (CDHO), Navsari said, “Our health teams have started door-to-door survey in Nasilpore village, especially the houses where the patient was delivering milk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/multi-purpose-health-worker-from-tapi-infected/articleshow/75383128.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Surat||Five held under PASA for attacking cops in Jambusar||Surat: Five people involved in the attack on police personnel at Dehgam village in Bharuch’s Jambusar taluka were arrested under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act on Saturday.The accused identified as Saukat Bada, 41; Allauddin Choksi, 38; Saeed Khilji, 42; Mubbasir Malek, 26; and Azharuddin Choksi, 32, had attacked a police vehicle of Kavi police station on March 28. Police were trying to implement lockdown rules and social distancing norms in the village when they were targeted. The accused are residents of Dehgam village. Sources said the accused had thrown stones at the police personnel and escaped from the spot. A case was registered at Kavi police station against the assailants. District superintendent of police, Bharuch had sent a proposal for arrest of the accused under PASA Act to his senior officers. His proposal was approved on Saturday.Sources said the accused were picked up from the village and shifted to Lajpore Central Jail near Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/five-held-under-pasa-for-attacking-cops-in-jambusar/articleshow/75383351.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Patna||No shortage of PPE kits in Bihar: Health minister||PATNA: The state health department on Saturday claimed that personal protective equipment (PPE) kits were being procured in sufficient quantity for frontline health workers fighting Covid-19 in the state. Health minister Mangal Pandey said around 22,957 PPE kits, 4,01,295 ‘3-ply’ masks, 43,502 N-95 masks, 23,409 bottles of sanitizer (500ml each) and 10,750 RNA extraction kits are currently available with the department. “The health department provides these protective gears to government hospitals as per their requirements and demand. I informed Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan about the latest status of Covid-19 patients in the state in a videoconferencing and urged him to send 500 ventilators to Bihar,” Pandey said, adding that the Union minister has assured the state of providing PPE kits and other protective gears in sufficient quantity. The state government has already provided masks, gloves, surgical gowns and eye gear to health workers in a bid to protect them from the virus. N-95 and 3-ply masks, hand sanitizer and Dettol solutions have been provided to the government hospitals in state. Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha, superintendent of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna, said the hospital has 2,000 PPE kits and more than 500 N-95 masks. “The supply of hand sanitizer and Dettol solution has also improved. Some associations and even individuals are also donating these items to the hospital administration,” he said, the number of beds in isolation wards in the hospital has been increased to 448 following rise in Covid-19 positive cases. Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Choudhary said Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited has procured PPE kits and other protective gear ins bulk from the market and Centre. “The protective gears are also available in the market. Hence, there is no shortage of such items now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-shortage-of-ppe-kits-in-bihar-health-minister/articleshow/75382999.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: IMA asks doctors facing ill treatment to lodge complaint||PATNA: Even as heath workers across the globe are being appreciated for their relentless efforts to fight Covid-19 and labelled as ‘frontline warriors’, there are some doctors in the state who are scorned by their neighbours when they return home after duty. President of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Bimal Karak said they have so far received eight complaints from doctors regarding harassment caused by their neighbours. “Some doctors have told us that after they go home from hospitals, they are mocked by their neighbours who say that they will spread coronavirus,” said Dr Bimal, adding the doctors have been told to lodge complaint. One of the doctors posted at primary health centre at Adhaura in Kaimur district said, “One staff locked my room and did not let me sleep at night there thinking I may infect the room. I had to spend night in the courtyard. Now I am sharing room with another doctor." However, not all medical staff have had bad experience. Some are appreciated by their neighbours. Covid-19 nodal officer at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital Dr Ajay Sinha said he had never suffered any bad treatment. “Rather my neighbours and guard of my apartment provide all necessary help to me,” said Dr Sinha. Meanwhile, the Patna district administration has arranged rooms in quality hotels for doctors of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College and Hospital and other hospitals dealing with Covid-19 patients. DM Kumar Ravi said apart from Patliputra Ashok, the administration has kept ready a guesthouse with 300 rooms, including 150 exclusively for doctors of the NMCH, a dedicated hospital for treatment of corona positive patients. Several hotels near Gandhi Maidan will also be used for the doctors of PMCH seeking self-quarantine, the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ima-asks-doctors-facing-ill-treatment-to-lodge-complaint/articleshow/75383028.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Hospitals address night-refusal issues||KOLKATA: Private hospitals have identified night-time operations during the pandemic as a grey area and is attempting to take corrective measures to address complaints of patient refusal by resident medical officers and junior doctors who man the hospital at night. On April 21, Aniruddha Singh Roy, 41, a resident of Tollygunge, was refused admission by three private hospitals because he had a slight temperature and doctors wanted to be sure he wasn’t Covid-positive. Turned away by private facilities, the patient reached MR Bangur but died shortly thereafter. “Initially, the hospitals were ready to admit him but refused as soon as they learned that he was running a slight temperature,” recounted Kamlesh Singh Deo, his septuagenarian aunt. Roy, who had recovered from cirrhosis of liver, had started vomitting blood from April 20. “We first took him to a couple of hospitals off EM Bypass and then to a hospital in Budge Budge. We had to return home. But when word spread that the patient had been refused by hospitals, someone informed Regent Park police station. Policemen then arrived and took him to MR Bangur in an ambulance,” said Nilu Singh, a cousin. This and other complaints of refusal prompted the chief secretary to tell private as well as state hospitals not to refuse patients. While most private hospitals denied refusing patients, a few admitted there was a problem after regular hours when only emergency was in operation as doctors and paramedics were scared of contracting infection if they attempted to treat a patient who later turns Covid-positive. Doctors, on their part, said there have been instances when patients have not been forthcoming about their problems and have tried to suppress symptoms or hide travel or contact history, leading to the fear among healthworkers. “We have had cases where the patient had popped a paracetamol before visiting the hospital in order to hide symptoms. We appeal to them not to do this,” said Nibedita Chatterjee, CEO of ILS Hospital, Dum Dum. Hospitals have decided to set up more stringent screening and provide more PPE to the workforce in the emergency units so that healthcare workers do not hesitate to check on a patient. “Doctors have also been told not to deny patients under any circumstances. We have been tending to each patient who turns up at our hospital,” said Ruby General Hospitals GM Subhasish Datta. “I appeal to doctors to start opening up more services. We have been providing accommodation to some employees, and pick-up and drop-off services for others, so that patients who walk into our hospitals are not denied treatment,” said Rupali Basu, director and CEO of Woodlands Multispecialty Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-address-night-refusal-issues/articleshow/75383972.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||One more tests positive, another locality sealed in Mandya||MANDYA: With one more patient being confirmed of Covid-19 in Mandya, the authorities have sealed off another locality in the town on Saturday. With the new patient, the number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 16 in the district. The new patient reportedly got the infection from patient 78 who is an employee of Jubilant Generics Limited in Nanjanagud. So far, two positive cases related to Jubilant Generics were detected in Mandya. According to deputy commissioner Venkatesh, the 37-year-old person, who was in touch with the employee of Jubilant Generics, was tested positive and he got admitted to an isolation ward in MIMS. The district now has a total of 16 active positive cases and lab reports of 873 suspected cases are yet to be received. On Saturday, after Swarnasandra locality, the authorities sealed off Old Market area and restricted the movement of people. The police cautioned the residents that any unnecessary movement would be strictly dealt with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/one-more-tests-positive-another-locality-sealed-in-mandya/articleshow/75382322.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||2,184 under observation in Dharwad||DHARWAD: The total number of people under observation in Dharwad increased to 2,184 on Saturday. According to the health bulletin, the number people home quarantined for 14 days increased to 1,430. Nine people were quarantined in hospital, 58 have completed their 14-day home isolation and 687 completed 28-day quarantine. So far, the health department has sent 1,661 throat swab samples for test of which 1,367 tested negative for Covid-19. The result of 287 samples are awaited. Till now, nine samples tested positive and of them two people have been cured and discharged from KIMS. Presently, the district has seven active cases of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2184-under-observation-in-dharwad/articleshow/75384324.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||A mat for hands-free door opening!||Ahmedabad: In the time of Covid-19, how about a doormat that can help unlock the door without touching it? A concept presented by an NID student at Global Grad Show is among 390 applications selected globally. This year’s theme for the show is finding solutions to the collateral issues related to the pandemic. A total of 14 applications from India have been selected, out of which three are from Gujarat — NID Gandhinagar, CEPT University and Karnavati University. Named Untapped, the concept has six patterns on the mat which could be pressed in a sequence to make a pattern to unlock the door. The fabric on top uses photo-catalytic self-cleaning to avoid dust, dirt and bacterial growth. Another project from the CEPT University proposed to employ geo-spatial technology to contain Covid-19 by mapping the location history of Covid-19 patients and identifying areas for further search by health department. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-mat-for-hands-free-door-opening/articleshow/75384332.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Lawyer ‘appears’ in vest, irked Rajasthan HC judge adjourns hearing on a bail plea||JAIPUR: A repeat of taking the judicial job a bit too casually irked a Rajasthan High Court judge so much that he abruptly adjourned the hearing on a bail plea after the petitioner’s counsel “appeared” before the court wearing only a vest during a video hearing of a case on Saturday . The single judge bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash promptly issued its order, saying: “Keeping in view that the petitioner’s counsel was not in proper uniform, this matter is adjourned (till May 5).” After the nationwide lockdown was imposed in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Rajasthan high court decided to hear urgent matters only through video conferencing. Since then, this is the second such incident of “misconduct” by lawyers. Wrongly accused of not following the dress code: Lawyer“Though the court is functioning through video conferencing, the lawyers must appear in proper uniform and the decorum of the court has to be maintained. The Advocates Act provides for lawyers to wear uniform while pleading a case for their clients,” the judge said. The judge also observed that according to the Advocates Act, lawyers have to mandatorily wear their court uniform even when they are meeting clients. The lawyer, Ravindra Kumar Paliwal told TOI, “After seeing my client’s case listed for the day, I was waiting for a call from the court in my uniform. But I did not receive any call. I only came to know about the incident when I saw the court order. Perhaps the court staff had connected the [video] call to a wrong person.” Paliwal said he had applied for revision of the order because “I am wrongly accused of not following the dress code”. Earlier too, a similar incident had happened, much to the embarrassment of the same judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lawyer-appears-in-vest-irked-raj-hc-judge-adjourns-hearing-on-a-bail-plea/articleshow/75384650.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Door-to-door delivery of food items allowed in Tirupur city||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur district administration has allowed door-to-door delivery of vegetables, groceries, meat and fish by vendors in the city during the three-day long complete lockdown that begins today. “The vegetable market at Thennampalayam will function from 10pm to 6am every day. Vendors can purchase vegetables from the market and sell at doorstep,” Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan said. “But people should stay indoors and should not visit the market.” Corporation commissioner K Siva Kumar said vegetables are sold through 30 vegetable vending vehicles. “Vendors who wish to sell vegetables using push carts or vehicles at doorstep will be allowed to do so. We conducted a meeting with some vendors. Fishmongers from the Thennampalayam fish market have been selling fish in residential areas every Sunday. As many as 40 vehicles carrying fish passes through the streets. They are allowed to operate on this Sunday as well.” Meat sellers can do the business by taking order through telephone or website and deliver it at the doorstep of customers, the collector said. “Grocers can also do door delivery.” Meanwhile, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani requested people not to step out of houses for anything other than medical emergencies and to purchase vegetables. “The purpose of the lockdown is to control the spread of the virus. Stern action will be taken against the violators.” “While medical shops will be allowed to function, petrol pumps, vegetable markets and vegetable vending vehicles will be allowed to function for a stipulated time. But meat shops and grocery shops will remain shut,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/door-to-door-delivery-of-food-items-allowed-in-tirupur-city/articleshow/75384326.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Varanasi||11-year-old boy tests Covid-19 positive in Azamgarh||VARANASI: A 11-year-old boy, nephew of the woman who tested Covid-19 positive on April 19, was found having novel coronavirus infection in Azamgarh district on Friday night. The total number of infected persons in Azamgarh district rose to eight. All these cases have connection with Tablighi Jamaat attendees. DM Azamgarh N P Singh said on Saturday, “One boy from Chaksitti, a hotspot, in Mubarakpur, Azamgarh has tested Covid-19 positive. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district till now has gone up to eight, although four had been discharged from hospital after they were declared as cured.” “Initially, three Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ghaziabad staying in Chaksitti area were tested and found infected. Then a middle-aged man from Chaksitti, who was in contact with the Tablighi Jamaat attendees, also tested positive. On April 13, his son and daughter were also found infected and on April 19, a woman in their close neighbourhood also tested positive,” said Singh. The samples of her family members had also been sent to laboratory for test during contract tracing, he said. “When the reports arrived on Friday night, this boy was declared as infected. He has also been admitted to isolated ward,” the DM said. He further informed that total 757 samples from Chaksitti and other areas of Mubarakpur had been sent to laboratory and 749 were declared not infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/11-year-old-boy-tests-positive-in-azamgarh/articleshow/75383795.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Now, govt school students log in to virtual classes||Coimbatore: While CBSE and ICSE schools are conducting online classes and tests for students stuck at home, some government and municipal schools in Tirupur have proved that they are not far behind.Teachers of the Government Higher Secondary School at Perunthozhuvu and the Municipal Higher Secondary School at Kumar Nagar have been using apps such as Zoom to conduct classes for Class X students. Teachers are sharing question papers in WhatsApp groups and conducting tests. C Hariharan, a Tamil teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School, started online classes on April 6. He already had a WhatsApp group for his students. “I send the class timing and Zoom link in WhatsApp so that students can join as guests. They needn’t register. So, there is no threat to their personal info,” he told TOI.Hariharan converts two-mark and one-mark questions into multiple-choice questions and conducts online quizzes. “Students can take their time to answer it. They are given a certificate on completing the quiz which they enthusiastically share in the group,” he said. He conducts two-hour sessions three days per week.Headmistress E Anandi said other teachers are also following suit. English teacher at the Municipal Higher Secondary School N Kalpana said she has been conducting online classes for the last three months. “Earlier, I had been conducting online classes on using technology for teachers. After the lockdown, I thought of giving online classes for students. I started by sharing question papers with them in WhatsApp and asked them to send answers. But it was not satisfactory. So, I started online classes in Zoom,” she said. “We are also planning to conduct classes in Google Meet and MS Teams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-govt-school-students-log-in-to-virtual-classes/articleshow/75384327.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Nurse robot to make the rounds in hosps||Coimbatore: Dotworld Technologies, a city-based start-up, has developed a robot nurse to supply food and medicines to Covid-19 patients in isolation wards. Dokat Aura will help reduce human interaction, which in turn is expected to control spread of the virus while ensuring the patients get their requirements met in a timely manner. Government hospitals including the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital were introduced to the robot nurse as an experiment. “The main challenge for our people is to learn how to give the robot commands, monitor it and for patients to get comfortable with being served by it,” said a Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital official. The firm has also developed a robot that will aid in sanitizing public places by navigating nooks and corners automatically, thus improving efficiency of sanitation and reducing cost and risk of manual labour involved in the practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nurse-robot-to-make-the-rounds-in-hosps/articleshow/75384322.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Thieves party before stealing 30 bottles of liquor in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Thieves who broke into a locked bar in KG Nagar in south Bengaluru, not only took away several liquor bottles but also downed a few pegs before fleeing from the spot. Interestingly, they did not touch the cash box and other valuables. The incident took place in a bar in Lakshmipura, KG Nagar near Chamarajpet during the early hours of Friday. Bar owner and Girinagar resident Prasanna told police, “A man residing near my bar called me around 3.30am saying strange noise was heard inside the bar which was locked and sealed by excise officials last month. On reaching, I found that miscreants had entered and departed through a ventilator.” Prasanna said he then informed police, who arrived at the spot. “Thieves had taken the staircase of a neighbouring building to land on the terrace of the bar. From there, they sneaked into the bar through a ventilator. During spot inspection, we discovered three empty glasses and a whiskey bottle on the table. It indicated that the miscreants emptied the bottle before stealing around 30 full bottles of rum and whiskey,” the jurisdictional KG Nagar police said. The CCTV camera and digital video recorder were switched off since the bar was sealed for the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thieves-party-before-stealing-30-bottles-of-liquor/articleshow/75383255.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Agri dept offers storage space||Coimbatore: Farmers can store their produce in godowns of regulated markets to avoid selling them for lower rates during the lockdown, agriculture department officials said. Produce can be stored for free for 30 days and for a maximum 180 days. Farmers can also get 75% of the market value of the produce, up to a maximum of Rs 3lakh, as loan. “Amid the lockdown, with no proper transport and no proper marketing facilities, farmers might not be able to sell their produce. This might lead to distress-selling,” an agriculture official said. In Coimbatore, farmer have harvested maize, pulses, cereals, millets, oil seeds, and turmeric. “These can be stored in the regulated markets. Perishables can be stored in cold storage facilities,” he said. “They can wait till they are confident of getting a good price,” the official added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/agri-dept-offers-storage-space/articleshow/75384331.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Homemade delicacies to make Ramzan’s first Iftar special||Nagpur: For iftar, people usually throng various stalls that serve kheema, samosa and a variety of delicacies. But the first iftar of Ramzan amid lockdown calls for tasty homemade food, bonding and prayers, feel Muslim brethren. Grounded at home, people will have to prepare the feast all by themselves. Helping elders in the task are children who are enjoying every bit of it. Hasan Shafiq, an entrepreneur, is trying to make the most of this pious occasion with his family. He is focusing on minimalism in food and iftar items. “This is the time to pray for an end to the corona negativity. Each year, streets and markets are adorned with stalls of food items. This time we are having simple fruits, sharbat and cool drinks such as Rooh Afza, and dates,” he said. It is for the first time that rozedars will be missing out on tasty street food but lawyer Ejaz Ahmed’s family is trying out several dishes at home such as white sauce pasta, cutlets, chicken curries etc. His children are enjoying the time they are spending in the kitchen. “Being a big family, we’ll have several items. We have made chicken tikka, pasta, shakes and desserts too. Children have also kept roza and are excited each time they cook,” he said. Bilquis Saha Akhtar, a housewife, says this Ramzan is very interesting as she is getting to spend time with her daughter Alifia Akhtar, an IT engineer who is now working from home. “We have made samosas, kachoris and many other snacks from the grocery items received with community help,” she said. Her daughter said, “I am getting to spend time with my mother during Ramzan. What’s more I can ask for. We cook together, prepare feast for iftar, snack items, sharbats and much more,” she said. Shabhat Yar Khan, a dentist, is missing the meals he enjoys with family during Ramzan. “Besides dressing up in new clothes, Ramzan is mainly about prayers and bonding. Ramzan is very close to my heart but I am missing eating out and offering prayers with others. Nonetheless, we have made iftar items at home such as chicken curry, milkshakes, cut fruits and enjoyed dates etc,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/homemade-delicacies-to-make-ramzans-first-iftar-special/articleshow/75383977.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Over 5,000 labourers sent back to Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh||GANDHINAGAR: After states like Uttar Pradesh made special arrangements to take back persons stranded in their states because of the lockdown, the Gujarat government has ferried over 5,000 migrant workers to Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The labourers, who were being housed at shelters in different districts, were ferried in special buses to the Rajasthan and MP borders, from where the respective states made arrangements to take them to their homes. Several thousand migrant workers from Rajasthan, MP, UP, Bihar, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and other states were being housed in shelters during the lockdown. They were prevented from going back after the lockdown was imposed and thousands attempted to go back to their native places, most of them on foot. Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour & employment, said that a request was made by chief secretaries of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh that their workers be allowed to return home. “So far, around 5,000 labourers from these two states have been allowed to go back to their respective states in special buses from 235 relief shelters. They have been sent back after complete screening of their health,” Mittra said. He added that buses will drop these labourers at the Rajasthan and MP borders, from where MP and Rajasthan will make arrangements to transport them to their homes. “We have also made arrangements of 900 buses to transport migrant workers to other districts of Gujarat. On Saturday, 101 buses were used to ferry labourers. In the coming days, if required, we will allow more labour movement,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-5k-labourers-sent-back-to-raj-mp/articleshow/75383982.cms||Kapil Dave
April 26, 2020||Varanasi||No change in plan for opening of shops till May 3: Administration||VARANASI: There will be no change in opening of markets in Varanasi, said the district administration clearing confusion over Friday late night order issued by Union ministry of home affairs regarding opening of shops. The timings of the opening of markets in Varanasi, which is from 6am to 10am, will remain unchanged till May 3, it said. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “The state government has already issued directives that lockdown measures would remain fully in force in 19 districts, where number of Covid-19 cases exceed 10 till May 3. Varanasi is among the 19 districts.” Following an order issued by MHA regarding relaxation in the category of commercial and private establishments, allowing opening of all shops registered under shops and establishment act, the district administration was flooded by questions whether this order would be effective in Varanasi also. Many leaders of traders’ associations also contacted senior officials on Saturday, while queries kept popping on social media too. Though MHA revised it order on Saturday clarifying the categories of locations and which shops would be opened, the traders’ fraternity frantically tried to contact administration. On Saturday afternoon, DM Sharma made it clear that there is no possibility of extension in timing of shop opening in city and rural markets in the district before May 3. The retail markets will open from 6am to 10am, while timing of wholesale markets will also continue like past, he said. “The shops of text books, stationery and electrical goods, which were permitted to open in morning hours are also being monitored. These shops have been asked to open to provide only home delivery, but we have reports of buyers collecting at many places, hence vigil has been increased,” the DM said. If violation of order and social distancing norms are detected anywhere, action will be taken, he added. The district administration has already imposed ban on opening of Chowkaghat fish market and vegetable market of Lamahi area after violation of social distancing. DM said Covid-19 cases would be reviewed on May 1 and 2 before deciding which markets can be allowed to open in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-no-change-in-plan-for-opening-of-shops-till-may-3/articleshow/75383806.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||SHRC seeks report on farmer assault||Hyderabad: A farmer from Balkonda of Nizamabad district has appealed the state human rights commission (SHRC) to take actions against a sub-inspector for thrashing him and his father. The SHRC has sought a report on the incident from Nizamabad police commissioner by June 29. “I am unaware about the nature of the injuries suffered by the farmer but I don’t think they were grievous. However, there was use of force by one of the officers and I have directed an ACP rank officer to conduct enquiry and submit a report,” commissioner Kartikeya told TOI. The farmer, G Harish, said his father Rajender was returning home on April 19 at around 8.30 am after attending to his fields. “Enroute, my father went to the market. The police took the keys of his bike so he went to the station and waited for sub-inspector till 11.30 am. When the SI turned up, my father was beaten up for asking for the keys,” Harish said. Harish went to the police station when he came to know that his father was there. “The SI, Si Hari, started beating me with a lathi when I was about to enter the station. I was later kicked and beaten more. My father was also assaulted. This can be corroborated by CCTV footage from the police station,” added Harish. The farmer said his father was returning home after attending to his field, when the key of his vehicle was seized by the police. He was assaulted when he went to the police station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-seeks-report-on-farmer-assault/articleshow/75383988.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Close contacts of 7 new cases test -ve, screening on||Coimbatore: A day after six police officers tested positive for Covid-19, the public health department on Saturday said 98 of their close contacts, including family members and officers in their police stations, have been tested negative for the virus. Now, plans are afoot to put containment measures in place around Podanur and Kuniyamuthur police stations and their houses to keep in check community spread of the novel coronavirus. Following in the footsteps of Podanur police station, Kuniyamuthur police station was closed for disinfection on Saturday. The station would function out of a nearby private marriage hall for time being. The family members of the 20-year-old woman patient from Sirumugai have also been tested negative for the virus, according to a source. She was also tested positive on Friday. Betting big on the next four days of complete lockdown, which they think would help break Covid-19 chain in the district, health department officials are planning to use the period to rapidly contain the spread of the virus around the places of the seven new cases that were reported on Friday. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We have tested all the six cops’ family members and officers in Podanur police station. They are all negative. City corporation officials are taking nasal swabs from the officers in Kuniyamuthur police station and their results will be out tomorrow (Sunday).” Health department officials are in the process of marking containment zones around each of the seven cases and taking out door-to-door screening of people, especially elderly ones and those with flu like symptoms, in those areas. The 51-year-old railway engineer, who tested positive nearly three weeks ago, was discharged from PSG Hospitals on Saturday after he tested negative for the virus twice. A diabetic, the man from Podanur was admitted to the hospital on April 3, with breathing difficulties and fever. He was on ventilator for nine days and reduced ventilation for another two days, after which he recovered rapidly. He is the fifth Covid-19 patient to get discharged from PSG Hospitals so far. Dr Karthikeyan, ICU head, PSG Hospitals, said, “The disease progresses fast. So, besides giving him the advised azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine, we consulted with our counterparts and experts abroad, and administered him steroids and prone ventilation to improve his oxygenation from the fifth day, which eventually helped him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/close-contacts-of-7-new-cases-test-ve-screening-on/articleshow/75384338.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||Tertiary contact tests positive in Mysuru||Mysuru: After a lull, Mysuru registered a Covid-19 case on Saturday. The last Covid-19 case was reported here on March 21. A total four patients were cured and discharged from the covid hospital here on Saturday, bringing down the tally of active Covid-19 cases to 51. Till now, 89 positive cases have been reported here, of whom 38 have been discharged. A 50-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, and has been designated P-497. She is a resident of Nanjangud, and came in contact with a 30-year-old Covid-19 patient designated P-382, who is a secondary contact of P-52, the first employee of pharmaceutical firm Jubilant Generics, who tested positive for the disease on March 26. As Covid-19 cases have been detected in rural parts of Nanjangud, the Mysuru district administration has sealed off the temple town. Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute dean and director C P Nanjaraj confirmed that four Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday, after their tests came out negative for the novel coronaviurs. Septuagenarian patient has multiple ailments Meanwhile, a 72-year-old, who was admitted due to severe acute respiratory illness and later tested positive for Covid-19, is on oxygen support. He is suffering from multiple health issues, including heart problems, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The condition of the rest of the Covid-19 patients in the hospital is stable and asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tertiary-contact-tests-positive-in-mysuru/articleshow/75382346.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Alert traffic cop saves man from ending life||Nagpur: A 40-year-old man, a father of two, nearly ended his life on Friday by taking a plunge into Gandhisagar after being hit by the lockdown blues. The dabha owner, a resident of Baba Budhaji Nagar, was pulled back to safety by three traffic cops and another from the headquarters who were on duty in the vicinity. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Anil Tiwari, who was checking vehicles along with ASI Rameshwar Wanjari, constables Pranoti Kukde and Deepali, said he spotted a man at the edge of the lake on the verge of taking a plunge. “We rushed and pulled him back to safety. He was upset with his ailing health and lockdown,’ said Tiwari. “He was suffering from various ailments which further dented his morale. We could understand his mental state from his expressions,” said the traffic ASI. The traffic cops later handed over the man to Ganeshpeth police who recorded his statement. After the man’s family was informed, cops ensured that he reached home. Police also recorded the incident in their diary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alert-traffic-cop-saves-man-from-ending-life/articleshow/75383986.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 26, 2020||Nashik||1 dead, 9 new cases in Malegaon; admin tries to keep borders sealed||Nashik: The situation in Malegaon continues to be grim with one more coronavirus-related death and nine new cases reported on Saturday. The deceased was a 71-year-old medical professional who had tested positive on April 18. He had been admitted in isolation ward. Nashik district now has 143 patients with 12 deaths. Two patients have recovered. The district administration is unable to understand how people are still getting in and out of Malegaon despite the borders of the city being sealed. The textile town is densely populated with more than seven people living in house-cum-shanties of less than 20sqft in most areas of the town. While the administration is arranging for quarantines in private and public establishments, the authorities here are gripped with the major problem of the people moving in and out of the city clandestinely. Three cases tested positive out of Malegaon too have been linked to the textile town. “Be it the first Covid-19 positive case in Sakri (deceased), or the other two cases in Sinnar and Yeola, all have a common thread — travel to Malegaon. While some of them might have been an exceptional case, it remains to be seen how many more such persons we find in the forthcoming days,” a health official said on the condition of anonymity. According to sources, the woman found positive in Yeola taluka — the first case there — had been to her daughter in-law’s home in Malegaon when she had delivered a baby. “We have been appealing to people to not cross borders, but they are still doing so by making excuses. When a person gives some humane reason, even the police personnel cannot refuse. People should stop making such excuses — to save the lives of many more,” a senior police officer from Malegaon said. Police officers, on the condition of anonymity, have also pointed out that there were some cases in some villages around Malegaon where the local residents refused entry to the people coming from Malegaon. “People have relatives in Malegaon and even in the neighbouring villages. With the lockdown being tightened in the town, some are sneaking out by riding ‘emergency services’ vehicles. But the locals have now decided to ensure the relatives are not welcomed,” the officers added. The administration, however, claims that though people have been crossing the borders, the cases were more than two weeks old. The effect of the complete lockdown and isolation will start becoming evident soon. “The national lockdown began on March 24. However, there was still some movement of people. But since the first seven cases were registered in Malegaon on April 8, the security has been beefed up. Since then, people have not been able to exit or enter the city, at least easily,” the official from district administration said. The administration also hopes that the number of cases in Malegaon either will start to stabilise, if not decline. “The number of cases will not be zero, but we hope the things start to come under control,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1-dead-9-new-cases-in-malegaon-admin-tries-to-keep-borders-sealed/articleshow/75383288.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 30-year-old driver dies as SUV rams vehicle||HYDERABAD: While the police, along with GMR officials, were removing a milk van, which had met with an accident, from NH-44, another speeding vehicle dashed the patrolling vehicle, killing the driver. The incident occurred at Narsingi, Medak district. According to police, the milk van fell down after dashing into the divider. “The police and GMR officials reached the spot and were trying to remove the milk van from the road. Meanwhile, a speeding SUV carrying vegetables dashed first into the milk van and then the GMR vehicle,” said Narsingi SI, Rajesh. The driver of the GMR vehicle, Prashanth (30), sustained injuries and died on the way to hospital. The driver of the SUV, Sripal Reddy (32) was booked under Sec-302-A of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-yr-old-driver-dies-as-suv-rams-vehicle/articleshow/75384360.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Leopard kills another priest, second attack in a week in Junagadh||RAJKOT: A temple priest was mauled to death by a leopard in Bhavnath taleti (foothills) of Junagadh late around Friday midnight, the second such incident reported within a week at the same place. Omkar Giri Maharaj, 52, who was sleeping in the open passage of an small guest house, was dragged for some distance by the leopard that also ate some of his body parts. Rooms are constructed near the foothills leading up to the Girnar mountain for devotees to take rest during the annual Bhavnath fair and Girnar Parikrama (circumambulation). But several priests also the rooms it for resting. The area is within the limits of Junagadh Municipal Corporation but adjoins the Girnar sanctuary which has sizeable number of leopards and lions. SK Shrivastava, chief conservator of forest, Junagadh, told TOI that the leopard ate almost 80% of this body. Deputy conservator of forest, Junagadh, Sunil Berwal told TOI: “The leopard deliberately attacked the priest and dragged him away. We are trying to capture it for a week now. We suspect it is the same leopard that had killed another priest few days ago as other animals can’t have the territory in such a close area.” Omkar Giri’s body was found at nearly a km away from where the first priest was found mauled last week. Officials are surprised by the leopard attacks on humans as there is enough prey base in the area. Generally, leopards don’t attack adult people, but in both these cases, the victims were in deep sleep. Earlier on April 17 night, 75-year-old temple priest Ramdas Bapu was killed and dragged into the forest by a leopard in Bhavnath Taleti. His body was also half-eaten. Ramdas Bapu was sleeping outside the small temple located on the footsteps leading to the mountain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-mauls-priest-to-death-in-junagadh-second-attack-in-week/articleshow/75383293.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Loss and gain: Owners say glass is half empty, alcoholics say half full||Nagpur: The lockdown announced by PM Narendra Modi has left smokers and alcoholics in a dilemma. Grounded, regulars are finding it difficult to come to terms with their drinking habits. Some are trying their best to quit drinking — because of non availability, staying with family and health concerns. Sagar Johri, the owner of a wine shop, is suffering financial losses as his establishment has been shut for more than month. “Lockdown is surely taking a toll on our business. But we understand the need of the situation. Though we are paying salaries to our employees, it’s very difficult to do so as there’s no income,” he said. “I was not a habitual drinker but used to have a peg or two once a week. After the lockdown was announced, I stocked my home bar with beer, whiskey and other drinks. Though the stock is not yet over, I have not touched liquor since two weeks,” said a banker, who did not want to be named. Staying with family and children is making it difficult to drink on a regular basis. “My wife gets furious whenever I drink at home. I had a habit of drinking with my office mates every weekend. But now, as I’m at home, I have realized that I can quit drinking if I want to,” said an accountant. Since the lockdown, many cases of thefts in bars and wine shops have been registered. Dr Sudhir Gupta, a gastroenterologist, believes that one must quit alcohol with will power for better health. “It’s hard to imagine how alcoholics must be living in the lockdown. The sad part is they are exposed to adulterated alcohol and are drinking anything to fulfil their craving. Of late, we have received very few cases related to drinking. Quitting will improve the health of alcoholics and also benefit their families,” he said. Psychologist Naznin Chimmatwala says, “There is no substitute to alcohol but there are a lot of substitutes to avoid cravings. Controlling and abstaining will help people quit alcohol in such times.” she said. Youngsters, too, have slowed down. “I used to be a party freak. Every Saturday, I would smoke and drink with my friends. It feels very sad that we cannot enjoy our weekend anymore, but it made me realize that health improves by avoiding drinking regularly and eating right,” said a student. Shilpi Bagdi, the owner of a bar and restaurant, a youth hot spot for partying and chilling out, said, “I know that alcohol addiction is major problem and people must be finding it difficult to not able to go out and drink. But they must make peace with the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/loss-and-gain-owners-say-glass-is-half-empty-alcoholics-say-half-full/articleshow/75383999.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 26, 2020||Varanasi||Muslim clerics donate Rs 1 lakh to UP Covid-19 Fund||VARANASI: On the first day of the holy month of Ramzan, people of the Muslim community donated Rs one lakh to the UP Covid Care Fund which is intituted to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Office bearers of Madaris Arabiya, Golgadda, including Maulana Akhlaq Ahmad, Sayyed Zeeshan Hussain, Haji Mansoor and Haji Nurool Hoda, handed over the cheque of Rs one lakh to the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma. DM expressed his gratitude for their contribution. Following the lockdown protocol, devotees offered namaz at their homes on Saturday. Only the caretakers of mosques offered prayers at their respective mosques. The administration has made arrangements for the supply of necessary items of roza iftar to the Muslim families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/muslim-clerics-donate-rs-1l-to-up-covid-fund/articleshow/75383811.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal warns people: Don’t force govt to get stricter||Nashik: Notwithstanding the limited relaxation in trade and industry in rural areas, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday requested people to remain indoors and comply with the lockdown orders. He warned people against abusing the relaxation that would force the state government to get stricter.“Covid-19 is a disease where a person can spread the virus even before showing any signs of illness himself. Any person standing next to you could be carrying the infection. It is better to maintain social distancing, avoid contact with anyone and stay indoors,” Bhujbal said.On Saturday, citizens in large numbers took to the streets to go on a buying spree after the central government announced a relaxation in the lockdown norms by allowing shops in residential areas to function with 50% manpower.Even before the state government could make a decision, many Nashikites started thronging the vegetable and fruit markets without minding the norms.“The government is yet to announce a relaxation for the people. If people take to social distancing and follow norms, it will help contain the spread of Covid-19. If that doesn’t happen, the state government will be required to get stricter, just as it has been done in Mumbai and Pune,” Bhujbal said.The entire day passed in confusion over whether the state government and the district administration is announcing any relaxation or not.“Large number of people on the streets will undo all the hard work that has gone into containing the spread of the disease. We had done a good job in containing the spread, but only hope that Saturday’s situation does not aggravate the things,” observers said.On Saturday, barricades were only for namesake. People were rushing out to buy things and disobeying the norm of one person per two-wheeler. “How many people can we check? We are helpless as,” Ramesh Kale, police personnel at the Trimurti Chowk said.The district administration officials pointed out that the permission to run the ‘farsan and sweet marts’ had been withdrawn following the failure in maintaining of lockdown norms by them.“They were asked to maintain social distancing and only then sell the goods, but that did not happen and, hence, their permission to operate has been withdrawn temporarily,” the officials said.The district officials also pointed out that they had not received any communication on relaxation and, therefore, at least for now, the lockdown norms stand as they are.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-warns-people-dont-force-govt-to-get-stricter/articleshow/75383278.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi doctor at the Covid-19 frontline at Australia||BELAGAVI: Hailing from a small village in Belagavi taluk, this medical practitioner is dubbed a saviour in Australia. Put up on the frontline of the battle against Covid 19 at Wollongong Hospital in Wollongong Metropolitan Area in New South Wales, Dr Mahadev Patil is from Yellur village which is located on the outskirts of the Belagavi city. While he pursued primary schooling at St Mary’s School, Patil completed his MBBS at a medical college in Maharashtra. He left for Australia in 2008 for highrer studies. Back home his father Ravjee Patil is a proud man. Speaking to TOI over phone, Mahadev saod that the pandemic has affected the world in a way unimaginable. Mahadev firmly believes that best weapon against it is to avoid the spread. "People should strictly follow public health measures like social distancing, hygiene, isolation and prevent community spread," he stressed. On whether he is worried aboit his safety, the doctor said although he is concerned and takes adequate measures, his patients are his priority. Mahadev while said Australian government is succefully containing the spread, he advised Indian docs to take adequate safety measures. "For the docs back home, they should compulsorily use surgical masks and gloves when handling patients in the outpatient department. The patient at the Covid ward should wear PPE. Any patient with the suspicion of Covid 19 symptoms should be immediately referred to test," he said. He also hailed Indian government for successfully working to contain the spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-doc-at-the-covid-frontline-at-australia/articleshow/75383282.cms||Shreyas HS
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||13 more test +ve on day one of complete lockdown in Jabalpur||Jabalpur: On the first day of the three-day complete lockdown observed in Jabalpur, 13 more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. With this, the total tally of positive patients in the city has increased to 56. On Friday, a total of 12 people, including a trainee IPS officer were tested positive. Subsequently, district collector Bharat Yadav had ordered a complete lockdown for three days. All the 13 people who tested positive on Saturday, are residents of Chandni Chowk locality in Hanumaan Taal area. It is in the same locality where a woman had died a couple of days ago, and was tested positive after her death. So far, 38 people have tested positive in Jabalpur this week. SP Jabalpur, Siddharth Bahuguna, said that after a trainee IPS officer was tested positive on Friday, more than two dozen police officials got themselves tested for covid-19 and they are in home quarantine. Most of these have been tested negative, a few reports are still awaited, he said. Notably, a few days ago, an NSA detainee who was arrested in Indore for attacking cops and sent to Jabalpur jail, was tested positive. He was admitted at the isolation ward , from where he escaped, but was caught later in Narsinghpur. The trainee officer who was tested positive on Friday, was among the officers who had gone to Narsinghpur, to bring the accused back , said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/13-more-test-ve-on-day-one-of-complete-lockdown-in-jabalpur/articleshow/75383997.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hourly-based teachers demand April’s salary||Hyderabad: Around thousand hourly-based teachers (HBTs) working in Telangana State Model Schools (TSMS) have urged the state government to not stop their payment for April, after school pricipals were directed to not submit their salary bills. HBTs claim that they are helping students, especially those in class X, through WhatsApp. Some of the teachers are assigned in-charge duties as a few model schools have been converted into quarantine centres. Usually, every teacher works about 100 hours a month and are paid Rs 140 per hour. “When the state announced salary cuts, 10% of our March salaries were deducted. But when it is time to pay salaries for April, higher officials directed principals to not submit our salary bills. Is this fair?” questioned N Chadru Naik, an HBT working at a model school in Mahbubabad district. The HBTs said that they don’t get any benefits though they work like regular teachers. “From the morning prayer to special classes for class 10 students, we take care of everything,” said B Prashanth, founding president, Model School HBT’s Association. Prashanth said most of them have no savings to fall back on. “It would be hard for the families of 1025 teachers to survive without salaries for 2-3 months,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hourly-based-teachers-demand-aprils-salary/articleshow/75384008.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 26, 2020||Vadodara||B’day gives shelter home festive mood||Vadodara: “If we had been home, it would have been a grand celebration of our daughter’s first birthday,” lamented Suresh Nishad, a migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh who is lodged in a shelter home in Panchmahal district. But as soon as Nishad revealed about his daughter Hansika's birthday to Bhakti Panchal of the women's group Maa Krupa Juth, she mentioned it to the other women working with her and they all decided to make a cake for the girl and celebrate her birthday. But they could not find a baker during the lockdown. The members saw a video on how to make a cake and procured the necessary raw material. Eventually, they surprised Nishad and his wife Gudiya on Friday with a handmade cake to wish Hansika on her birthday. Nishad worked at a textile unit in Surat and the entire family from Uttar Pradesh has been put up in a shelter home for migratory workers in Chanchelav in Panchmahal . The family was stopped on their way in wake of the lockdown while they were trying to return to their native. Hansika aka Parul turned one on Friday. While officials of the district administration also remained present on the occasion, Hansika cut her first birthday cake in the shelter home, amid claps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bday-gives-shelter-home-festive-mood/articleshow/75383767.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nashik||Technicalities hold up Covid-19 testing laboratory in Nashik||The Covid-19 laboratory that was supposed to start testing throat swab samples of patients from Saturday will now begin its operations on Sunday. Officials in-charge of the process of starting the first Covid-19 laboratory in the district at Dr Vasantrao Pawar Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Nashik, told TOI that the full-fledged operations of the laboratory have been postponsed by a day due to certain formalities. The laboratory was given the green signal to test throat swab samples of Covid-19 patients after it successfully tested the samples sent by the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Nagpur—appointed as the mentor for testing laboratory process by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)—last Sunday.However, the National Accreditation Board of Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) has called for another round of sample testing before the lab begins full-fledged operations. “We were to begin testing throat swab samples from Saturday. However, due to some technical issues, the testing process has been put off by a day at least,” said a senior official from the district administration. “Known samples are being tested again today (Saturday) under the watchful eyes of the NABL. The process, which takes around five hours, will run till midnight. We will get a clear picture as to whether the laboratory can start functioning or not on Sunday,” said the official. The need for having a laboratory in Nashik was felt all the more after there was a sudden surge in the number of confirmed Covid-19 positive cases in Malegaon. The huge number of throat swab samples was becoming a burden for the testing laboratory at Shree Bhausaheb Hiray Government Medical College and Hospital in Dhule. While the throat swab samples from Satana and Malegaon are sent to Dhule, samples from the rest of the district are sent to Armed Forces Medical College, Pune.“A single batch of 80 samples can be tested at a time and the process takes somewhere around four to four-and-a-half hours,” said the official. The testing laboratory at Nashik has come up with the contribution of the medical college that has provided the infrastructure and microbiologists. The administration has procured the testing kits with the help of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal. Datar Genetics has provided the laboratory equipment required for the process.-Abhilash Botekar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/technicalities-hold-up-covid-19-testing-laboratory-in-nashik/articleshow/75383308.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospitals struggle between Covid-19 infection and non-Covid-19 services||KOLKATA: Four leading private hospitals in Kolkata, which have been treating Covid-19 patients over the last fortnight and had to quarantine several healthworkers, have chosen to continue with their operations for the sake of their non-Covid patients, many of whom are critical. Even though pushed to the brink of a shutdown, they are carrying out swift sanitization jobs and enhancing checks to make sure their non-Covid patients remain unaffected. This, they claimed, will not only help scores of critically ill people who are now admitted but will also help the hospitals survive at a time when patient count has dropped and revenue plunged. A patient and two employees of the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata (INK) tested positive on Friday, leading to the quarantine of a dozen healthworkers. It forced INK to shut down an ICU where the patient was admitted and sanitize it. While the patient has been shifted to a hospital in Salt Lake, INK will continue normal operations for the 50-odd patients. “Even during these testing times, INK has continued to extend its services for the neurologically sick patients, those who wish our service and those who are already admitted to our hospital. At this crucial moment, we do not wish to cease these services as this will be inhuman for the serious patients,” said a statement issued by vice-chairman Hrishikesh Kumar, who himself is now in home quarantine. Several patients have tested positive at Peerless Hospital, not a Covid-19 designated one, as well. The hospital has now stepped up screening at its fever clinic. Here, too, a number of critically ill non-Covid patients are under treatment and can’t be moved immediately, said medical superintendent Sudipto Mitra. “Other than serving our patients, we need to keep the hospital afloat. With a sharp plunge in the number of patients, the revenue has dropped. So, our survival now depends on patients and we are not contemplating a shutdown,” said Mitra. At the Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre and Research Institute in Thakurpukur, most patients had to be shifted after an admitted patient tested positive last week. But around 50 critically ill are still being treated at the hospital. The authorities had been finding it difficult to get the workforce back on duty. “With help from the administration, we have been able to get enough on board to keep the hospital functional. It’s not fully functional, though, since we now have a mere 200 out of our 800 healthworkers on duty,” said medical director Arnab Gupta. Out of the quarantined employees, 90% have tested negative, which has revived hopes of a quick resumption of normal services. At ILS Hospital in Dum Dum, two isolated patients had tested positive leading to the quarantine of a few staffers. With a thorough sanitization, the hospital has carried on services even though it falls in a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-struggle-between-covid-infection-non-covid-services/articleshow/75384004.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Collection centres of private labs can collect Covid-19 samples in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its approval to conduct Covid-19 tests in private diagnostic labs authorised by it. Thus, the collection centres of these labs in the state will also be able to collect and send samples for Covid-19 test. According to a state government press release the decision would help in increasing testing across the state. ICMR has also capped the price of testing by these private labs at Rs 2,500. In MP already two private institutions, Chirayu Medical College Bhopal and RD Gardi Medical Colege, Ujjain have been aurthorised for Covid testing. Both the hospitals have been designated as Covid-19 hospitals. The private labs testing for Covid-19 will have to follow the protocol and will be required to inform positive cases if any to the health officer. The council has approved 87 labs to conduct the tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/collection-centres-of-pvt-labs-can-collect-samples/articleshow/75384005.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Varanasi||Saptsagar market shut for 3 days as trader tests +ve||VARANASI: The biggest medicine wholesale market of east UP — Saptsagar Market — was closed on Saturday after a medicine trader tested positive for novel coronavirus, while all eyes were on Banaras Hindu University laboratory to know results of the 102 samples sent from Madanpura hotspot and its containment zone of Revari Talab. The district administration and health department officials were in high alert mode on Saturday after seven persons from Madanpura and Marahauli areas tested positive on Friday, the maximum in a single day in the district since the beginning of Covid-19 outbreak. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “A medicine trader of Saptsagar Market tested positive on Friday. Orders have been issued for closure of the market for three days. The entire market will be sanitised.” The market which caters to all districts of east UP, parts of Bihar and neighbouring states, remained closed on Saturday. “The office bearers of the traders’ association of the market have been asked to provide a roster for allowing certain number of shops to open on rotation basis,” Sharma said He said regulating crowd in the market is difficult since it is located in congested streets and crowding could prove hazardous. “Traders have been told to ensure that all persons who came in contact with the infected trader report to hospital voluntarily for screening and test,” he added. The Marahauli area, where the trader lives, was also declared hotspot on Friday. Apart from DM and SSP, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, IG Varanasi range V S Mina and teams of health department camped in Marahauli on Saturday. The officials appealed to people to be extra alert and take all precautions. Varanasi Municipal Corporation and health department teams carried out sanitisation drive in the area. Officials were keeping sharp vigil on Madanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta and Nakkhighat as they are Muslim dominated in view of the commencement of holy month of Ramzan and to ensure lockdown norms are not violated. Meanwhile, three samples from Madanpura and 99 from neighbouring Revari Talab were sent for test after contract tracing of other infected, and the reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/saptsagar-market-shut-for-3-days-as-trader-tests-ve/articleshow/75383815.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Lockdown heroes: South Central Railway reaches out to over 2 lakh people with food in 25 days||HYDERABAD: Distribution of free meals by South Central Railway (SCR) during the nationwide lockdown has crossed the two lakh mark. More than 2.08 lakh people have been served in a duration of 25 days. “Besides activating its own infrastructure and manpower resources, we have taken help from Indian Railways’ subsidiary, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). Base kitchens have been converted into round-the-clock service kitchen utility for staff to plan, procure material and cook meals continuously,” said Ch Rakesh, chief public relations officer, SCR, adding that out of the 2.08 lakh free meals supplied till date, about 1.48 lakh have been cooked and provided by IRCTC, and 60,000 meals by various departments and NGOs working with the railway organisations. “Relief in terms of the free food supply is targeted at segments of migrant labour and daily wage earners who are being identified and catered, to reach the most affected,” he added. Officials inform that free food distribution also covers the licensed railway porters and sanitation workers. According to an official statement from SCR, the entire food distribution mechanism has been chalked out with regard to setup of community food preparation points, packing of food, logistics, identification of needy sections and on-time supply. Meanwhile, as part of supplying essentials with the help of special parcel trains, the Medchal railway station in the Hyderabad division has also been opened for parcel traffic to meet the demand of the local customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-reaches-out-to-over-2l-people-with-food-in-25-days/articleshow/75384370.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Traditional Akshaya Tritiya celebrations, sans gold glitter||Nagpur: Akshaya Tritiya, also known as Akha teej, falls on the third day of bright half of Vaisakha month. According to Hindu belief, the occasion brings peace and prosperity. The occasion calls for traditionally cooked meal, puja and remembering the departed family members, especially among Maharashtrians. Unlike every year, there won’t be rush for buying gold on the occasion due to lockdown. Housewife Komal Nakshine says, “Buying gold is a must on the occasion but that won’t happen this time. But like every year, we will prepare traditional feast with roti, dal, vegetables and special kind of bhajiya with edible leaves. We leave some portion for the crow as an offering for our departed ones, who it’s believed visit us on this day,” she said. The festival is mainly associated with charity, pitru-dan, and puja of Laxmi and Vishnu. Aditi Mangalkar, a resident of Mahal, is looking forward to offering traditional meal in memory of her deceased family members. “We prepare Maharashtrian meal having special chutney and papad. I make over three types of papad, variety of green leafy vegetables and pumpkin curry,” she said For Mangalkar, the festival will appear dull without the traditional gold buying. “Jewellery stores witness huge rush on this every year but this year will be different,” she said. The day also holds great significance for women. “On this day all the women in my family wear new clothes, put gajras and bangles. This day is about charity and buying new items, especially gold. We also do a small Laxmi puja at home,” said Vimla Banubakode, a housewife. Vimla’s husband Madhukar, who own a jewellery shop, is sad about losing business due to lockdown. “Every year we look forward to doing good business on this occasion. Still, we will celebrate Akshaya Tritiya at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traditional-akshaya-tritiya-celebrations-sans-gold-glitter/articleshow/75384011.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 26, 2020||Rajkot||Bootlegger who escaped nabbed||Surat: A team of operations group of Surat range IGP nabbed absconding bootlegger Vinod Varma alias Vinyo Bhaiyo from Valsad district on Friday night. The accused had escaped from the custody of Palsana police station here on Thursday night. Varma was nabbed from Ramnagari in Vejalpor of Valsad at around 9pm on Friday. He was produced in a local court on Saturday and it sent him to judicial custody. "Police had requested for his custody, but it was rejected. We are yet to find out how he managed to reach Valsad," a police officer said.Varma was already in jail when Palsana police arrested him on transfer warrant in a 2016 case. He was produced in a court on April 22. The court had remanded him in police custody until April 25.Police investigation has revealed that diverting the attention of policemen present in the police station, the accused had escaped. He managed to reach Valsad within a few hours despite police presence on main roads to enforce lockdown. Varma has bootlegging cases registered against him at many police stations across south Gujarat. He had fired multiple rounds at a police team belonging to state monitoring cell (SMC) in November 2018. The SMC team had raided a spot where Varma was distributing liquor to his associates in Navsari. Varma was arrested by Surat city crime branch in January 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bootlegger-who-escaped-nabbed/articleshow/75383316.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Tech platforms help administration manage Covid-19 crisis||HUBBALLI: With the number of Covid-19 positive cases rising to five in Dharwad district, the administration is making maximum use of social media and technology platforms in its fight against the virus. Besides setting up a dedicated helpline, the district administration has kept its Facebook and Twitter accounts alive to communicate to people. It has been posting bulletins on Covid-19 situation providing information about the number of positive cases, hotspots, healthcare facilities, supply of essential commodities and various other related issues. Ibrahim Maigur, additional deputy commissioner, who is in charge of 24x7 helpline, said, “We are accepting grievances from citizens through the Facebook page ‘Deputy Commissioner Dharwad’, Twitter account ‘DC_Dharwad’ and website: www.supportdharwad.in. We also have an account on Instagram. We are creating awareness about Covid-19 through these platforms and disseminating all related information. We are also attending to the grievances posted by citizens posted on these accounts,” he said. This apart, the officials have also formed over a dozen of WhatsApp and Telegram groups to ensure smooth and effective functioning of the machinary in tackling the spread of the virus. Ganesh Rathod, co-chairman, district social media committee, said Dharwad district has been in the forefront in the usage of technology to fight Covid-19. “When the lockdown was announced, there were many apprehensions among citizens on how to get essential commodities. However, deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan instructed us to supply essential commodities at the doorstep of citizens using WhatsApp. Vendors were initially hesitant to register themselves under this service but now we have a network of 950 vendors and 550 volunteers in the twin cities to ensure home delivery of medicines, groceries, vegetables, milk and other essential commodities. We have also developed a software to attend complaints received on email: helpline.deodharwad@gmail.com,” he informed. Manjunath Dollin, district information officer, said WhatsApp groups are created based on issues like food and civil supplies, migrating labourers, security concerns, healthcare facilities and so on. Officials of the departments concerned are added in these groups. Sources in district administration informed that all CCTVs belonging to police department, HDMC and other agencies will be brought under one surveillance system under the DC’s office. This system will help the district administration keep a vigil on peoples’ movements in different zones. Some private organisations including the Deshpande Foundation and a few startups have joined hands with the district administration in this initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tech-platforms-help-administration-manage-covid-19-crisis/articleshow/75383341.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 26, 2020||Allahabad||Age no bar: Schoolkids step up to join fight against coronavirus||PRAYAGRAJ: Their schools might be closed during the lockdown, but for class VI students Shriti and Reyansh there’s a lot to keep them busy. The teens who live in Naini area of the city are a part of a eight-member group of school students who are pitching in with the fight against novel coronavirus by making face masks of cloth and distributing them in nearby villages. The group is a part of ‘Project Arpan’, an initiative funded by their school Lala Ram Kumar Agarwal School. “When schools were closed during the lockdown, my colleagues and I started discussing how they can get children to do something as constructive as making face masks in their spare time,” said Pratiksha Agarwal, who teaches at Lala Ram Kumar Agarwal School and is also its manager. The Naini residents said that one of the students’ mother showed them how easily one could make a mask at home. The students are aged between 11 and 15 years and the other members of the group are — Sidharth (class XII), Saumya, Saniya, Roshini, Shristi (all class X), Shikha (class IX), Tanu (class VIII). The group is making around 500 masks every day since the project was launched a week ago. “We can make around 10-12 masks from a metre of cloth. If we include the cost of elastic, a single mask costs us around Rs 5. We have managed to distribute around 5,000 masks till now in different villages like Cheoki, Dadri, Dubrajpur, Naini Goan, Samugara and Vishnupur,” Agarwal added. The school management is providing the group with cloth, sewing machines and other raw materials. The students start making masks at home after attending online classes. While the younger ones in the group cut the cloth and elastic, the older ones sew the masks. The masks are later collected and then distributed in villages. The students also accompany their school principal Kaushal Singh in touring villages and spread word about the importance of wearing masks in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I haven’t yet seen these kids getting tired. As most of the members of the group are girls, they get easy access to houses in villages. They meet the women folk and explain how they should use these masks. The volunteers also tell them about the precautions they should observe to shield themselves from the virus,” said Singh. However, the group’s efforts are not bereft of challenges. “We are running out of green and blue colour cotton cloth that’s usually used for making face masks, elastic and thread. We are trying to contact wholesale traders to procure the raw material, but have had no luck till now,” said Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/age-no-bar-schoolkids-step-up-to-join-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75383825.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Eight-year-old boy, retd cop among nine new cases in Belagavi||Belagavi: Of the nine residents of Belagavi who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday, one was an anganwadi worker and another a retired cop. The addition of nine more cases to the list of infected patients in the district has pushed Belagavi’s Covid-19 tally to a worrying 54. An eight-year-old boy was among those who tested positive for the infection on Saturday. This comes on the back of two children being confirmed with the infection on Friday. The prevalence of the infection among kids is among the aspects of the infection that has the medical community in India flummoxed. Half of the cases in Belagavi – 27 – have been reported in the Hirebagewadi cluster. On the anganwadi worker and the retired policeman contracting the infection, Belagavi district health officer (DHO) Shashikant Muniyal told STOI that they were secondary contacts of an infected patient. On the other hand, the two children who tested positive for virus on Friday – a 10-year-old girl and 15-year-old boy – in Raibagh taluk in the district had both been in contact with two different infected patients. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 49, with four having recovered from the infection and one of them having succumbed to it. In all, there are seven containment zones across the district, while the 49 patients are being treated in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/eight-year-old-boy-retd-cop-among-nine-new-cases-in-belagavi/articleshow/75382404.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Rajkot||Man forces minor girl perform unnatural sex; held||Rajkot: A man was arrested on Friday night for allegedly forcing a 13-year-old girl perform oral sex on him in Panchnath Plot near Shastri Ground in Rajkot. Police said the accused, identified as Bharat Parmar (42), was caught by Niraj Jatania while committing the crime. Jatania became the complainant in the case.“The survivor is a beggar living on the footpath. Parmar gave a lift to the survivor on his bicycle, promising to get her snacks. Then he took the survivor to a dark lane and committed the crime,” said V S Vanzara, inspector with Pradyumannagar police station.Parmar has been booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and sections 376 (2) and 363 of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-forces-minor-girl-perform-unnatural-sex-held/articleshow/75383338.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Sagar TikTok man defeats Covid-19||Bhopal: The first Covid-19 patient in Sagar district, better known as TikTok man for ridiculing the idea of wearing masks in videos, has tested negative on Saturday. The young man now code-named as P1 was discharged from Bundelkhand Medical College (BMC) exactly 15 days after he tested positive on April 10. TikTok man was accorded a red-carpet reception by doctors of the BMC after he was discharged on Saturday. Wearing a baseball cap, P1 showed gratitude to the healthcare workers with folded hands. The dean of the medical college said, “It’s good to see the young man after he recovered from the deadly virus.” He said that P1 has been asked to be in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Till Saturday, there are four more Covid positive patients in Sagar district. Soon after P1 tested positive on April 10, two videos went viral. The first video showed him mocking the idea of wearing masks. The second video was made by him after he tested positive and was heard requesting friends to pray for him. Incidentally, one of the four Covid-19 patients in Sagar is also a friend of P1, who was his partner in creating the TikTok videos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sagar-tiktok-man-defeats-covid-19/articleshow/75384017.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Karepally villagers assault forest staff over timber logs smuggling||NIZAMABAD: Five Forest department staff, including two woman forest beat officers of Kamarapally range, were allegedly assaulted by a large group of villagers near Bhikya Naik thanda of Karepally village on Saturday. The women of the village hurled abuses, snatched the cell phones and abused the forest officers when they questioned them about two truckloads of illegal timber logs that were found hidden under a large cloth near the thanda. “The villagers first denied that the timber belonged to them, but they slowly started picking up the logs and throwing them around in the bushes while some women started hurling abuses on the women forest officers, pulling their dhupattas and also threatened to kill them if they do not delete the videos of the assault which one of the staff recorded on his cell phone,” said Amrutamma, Forest Range Officer (FRO), Armoor mandal. “When the staff informed us, we sent a backup team immediately and informed the police. They also blocked the route with stones and other material to stop the vehicle of the forest department from leaving the premises without deleting the videos of assault from their phone. While all this was happening, a few of them tried to set fire to the remaining timber logs,” the Forest Range Officer informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/karepally-villagers-assault-forest-staff-over-timber-logs-smuggling/articleshow/75384027.cms||Moulika.KV
April 26, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon collector orders action against people crossing dist borders||Nashik: Jalgaon district collector on Saturday directed the police department to take action against people entering district borders illegally along with the government officials, who fail to inform the administration about such people on time. “As per the central government orders, movement of people is strictly banned and yet there are many who are entering the district borders. All such people, who have not revealed about themselves will now be booked,” said Avinash Dhakne, collector of Jalgaon during a meeting with the respective departments.The police have been directed to carry out the action under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) against such people. “If a person is booked and he or she reveals of crossing the district border from a village and then travelling across villages, the talathi, gramsevak, the police patio, and other concerned government employees will also, be taken to task,” said Dhakne. He said that he did not want anyone apart from essential commodities vehicles crossing the border. The said individual should have valid pass to transport essential materials. Jalgaon district is in close proximity of Dhule, Nashik (Malegaon), Buldhana, and Aurangabad, where the Covid-19 patients are on the rise. Malegaon has witnessed a total of 126 Covid positive cases including 11 deaths till Saturday. Three new positive cases were reported on Saturday taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to five in the district. Out of which two have died while one has recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-collector-orders-action-against-people-crossing-dist-borders/articleshow/75383360.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 26, 2020||Kanpur||Ramzan begins, clerics in city appeal people to stay at home||Kanpur: As soon as the moon was sighted on Friday, people of Muslim community erupted in joy on commencement of Ramzan. The hoy month of Ramzan begins from Saturday. However, the festivities this year would not be the same due to Covid-19 outbreak. People came on their roof-tops to have a glimpse of the moon and wished Ramzaan Mubarak to each other over phone or through social media apps, hoping that the tough times of coronavirus would end soon. Due to Covid-19 outbreak, Muslims across the country would be observing the month of Ramzan by remaining confined to their homes. They would observe day-long fast and offer namaz at their homes and would not be able to visit mosques. Muslim clerics of the city have appealed people to stay at their homes during Ramzan and offer namaz at home due to the lockdown. Posters appealing people to stay indoors have been put in Muslim pockets of the city. Fazal Rahman, a city resident said that he and his family would pray for early end of this harsh period. This would be for the first Ramazn that they would not be visiting their local mosque for offering namaz, he said adding that but it was the only way to save the nation from Covid-19, which had infected so many people in the country. Faraz, another resident said that he would stay at home with his family and observe fast and offer namaz strictly following the lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ramzan-begins-clerics-in-city-appeal-people-to-stay-at-home/articleshow/75363521.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Allahabad||Prayers for safety of all on Day 1 of Ramzan||PRAYAGRAJ: It was a low key affair on the first day of the holy month of Ramzan in the Sangam city on Saturday because due to the ongoing lockdown all mosques in the city remained closed and people of the Muslim community offered the five-time namaz within the four-walls of their homes. Following government directives, the mosques in the city remained closed and barring few caretakers, none was presenr inside them. “Police officials visited the local mosque last night and discussed at length the steps taken by us for keeping everyone safe. In fact, we had appealed from the public address system, asking the Muslims not to visit the mosque and instead offer namaz at their homes”, said Maulana Ikramul Haq Azhari of Harwara mosque under Dhoomanganj police station. It is the matter of nation’s safety, and in the present unprecedented situation, we all have to defeat the dreaded virus by collective efforts by maintaining social distancing, he added. Likewise, the district administration had put up notice boards at almost all important mosques of the city wherein the devotees have been warned of punitive action if they visit mosques. Muslims on Friday offered the ‘taravih’ namaz’ at their homes . “From sahri to iftar, it was a different affair altogether as in the back of everyone’s mind is Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences. In this pious month, we prayed for everyone’s safety, and that the world be freed of the pandemic”, said Shahabuddin, a resident of Mundera. The city markets too wore a deserted look. Unlike previous years when hundreds of shops, mainly in the Old City areas, used to buzz with hectic activities till late night, Saturday was entirely different.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayers-for-safety-of-all-on-day-1-of-ramzan/articleshow/75383830.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||NMC union moves HC for wages, PPEs to health & sanitary workers||Nagpur: A labour union approached Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court highlighting plight of Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) along with health care and sanitary workers who are front-line warriors in fight against Covid-19 pandemic. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation Employees’ Union has filed an intervention application through activist Jammu Anand seeking basic protection, personal protection equipment (PPE) along with wages and refreshments to all these workers. TOI had highlighted plight of Asha workers who had not received dues from NMC since January and were facing harassment while conducting survey for Covid-19 suspects. While issuing notices to the respondents, including Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare, Justice Nitin Sambre directed them to file a reply by April 30. State Department of Health, IGGMC, NMC and police commissioner along with collector are other respondents in the intervention filed through counsel Ravi Sanyal in the PIL filed by Subhash Zanwar through lawyer Ram Heda. The petitioner prayed for ensuring basic requirements for all these workers who are mostly working on contract basis. Despite working from 8am to 5pm, they are being denied even basic needs as per the guidelines of World Health Organization (WHO) and International Labour Organization (ILO). Through a letter of April 10, the petitioner demanded an insurance coverage along with the PPEs for all these workers from health, water and sanitation departments. These workers are deployed in hundreds for sanitation and cleaning work even in wards identified for Covid-19 positive patients. They are neither paid minimum wages nor any remuneration. Anand said that in spite of WHO guidelines, Asha workers are exposed to the public during survey work but are neither provided any mask, sanitizers nor hand gloves. The petitioner also highlighted plight of street vendors selling fruits and vegetables due to NMC’s move to close weekly markets and to allow farmers to directly sell their products to citizens. According to him, it has deprived thousands of such vendors of their livelihood source. He informed that the civic body also demolished structures of vendors despite clear orders from the HC not to undertake such action during lockdown period. The petitioner demanded directives to NMC commissioner to explain demolition of vendors’ shops at Mahatma Phule market and to permit them to sell fruits and vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-union-moves-hc-for-wages-ppes-to-health-sanitary-workers/articleshow/75384019.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Age no bar: Many elderly win Covid-19 war, come out strong||HYDERABAD: While senior citizens are highly vulnerable to the novel coronavirus, there are several instances of elderly patients, in the state, recovering from Covid-19, say doctors. And this, despite many of them having more than one comorbidity.  Their average time of recovery -- about 14 to 20 days from the start of treatment. The oldest among them, so far, is a 76-year-old patient who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. He was discharged from Gandhi Hospital on April 21. Another 82-year-old patient is currently on the path to recovery. There are five others, all above the age of 70, who have recovered from Covid-19, confirmed state health authorities. The 76-year-old was admitted with all symptoms of Covid-19 and had hypertension. He underwent treatment for over two weeks before being discharged. “The patient had lung infection and some other complications too. He was treated for 14 days. Like him, most of the other older patients have some comorbidity like diabetes, hypertension or kidney issues,” said Dr Narasimha Rao Netha, deputy superintendent, Gandhi Hospital. Another 65-year-old patient from Hyderabad who had a history of diabetes and had developed complications during treatment, is also among the elderly lot of patients who have recovered completed. “The patient’s case was complicated. He also developed pneumonia, which further added to the severity. But ultimately, he recovered after 20 days of treatment,” said a source at Gandhi adding, “Apart from the few patients in their 70s, there are many in their 50s and 60s who have also recovered from the virus.” Speaking to TOI, the relative of a 57-year-old patient from Warangal, who was recently discharged from the Gandhi Hospital said, “My father had cough and high-grade fever when he was admitted to the hospital. He was treated for 14 days following which the tests were conducted. The test reports took a few days to come and he was discharged after 21 days of stay. He did not develop any complications.” According to the son the family is taking utmost care not to allow anyone with symptoms of cold near him. The family is exercising self quarantine for the time being. Meanwhile, allaying fears of people, experts say that senior citizens can recovery from the virus but need extra attention — early diagnosis, aggressive treatment of comirbidities and intense monitoring and intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/age-no-bar-many-elderly-win-covid-19-war-come-out-strong/articleshow/75384024.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh seeks inquiry into ‘missing’ doctors in Rajgarh||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday shot a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asking for an inquiry into the missing doctors of Rajgarh district hospital. Along with his letter, Digvijaya attached a previous letter of complaint sent by Congress MLA Bapu Singh Tanwar to the chief medical and health officer (CMHO) of the district. The MLA on April 17 had alleged that six doctors posted in the hospital have not reported to duty for several years — one doctor has been absent since 2014, two from 2015, one from 2016, one from 2017 and another from 2018. कोरोना महामारी के संकट के इस दौर में प्रदेश में आज भी ग़रीबों को , कामगारों को , मज़दूरों को , ज़रूरतमंदो को ठीक से… https://t.co/cY9Nxsp7KS— Office Of Kamal Nath (@OfficeOfKNath) 1587811702000The former chief minister said that the MLA wrote to the CMHO giving information about six doctors posted in Rajgarh, who have not reported for several years.  “Without any government order, these doctors are presumably giving their services elsewhere,” Digvijaya wrote. He asked the chief minister to order a probe and immediately send in doctors to replace them in the hospital. Meanwhile, former chief minister Kamal Nath tweeted on the “poor quality” rations being distributed to the needy across the state.  @OfficeOfKNath tweeted: “Even in the time of Covid crisis, the poor and the weak and the working class of the state are not getting proper ration. The ration, which is being distributed is mostly of inferior quality. We are getting many such complaints from people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/digvijaya-seeks-inquiry-into-missing-doctors-in-rajgarh/articleshow/75384026.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Allahabad||50 working at police station visited by Covid-19 suspect quarantined||PRAYAGRAJ: Over 50 cops and administrative staff posted at Kaundhiyara police station were quarantined on Saturday following reports that a man who had come in contact with two Covid-19 patients had visited the thana premises. On Friday, three youths tested positive for novel coronavirus in Prayagraj and were admitted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa for treatment. The new cases included two cousins who worked in Mumbai as daily wagers and had set off for Prayagraj on April 19 to attend a family member’s funeral. They had been issued e-passes for the purpose too. According to the police, the two youths had visited several places in their village along with a friend after returning from Mumbai. The labourers’ friend had gone to the Kaundhiyara thana for some work and had even spent some time there. “On getting the information, I ordered station house officer Praveen Singh and other staffers posted at Kaundhiyara thana to be quarantined at Motilal Degree College. However, as the thana has to function Mahesh Kumar will be temporarily taking charge and additional PAC has been deployed at the police station,” said SSP (Prayagraj) Satyrath Aniruddha Pankaj. The third case was a youth who had tested positive for the virus after travelling in a train coach with another Covid-19 patient in March. As the three cases were reported from Kapari in Shankargarh and Shankarghat in Shivkuti, the district administration declared the areas as hotspots and sealed them on Friday. Meanwhile, divisional commissioner R Ramesh Kumar, DIG KP Singh and Prayagraj Development Authority vice-chairman TK Sibu visited Shankarghat on Saturday to ensure that adequate measures are being taken to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. The entire locality was sanitised and sealed. Health department officials are also collecting swab samples of all those who came in contact with the patients and send them for testing. Some of the youths’ acquaintances have been quarantined. At the other hostpot — Kapari in Shankargrah — the administration has sealed the entire village. The health department has constituted 53 teams to keep an eye on 8,295 homes which house 41,475 residents. The teams comprise 19 supervisors and health supervisors and are supervising sanitisation drives in the area, for which 35 sanitation workers have been roped in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/50-working-at-police-stn-visited-by-covid-suspect-quarantined/articleshow/75383835.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Rajkot||Woman’s body found in Surendranagar||Rajkot: The body of a 20-year-old woman has been found in a well in Mota Ankevadia village of Dhrangadhra taluka in Surendranagar district. Police identified the deceased as Sonal Lamka. “As Lamka’s postmortem revealed that she was strangled and hit on head with sharp edged weapons, it is confirmed to be a case of murder,” said an official from Dhrangadhra taluka police station. On the day of the crime on Thursday night, Lamka had gone out of her house to attend the nauture’s call and had not returned. When her family members started looking for her, they found her slippers in the bushes. Suspecting a foul play, they checked in the nearby well and found her body floating inside. The police have lodged FIR against unidentified on the complaint of Lamka’s father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/womans-body-found-in-surendranagar/articleshow/75383372.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Separate ward in place for 95 minors at Gandhi Hospital||HYDERABAD: As many as 95 minors — below the age of 12 — are among the active Covid-19 patients currently undergoing treatment at the Gandhi Hospital. The patients, all of whom have a family member who also tested positive for the novel coronavirus, have been put up in a separate ward created for the paediatric patients. Of the 95, around 28 were brought in from the cantonment area about 10 days ago. According to sources at the hospital, they are from military personnel’s families. “Most of all the minor patients are asymptomatic or have slight cough and cold and are improving quickly. Because they are asymptomatic there is nothing like recovery but their samples are sent for testing on the 12th or 14th day. They are mostly testing negative on the 12th day itself,” said Dr Lohith Reddy, paediatrician at the hospital. Sources said all the paediatric patients currently housed at Gandhi Hospital were traced during contact testing when their family members tested positive.  Most of them have a parent or a grandparent admitted at the hospital, who are Covid-19 positive. Since it is tough to keep minor patients under quarantine, sources said that an adult caretaker is being allowed with every patient. The only challenge that hospital staff there are facing is keeping the kids confined to the ward.  “Since majority of the kids do not have any symptoms and feel healthy, they are not willing to stay put in quarantine. That is the reason a guardian had to be allowed to be able to manage them. Thankfully there are many other kids in the same room. That is helping us to some extent,” said another doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/separate-ward-in-place-for-95-minors-at-gandhi-hospital/articleshow/75384029.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 26, 2020||Agra||5 of family, including 2 kids, found dead in Etah home||Agra: Five members of a family were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Uttar Pradesh's Etah on Saturday morning. The incident took place in Shringar Nagar colony close to Grand Trunk road, nearly three kilometres away from Kotwali police station. The deceased were identified as Rajeshwar Pachauri (75), a retired clerk of the health department, his daughter in-law Divya Pachauri (33), her sister Bulbul (25) and Divya’s two sons Aarush (10) and Aarav (1). According to police, a toilet cleaner bottle, sachet of sulphas and bloodstained sharp-edged blade were found on the floor, but there was no forced entry into the house as almost everything in the house remained intact. Superintendent of police (SP) Sunil Kumar Singh along with SP crime Rahul Kumar and other officials with police force, dog squad and forensic team reached the spot within 20 minutes of distress call from neighbours. The police had to use a gas cutter to break into the strong iron gate to enter the house and later forensic team collected evidence and fingerprints from the crime scene. "As soon as we entered the house, Divya’s body was found lying on a cot closed to entrance. Her left wrist was slit with a blade. Her father in-law Rajeshwar was lying dead on blood-soaked bed in living room, while Divya’s sister Bulbul was found dead on a cot on the first floor. Her neck had ligature marks. The bodies of two children were also on first floor in the bedroom. Their mouth was filled with foam and blood," said a police source. Station house officer Ashok Kumar of Etah Kotwali said, "The first information to police was shared by victim’s neighbour advocate Alok Tiwari, after a milk delivery woman alerted on Divya’s body lying on cot and none of the members were opening the gate even on repeated knocks.” According to police, after the autopsy, the five bodies were handed over to Diwakar Pachuari, the husband of Divya, who works in Roorkee-based pharmaceutical company. Meanwhile, police sources confirmed to TOI that four victims, including Divya, her sister Bulbul, father in-law Rameshwar and elder son Aarush, had poisonous substance in their body, while Aarav was smothered to death. SP crime Rahul Kumar said, “We are yet to study the autopsy report, however crime scene was recreated in front of the family to explain the possible sequence of events. Our initial investigation ascertained that no sign of forceful entry or exit was seen into the house. Secondly, presence of sulphas suggest, that it was pre-planned act, as no ordinary person or family keeps chemical like sulphas at home.” “Further, we found a bowl of milk in which intoxicant and poisonous substance was mixed, and was offered to victims. The two children possibly died of poisonous substances, while Bulbul was strangulated in her sleep, so did Rajeshwar whose head was hit with heavy object in sleep. It’s likely that both the adult victims were also given intoxicants to get them unconscious before the murder, as there was no sign of struggle on the bed of the victims,” the SP crime claimed. He also said, “That sharp blade, possibly used by Divya to slit her left wrist, was found near her children’s body inside the bedroom with blood. However, her body was lying on cot at the entrance of the house. Her mouth too had foam which had formed after poison intake.” “Looking at the crime scene, there are several theories, but we are yet to ascertain the sequence of events. Our team is investigating and questioning the family members to get any clue behind the five deaths,” said SP Etah Sunil Kumar Singh. According to police, around 9pm, Divya and her sister Bulbul had interacted with her mother over phone and both the women had a normal conversation with their mother, who lives in Sonai village of Raya police limits of Mathura district. And the rest, as of now, remains a mystery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-of-family-including-2-kids-found-dead-in-etah-home/articleshow/75383370.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Editing photos keeps ace painter Ramahari busy||Bhubaneswar: National award winning painter Ramahari Jena, who is also a shutterbug with an eye for detail, is passionate about everything he does. Making the most of the lockdown, Ramahari is busy sorting and editing photographs clicked by him over the past two-and a-half decades. Confined to his home in Ganga Nagar, Ramahari now has plans to exhibit the pictures captured both during personal and professional tours to Madhya Pradesh, Ladakh, Kerala, Bihar, Sikkim, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. “Both my wife and I are extremely fond of travelling and do so twice a year, with the latest being a trip to Andaman and Nicobar in October 2019,” said Ramahari. Now, he is sorting 3,000 pictures all alone as his wife failed to travel back from Kolkata because of the lockdown. “We were both in Kolkata for our painting exhibition at the Birla Academy of Art and Culture from February 25 to March 3. Though I returned, she preferred to stay back with my mother-in-law for some more days, but ended up getting stuck there,” said Ramahari, who retired as regional secretary of the Lalit Kala Akademi’s regional centre in 2015. The Central Lalit Kala Akademi award winner has also captured through his lens temples in and around Bhubaneswar, idol-making for Durga Puja at Kumartuli in Kolkata, the famous Beshas of the Thakurani Yatra in Berhampur and the world-famous Rath Yatra in Puri. Though this task is not challenging for the painter, who took to photography soon after his college days, cooking definitely is. “My wife always asked me to concentrate on my work while she looked after the cooking. Now I can cook rice, dal, baigan bhaja, bhendi bhaja and paneer after overcoming the teething troubles that all newcomers face,” said Ramahari, who feels cooking is an art in which flavours, texture and taste intermingle to tickle the taste buds. He is also able to rustle up some of his mother’s recipes like the atta chakuli. Besides, he spends his time listening to classical music, both vocal and instrumental, particularly by Pandit Hari Prasad Chaurasia. “Covid-19 has shown us that we can manage with very little in life,” he said, while going back to the paintings he is currently working on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/editing-photos-keeps-ace-painter-ramahari-busy/articleshow/75383386.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Vigilant squads seize fake seeds worth Rs 10 crore from 3 North Karnataka districts||HUBBALLI: Vigilant squads seized 7,366 quintals of fake seeds worth Rs 10 crore from cold storages in Haveri, Dharwad and Ballari districts in the past three days, leaving farmers in North Karnataka, who are now gearing for sowing, worried. A vigilance team, along with agriculture officers, on Friday seized uncertified and fake seeds weighing over 600 tonnes and worth Rs 6 crore at Byadagi taluk in Haveri district, and 270 tonnes at Hubballi APMC. Both consignments were in cold storages. Rajashekhar I B, joint director of the agriculture department (Dharwad), said miscreants are targeting only maize seeds as 80% of farmers in North Karnataka sow maize during the kharif season. “Persons with knowledge on seeds production or those associated with seed companies are usually involved in creating fake seeds,” Rajashekhar said. As maize is one of the major crops in North Karnataka, fraudsters are trying to cheat farmers. As farmers are in a hurry to begin sowing, miscreants are trying to seize the opportunity by pushing fake seeds into local markets through cold storages. After the mega haul, chief minister B S Yediyurappa urged farmers to buy seeds only from authorised dealers. The CM also lauded agriculture minister B C Patil for taking the initiative to curb the sale and hoarding of fake/uncertified seeds by ordering raids on some cold storages in the three districts. “Necessary measures have been taken by the government to tackle and track down the mafia involved in selling, creating and distributing fake seeds and fertilisers across the state,” Yediyurappa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vigilant-squads-seize-fake-seeds-worth-rs-10-cr-from-3-nk-dists/articleshow/75384391.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Chhatarpur students develop app for delivery of essentials||BHOPAL: Three engineering students of Chhatarpur have developed a mobile phone application — Rasoighar — for the home delivery of essential commodities at people’s doorsteps in the town during the ongoing Covid lockdown.  The district administration launched the app earlier this week and over 2,000 users are already registered with it, said a spokesperson of Chhatarpur district administration, who also happened to be the first person to order grocery through it.  The three software engineering students — Ayush Agrawal, Ankit Gupta and Harsh Rusia — are residents of Chhatarpur, but all of them are studying outside. However, due to the lockdown, they are stranded in Chhatarpur. The students said that during the lockdown, they realized that people in the town had been facing a lot of trouble in accessing essential commodities. “And when they would step out, most of them were not able to maintain social distancing,” they said.  In the absence of online services, their problem was compounded. The trio then started working on the app and the result was Rasoighar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chhatarpur-students-develop-app-for-delivery-of-essentials/articleshow/75384032.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Poor management defeats purpose of new helplines||HUBBALLI: As part of the measures adopted by the government to combat the swiftly spreading Covid-19 infection, multiple helplines were set up to ensure people could reach out to the authorities concerned with as little trouble as possible. However, the people are complaining that many of the numbers are either invalid or perpetually unreachable. Many people have even claimed that the number for ambulance – 108 – is going unanswered on several occasions. Vikas Soppin, a Hubballi-based entrepreneur, said that when he rang 108 to summon an ambulance to help carry his neighbour, who had suffered a cardiac arrest, the call went unanswered. “We called multiple times, but no one answered even though we could hear the receiver’s phone ringing. There was no response when we dialled the Arogyavani number, 104, as well. Finally, we took my neighbour by car,” said Soppin, voicing suspicion of the government trying to discourage use of previously existing helplines in the times of Covid-19. Activist Santosh Nargund experienced a similar problem, but on the helpline set up by the Karnataka government under the National Health Mission to ensure supply of sufficient food to the needy. “Many daily-wage labourers are struggling to get food in Hubballi and so I called 155214 so that they could be nourished, but even though I rang the number four or five times, I received an electronic message informing me it was invalid,” Nargund said. The activist also rued the lack of clarity about the modalities of the helpline, such as whether they operated round-the-clock or if they had a pre-fixed timetable. “The staff manning the district helpline, 1077, are not in possession of adequate information. When I called the helpline to get some information about acquiring a pass to carry out my activities, I was asked to contact the tahsildar, who, in turn, did not know about the procedure either. It was much later that I realised that there was no specific pass for social service,” Nargund added. Mayur Patil, employee at a private firm in Dharwad district, said that he had dialled 1077, expressing interest to volunteer and assist the district administration. “Those who answered my phone collected my name, address and number and I was assured that I would be intimated soon. But two days hence, I am yet to receive a response,” Patil added. Santosh Patil, a businessman, narrated the frustrating experience he had had when he dialled another helpline through which one could enlist as a volunteer. “The person who answered the phone collected all the personal details, and put me on hold for 12 minutes asking me to wait so I could be connected to a higher official. When he finally reverted, he informed me that he was unable to route me to the official and asked me to log on to Karnataka.Gov.In for any information I needed. This means that the line remained busy for 12 minutes and I had no information at the end of it,” he rued. Soppin said that such inefficiency in managing the operations of helplines defeated the purpose of setting up as many new ones. “The government could well have used the existing emergency numbers in this fight against the novel coronavirus. This indicates lack of coordination between the ministers and the officials,” Soppin added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/poor-management-defeats-purpose-of-new-helplines/articleshow/75383379.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik divn board prepares to collect SSC answer scripts||Nashik: The Nashik division of the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Examinations (MSBSHSE) has finalised the routes to collect the answer scripts of SSC exams from all the centres.The board has decided to have all the preparations in place to ensure the timely results for SSC students.Nitin Upasani, divisional secretary of the board, said, “We have already requested the police chiefs of Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar to permit the examiners to visit their respective examination centres to collect/submit the answer scripts. Most of the examiners have completed the correction work and the moderators have also begun to double-check the answer scripts.”The board will begin the collection of moderated answer scripts from the examination centres after May 3.“Every year, the examination centres have to manage the submission of answer scripts to the divisional office in Nashik. This time, we will collect the answer scripts on our own so that social distancing is maintained and there is no crowding in our office,” he added. The Nashik divisional office has finalised five routes that will cover 27 areas of the examination centres in four districts. “The date, time and venue will be given later after receiving permission from the police. The examination centres concerned should take permissions at their level and collect the answer scripts at their centres so that we can collect them from there,” said Upasani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-divn-board-prepares-to-collect-ssc-answer-scripts/articleshow/75383381.cms||pragya jain
April 26, 2020||Nashik||Students waiting to write exams told to be patient||Nashik: Students should not panic about their examinations and wait for the instruction from the ministry, said Uday Samant, higher and technical education minister on Saturday. In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the minister said that he is in continuous touch with the vice-chancellors of the state universities and is conducting video conferences to keep a tab on the situation. He has also received a report from the committee, which was formed by the state governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari few days back. “The students should not believe in any rumours and wait for us to come up with a decision about their examinations. We are concerned about their future and looking at all the options available with us,” said Samant. He urged the students to continue their studies as some colleges have already started conducting online classes. “The committee members have given their opinions and now we are waiting for the guidelines from the University Grants Commission (UGC). It would not be fair to say anything before we receive the UGC guidelines. Any final decision will be taken after that,” he added. The UGC had also formed a committee to have uniform guidelines for all the universities across the country. The committee will submit the report soon and a decision is expected in a week. On the other hand, the state students are awaiting a decision on their exams, which were deferred due to the lockdown situation. The six-member committee comprises of the vice-chancellors of Savitribai Phule Pune University, Pune, Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University, Nashik, Shivaji University, Kolhapur and Shreemati Nathibai Damodar Thackersey (SNDT) Women’s University, Mumbai. The other two members are the directors of higher and technical education. It is headed by Suhas Pednekar, vice-chancellor, Mumbai University. “We can assure that not a single student will suffer and a fair decision will come up. The students should wait for the final decision,” Pednekar told TOI. The committee is focusing upon the final year students across the courses as their career is at stake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/students-waiting-to-write-exams-told-to-be-patient/articleshow/75383394.cms||pragya jain
April 26, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Another Covid-19 patient delivers healthy baby, second case in a week||AGRA: A 25-year-old Covid-19 patient gave birth to a healthy baby. Born out of C-section operation on Saturday at Covid-19 facility of SN Medical College (SNMC), the child was handed over to the family members. This is the second case within a week. Meanwhile, 10 more Covid-19 patients were declared cured of the infection and were discharged from the hospital. A resident of Firozabad district, the pregnant women was transferred to SN Medical College on Friday. She was shifted to the labour room in the afternoon on Saturday. A team comprising junior resident doctor Yogita Gautam, Sana Ismail under the supervision of Dr Ruchika Agarwal conducted the operation and a baby boy was born. Earlier on April 20, a 24-year-old woman infected with Covid-19 had delivered a healthy baby at SNMC. Talking to TOI, father of the newborn Ankit Singhal said, “I am happy that my child is safe and healthy. I am thankful to the doctors for their service. I am confident that my wife will be cured of the infection very soon.” SNMC principal GK Aneja said, “Our team did a great job. The child is healthy and has been separated from the mother to ensure he does not get infected. The child has been handed over to the family members. They have been suitably directed to take care of the child.” Professor in pulmonary medicine and SNMC nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Prashant Prakash said, “10 more patients, including an 80-year-old man, have been cured of the infection and discharged from the hospital. They have been advised to remain in home quarantine. So far, we have managed to cure 29 patients infected with Covid-19. Besides the balanced diet and symptomatic treatment, patients were given doses of Hydroxychloroquine sulphate and Azithromycin. Our team ensured that patients do not suffer any mental stress or any inconvenience during the course of treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/another-covid-19-patient-delivers-healthy-baby-second-case-in-a-week/articleshow/75383382.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 26, 2020||Agra||AMU doctor among 2 new Covid +ve cases in Aligarh, 1 +ve in Mathura||AGRA: A resident doctor of AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru medical college posted in Anesthesia department and a local woman of Aligarh tested positive for Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) on Saturday. Till now, three doctors of General ward have tested positive in the past three days, taking the district tally to 11. After three doctors tested positive, AMU’s VC Prof Tariq Mansoor has ordered PPE kits for all health workers attending to the patients and made screening of each patient compulsory before admitting them to the hospital. District Magistrate (DM) CB Singh said that the patients’ family members have been quarantined and 1 km radius around their residential areas sealed. “The areas are being sanitised by Municipal Corporation,” he added. Meanwhile, 25 people were quarantined in Aligarh’s Maur village after a local youth, who fled a quarantine centre in Noida, met his family and friends, without informing them about his status. He was later taken back to the quarantine centre by Noida police. In Mathura, a 70-year-old man tested positive on Saturday, taking the district tally to 11. So far, total 696 samples have been sent for testing and of these, 513 were found negative. Reports of 170 samples are still awaited, said health officials. Mathura DM Sarvagya Ram Misra said that essential items will be supplied in sealed areas, door-to-door by authorised vendors only and social distancing norms will be followed by all vendors while selling vegetables and fruits during restricted hours from 7am to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-doc-among-2-new-covid-ve-cases-in-aligarh-1-ve-in-mathura/articleshow/75383376.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kanpur||Couple booked for violating lockdown norms||Kanpur:An eight-month pregnant woman, who had tested positive for coronavirus, and her husband were booked by Rail Bazar police for violating lockdown norms. As per health department officials, the nasal and throat swab sample of the woman whose husband stays in hotspot Quli Bazar area, was taken by health authorities a couple of days ago. “On Friday, after she tested positive, a health team along with local police went to her in-laws house in Quli Bazar in order to isolate her for treatment, but she was found missing. Her mobile phone was also found to be switched off. On further inquiry, her in-laws told police that as their area had been declared a hotspot, she along with her husband had gone to stay at her parents’ house in Rail Bazar area. It later came to fore that the woman had blatantly violated lockdown norms and met nearly 80 persons there,” said a health official. He added, now department is tracing 80 persons whom woman could have infected. “Holding the couple responsible, we have booked them under relevant sections of IPC and Epidemics Act,” said inspector Rail Bazar Dadhibal Tiwari. ‘’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/couple-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75383868.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Three Bodeli cops attacked during liquor raid||VADODARA: Three cops of Bodeli police station in Chhota Udepur district were grievously injured in an attack by a mob during a prohibition raid at Raopura village on Friday night. Police said staff from Chalamli outpost had gone to conduct a raid during which people living in Kothifaliya locality of the village started coming out of their houses. Some people from the group warned the cops from entering their area and called for more men to come out. The policemen asked the group to let them do their work, but within a few minutes more men came out with an axe and wooden sticks. As the mob charged toward the cops, head constable Bharat Kantibhai informed the police station and asked for help. However, by then the attackers had hit police constable Bavchand Bhagwanbhai on his abdomen due to which he fainted. Bharat said he tried to intervene and requested the group to not hit him, but he was hit with the axe on his head and he too collapsed. Gram rakshak dal jawan Girish Rathwa was also brutally beaten up. It was only when sarpanches of Raopura and neighbouring Khodiya reached there, the mob dispersed. The cops were rushed to a private hospital in Bodeli town. Police officials said the three cops are conscious. “We have identified 11 people involved in the attack. We have registered an offence of attempt to murder, assault, causing grievous hurt, rioting, violation of public notification and criminal intimidation against them,” a police official said. Those booked are Bhura Tadvi, Soma Tadvi, Prabhat Tadvi, Narendra, Vijay Tadvi, Ajay Tadvi, Prabhat Himmat Tadvi, Magan Tadvi, Bhaiji Tadvi, Narsinh Tadvi and Ganpat Tadvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-bodeli-cops-attacked-during-raid/articleshow/75383778.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Positivity, sleep, food & treatment can help you beat virus, says Covid-19 survivor||BHUBANESWAR: Debasis Srichandan is the first in the state to have tested positive for Covid-19, a tag he would quickly like to forget because of the immense discomfort it brought forth over a span of two-three days. The 30-year-old from Badagada locality in Bhubaneswar had been in Italy, working in a research programme on machine learning at the University of Milan. He reached Delhi on March 6 and stayed at a guest house before reaching Bhubaneswar on March 12 evening on the Rajdhani Express. When his symptoms started to show, Srichandan visited Capital Hospital on March 14 and was kept there in isolation. “I got to know about the test results on the same night. I could not understand what will happen next. I was scared of the virus. I was worried for my father because he had come in contact with me. I told everything to the doctors and the police about my journey and contact details,” said Srichandan, who was discharged from Capital Hospital on April 4. “On the night of March 15, I got high fever. The colour of my tongue turned white and I could not feel the taste of the food that I was eating. The doctor prescribed me liquid food,” he said. But more than the lack of taste and the fever, it was the body pain that Srichandan found difficult to handle. “The joint pain and headache were unbearable for two consecutive days,” he added. However, he did not cough or sneeze and had no problem in breathing. The pain subsided after two days and he started feeling better. “As I did not show any symptoms till April 1, the doctors there tested me twice and I was allowed to leave on April 4,” Srichandan said. During his time in the hospital, he tried meditation and pranayam and that gave him lot of mental strength. “I was taking normal diet and watching videos on my mobile phone on Lord Jagannath and spiritualism. I also watched some films, including the Rajesh Khanna-starrer Anand,” he added. He was taking hot water and vitamin supplements along with other medicines in the hospital. “I am really grateful to the doctors and hospital staff for taking care of me,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/positivity-sleep-food-treatment-can-help-you-beat-virus-says-covid-19-survivor/articleshow/75383400.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Man kills self after being quarantined||Sidhi: A 30-year-old farm labourer who was quarantined at a school in Sidhi district, allegedly committed suicide, police said on Friday. The man, who belongs to the Baiga tribe, was found hanging from a tree near the quarantine facility at Dubri Kala village on Thursday, superintendent of police R S Bevanshi said. As per preliminary investigation, the man did not wish to be kept in isolation and wanted to be with his children. The deceased, had returned to the village from Sagar. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-kills-self-after-being-quarantined/articleshow/75384041.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Runway re-carpeting yet to take off, work to begin after lockdown ends||BHUBANESWAR: The re-carpeting of the runway at Biju Patnaik International Airport, which was to begin in March, has not even started. Although equipment needed for the work had been set up, the sudden lockdown threw the airport’s plans into disarray. The Rs 28-crore project has been approved by the Director General of Civil Aviation. It will be carried out in two phases. Earlier, the airport had announced suspension of runway operations for a certain number of hours to facilitate the work. Airport director V V Rao said the recarpeting would have begun in March. “We mobilised material, machine and manpower. Everything is parked inside the airport and is secure. Once the lockdown is lifted, the people who will carry out the work will be able to come into the city,” the director told TOI. Airport runways have to be repaired every 10 years. “The last time the city airport’s runway was repaired was in 2007. It has developed potholes and needs urgent repairs. Initially, re-carpeting was to be carried out from December 1, but this was rescheduled,” Rao added. Had the work begun, operations would have been suspended from midnight to 6 am for the first phase and between 10 am and 6 pm for the second. Airlines had already submitted revised schedule to the airport. Rao said the recarpeting could be expedited from mid-May if flight services did not resume. “If they do resume, work will continue in the hours of the day or night as planned,” he added. With both domestic and international flights grounded, the airport now sees operations of cargo planes, charter planes and government choppers on official duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/runway-re-carpeting-yet-to-take-off-work-to-begin-after-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75383415.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kanpur||8 more including a journalist test Covid-19 positive, Kanpur tally now 152||KANPUR:Eight more persons, including a journalist of a national Hindi daily and a sub-inspector and five police constables, all posted at Anwarganj police station, tested positive for COVID-19 in district on Saturday, taking the total number of such cases to 152. The city had reported its first case on March 23 when a 70-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus, few days after his arrival from the US. As per officials, nine of them have been cured and discharged and three others have died, leaving the number of active cases at 140. Taking a serious note of the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, the district and police administration have stepped up vigil in areas where people are violating lockdown norms. Those failing to follow it will be penalised as per IPC provisions and of the Epidemics Diseases, COVID-19 regulations. With the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the city, more areas are being declared as hotspots, much to the worry of police officials. Four new hotspots in the city have been marked. They are — Meerpur Cantt, Prem nagar in Chamanganj, Lalkuan in Babupurwa and Shaukat Ali Park in Bajaria. The city has 23 hotspots now. As per senior police officials, number of red zones—areas with major Covid outbreaks—have also increased. There are 15 red zones in the city now. Areas within one km radius of the hotspot have been sealed and area within two km radius have been declared as buffer zones, informed police. No shops are allowed to open all such areas and home delivery is permitted. Permissions and licenses issued in the aforesaid areas have been cancelled. SSP Anant Deo said that the situation was worrying as police were not immune to the virus and few cops had also tested Covid positive in the past. “With new hotspots coming up, more challenges stand ahead of police,” he added. Meanwhile, Covid-19 nodal officer Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, who is also the PWD principal secretary, conducted a review meeting with senior administrative officials. He directed them to provide PPE kits to health teams and police officials who are involved in collection of samples for test. The nodal officer, on Saturday, visited COVID -19 contol room at KMC headquarters and KDA control rooms to enquire about the ongoing work. DM Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari apprised him that around 250 samples were being collected everyday and schools and colleges had been selected to quarantine suspected Covid cases. In view of Ramzan, a 100-bed-quarantine centre had been established at Halim Inter College, the DM informed. DIG Anant Deo told Gokarn that police were tracking down the travel history of positive patients. Sisamau circle officer and additional city magistrate (III) launched an inspection campaign in several areas and initiated legal action against the violators. City magistrate Himanshu Gupta visited Collectorganj, Nayaganj and Express Road area. He lodged an FIR against three vegetable and fruit vendors for not complying social distancing norms despite repeated warnings. DM, in another order, asked officials to conduct thermal screening of health workers deputed at CHCs and PHCs and are involved in sample collection. Ramaipur health department conducted thermal screening of suspected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/8-more-including-a-journalist-test-covid-19-positive-city-tally-now-152/articleshow/75383881.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 26, 2020||Agra||Ninth Covid-19 death in Agra, as tally now 371||AGRA: A 55-year-old woman of Tajganj died of Covid-19 in Agra on Saturday, taking the city's toll to nine. Also, 25 new cases were reported in the district, taking the tally to 371. In neighbouring Firozabad, eight new cases were reported, with total cases now 83. According to health department, the 55-year-old woman succumbed due to respiratory failure. She had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 23. Earlier on Friday, a 35-year-old salesman of Tajganj, who succumbed due to respiratory failure on Tuesday, was also found corona positive. So far, officially, seven patients infected with Covid-19 died in SN Medical College, while two died at NH-2-based private hospital - which has reported over 90 corona cases. The localities from where the new cases surfaced on Saturday were Mustafa Quarter, Namner, Kazi Para, Balkeshwar, Narayach, Albatiya, Khati Para, Tajganj, Sikandra, Maithan, Nagla Maltona, Nala Badai Saiyad, Aajam Para, Dhuliya Ganj, Shastripuram, Khandari and village Kakua. Agra CMO Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified.” Meanwhile, Agra mayor Naveen Jain sent a letter to CM Yogi Adityanath alleging "the district administration's inefficiency in the containment of Covid-19 and in providing essential services to the citizens during the lockdown". The mayor has requested the CM to take necessary action to check the increasing danger of Covid-19 in Agra and reduce inconvenience being faced by residents. In neighbouring Firozabad, district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh said, “Six out of the fresh eight cases belong to Nehru Nagar Nai basti – which is mainly inhabited by labourers.” According to health department, five Covid-19 patients of Nai Basti are from one family, while another one is their neighbour. In Mohalla Chau, a pregnant woman was tested positive, while in Ramgadh a 60-year-old was reported positive. Amid the reports of rise in infection in Firozabad district, Tundla - which reported at least nine patients with contact links of Agra private hospital, is set to be declared "corona free", as majority of the patients had completed 14-day isolation period, said Firozabad DM. Also, on the first day of the holy month of Ramzan, Firozabad police maintained a strict vigil and no gatherings were reported from any area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ninth-covid-death-in-agra-as-tally-now-371/articleshow/75383395.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Chief secretary briefs central team on containment steps||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government is adopting a multi-pronged approach in combating the spread of novel coronavirus cases in the state, chief secretary Somesh Kumar said. Interacting with the visiting inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) on Saturday, he said that apart from containing the progression of the infection in the state, the state government has taken all steps to procure PPEs and ventilators. The central team comprising additional secretary of ministry of jal shakti and team leader Arun Baroka, Chandrashekhar Gedam, Dr Hemlatha, SS Thakur and Shekhar Chaturvedi visited the Covid-19 hospital at Gachibowli stadium and Annapurna meals kitchen and later met the CS at BRKR Bhavan. The Centre on Friday deputed IMCT to Hyderabad, Chennai, Thane, Ahmedabad and other places to have a first-hand account about implementation of the lockdown and measures taken to contain the Covid-19 spread . The CS said all the departments were working as a team for Covid-19 management. A presentation was given on treatment, maintaining containment zones, quarantine centres, hospital preparedness, surveillance, testing, helplines, procurement of equipment, supply of rice to white ration card holders, relief measures to migrant workers, Annapurna centres and shelter homes. He said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had issued clear guidelines that saving the lives of people was of paramount importance. . “Even during sale of essential commodities, officials are ensuring social distancing is maintained. Over 11 lakh vehicles were seized and violation cases booked ,” senior officials told the central team. The team appreciated the initiatives taken by the government to contain coronavirus. The team will tour Hyderabad for two more days and interact with director general of police on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chief-secy-briefs-central-team-on-containment-steps/articleshow/75384046.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Indore||Fit & Fine: 1K go home from quarantine so far||Indore: The district administration on Saturday discharged 180 people from quarantine facilities. Around 1150 inmates have so far returned home, vacating about 20 quarantine facilities while at present only 825 inmates in 25 centres are left. “Around two weeks ago, there was a sudden rise in number of positive patients. With that, a large number of their primary contacts were shifted to quarantine facilities across city”, said IDA CEO and nodal officer Vivek Shotriya, adding that many people have completed their 14 days isolation period and being released after tested negative. “At present, we have around 20 quarantine facilities lying vacant. Of this, a few have been converted as Covid Care Centre and special quarantine facility, while use of other centres is being planned,” the official said. He said they have received some requests, wherein, family members of suspected patients or asymptomatic positive ones are approaching them to provide shelter in quarantine facility/CCC. “In one of the cases, husband of a woman, who has been kept in CCC after she got infected with virus but showed no symptoms, requested us to keep him with his wife. The man said he did not want to bother their children and people of his locality are also raising objection over his visits to the area as they fear they might get infected,” Shotriya said.. He added that the person was not infected nor suspected to the disease but as he had no place to go, he has been provided shelter, at a ‘safe’ place, away from the hospital where his wife was kept. The senior official said that efforts are being made to increase immunity of patients and keeping them stress-free through different ways. “So far, 1142 people have been released while 379 inmates have been sent to hospitals after they were tested positive,” he said. === // 8 pvt labs in city can conduct Covid-19 test District collector Manish Singh on Saturday gave relaxation under Section 144 of CrPC to eight private laboratories of the city, which have been provided required permissions for sample testing of Covid-19. In his order, the collector said that Central Lab, SRL Diagnostic, Sampurna Sodani Diagnostic, TRUTEST Laboratory, Unipath Specialty Lab, Newberg Supratech Lab, Metropolis Healthcare Limited and Dr Lal Path Lab of Indore have been given permissions to operate and conduct testing for Covid-19. So, the labs have to take all precautions like social distancing while the workers will have to wear masks, gloves and use sanitizers on regular basis. // Anganwadi workers leading from front, help identify 4 positive cases In one of the worst-affected Covid-19 cities – Indore, over 1,000 Anganwadi workers are engaged in corona battle as frontline warriors. They are carrying out survey of people and helping the health department in identifying suspected cases. Devshri Dubey, Manju Soni, Lajwanti Shinde and Manjula Sekhawat are some of the Anganwadi workers, who have helped identify four positive cases in Rajnagar and Sarafa area. Some of the Anganwadi workers are contributing in the fight by making masks. Mitali Bharaga of Khatipura area, who faced shortage of clothes, used new dresses of her mother to prepare masks. Anita Kothari of Simrol, Reera Rathore and other workers of Harsola have made around 1,000 masks. //All govt employees to use Aarogya Setu app Collector Manish Singh has asked all government employees to download ‘Aarogya Setu’ application and use it for self-assessment of their health. The collector has asked the government employees to approach chief medical and health officer Dr Pravin Jadia or the health officer Dr Amit Malakar to get their samples tested if they have any symptoms like cough, cold and fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/fit-fine-1k-go-home-from-quarantine-so-far/articleshow/75384043.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Indore||Ujjain hosp showcaused over lack of facilities||Indore: Ujjain district administration on Saturday issued a showcause notice to RD Gardi Medical College for allegedly ignoring administrative orders to improve health and other services for Covid-19 patients. In the notice, collector Shashank Mishra mentioned that the college management has ignored the instructions regarding changes in facilities despite many reminders. The college director has been asked to explain why licence of the college should not be cancelled under Disaster Management Act and Essential Service Maintenance Act 1979. The district administration has marked the medical college for treatment of Covid-19 patients and has been asked to make all required arrangements. However, the patients and their relatives have been continuously making complaints like lack of cleanliness, poor quality of food and absence of doctors in the hospital. Joint director (health, Ujjain divisional) Dr Laxmi Baghel released health bulletin and according to it, Ujjain district reported a new case and total tally touched 107. So far, Covid-19 has claimed 15 lives in the district. Besides, Ratlam has reported one new positive case. So far, total ten positive cases have been reported here and four of Ratlam residents are being treated in Ujjain district. No new case or death was reported in other districts of Ujjain division. As per the official records, while Mandsaur has reported one death including eight positive cases, Dewas has reported total 22 cases including six deaths, Agar-Malwa reported one death including 11 positive cases and Neemuch remains the bright spot. In Indore division, Dhar and Khandwa administration reported one death each late on Friday night. “Khandwa and Dhar district have reported first deaths due to Covid-19. The confirmation came late on Friday night,” JD Dr JS Awasia told TOI. He also mentioned that due to some errors in reporting, three deaths reported in last three days in Khargone district could not be included in the division’s report and required efforts will be taken to avoid such mistakes. “With three deaths, the death toll has risen to six in Khargone while total 60 positive cases have reported there,” he said. The JD added that Khandwa and Dhar district has so far reported 36 positive cases each followed by Barwani (24) and Alirajpur with three cases. No case was yet reported in Jhabua and Burhanpur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/ujjain-hosp-showcaused-over-lack-of-facilities/articleshow/75384040.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nashik||PC requests Muslims to stay indoors during Ramzan||Nashik: Extending good wishes to all the Muslim brethren during the holy month of Ramzan, commissioner of police Vishwas Nangare-Patil said that everyone should stay indoors and overcome Covid-19 threat with patience. In a video uploaded on social media, Nangare-Patil appealed to all Muslims to show perseverance and grit at a time when the entire nation is dealing with Coivd-19 pandemic. He said that the administration was alert and concerned for the welfare of citizens, stressing on the importance of the nationwide lockdown and staying indoors. The CP also brought to the notice of people that efforts are being made by everyone to overcome the situation and all should resolve to stay put at their homes. “The administration is putting in efforts to ensure that people do not have to face much hardships during the lockdown,” he said, adding that over 3,500 policemen from across the city are working in shifts to ensure that people do not come out of their homes so that there is no spread of the virus. “People can help to stop the spread of Covid-19 infection by staying indoors. However, if they come out of their homes, they would not only be endangering their health and life, but also of others who they come in contact with, including people who are out for essential services,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pc-requests-muslims-to-stay-indoors-during-ramzan/articleshow/75383414.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Lack of clarity gets anxious Delhi traders in a tizzy||NEW DELHI: There was utter confusion throughout Saturday among the traders after the Union home ministry issued an advisory allowing ‘standalone’ shops to open in municipal areas and registered shops to open in residential areas. There was no clarity, however, on whether shops in the city’s residential areas located mostly in local shopping centres but not standalone in nature were allowed to transact business. There was also perplexity on how buyers and sellers could reach the shopping areas during the lockdown. Many traders were stopped by local police from reaching their shops, but police response wasn’t uniform across the city. Some shops opened even in the prominent markets at Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Mayur Vihar and Khari Baoli. A few stationery and electronics shops in the inner lanes of Laxmi Nagar in east Delhi opened to business, citing the Union home ministry order. Soon enough, not only in Laxmi Nagar but also in Preet Vihar, police control room vans made the rounds asking people not to open their shops. Ashok Randhawa, president of the Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association, pointed out that it was difficult to distinguish with certainty the ‘residential areas, neighbourhood or municipal limits’ where shops were permitted to reopen. “In the inner lanes of Malviya Nagar, Arjun Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, there are many shops. Should all those open because they are in residential areas?” he asked. Market association members had a harried time. “My phone has been ringing non-stop since 7am, with people asking all sorts of questions,” grumbled Nitin Gupta of Kamla Nagar Traders’ Association. “I told them the confirmation of local agencies was awaited, but a few impatient shopkeepers reached their stores violating the lockdown. This led to complete chaos, and I had to contact the SHO to stop shops from opening until formal allowed to by the civic authorities.” Gupta’s counterpart in the Greater Kailash I Market Association, Rajendra Sharda, circulated a message on WhatsApp asking all traders to wait for a day for things to become clear. “If the state government had come out with instructions simultaneously with the Centre, perhaps the confusion could have been avoided,” said Sharda. And how were the traders to travel to their shops? A bemused Ruchin Gard, a Khari Baoli trader, said, “When the borders are sealed and the lockdown is in operation, how can buyers and sellers reach a shop? The decision only plays with the emotion of traders.” There was also anxiety over what reopening of shops could do to the Covid-19 containment efforts, especially if ‘standalone’ shops in congested lanes could legally stay open and draw crowds. “What is the point of the lockdown? This decision will nullify the efforts made in the past month in checking infection,” said Randhawa of Sarojini Nagar. But Aman Singh, a trader in west Delhi, differed and said the lockdown couldn’t go on forever. “If the shops are allowed to open, we will be able to ascertain products that are in short supply and prevent their scarcity in Delhi,” he argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lack-of-clarity-gets-anxious-city-traders-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/75384665.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 26, 2020||Agra||Stalker strangled girl for resisting him in UP's Firozabad||AGRA: A 18-year-old girl was strangled allegedly by a youth who used to stalk her. According to Firozabad's Jasrana circle officer Baldev Singh Khaneda, the girl, an under-graduate student, was returning home after handing over dinner to her family members who were busy harvesting wheat crop on Friday evening, when she was allegedly waylaid by Pawan, 25, whose thresher her family had hired. During interrogation, police learnt that Pawan had been stalking the girl for quite some time. On Friday night, he allegedly attempted to force himself on her. But she resisted and threatened to inform her parents about the act. Enraged, Pawan strangled her to death, said Khaneda. When she did not return home, villagers launched a search for her. At about 3 am, Pawan went to hide her body in a field and was caught by the villagers, the CO said. He was handed over to police. The accused was booked under IPC section 302 (murder). Meanwhile, another murder was reported in neighbouring district of Agra, where a man allegedly axed his nephew over a property dispute. The accused was identified as Chandrajeet, 45. He originally hails from Umarao Nagar of Jalesar, Etah district. He was living at a rented accommodation along with his wife and son. On Friday night, he allegedly killed his nephew, Rajat (25) over a eight-bigah land dispute. “Accused has been arrested and sent to jail,” said SHO Rajesh Kumar Sharma of Jagdsipura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/stalker-strangled-girl-for-resisting-him-in-firozabad/articleshow/75383402.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||Giraffe from Mysuru Zoo finds a new home at Bannerghatta||Mysuru: For the past four decades, the long-necked gentle giants, giraffes, have been among the most prominent attractions at Mysuru Zoo, and the authorities have been enviably successful in breeding them. One of the giraffes at the zoo has now moved into a new home – Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) in Bengaluru. The restrictions of the lockdown notwithstanding, the giraffe, Yadunandan, was successfully transported to BBP on Friday. Yadunandan was shifted to a new home in order to assume the role of a companion for four-year-old female giraffe Gowri at BBP, who has been suffering the pangs of loneliness for long. Yadunandan, a 17-month-old male giraffe, was born at the Mysuru Zoo. Interestingly, Gowri was also originally a resident of Mysuru Zoo and was shifted to BBP in April 2018. The move to shift Yadunandan was carried out after obtaining approval from the Central Zoo Authority in New Delhi. The central authority greenlighted the move for purposes of conservation and pairing. Gowri is a 14-foot tall giraffe, roughly weighing 1,200kg, while her new companion Yadunandan already stands at 11ft, and weighs 800kg. BBP executive director Vanashri Vipin Singh said that Gowri was visibly elated at the sight of another giraffe entering her enclosure. Mysuru Zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni said that male giraffes at the facility were named after the Wadiyars, the rulers of the erstwhile Mysore State. “Yadunandan was named for the scion of the erstwhile royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar,” Kulkarni told STOI. Kulkarni expressed his gratitude to the officials and personnel of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation, Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company, police department for carrying out a survey of the road, and ensuring a clearance of 18ft needed to seamless transport of the giraffe from Mysuru to Bengaluru. Zoo Authority of Karnataka member-secretary BP Ravi confirmed to STOI that the survey of the route taken for the journey was carried out by Cesc personnel. The giraffe was accompanied on the journey by veterinary service assistant director Dr KR Ramesh, animal keeper Issac and other personnel from the Mysuru Zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/giraffe-from-mysuru-zoo-finds-a-new-home-at-bannerghatta/articleshow/75382502.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 26, 2020||Agra||Woman sets 2 minor children ablaze, immolates self in Mainpuri||AGRA: A 36-year-old woman allegedly set herself and her two minor children on fire after a dispute with her husband, at Mainpuri’s Bhatua village on Saturday. According to police, Rinki allegedly poured kerosene on her sons Tanmay (4) and Manmay (2) and set them on fire, and then set herself ablaze. The incident took place around 1 pm when her husband, Raj Kishore Prajapati, was out of the house. Neighbours broke open the door of the house after hearing their cries and found the woman and her children with severe burn injuries. They immediately informed the police and the woman's husband. All of them were rushed to Safai for treatment but doctors at the hospital declared the children brought dead, while the woman succumbed to burn injuries during treatment. Station house officer (SHO) of Kurra police station, Rupesh Verma, said, “There was some dispute between the husband and the wife over cultivation of crops in the field belonging to Raj Kishore’s father." Verma claimed that the woman did not approve of her husband working in his father’s field and the couple allegedly fought over the issue on Saturday morning. The woman was so upset that she took the extreme step later in the day. Verma said the bodies were sent for post-mortem. However, no FIR has been registered till the time of filing this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-sets-2-minor-children-ablaze-immolates-self-in-mainpuri/articleshow/75383411.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kanpur||Furniture shop gutted in Taat Mill area, none injured||KANPUR: A furniture shop was gutted in a major fire near Taat Mill area on Saturday evening. According to senior fire officer, the information of the incident was received in the evening at the fire control office. Within minutes, four fire tenders were rushed to the incident spot. On reaching the spot, the fire officer said that they noticed the first floor of the furniture shop was up in flames and some material was also stored there. Within minutes, the fire completely destroyed the furniture material including beds, sofas, chairs and other items. In all four fire tenders were used and the fire was controlled later. According to the fire department sources, the major cause of fire was electrical short-circuit sparking in the electrical panel. SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal said that as the furniture items stored in the shop were highly inflammable, the fire spread at immense speed. No injury or loss of life was reported in the incident, said the officer further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/furniture-shop-gutted-in-taat-mill-area-none-injured/articleshow/75383893.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Indore||Social distancing, regular health check-ups new norms in district jail||Indore: Elaborate arrangements have been made at district jail to prevent Covid-19 spread. As many as 89 inmates brought to the facility after the lockdown, had to undergo isolation period, before being kept with general population. The inmates are kept in two isolation centres in two phases and are allowed inside only after their reports came negative. The isolation centre has wooden cubicles with a capacity of 54 for both the stages while maintaining social distancing, jail superintendent Aditi Chaturvedi said. Two wards consisting four barracks closest to the entry gate were vacated and divided into two stages, she added. In the first stage ward, the inmates coming from outside are kept after consultation with the doctor for 14 days. “They are allowed only after an opinion from the doctor regarding their health status. If they are found having any symptoms, they are not admitted,” Chaturvedi said. The ward having two barracks was refurbished with wooden cabins recently and has a capacity of 24 persons following social distancing. “After completing 14 days they are shifted to the next isolation sector after the opinion of the doctor and are kept here for the next 14 days. In all, after coming inside the jail, an inmate spends 28 days in isolation wards before mingling with other inmates of the jail,” she said. The officials added that a separate team of paramedical staff is appointed for the isolation ward. The team observes each one of them, apart from this 12 guards having special protective gear have been deployed in these isolation wards who work round the clock. These guards are not allowed in any other part of the jail. Superintendent said that though there is not enough space for over 950 inmates even after most of them have been sent home, the movement inside the jail and also in the administration part has completely been restricted. == Audio msg, pamphlets about dos and donts Jail superintendent said that they have recorded an audio about dos and donts in the jail and how to keep the virus away. It has been played on loudspeaker every 30 minutes. They have also made pamphlets giving information about coronavirus and circulate it among jailbirds every week. Jail staff, families screened Before entering the jail and after coming out, every official sanitizes themselves completely. All the officials including families of the jail staff were recently screened and some samples were also collected and they were all tested negative. Open jail inmates out on bail, force using their quarters Open jail inmates were released a month ago on 60 days bail and their quarters were given to extra force called from Barwaha. “We shifted their belongings to a safe place and quarters were given to the policemen. When they come back, their belongings will be returned,” said superintendent Aditi Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/social-distancing-regular-health-check-ups-new-norms-in-district-jail/articleshow/75384049.cms||Karishma Kotwal
April 26, 2020||Rajkot||‘Relaxation is not end of lockdown’||Rajkot: While the lock down will be rigorously implemented, shops will be allowed to open in Rajkot from Sunday onwards in accordance with government guidelines. On Saturday, Rajkot police commissioner, Manoj Agarwal, warned residents that the relaxation to open shops and business establishments do not mean that people can move about on the roads. Following the central government notification declaring relaxation to small shopkeepers, Rajkot people thronged roads merrily on Saturday morning . Shops in old Rajkot areas like Lakhaji Raj Road, Dharmendra Road, Sadar Palace Road opened shutters and people started gathering there. With that, even a few jewellers were also back in their shops. Finally, cops had to crack the whip on these shopkeepers asking them to down shutters and also disbursed the mob. “The rules of lock down will be followed strictly, one should not take the liberty of roaming around,” warned Agarwal, while stating that police are alert about the state government’s relaxation order for shopkeepers. People from one area cannot go to another to buy anything, while only one person will be allowed to commute on a two wheeler and two people in a four wheeler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/relaxation-is-not-end-of-lockdown/articleshow/75383439.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown deals to bloody blow to salons, barber shops||BHUBANESWAR: Closure of salons, beauty parlours and barber shops during the lockdown have left both the owners and employees in the lurch. Barbers, who have small kiosks in Bhubaneswar and other parts of the state, are eagerly waiting to re-open their kiosks as they do not have any alternative source of income. Their major concern is to pay shop rent, salaries to their employees and EMIs on loan. “I have to pay Rs 2,000 as monthly rent for my small shop at Kanan Vihar-II and Rs 7,000 for my rented accommodation. Besides, I have to pay the installments of MUDRA loan. This shop was my only source of income,” said Narayan Barik, a barber shop owner. He said he also has to look after his family in the village. “I fear that my business will take time to gather momentum even after the lockdown is lifted. Due to social distancing rules, people may avoid to come to our shops for a few more days,” he added. Anita Nayak, owner of a beauty parlour at Nandankanan Road, Patia, said she has to pay Rs 1 lakh monthly rent for her salon space and salary to12 employees. “My parlour is shut since March 22 and I do not have other income. I have to bear the losses. Besides, I have to repay the EMI of MUDRA loan. I fail to comprehend how to manage my finances,” she added. Nayak said she procures beauty products in bulk. Date of some of these products will expire soon. “I do not think that people will visit parlours like before. Most people are facing financial crisis due to the pandemic situation and will not be ready to spend much,” she added. They had expected to open their shops and salons from Sunday like other standalone shops but the notification from Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday stated that barber shops and salons will remain closed during the lockdown period. After closure of these shops, people have started learning different ways to cut their beard or hair at home. Sometimes family members help them in it. Santosh Nayak from Saheed Nagar here said he shaved his own beard by purchasing a razor from a grocery shop. “My friend trimmed the hair of his school-going son with scissors. This has become a learning situation for us. We have to manage without any luxury,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-deals-to-bloody-blow-to-salons-barber-shops/articleshow/75383428.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Recovered, Tablighis ready to donate plasma||NEW DELHI: Of the 142 Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined at AIIMS, Jhajjar, 129 have recovered, and many of them have agreed to donate their blood for plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients in Delhi. Dr Sushma Bhatnagar, chairperson of Covid-19 services at the Jhajjar hospital, told TOI, “We requested some of the recovered patients to donate their blood, and they readily agreed. Now, we are working on the logistics for the donation and their stay.” She added that the Tablighi members had also agreed to give their blood sample for future research. Blood can be retrieved from a person after two weeks of recovery, said Bhatnagar. “Most of the Tablighi members are from outside Delhi, some of them foreigners. They cannot return to their hometowns during the lockdown. We will talk to the authorities on where to shift them and how to coordinate the blood donation,” she added. Plasma therapy involves transfusing plasma retrieved from the blood of persons who have recovered from Covid-19 into a person suffering from the disease. A 49-year-old patient admitted at Max Saket was the first Indian to undergo plasma therapy for Covid-19, and his doctors claimed it helped speed his recovery. The patient, who had been on ventilator for over a week, was weaned off the machine three days after going on the experimental therapy. With no known cure for Covid-19, countries are experimenting with drugs and therapies to treat infected people. Recently, four corona-positive patients at Lok Nayak Hospital and two at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences began plasma therapy as part of a clinical trial initiated by Delhi government. State health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday that four of the six patients who received plasma therapy have shown improvement in respiratory symptoms. At Lok Nayak too, doctors said most of the Tablighi members placed there in quarantine after evacuation from Nizamuddin’s Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in early April have recovered. “They’ve been shifted to the Covid care centre in Mandoli and Sultanpuri. Nearly 20% of those approached for blood donation have affirmed so far,” said Dr J C Passey, medical director of the hospital. There are at least 38 Covid-19 patients in Delhi who currently require ICU and ventilator support. Patients, during recovery, produce antibodies that attack the coronavirus. These antibodies are secreted by immune cells known as B lymphocytes found in the plasma, or the clear liquid part of blood that helps the blood clot when needed and supports immunity. Once a person has been infected and recovers, he or she develops antibodies that stay in the blood waiting to fight the virus should it return. Experts assert that blood drawn from a recovered patient can be used to extract plasma for transfusion into a sick patient. A donor's plasma can aid two patients, doctors said. The idea of using recovered people’s plasma to help patients has been used earlier, for instance during the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), also caused by a human coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/recovered-tablighis-ready-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/75384679.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 40 healthcare staff found positive in one hospital||NEW DELHI: At least 40 healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and OT technicians, have tested positive for Covid-19 at Babu Jagjivan Ram (BJRM) hospital in Jahangirpuri in northeast Delhi. They have been admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital (LNJP) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH), sources said. “The source of infection is still unknown,” said an official, adding that the 100-bedded hospital has put all services on hold following the scare. The first case of Covid-19 among healthcare workers in the hospital, the official said, was confirmed on April 18 when a doctor posted in the emergency ward tested positive for coronavirus. “When tests were carried out on other doctors and nurses posted in the ward, they too came positive. Finally, the hospital got everyone tested and the results are in front of you,” said a resident doctor, adding that almost half of the hospital is now down with Covid-19. “My test reports came on April 20. I had fever so I was shifted to LNJP Hospital. Here, I also developed respiratory distress and cough. It is improving now,” the 25-year-old doctor added. The family members of the healthcare workers are also being tested for the disease, said hospital authorities. Jahangirpuri is one of the worst affected areas due to Covid-19. Six cops deployed in the area tested positive for the viral infection on Tuesday. Two days ago, 46 people living in H Block tested positive. While the source of infection in the area is yet to be ascertained, locals say the disease spread from a woman who died on April 8, and her coronavirus test came positive on April 10. “31 persons from her extended family and neighbourhood were also found positive for Covid-19,” local authorities said. “The government must implement lockdown rules in the BJRM hospital area strictly to contain the further spread of the disease,” said a local resident. Watch Covid-19: 31 healthcare workers, including 11 doctors, test positive at Delhi hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/40-healthcare-staff-found-positive-in-1-hospital/articleshow/75384672.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||PIL seeks ban on TikTok in India||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has issued notices to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), Telangana government and TikTok’s representatives in India, asking them to explain their stand on a public interest litigation seeking a ban on the social networking platform in India. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy gave them six weeks to serve counters to a plea filed by advocate Ashok Ram Kumar.  Ashok Kumar in his PIL contended that several short videos on the platform were responsible for propagating false messages about India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He added that many of these videos were aimed at diluting the social distancing norms that are integral to fighting the spread of the virus. The petitioner said TikTok was slow in responding to the complaints. “If they do not delete objectionable content during a pandemic, the damage caused will be irreparable,” said the advocate, adding that TikTok’s internal rules govern them to remove the content within 36 hours after a complaint had been filed and verified. “However, 36 hours is a long duration,” said Ashok. He also said nobody should be allowed to download and use the app during these sensitive times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pil-seeks-ban-on-tiktok-in-india/articleshow/75384051.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nashik||Employees of IT companies to continue working from home||Nashik: The IT sector employees from Nashik are continuing to work from home despite the sector being given a relaxation to restart operations from offices starting April 20.There are about 170 IT firms in Nashik, which are members if Nashik IT Association (NITA). Most of the firms are service sector companies and their operations depend on client communications and feedback.According to the association’s executive committee member Shanshank Wagh, the IT firms need permissions from the local government agencies to transport their employees between homes and offices. “The units have to ensure smooth travel of the employees and hence barring a small number of employees the rest are working from home at present,” said Wagh. Moreover, the IT firms are presently working out safety modalities at workplaces before allowing limited employees to start working from offices. “Our members are in the process of procuring thermal scanners and have sanitization facilities at offices. Moreover, the sitting arrangements have to be done keeping in mind the government’s social distancing norms. We will ensure all employees working in offices wear masks,” Wagh added. The senior NITA functionary said that the pace of work in about 60-70 city IT firms has slowed down due to the pandemic in America and Europe. “The clients of these IT firms are based in either Europe or America. And due to the spread of the virus there has been a slowdown of communication between the clients and the IT firms. But we are optimistic that things would improve in the near future,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/employees-of-it-companies-to-continue-working-from-home/articleshow/75383449.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Corona clouds Ramzan: No coming together in month of plenty||NEW DELHI: Blaring of sirens from the mosques to announce the sighting of moon and beginning of the holy month of Ramzan usually led to a rush for mosques to attend the night prayer (isha) followed by tarawih — an additional ritual prayer (recitation of Quran) through the month. After these prayers, what followed was feasting through the night hopping from one food stall to another, endless sessions of tea and shopping for sehri — the pre-dawn meal. On Friday, there was no rush to anywhere. The novel coronavirus had sucked the festive spirit out of month of fasting and feasting. What used to be an endless session of handshakes and hugs to greet each other was replaced by video calls and virtual hugs. Plans of feasting at night were replaced with sharing last year’s food images on family WhatsApp groups. This was the most unusual and quietest beginning of the holy month for every Muslim. Ramzan is fondly referred to as month of aplenty. From manifold rewards for prayers during this month to multiple options adorning dining tables, Muslims looked forward to the ‘barkat ka mahina’. This year though, there was no time to get new clothes stitched or have homes decorated. Many makeshift food stalls that sold fried iftar staples, dates and sherbet were also missing. The prayers have been at home and people are wary of mass gatherings. While announcement of Ramzan would have meant going live on social media showcasing the euphoria in the air, this time it was sharing the eerily empty images of Jama Masjid and dargahs. Shahi Imam of Fatehpuri mosque, Mufti Mukarram, had issued a video message urging the Muslim community to stay and pray at home and devote more time towards religious activities. Cricketer Irfan Pathan also posted a message on his social media account requesting people to pray five times a day and follow the rituals in true spirit. Altamash Nizami, member of Nizamuddin dargah committee and an ancestral descendant of Nizamuddin Auliya, recalled the first roza last year, which had 2,000 people for iftar while Jama Masjid got almost double the number. This year, Altamash was alone at the dargah preparing packets of iftar to be sent to the needy residing at the nearby basti. He said that following all safety measures, such as staying at home, is both a social and religious duty. “Thinking about everyone and praying for everyone’s wellbeing is the true spirit of Islam and Ramzan. Just like every part of the world, we will pray from home and keep doing our charity,” he added. Siblings Saba and Akbar Ali came back to India from Doha and Singapore respectively, to attend to their ailing father. While their father, Asif Mirza, was discharged from the hospital, they could not return as the lockdown was announced. Both, residents of Nizamuddin East, were looking forward to catching up with the extended family and endless feasts during Ramzan by visiting the Matia Mahal area to soak in the festive spirit. However, they have to make do with a simple homely affair this time just like their nephew Umar Mirza, who has to give up all his plans for kebabs and nehari at Ballimaran. It is compulsory for every able-bodied Muslim to fast. This is a month of abstinence and cleansing of soul. Ramzan is also a community celebration. This is a month of coming together of people to send iftar to each other, host each other for meals, do charity work and encourage others to do good deeds. To get a perspective, Ramzan this year is like Durga Puja without pandals or Dussehra with without Ram Leela. Or as a joke has it, when one wishes someone Ramadan Kareem, the response now is ‘Ramzan sans Karims’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-clouds-ramzan-no-coming-together-in-month-of-plenty/articleshow/75384686.cms||Amin Ali
April 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Material crunch hits border bridge work||KANNUR: With the National Board for Wildlife giving nod for the bridge across the river at Kootupuzha in Kerala-Karnataka border, which is part of the Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) road between Thalassery and Valavupara near Karnataka, the uncertainty is over, but the lockdown following Covid-19 and the scarcity of materials have damped the possibility of the resumption of the work, and there is concern whether the monsoon would further delay it. It was around two years ago that the work was halted after Karnataka raised objection, saying that the bridge is being constructed in their territory. Though Karnataka Wildlife Board later gave permission for the construction of the bridge on the condition that the land and river belonged to them, Kerala government was awaiting the clearance from the National Board for Wildlife, which was given on April 20. The work could be resumed only after the lockdown is over since there are restrictions and there is scarcity of materials and its transportation, according to the KSTP officials and the contractors. But, if there is further delay in the work, the monsoon would affect it and hence the authorities should take steps to resume the work at the earliest, said Peravoor MLA Sunny Joseph, who has brought this to the attention of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. There are four major bridges under construction in his constituency, including two on the KSPT road, and if the works are not started immediately, it might hamper the progress, he said. Also, the contractors are complaining that there is scarcity of materials since the quarries and crushers are not functioning, and hence some immediate steps should be taken now, said the MLA. “If the work is delayed due to lockdown, it could be resumed only after the monsoon and hence I have requested the CM to take steps to start the work at the earliest, adhering to the lockdown norms, so that some progress could be made before the onset of monsoon,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/material-crunch-hits-border-bridge-work/articleshow/75382540.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh students’ SOS to CMs from Kota||HYDERABAD: Several Telugu students who are undergoing coaching for competitive examinations are stuck in Kota, Rajasthan. They made an earnest appeal to chief ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to bring them back home immediately. from our side our requests won't stop and it's less then what we are suffering here.please help us.… https://t.co/9DNLcf2jC5— jahnavi imandi (@imandi_jahnavi) 1587756775000The students put out several videos on Twitter asking for help. In an appeal, Jahnavi Imandi said they are too stressed because of the lockdown and this was reflecting on their health. Another student Anirudh said they were going without food as no arrangements were in their hostels. “The Rajasthan government has agreed to send us back if Telugu states make an appeal,” the students said, urging both the governments to make the arrangements to bring them back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-ap-students-sos-to-cms-from-kota/articleshow/75384055.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rain, thunderstorm batter Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: Heavy rain and thunderstorm was witnessed in most parts of Odisha on Saturday and is expected to continue till April 27. Odisha received the highest rainfall of 140 mm at Hadabhanga in Boudh district and there were hailstorms at one or two places in Balasore and Balangir districts in the last 24 hours by Saturday. The rain and hailstorm has already caused huge loss to standing crops, including in Krushnaprasad area of Puri district. The special relief commissioner (SRC) has directed all collectors to assess the damage to crops, houses and cattle. Bhubaneswar recorded 64 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. Several systems are causing the rain and thunderstorm activities, including a cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh and neighbourhood, a trough line from Meghalaya to cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh across Bangladesh, Gangetic West Bengal and North Odisha. Besides, a trough now runs from the South-East Uttar Pradesh to South Tamilnadu across West Vidarbha, East Madhya Pradesh is also causing rain. Also strong moisture incursion at lower tropospheric levels takes place over the state from the Bay of Bengal. The rain has also brought the temperature down in most parts of the state. On Saturday, the highest temperature in the state at 41 degree Celsius was recorded in Malkangiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rain-thunderstorm-batter-state/articleshow/75383467.cms||Minati Singha
April 26, 2020||Cuttack||Rain, thunderstorm batter Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: Heavy rain and thunderstorm was witnessed in most parts of Odisha on Saturday and is expected to continue till April 27. Odisha received the highest rainfall of 140 mm at Hadabhanga in Boudh district and there were hailstorms at one or two places in Balasore and Balangir districts in the last 24 hours by Saturday. The rain and hailstorm has already caused huge loss to standing crops, including in Krushnaprasad area of Puri district. The special relief commissioner (SRC) has directed all collectors to assess the damage to crops, houses and cattle. Bhubaneswar recorded 64 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. Several systems are causing the rain and thunderstorm activities, including a cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh and neighbourhood, a trough line from Meghalaya to cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh across Bangladesh, Gangetic West Bengal and North Odisha. Besides, a trough now runs from the South-East Uttar Pradesh to South Tamilnadu across West Vidarbha, East Madhya Pradesh is also causing rain. Also strong moisture incursion at lower tropospheric levels takes place over the state from the Bay of Bengal. The rain has also brought the temperature down in most parts of the state. On Saturday, the highest temperature in the state at 41 degree Celsius was recorded in Malkangiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/rain-thunderstorm-batter-state/articleshow/75389449.cms||Minati Singha
April 26, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna gets ICMR nod for plasma therapy treatment||PATNA: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its nod to AIIMS-Patna to use plasma therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “AIIMS had earlier applied to ICMR to allow them to do plasma therapy. They have received a deemed approval,” health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said on Saturday. He added that all healthcare establishments applying for plasma therapy are getting deemed approval from the ICMR. Plasma therapy involves injecting critical Covid-19 patients with blood plasma from recovered patients to help the existing antibodies fight the virus. AIIMS-Patna director Prabhat Kumar Singh said, “Plasma therapy isn’t a new thing for us as we have been conducting it for years for other life-threatening diseases. Hence, we have all the required infrastructure to administer the therapy.” AIIMS-Patna blood transfusion officer Neha Singh said, “The cured Covid-19 patients will donate their plasma, which will be transfused in critical patients, who are in ventilation or are fighting to survive.” Citing an example of the four Covid-19 patients who were treated with plasma therapy in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital in New Delhi, Singh said, “The results are quite positive, hence we can hope for the same in Bihar too.” Experts claimed that plasma treatment has always been effective for patients in critical condition. “Of the components of human blood, which contains White Blood Cells (WBC), Red Blood Cells (RBC), platelet cells and plasma, plasma consists of antibodies that are produced by the human body while fighting against a disease. Similarly, the plasma in a Covid-19 patient has antibodies that have the tendency to fight the virus if injected in other positive patients,” Dr Arun Shah, Muzaffarpur-based senior paediatrician said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-patna-gets-icmr-nod-for-plasma-therapy-treatment/articleshow/75383227.cms||Archi Rani
April 26, 2020||Meerut||Bulandshahr sub-inspector 'guns down' colleague at police station||MEERUT: In a shocking incident, a sub-inspector (SI) Bijendra Singh (57) was allegedly shot dead by colleague Narendra Pal Singh, 53, also a sub-inspector, at BB Nagar police station in Bulandshahr district. Both were posted at the same police station. According to police, the incident happened late on Friday when Narendra had gone to official residence of deceased Bijendra on the third floor of police station building to use the washroom. Police claimed a bullet was accidentally fired from the service pistol of accused SI Narendra who later rushed his colleague to a nearby hospital with the help of another staffer at the police station. "At around 12 am, Narendra went up to Bijendra's room to use washroom and a shot was accidentally fired from the former's service pistol and a bullet hit Bijendra in the stomach," Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said. SI Bijendra later succumbed to the bullet injury, SI Narendra, sensing trouble, fled from the spot and was later arrested from Ghaziabad. An FIR under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC was registered against SI Narendra. "Accused SI Narendra along with another staffer at the police station took critically injured SI Bijendra in Narendra's car at a nursing home 3 km away from the police station," SSP said. Soon after, SI Narendra fled from the spot after taking his colleagues into confidence that he was going back to police station to fetch money. Local police slipped into action and intercepted his location near Ghaziabad. Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said that around 1 am on Saturday, local police received alert about a Bulandshahr cop travelling towards Ghaziabad in a private car after having shot one of his colleagues. "Acting on the information, we have arrested him from Masuri area around 2 am on Saturday," Naithani said. Meanwhile, the slain cop was laid to rest with full honours. Senior police officials in the district paid last respect to the deceased cop at the district police lines and the body was handed over to the family for cremation. (With inputs from Avishek Kumar Dubey/Ghaziabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bulandshahr-si-guns-down-colleague-atpolice-station-arrested-from-ghaziabad/articleshow/75383493.cms||Piyush Rai
April 26, 2020||Meerut||UP: Man dies digging grandpa’s grave; laid next to him||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In a tragic incident, a 42-year-old man suffered a massive heart attack while he was digging his grandfather's grave and died on the spot. Later, both of them were buried in adjacent graves.The incident occurred in Jansath area of Muzaffarnagar where 80-year-old Mohammad Yusuf died owing to old age on Friday. Later, his grandson Saleem 40, along with his friends, was digging the grave when he suffered sharp pain in his chest and collapsed. According to sources, Saleem and his several friends had gone to the graveyard late on Friday to dig his grandfather's grave. According to his friends, before Saleem collapsed, he had told his friends in jest to dig another grave as “anyone could die”. He was rushed to a local doctor who declared him dead. Later, he was buried next to his grandfather's grave. According to his cousin Babar Ahmed, “Maybe, he was not feeling too well and that’s why he asked in jest to dig another grave. Who could have imagined we actually would dig another grave for him? He was a young and healthy person. His death has left us all shocked.” The deceased, Saleem, was a fruit seller and has left five children behind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-suffers-heart-attack-while-digging-granddads-grave-buried-next-to-him/articleshow/75383498.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Constant vigilance helps Haveri district stay clear of pandemic||HAVERI: North Karnataka, after an initial lull, witnessed a veritable torrent of Covid-19 cases and the authorities have had to scramble to contain the spread of the infection in their respective jurisdiction owing to the inter-connectivity between the many districts in the region. However, a few districts in the region have successfully withheld the intrusion of the novel coronavirus, and Haveri is one of them. Neighbouring Dharwad district has recorded nine cases, and the officials there have not had an easy task in enforcing the lockdown and sealing off containment areas. However, Haveri, which was a part of undivided Dakshina Kannada district not many years ago, has, owing to the concerted and coordinated efforts of the various departments in the district administration successfully remained in the green zone. Among the reasons Haveri successfully warded off the infection was the decision to seal all bylanes and interior roads that connected Haveri with other districts. This move, coupled with rigorous examination at checkposts has helped the district administration keep a close check on those entering and leaving Haveri. Residents of Haveri are understandably pleased with the efforts of deputy commissioner Krishna Bajpai and superintendent of police KG Devaraj, and have expressed their appreciation on various social media portals. As many as 13 checkposts have been set up at various points across Haveri, primarily to prohibit inter-district movement of vehicles. These checkposts are manned round-the-clock with personnel working in long and tiring shifts. Bajpai said, in addition to keeping a close watch on inter-district vehicular movement, police personnel have cracked down on those moving within Haveri without a valid reason. “We have been raising awareness about social distancing among the people, and educating them about the safety measures they need to adopt to ensure they do not contract the infection,” Bajpai said. The DC said that the district administration had made all the arrangements to deliver essential commodities to the residents’ homes, not just in the towns but in the rural areas as well. “We will continue to remain vigilant to retain the Covid-19 free tag for the district,” Bajpai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/constant-vigilance-helps-haveri-district-stay-clear-of-pandemic/articleshow/75382548.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Vadodara||Elderly woman dies in Vadodara, 11 test positive||Vadodara: An elderly woman died succumbed to the coronavirus infection even as 11 others tested positive in the city since Thursday morning. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district now stands at 234. The woman from Diwalipura area, who had tested positive on April 18, died at the GMERS, Gotri hospital on Saturday morning. The 70-year-old woman had multiple health complications that led to her death. The new cases were reported from different areas of the city and new localities like Narsinhji Ni Pole and Nava Bazar saw cases surfacing. The cases from Nava Bazar have made traders there concerned as the development might dash their hopes of resuming business. The case from the Narsinhji Ni Pole was that of a man who was a pharmacist. The man used to stay in the same area and his outlet was also located there. With only one case being reported from Tandalja area and extensive surveillance revealing no upper respiratory infection or flu-like cases, the administration decided to remove it from the red zone. It will now be kept under the orange zone In Anand district, the death toll rose to three after a 56-year-old Khambhat resident, Sabbir Malek, died at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad. Meanwhile, three more persons including two women and one man, from Khambhat area tested positive on Saturday taking the positive cases to 46 in the district. These include two men and a woman, all above 60 years of age. Godhra too registered five cases since Friday night. The cases included four persons from the family of a girl who had tested positive earlier and a man from Khadia Falia. The total number of cases in Godhra now stands at 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/elderly-woman-dies-in-vadodara-11-test-positive/articleshow/75383788.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Patna||Coronavirus scare for Buxar village’s ‘khaini’ addicts||PATNA: Ever since the news spread of a grocer and a washerman of a Buxar village testing positive for Covid-19 after sharing khaini (raw unsmoked tobacco) with a suspected corona positive person, it has sent a shockwave among the villagers as this local intoxicant is more a “community experience” than an individual guilty pleasure. In Bihar, ‘khaini’ is an icebreaker. It can spawn friendships, even among strangers, while travelling on a train or bus. And, unlike paan or cigarette, one rarely says no to someone asking for a pinch of it. It’s virtually bad manners to refuse to share your khaini! So when it turned out that two neighbours have tested positive for coronavirus after sharing khaini with a coronavirus suspect, who was then unaware of his infection, it naturally shocked everyone. While the two neighbours have vowed to get rid of their addiction, others are now wary of sharing the lime-tobacco mixture. “Ever since we have heard of this case, we have become careful about sharing khaini. This is something that is offered to anyone who takes it and we take it if anyone offers it. But now we have to be careful since this virus is catching everyone,” said a villager who knows the duo but did not want to be reveal his name. Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir confirmed that the duo indeed contracted the virus due to their addiction. “The two of them in their late 30s revealed to the members of the medical team that they may have got infected as they used to share khaini and play cards with the son in-law of a 67-year-old man, who had tested positive. The old man along with his son-in-law were detected positive after they returned from a religious congregation at Asansol in West Bengal,” Samir said. Altogether 20 positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Buxar so far. Out of them, 15 are from one particular extended family, who reside in a densely populated locality, Naya Bhojpur. All of them have been kept under observation of a medical team at an isolated centre in Buxar, he added. “Initially, a 35-year-old youth and a 67-year-old man from the locality were detected positive for coronavirus. Subsequently, the deadly virus infected the old man’s daughter and 30-year-old son-in-law, who later transmitted it to other members of the extended family as well as neighbours,” the DM said. The Buxar medical team has so far collected samples of around 100 inhabitants of the locality, which has been declared a red zone following a spike in positive cases in the past one week. “We are taking all precautionary measures and the affected locality is being sanitized,” the DM told TOI over phone. In Gaya, a shop dealing in khaini was closed and an FIR was lodged against the shopkeeper Ashok Kumar. The station house officer (SHO) of Rampur police station Prashant Kumar said that raids were on to nab the accused, who has been charged with violating lockdown norms. Notably, spitting in public place after having khaini or gutka will invite a six-month jail term or Rs.200 as fine in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-scare-for-buxar-villages-khaini-addicts/articleshow/75383250.cms||Ramashankar
April 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Pets in four red-zone districts to get telemedicine consultation||KOZHIKODE: Taking a cue from the telemedicine facility for pet animals launched in Kollam, Indian Veterinary Association (IVA) Kerala is planning to expand the facility for pets in the four districts ranked in the red zone in the state. IVA Kerala decided to expand the facilities to pet animals in the four districts situated in the red zone considering the stringent lockdown norms and also the growing number of calls from pet owners seeking medical aid for their pet animals. The facility will be a reality in Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod. IVA Kerala has decided to launch the Kollam model of telemedicine in the four districts. IVA had launched the facility in Kollam by forming a panel of veterinary experts to provide free service from 2pm to 6pm. With the introduction of this facility, people residing in the red zone districts need not step out of the house taking their pet animals to get emergency aid. P Sooryanarayana Bhat, president of IVA Kasaragod branch, said post lockdown, veterinary consultation is now switched over to telephone and WhatsApp in Kasaragod. “Pet owners residing in rural areas give us a call while those residing in the town limits prefer WhatsApp consultation. We visit the houses to attend pets in case it is needed but only after checking that none in the family are kept under home quarantine for Covid-19. The telemedicine consultation in Kasaragod will be launched in the coming days with the help of IVA Kerala,” he said. N Mohanan, IVA Kerala state committee member from Kozhikode, said the association has already commenced the work of forming a dedicated team of veterinary doctors to set up the facility at the earliest. Meanwhile, Dr K K Thomas, IVA Kerala state president, said the IVA has been getting an overwhelming response from pet owners for the telemedicine facility launched in Kollam. “The telemedicine facility will be launched in four districts in the red zones next week. A panel will be formed under the respective IVA Kerala district units to provide telemedicine consultation on a fixed timing so that pet owners can make use of the facility to treat the pet’s ailments,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pets-in-4-red-zone-dists-to-get-telemedicine-consultation/articleshow/75382564.cms||Sreedevi Chitharanjan
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||This Ramzan will be without mass prayers, iftar parties||DHARWAD: Members of the Muslim community in Dharwad district have decided to follow the Covid-19 lockdown guidelines and offer namaz at homes during the holy month of Ramzan which began on Friday. The leaders of Anjuman-e-Islam in the twin cities said mass prayers, tarawih prayers and iftars will be held in mosques. Iftar meets and mass dinner are also banned in houses. Except for the Imam, Muzzain and mosque administration committee member, nobody is allowed to perform prayers at mosques. A religious leader said there is permission for alerting people before sehri and iftar. Azan and other announcements will be made in low decibel. Anjuman committees have circulated guidelines of the Wakf Board through social media platforms to ensure that lockdown is not violated during Ramzan. Jamat-e-Ahle-Sunnat Karnataka general secretary Moulana Mufti Mohamed Ali Qazi and joint secretary Maulana Niyaz Alam Shaikh have urged the community members to adhere to the directions given by the Wakf Board and district administration. They asked people not to form crowd under the pretext of giving alms. After the moon sighting, Muslims offered special prayers on Friday night and observed the first roza (fasting) on Saturday. There are nearly 3.5 lakh Muslims and 300 mosques in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-ramzan-will-be-without-mass-prayers-iftar-parties/articleshow/75382772.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana breathes easy with only 7 coronavirus positive cases||HYDERABAD: In a marked shift from the last week’s fury, Telangana’s Covid-19 graph took a big dip on Saturday. Only seven new positive cases were reported. With this, the total number of cases in the state reached 990, inching towards the 1,000 mark. It stood at 983 on Friday. The death tally remained at 25 with no deaths in the last 24 hours. While 16 persons were discharged on Saturday, 658 persons continue to undergo treatment in various hospitals. Officials said the number of cases on Saturday was the lowest recorded in the last one week. In a health bulletin, officials said GHMC accounted for six new cases, while the other case was reported in Warangal Urban district with a 13-year-old boy testing positive. The boy, who belongs to Erravelli thanda in Velair mandal, has since been shifted to the nodal Gandhi Hospital for treatment. Warangal DM&HO K Lalitha Devi said the boy contracted the virus after he came in contact with a positive case in Purigutta in the district. Officials immediately made the entire Erravelli village as a containment zone. A house-to-house survey would be taken up on Sunday to spot any other positive cases. On April 17, 66 new cases were reported and 13 on Friday. Health officials said the dip in numbers was an indication of decline in coronavirus positive cases. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said thanks to strict implementation of lockdown guidelines and containment zones, the state would see a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases by the month-end. While Greater Hyderabad continues to lead the charts with 519 positive cases, Suryapet remained second with 83 cases. Nizamabad has 58 cases and Jogulamba-Gadwal has 48 cases. Of those 25 who had succumbed to the virus, 18 belonged to Hyderabad, two each were reported from Medchal and Rangareddy districts and one each from Gadwal, Narayanpet and Vikarabad districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-breathes-easy-with-only-7-positive-cases/articleshow/75384067.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 26, 2020||Meerut||14 new Covid-19 cases in Saharanpur, district tally reaches 172||MEERUT: At least 14 new cases were reported in Saharanpur, two in Meerut, five in Muzaffarnagar and 10 new cases in Bulandshahr on Saturday. With this, the district tally of novel coronavirus patients in Saharanpur reached 172, which includes 12 patients admitted in Lucknow. Meerut now has 90 active cases, including one admitted in a Kanpur hospital while Bulandshahr has 40 and Muzaffarnagar has 22 cases. The two positive cases reported in Meerut late on Friday belonged to Sardhana and Lakhipura. No new case was reported on Saturday. Saharanpur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr BS Sodhi said, “As many as 14 new suspects tested positive in Saharanpur on Saturday. All of them were already in quarantine and are being moved to hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, one ANM, who worked at the women’s quarantine centre for 14 days and tested negative for Covid-19 just two days ago, died on Saturday. The body has been sent for postmortem and her family will now be tested for coronavirus.” Bulandshahr CMO Dr KN Tiwari said, “As many as 10 new cases reported positive for coronavirus on Saturday, taking the total tally of the district to 40. The family members of those testing positive have been put on institutional quarantine and containment action plan has begun in the areas where they were found.” Muzaffarnagar additional district magistrate (enforcement) Amit Singh said, “Five new cases were reported in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday and due procedure is being followed.” (With inputs from Mohd Dilshad in Muzaffarnagar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/14-new-cases-in-saharanpur-district-tally-reaches-172/articleshow/75383511.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: This team feeds over 300 daily||THRISSUR: A 7-member team has been giving 300 meals daily to the Model Girls School relief camp since lockdown began. Thrissur residents Seetha Venkitaraman, V Vishwanathan, Radhika Vishwanath, Sreeranj, Renu Sreeranj, Girija and Anantharaman led the seven-member team giving 300 meals every day. The team is ready to provide the food if the lockdown continues, said Thrissur corporation officials. The food is prepared at Vinayaka catering centre kitchen at Viyyur near Thrissur, said officials. On Thursday mayor Ajitha Jayarajan visited the catering centre kitchen and interacted with the members. Over 89 lakh rupees worth of food has been distributed through five community kitchens under Thrissur corporation, said officials. Corporation has spent Rs 10 lakh and the balance cost has been managed through sponsorships. On Friday film actor Dinesh Prabhakar visited the community kitchens under the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-team-feeds-over-300-daily/articleshow/75382584.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Now, Kalyan-Dombivli residents can step out only for medical emergencies||KALYAN: A marked rise in Covid-19 cases in Kalyan-Dombivli has prompted the civic authority to completely clamp down on movement of people outside their homes, except for medical emergencies. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has banned people from stepping out to even buy vegetables and groceries. On Saturday, Kalyan-Dombivli reported three fresh cases, taking the total tally in the twin city to 117, including three deaths. So far, KDMC has declared 10 Kalyan-Dombivli localities as hot spots and 20 of the 122 wards as affected areas. KDMC has warned that if any customer is seen outside a shop, the shopkeeper would face action for violating its order. It has directed all grocers and vegetable vendors to deliver directly at home. Civic officials have given them ward-wise numbers and said they will help find volunteers for home delivery too.  It has also issued helpline numbers for senior citizens and disabled residents and promised that KDMC staff themselves will deliver essentials at their doorstep and accept cash payment. The order has small grocers and vegetable vendors worried. A shopkeeper from Tilak Chowk in Kalyan said, “There is already a shortage of staff as no one is willing to work amid the coronavirus scare. In such a situation, how will a shop like ours, which has just one or two helpers, be able to note down all the orders on phone and arrange for delivery?” Earlier, KDMC had created an app through which citizens can locate a shop near their residence and then place an order by phone or WhatsApp. It has once again appealed to people to use the app.  Meanwhile, on Saturday, Vivek Pansare, DCP, Kalyan zone, issued a statement appealing to the public to follow the KDMC order or face action. The order will affect 16 lakh residents within the 24 sq km civic limits, including several villages and Titwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-kalyan-dombivli-residents-can-step-out-only-for-medical-emergencies/articleshow/75384073.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Many cured patients willing to donate blood for plasma therapy||JAIPUR: Even as the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital is awaiting the final nod from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for beginning the trial of plasma therapy for Covid-19, the authorities are counseling patients who have either fully recovered or are on the path to recovery. The authorities have created a database of the patients discharged after being cured. Many of the patients have shown their willingness to positively contribute in the fight. In this therapy, the antibodies of the cured patients are put in the bodies of patients undergoing treatment. Doctors have been successful in Kerala, Gujarat and Punjab where trials have been started. On Saturday, medical and health minister, Raghu Sharma said that state has completed its preparations to start the plasma threapy treatment. “Our team is ready and we are only awaiting for the nod from ICMR,” Sharma said. “We have applied for the permission and awaiting the final nod from ICMR. Some of the patients who have recovered have shown their willingness to help with the therapy. As soon as the nod comes, we will begin the trials,” Dr D S Meena, medical superintendent, SMS Hospital, told TOI on Saturday. However, Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal, SMS Hospital, who is heading the core team treating Covid-19 said that only after the final approval things would come into shape. “Hopefully, after final approval we will begin the trials,” he said. TOI spoke to some of the survivors who said they were more than willing to donate their blood. “If it can help someone fight Covid-19, I have no issues. I have given my contact details to the authorities and would go and donate blood whenever required,” said a 45-year-old man from the Walled City who was recently discharged after his reports came negative. Those who have been cured and are under quarantine have also been told about plasma therapy. Senior doctors and nursing staff attending the patients are also telling them about the utility and benefit of plasma therapy. “Many of them have shown their willingness and hopefully we will have good amount of donations from the recovered patients,” said Dr Raman Sharma who is part of the core team treating Covid-19 patients. The blood bank of SMS Hospital is also on standby mode and has shortlisted donors. “We are in touch with many people who have been cured. Until the find nod comes, we can’t talk much about the developments,” said a senior doctor at SMS hospital’s blood bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-cured-patients-willing-to-donate-blood-for-plasma-therapy/articleshow/75384429.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Residents agree to Covid-19 victims’ last rites at Boloor crematorium||Mangaluru: A tacit understanding that the final rites of Covid-19 victims in Dakshina Kannada will be performed at the MCC-operated Hindu crematorium at Boloor has been reached with the stakeholders. The crematorium has electric furnace. Cremating bodies in such a controlled environment is deemed safe and conforms to WHO guidelines. After a meeting with the stakeholders concerned, Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said cremations will be carried out as per the guidelines of the ministry of health and family affairs. Steps have been taken to ensure there is no obstruction to giving dignity to the deceased they deserve, Kamath said. The MLA and local corporator held a series of meeting with the residents and convinced them that it was safe to cremate bodies of Covid-19 victims in accordance with the guidelines. Kamath said a decision on making Boloor crematorium the designated place for final rites of Covid-19 victims was taken at a meeting attended by mayor Diwakar, local corporator Jagadish Shetty and Mangaluru assistant commissioner Madan Mohan. Kamath blamed misconceptions for the confusion that prevailed with regard to the cremation of a Covid-19 victim on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/residents-agree-to-covid-19-victims-last-rites-at-boloor-crematorium/articleshow/75382377.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Delivery agents will lose travel pass if they skip thermal screening: Dist admin||Dehradun: The Doon district administration on Saturday issued a warning to cancel travel passes of food delivery agents, associated with online food apps as well as restaurants, after it received complaints of them skipping thermal screening. The administration said that agents working for restaurants and food delivery apps had been trained to follow safety procedures, before delivering food and essential goods to residents. They need to undergo thermal screening every time they leave a restaurant with a package, and a status has to shared with the district administration. However, food delivery apps and restaurants in Dehradun assured that they were abiding by all safety and hygiene norms. In response to a query by TOI, officials at Zomato said that the company introduced a security feature that enables users to keep track of the body temperature of their delivery partner on the Zomato app. Available on the order tracking screen, this feature will capture the temperature checked right before the delivery partner picks up an order. Talking to TOI, Rakesh Chugh, owner of Hotel President, said, “We have four delivery boys, who are checked every time before they go out for deliveries. Apart from this, we also sanitize the delivery box and the POS machine before and after each delivery. We are also following a strict protocol to sanitize our kitchen to keep our staff and customers safe. The daily status report, with details of total deliveries made, is being submitted to the district administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/delivery-agents-will-lose-travel-pass-if-they-skip-thermal-screening-dist-admin/articleshow/75383549.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Pune||Decision on lifting curfew from Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad on Monday||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said the decision on lifting curfew from the city and Pimpri Chinchwad would be taken on Monday. After to reviewing the coronavirus situation in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), he told the officers to take stricter measures in containment zones. He said people showing coronavirus infection symptoms in slum pockets should be put in institutional quarantine so that they could adhere to social distancing norms. Pawar asked the officers to initiate requisition of hospitals, hotels and educational institutions if they had to shift high-risk people in the meeting held at Council Hall on Saturday, a week after he advocated strict measures, including imposition of curfew in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, to contain the coronavirus spread. The divisional commissioner, collector as well as the municipal commissioners and the police chiefs of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad attended the meeting apart from the health officials. The deputy chief minister said, “With the rising cases and deaths in both these places, shopping malls will not be reopened.” He also said the decision on opening other shops would be taken at the state-level after evaluating the situation. Pawar directed the police to take strict action against those violating the lockdown rules. He said those quarantined should be monitored strictly and food should be made available to them. He also stressed on relocating people from slums in the containment zones to safe shelters and provide food. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said the deputy chief minister assured that the granted funds of Rs55 crore would be made available to complete the construction of Sassoon hospital’s new building within two months. The deputy chief minister said in the meeting that the final decision on the proposal of Rs50 lakh fund in case of death of any health worker for the family of the deceased would be taken later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/decision-on-lifting-curfew-from-pune-city-pimpri-chinchwad-tomorrow/articleshow/75384431.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Permission must to organise marriage ceremonies in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The district administration on Saturday issued an order that marriage ceremonies will not be allowed during Akha Teej festival on Sunday. Meanwhile, industries in the RIICO industrial areas have been allowed to function, said district collector Joga Ram. It also said it will be necessary to seek permission from the collectorate office to hold marriage ceremonies. Permission will not be allowed in curfew-affected areas. Also, in order to prevent any child marriages in the district during the festival, directions have been issued to set up ‘round-the-clock’ control room, with numbers 0141-2204475 and 0141-2204476 - at the district collectorate for monitoring. District collector Jogaram said those who were interested in organising marriages will have to seek permission and submit an application at the district collectorate. “The organiser will have to fully comply with the orders issued under Section 144 and the guidelines of the lockdown. As per Section 144, not more than five people will be allowed to attend the marriage ceremony,” he said. “If the age of the bride and groom is found to be less than legal age, strict action will be taken against them and the organisers under the Child Marriage Prohibition Act and will be punished under the provisions of the Act,” he added. He said, “It will be mandatory for all the persons involved in marriage to wear masks, maintain social distance during the ceremony. Sanitisation of vehicles and people must be ensured along with cleaning of hands with soaps and hand sanitisers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/permission-must-for-marriage-ceremonies-this-akha-teej/articleshow/75384436.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Worried about heat and crowds, people want shops, markets to be open all day||PUNE: Shops being allowed to stay open only for a couple of hours each day is causing crowding at a time social distancing is crucial. With summer peaking, many people have requested the authorities to ensure properly organized markets that start early in the day, at 7-8am, and stay open for longer to minimize the chances of crowding and avoid health risks, such as heat stroke or dehydration. Baner resident Raanu Goyal is an IT professional who works for a multinational on overseas timings, and says waking up at 10am to rush to the shop is taking a toll on him. “Due to work, I go to sleep at 5am, which makes it a nightmare to wake up and immediately stand under the scorching sun. Daily items like bread and milk need to be bought fresh. I understand social distancing and lockdown are the only way to break the chain, but keeping essential shops open through the day would help people,” said Goyal. On Saturday, TOI visited the Pashan market only to find it overcrowded with no sign of social distancing. The narrow lane had vendor selling vegetables on both sides, making it impossible for visitors people to maintain distance or follow a queue system. Sweety Sharma, from Dhayari, has two young children and feels that markets must be kept open all day. “My youngest child is just a year old and sleeps till 9am, so it is easier for me to shop for supplies early in the morning or in the evening. Nobody realizes that closing shops is not the solution. If shops and markets are open all day, crowding can be easily avoided, Sharma said. Raji Nair, a mother of two, says she’s more worried about the crowd than any heat-related ailments. “The shops can insist on social distancing on their premises, but outside on the footpaths of roads, some people maintain a distance while others brush against us. It’s scary,” Nair said. Madhav Jagtap, deputy municipal commissioner and head of the mandai department, said the police have the power to change the timings. “There is no way to control crowds at such places, which was why we gave allowed vegetable sales at societies between 11am and 2pm,” Jagtap said. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said they would take a decision on timings on Monday. “In the meantime, we request people not to go out shopping every day to ensure the breaking of the chain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worried-about-heat-crowds-people-want-shops-markets-to-be-open-all-day/articleshow/75384434.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||PFA extends a helping hand to tongawallas hit by lockdown||MYSURU: The month-long lockdown has badly affected the tongawallas in Mysuru who are left penniless to feed even their horses. However, city-based People For Animals (PFA) has been providing fodder for horses at all the five stables in the city. The fodder is distributed once in ten days and grass once in two days. The PFA has not only reached out to horses but also to street dogs and cats as well. Since lockdown, the life of tongawallas has come to a standstill. Earlier they used to sent Rs 200 to Rs 300 to their family. Now, fearing trouble at home, most tongawallas do not go home and they sleep in their respective tongas or at bus stand. Fayaz Ahmed, president of Mysore Shah Pasand Tonga said: “Volunteers from People for Animals are helping us. Though we are facing lot of hardships and even finding it difficult to provide food for horses, no elected representatives or government authorities have come forward to help us. However, Savitha Nagabhushan, managing trustee of PFA, Mysuru chapter came and asked us how we were managing our animals and family after lockdown. When we narrated our plight, she immediately arranged for grass and horse grams. We really salute them for their care towards animals.” He also said they never faced such a situation which they are facing today. “Our life depended on every day business. Earlier we used to sent Rs 200 to 300 home, spent nearly Rs 200 for food for horse and nearly Rs 100 for us. Now it has become difficult to meet our ends,” said Fayaz. Savitha Nagabhushan told TOI: “After coming to know the plight of horses, we are providing two bags of food and grass to all the five horse stables in Mysuru. Fodder is distributed once in 10 days and grass once in two days. The Mysuru City corporation has given us permission to distribute horse fodder and dog food to the volunteers.” “Due to the lockdown, dogs are also finding it difficult to get food due to closure of bakeries, restaurants etc. There is no public feeding of street dogs due to restrictions on movement. Hence, till today, PFA has distributed more than 2,500 kg of dog food to the volunteers in Mysuru who are feeding the street dogs. US-based scientist Madhavi Doddabele is sponsoring the feeding,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pfa-extends-a-helping-hand-to-tongawallas-hit-by-lockdown/articleshow/75382631.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Pune||PMC to turn civic schools into temporary shelters||PUNE: The corporation will utilise civic-run schools as temporary shelters for the residents of densely populated areas and slums to ensure they could follow the social distancing norms. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad recently issued a directive to the ward offices. A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said the residents of such areas would be shifted according to the requirement. A total of 70 civic schools have been identified so far. “It is an attempt to contain the spread of coronavirus. The shifting will be done in phases. The social distancing norms will be followed strictly at the schools,” the official added. The initiative will start from Bhavani Peth, Shivajinagar, Parvati, Market Yard, Bibvewadi, Kasba Peth, Kalas and Yerawada, where slum pockets or dense areas are comparatively higher and Covid-19 cases have been on the rise. A corporator from Yerawada said the administration should make arrangements for people because social distancing had been a challenge in slums like Laxminagar in his ward. “Each family has more than five-six members. There is hardly any space between two houses. People cannot stay inside two small rooms for an entire day,” the corporator added.  The residents shifted there would have to arrange bedding and food on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-turn-civic-schools-into-temporary-shelters/articleshow/75384439.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan election panel plea in HC to defer local body polls||JAIPUR: In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the State Election Commission (SEC) on Saturday filed an application in the Rajasthan High Court making an appeal to extend the time for conducting municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur up to August 31. Earlier, the court had extended the date for conducting the elections up to six weeks from April 18. The hearing is likely to be held in May first week. The elections for councilors to 560 wards of the six new corporations of Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South were scheduled to be held on April 5. Following the court order, the state election commission cancelled the polls announced earlier. As per the earlier HC order, elections to six municipal bodies were to be completed by April 18. In its application, filed by advocate R B Mathur, SEC appealed to the court to “modify the orders dated March 18 passed by this honourable court and extend the time to conduct the elections of these municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota up to August 31, 2020”. “SEC shall be allowed to make a prayer to the honourable court for further extension if the situation so warrants and may pass such order and further orders as this honourable court thinks proper and appropriate in the interest of justice,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-election-comm-files-plea-in-hc-to-defer-local-body-polls/articleshow/75384450.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Cong delegation asks administration to follow WHO norms strictly||Mangaluru: A delegation, led by District Congress Committee president Harish Kumar, asked the district administration should not succumb to any pressure and ensure that the guidelines issued by World Health Organisation and Union ministry of health and family welfare pertaining to Covid-19 management are followed in letter and spirit. The delegation, which met deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh on Saturday, expressed its shock at an eight-hour delay in the cremation of a 75-year-old Covid-19 victim on Thursday. This was the second coronavirus death in Dakshina Kannada district. The delegation urged the administration to conduct the last rites of any Covid-19 patient at the nearest crematorium and use an electric crematorium. “It was in this connection that the first Covid-19 deceased was cremated at the electric crematorium at Boloor on Sunday,” Harish Kumar said, questioning the need for the administration to scout for a different crematorium on Thursday and wondering if there was any political pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cong-delegation-asks-administration-to-follow-who-norms-strictly/articleshow/75382668.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Health experts prescribe test for asymptomatic individuals||PUNE: Several health experts stressed on testing asymptomatic people, especially senior citizens, for Covid-19. A section of the state health officials stated that elderly people should be monitored and tested even if they did not have the symptoms, especially in high-risk districts. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) does not recommend mass testing in India, but experts recommended examination of the door-to-door surveillance mode. A health expert, who did not wish to be named, batted for intensive testing in hotspots, prescribing it for places like Mumbai and Pune. Community health expert R Jotkar said, “The asymptomatic people actually consists of ‘true asymptomatic’ and ‘pre-symptomatic’ individuals. The former is less likely to transmit virus to susceptible people, but the pre-symptomatic people are believed to transmit the virus. We cannot differentiate between the two by any test. Therefore, it may be prudent to test all asymptomatic contacts/suspects /high-risk people .” An official of the health department in Kerala said almost 20% of the cases there were asymptomatic. New studies from Japan, Italy, South Korea and Washington also suggested that silent spreaders could infect others. President of Public Health Foundation K Srinath Reddy said asymptomatic contacts of Covid-19 patients should be tested for sure. He said random sample surveys of districts included asymptomatic people. Jotkar also said, “I think ICMR protocols should be followed strictly by all states, cities and districts as far as testing is concerned.” A health expert from B J Medical College said the ICMR protocols should be followed as of now, but a separate review should be conducted regarding asymptomatic persons’ testing convention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-experts-prescribe-test-for-asymptomatic-individuals/articleshow/75384452.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Five more die of contagion, 90 people are positive||PUNE: Five more Covid-19 patients, including a Baramati resident, succumbed to the contagion, while 90 people tested positive for the disease in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, taking the total casualty and case counts to 72 and 1,184, respectively. District health authorities said all the deceased had co-morbidity conditions. Civic health officials said they had deployed additional teams in the wards with more number of positive cases to expedite the surveillance and contact tracing. The wards have also been provided with mobile health vans and ambulances to conduct on-the-spot checks of suspected people. The civic administration on Saturday said over 14.6 lakh houses had been covered in the ongoing home-to-home survey to identify symptomatic patients. Of five deaths reported on Saturday, two happened at Sassoon hospital. A 72-year-old man from the Parvati area was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 22 and died on Friday. His throat swab report came positive on Saturday. Health authorities said he had kidney injury too. A 55-year-old woman from Market Yard was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 13 with acute respiratory failure. She had hypertension and obesity. She succumbed to the contagion on Saturday. Other deceased include a 68-year old Baramati resident, who was admitted in a private hospital, with chronic kidney disease and acute respiratory distress symptom, a 60-year-old woman from Ganj Peth with pneumonia, hypertension and COPD. The fifth victim was a 43-year-old man from Yerawada with ARDS and hypertension. Cantt Board seals core area The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has sealed the core area under its jurisdiction after a 70-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday night. The woman is a resident of Modikhana area, which is a congested locality in the cantonment limit. “We have formed 20 teams to conduct a door-to door survey and trace people, who have come in contact with the couple over the last few days. Since it’s a congested area, we have directed the team to complete the task as early as possible,” chief executive officer Amit Kumar of PCB told TOI. As per procedure, a 3km area in the radius of the patient’s residence has been sealed completely. “We have sealed the area and the police have set up check points to restrict the movement of people,” Kumar said. The senior citizen was suffering from breathlessness on Thursday and went to a private hospital to seek medical attention. Later, she was referred to another private hospital near the railway station, where she tested positive. “We are gathering details about how she was infected. As a precautionary measure, we have home quarantined 15 residents in the locality,” said joint CEO Rahul Gajbaye of PCB. (With inputs from Sandip Dighe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-more-die-of-contagion-90-people-are-positive/articleshow/75384449.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 26, 2020||Thane||Shiv Sainik to CM Uddhav: My family and I will die of negligence in hospital||THANE: A 55-year-old Dombivli-based Shiv Sena worker, who was shifted from one hospital to another on Friday night with four of his family members—all Covid-19 patients—wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding that they be moved to some other medical institution or they might die of negligence. In an open letter to the CM, Sanjay Chaudhari wrote that he has been a Sainik for 30 years. He said his family was initially admitted to Neon Hospital where they received the right treatment. Suddenly, on the night of April 23, doctors shifted them to R R Hospital where he alleged they did not get proper treatment or even basic facilities. Following his written complaint to the CM, the family was shifted back to Neon Hospital on Saturday. KDMC denied Chaudhary’s allegations and said the family was shifted to R R Hospital after three serious dialysis patients with Covid-19 infection were admitted to Neon. Despite that, KDMC has sought a report from the management of R R—a Covid-only hospital—on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/sainik-to-cm-my-family-and-i-will-die-of-negligence-in-hosp/articleshow/75385308.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||For migrant workers from Kashmir stranded in Doon, a Ramzan with little cheer||Dehradun: For 35 migrant workers from Kashmir’s Baramulla district, who have been stranded in Dehradun since the lockdown, the first day of the holy month of Ramzan brought little cheer. Many like Nazeer Amed said this was the first time they were away from family during the festive month. Back home, his five-year-old daughter refused to eat anything in the evening in his absence. It was only when the 42-year-old showed her the food on his plate on a video call from a borrowed cellphone that little Yasmeen managed to gulp down the food in front of her. Others who haven't seen their family members in months also said they felt little peace this Ramadan. The sehri (meal eaten before sunrise) was a simple fare of dal and roti, eaten mostly in silence, at a shelter in Herbertpur. The mood lifted a little towards the evening when a group of local businessman served dates and sherbet so the community could break their fast. The group was working at a road construction site in Rudraprayag when the lockdown was announced. They managed to hitchhike to Vikasnagar after which they were sent by the district administration to a guest house, 35 km from Dehradun city, which is serving as a migrant camp now. Farooq Ahmed, one of the inmates, said whatever little money they have, they use it judiciously. “Mobile recharge and medicine, that’s what we spend on so we have some money left for home.” Some have stayed glued to the television in the hall, getting constant updates on the lockdown situation. Another inmate, Zahoor (who only uses his first name), said they were contemplating putting out a video appeal on social media so the government could send them home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/for-migrant-workers-from-kashmir-stranded-in-doon-a-ramzan-with-little-cheer/articleshow/75383579.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sainik to CM Uddhav: My family and I will die of negligence in hospital||THANE: A 55-year-old Dombivli-based Shiv Sena worker, who was shifted from one hospital to another on Friday night with four of his family members—all Covid-19 patients—wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding that they be moved to some other medical institution or they might die of negligence. In an open letter to the CM, Sanjay Chaudhari wrote that he has been a Sainik for 30 years. He said his family was initially admitted to Neon Hospital where they received the right treatment. Suddenly, on the night of April 23, doctors shifted them to R R Hospital where he alleged they did not get proper treatment or even basic facilities. Following his written complaint to the CM, the family was shifted back to Neon Hospital on Saturday. KDMC denied Chaudhary’s allegations and said the family was shifted to R R Hospital after three serious dialysis patients with Covid-19 infection were admitted to Neon. Despite that, KDMC has sought a report from the management of R R—a Covid-only hospital—on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sainik-to-cm-my-family-and-i-will-die-of-negligence-in-hosp/articleshow/75384085.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to freeze DA and LTC for 2 years in bid to raise Rs 70k crore||MUMBAI: Drastic cuts in development expenditure and district funds, and freezing its staff’s dearness allowance and leave travel concession for two years are among the measures that the state government has initiated to tackle its worst-ever financial crisis brought on by the coronavirus pandemic. “As currently there is zero resource mobilisation, we have no option but to drastically cut the existing budgetary provision to raise more than Rs 70,000 crore. We have absolutely no scope to cut the provision for wages, pension and interest on loans taken by the state. We will have to cut development expenditure and freeze the DA and LTC of around 12 lakh employees,’’ a senior bureaucrat told TOI. “The central government has stopped the DA for the past eight years and we will freeze it too. If we freeze the DA till June 2021, we will be able to mobilise Rs 18,000 crore. If we do not pay LTC, it will help us mobilise another Rs 1,000 crore,” he said. The bureaucrat said shrinkage of development expenditure will lead to larger savings. “In the budget for the current year, we have made a provision of Rs 1.1 lakh crore for development workers. A high-level committee headed by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta will take a decision on the quantum of cut. Taking into account the current financial situation, we expect an at least 50% cut in development expenditure. In that event, we will be able to mobilise nearly Rs 56,000 crore,’’ he said. On the district planning and development council fund, the bureaucrat said, only 10% of the total provision of Rs 9,800 crore for the current year has been released and it will be utilised exclusively for the health sector. All non-essential service bills have also been stopped. The bureaucrat said that after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, all economic activities came to a halt. As a result, there is no income from any sector. The state government earns the maximum income from GST, excise, stamp duty and registration, value added tax and duty on electricity. Finance department records showed a shortfall of Rs 27,000 crore in GST, Rs 8,000 crore in stamp duty and registration, Rs 4,900 crore in excise, Rs 13,000 crore in sales tax and Rs 2,300 crore in motor vehicle tax. He said back in 1999, the then finance minister Jayant Patil and years later in 2014 his successor Sudhir Mungantiwar had presented white papers on the state’s economy. Both emphasised on reducing establishment costs, but no stringent steps were taken. The state spends Rs 1.2 lakh crore on salary, Rs 39,000 crore on pension and Rs 36,000 crore on interest on loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-freeze-da-and-ltc-for-2-years-in-bid-to-raise-rs-70k-cr/articleshow/75384699.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 26, 2020||Pune||Backdoors and half-down shutters, the new trick of the trade for supplying essentials in Pune||PUNE: Reined in by limited work hours owing to the lockdown, many grocery stores have come up with innovative ways to beat the regulations. Though most ‘close’ by 11am or noon, as stipulated by the authorities, they actually function surreptitiously throughout the day, thereby ensuring minimum effect of the lockdown on their businesses or on customers. From keeping their shops half-closed, supplying goods from the backdoor or simply sitting outside their shops for customers who may walk in looking for some essentials, they use all the tricks of the trade to keep the cash registers ringing. According to a grocery storeowner in a sealed area of Pune, many customers walk in with urgent needs even after the closing hours announced by the Pune police. “We have adequate stock, so we entertain customers. My employee checks whether the items are available and packs them if they are. There are times when people need some items urgently like cooking oil or sanitary napkins. I try to help them out,” the shopowner said. A shop in central Pune continues to function with half the shutter pulled down after noon. “The time limit has made it difficult for us and even customers. People come and wait in queue to make purchases every day. However, not all of them get the chance to shop by noon. We cannot turn back customers, so we pull the shutter down and allow them to make purchases. Earlier, there was no problem as shops were allowed to function throughout the day,” the shopkeeper said. A bakery on the outskirts of Pune, too, has taken to serving customers from the backdoor after dark. A local resident, who lives closeby, said, “Most grocery shops deliver goods home, so it is not a problem even if they remain closed. However, many look for bakery products. I found out recently that this baker supplies items from the rear of his shop after dusk.” An old grocery store in West Pune turned into a ‘medical’ store overnight to beat the lockdown regulations. “It stocked up on medical supplies and changed its name to a medical store. Now, one can buy groceries from the store even at night since medical stores are permitted to remain open throughout the day and even late at night,” Prerna Goyal, IT professional and a local resident, said. A dairy owner in south Pune keeps his shop half-closed and and sells milk, paneer, dahi and other dairy products throughout the day. “He does not let anyone enter the shop and conducts his business sitting outside,” a local resident said. Several people in the city said that such innovative ways adopted by some shopowners have ensured availability of essentials in their homes. “The time limit has made it difficult for us to make purchases as lot of people step out in the short period of time. Not everyone can make purchases due to the long queues. We hope that the authorities take cognisance of the matter and relax the timings,” said Prasanna Parmar, a city-based businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/backdoors-half-down-shutters-the-new-trick-of-the-trade-for-supplying-essentials/articleshow/75384459.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 spreads to 28 districts as Chittorgarh & Rajsamand report cases||JAIPUR: Covid-19 claimed two more lives while 49 tested positive across the state on Saturday. Rajsamand and Chittorgarh reported their first cases as the total number of infected rose to 2,083 in addition to 34 deaths. According to the health department, the number of cases being reported daily has reduced. “There has been no reduction in the number of tests being done daily but cases have been reducing. Those who are saying the number of positive cases in the state have come down because of reduced quantum of testing are wrong,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). He added that earlier there was an unusual spike in the number of cases because the results of 4,000 samples sent to a private lab in Delhi to clear the backlog were reported within a span of 24 hours to 36 hours. Jaipur reported its 19th Covid-19 death after a 65-year-old woman, who was a resident of hotspot Yogi Ka Tiba in Ramganj, died at Sawai Man Singh Hospital here. She was rushed to the hospital on Thursday with complaints of breathlessness in addition to pre-existing coronary artery disease. In Kota, a 32-year-old man who was initially admitted to New Medical College and Hospital and later referred to MBS Hospital on April 22 with pre-existing diseases such as chronic renal failure and hypertension, tested positive on Saturday, a day after he died. Positive cases reported from various districts include 15 from Jaipur, Jodhpur (10), Ajmer (6), Jhalawar (5), Kota (5), Dholpur (2) Bharatpur (2) and one each in Dungarpur, Jhunjhunu, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand. “Eight cases were reported from Ajmer in the morning, out of which two were duplicate as Ajmer Medical College collected the samples of two patients twice and sent to Udaipur Medical College with different sample IDs on same day. In the evening we re-calculated and reduced two cases from Ajmer district,” said Singh. With constantly increasing deaths in SMS Hospital due to the virus, the health department is planning to introduce plasma therapy. Health minister Raghu Sharma said doctors had completed preparations and as soon they will receive the permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to begin plasma therapy to serious patients. He said the doctors at SMS Hospital have collected blood samples of patients who have been cured. “The Covid-19 patients of stage 2, who are serious and need additional therapy apart from medicine, will be treated with plasma therapy,” . Sharma said after nod from ICMR, the government will give its go-ahead for plasma therapy to doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-spreads-to-28-districts-as-chittorgarh-rajsamand-report-cases/articleshow/75384471.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||NRIs offer support to combat virus spread||Jaipur: The state government is receiving support from NRIs settled abroad for combating the spread of coronavirus. The Rajasthan Foundation based in Delhi, which is chaired by CM Ashok Gehlot, has received a proposal for setting up ICU beds, sharing of expertise and providing Covid-19 test kits. The foundation has held meetings with NRIs based in Germany, Dubai and the US for the purpose. Harendra Jodha, president of Rajasthani Association United Kingdom, in a video conference with the foundation offered to set up ICU beds in the state. “The meaningful contribution is to give things which help our state in fighting the Covid-19 battle. We have decided to crowdfund ICU beds which is a potent tool in fighting the spread. Things have progressed in this direction since we discussed it and hoping to see this in real soon,” said Jodha over the phone from London. The Non-Resident Rajasthanis (NRR) will soon interact with chief minister Ashok Gehlot to further discuss the contribution they can make for their home state. Many of them are willing to provide medical equipment and other tools which can directly help the government. While others wish to provide Covid-19 test kits to the CM relief fund along with ventilators. Those NRR in medical profession have offered to share expertise with the doctors handling Covid-19 cases. Dhiraj Srivastava, commissioner of Rajasthan Foundation, informed that his office has reached out to Non-Resident Rajasthanis in 40 countries. “We are getting huge response from NRRs every day. We are trying to reach them and form a group for a better combination,” said Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nris-offer-support-to-combat-virus-spread/articleshow/75384460.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||SMS shifts speciality OPD to 3 city hosps||Jaipur: With more than 37% Covid-19 cases in the state being reported from Jaipur, Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital shifted its other speciality Out Patient Department to three government hospitals situated in different parts of the city. SMS Hospital has turned into Covid-19 treatment centre, with more than 500 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital. It has reserved 900 beds for Covid-19 and suspected Covid-19 patients. SMS Hospital officials said that 605 beds of 24 wards have been allotted for Covid-19 patients, 153 beds of four wards for suspected Covid-19 patients and 142 ICU beds for serious Covid-19 patients. At the time when the hospital has turned into a Covid-19 treatment centre, the other speciality OPD facilities in the hospital was shifted to other hospitals, keeping in mind the safety of patients and staff. After having round-the-clock Covid-19 test lab, separate isolation wards, separate wards, separate ICUs for Covid-19 patients, SMS Hospital has developed itself as one of the best Covid-19 treatment centres of the country. “The Centre’s team visited the hospital and was happy to see the facilities. It has expressed happiness on the model which we have developed for Covid-19 treatment. The Central team also advocated that all the states should adopt SMS Hospital’s model of Covid-19 treatment,” said Dr Prakash Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. He added that in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the OPD services of SMS Hospital, Jaipur will be shifted to Kanwatia Hospital in Shastri Nagar, Satellite Hospital in Sethi Colony and Satellite Hospital in Bani Park. In the three hospitals, super speciality OPD services of cardiology, gastroenterology, neurology, ophthalmology, skin and ENT from the faculty members of SMS Medical College will be made available. Moreover, the OPD services of endocrinology will be run in Kanwatia Hospital. Dr Bhandari said that it will come into force with immediate effect till further orders. BOX: Equipment in SMS Hosp to fight Covid-19 Ventilators: 228 Beds with oxygen: 381 Bi-PAP: 75 Multipara monitor: 318 Oxygen cylinder: 1,500 Basic life support ambulance: 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-shifts-speciality-opd-to-3-city-hosps/articleshow/75384478.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Suffering from cancer, Dutch man airlifted to Delhi hosp||Dehradun: Pantnagar Airport authorities, on Saturday, airlifted a native of The Netherlands, who is suffering from cancer. The airport, which was lying non-functional since months, was made operational within four hours to ensure that the air ambulance can take the critical patient to a hospital in Delhi. According to reports, the patient Gonsons Antonias, 70, had arrived in Nainital on a tourist visa earlier this year. His condition deteriorated on April 20 after which he was admitted to a private hospital in Haldwani. The district administration had informed to the Embassy of The Netherlands in New Delhi about his health. Subsequently, it was decided that he would be airlifted to a medical facility in the nation’s capital. Patient’s Covid-19 test was also done before sending airlifting him to the national capital. SK Singh, director of Pantnagar Airport, told TOI that an air ambulance had reached Pantnagar Airport at around 10.30 am on Saturday and the patient was flown to Delhi by 11 am. “We made the airport functional within four hours of intimation. The air ambulance was sent from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport,” he said. Udham Singh Nagar’s district magistrate Neeraj Kharwal said that all the necessary protocols were followed while airlifting the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/suffering-from-cancer-dutch-man-airlifted-to-delhi-hosp/articleshow/75383609.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Pet owners a worried lot during lockdown||Dehradun: Reports of big cats testing positive for novel coronavirus have left pet owners in Uttarakhand a worried lot, with many of them ringing up veterinarians to check about the vulnerability of their animals. Many animal welfare organisations too have confirmed that they have been receiving numerous calls from panic-stricken residents asking what the probability of stray dogs catching the virus is. Talking to TOI, Dehradun-based veterinarian Dr SK Gupta said, “I have received several calls from pet owners who are worried whether their pet cat or dog will catch the infection. There has been no such case in India so far. However, they can be at risk if they are being attended by a Covid-19 positive human being. Hence, I always ask pet owners to wash the animals on a regular basis and then clean their own hands immediately.” Ashu Arora from the NGO Doon Animal Welfare said, “I have received more than 15 calls from people across the state who want to know about ways to check if an animal is corona positive. We recently received a call from a Roorkee man who said that a dog in their locality is infected. When we asked about how the caller was sure about the dog being corona positive, he replied that it has been coughing for the last two days.” He added that the NGO later arranged one of their volunteers to examine the dog and found that a bone was stuck in its throat. Ashu said that their volunteers have been stopped multiple times from feeding stray and abandoned dogs due to the fear of Covid-19 spread. Shevata Rai Talwar, a resident of Race Course, said “I have bought food in large quantities to feed stray dogs during lockdown. We can be safe by washing hands and maintaining cleanliness. What about them?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pet-owners-a-worried-lot-during-lockdown/articleshow/75383617.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus positive Telangana workers get CGI help in Dubai||HYDERABAD: Consulate General of India (CGI) officials in Dubai came to the rescue of migrant Telangana workers, who have tested positive for Covid-19 and are locked up in a labour camp at Ajman in the UAE. After TOI brought the issue to the notice of consul general Vipul, he said they were in the process of helping the Covid-19 patients. “It has come to our notice that 10 to 12 Telangana workers had tested positive. They are kept in a room at the labour camp. There are other foreign nationals who are also affected by coronavirus. All of the them are kept in separate rooms,” Vipul told STOI, adding that they were ensuring food supplies to the workers. Vipul said they had contacted the local authorities and asked them to shift the Covid-19 workers to an isolation facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virus-ve-t-workers-get-cgi-help-in-dubai/articleshow/75384481.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay student from J&K helps develop ventilator prototype||MUMBAI: It did not take long for Zulqarnain to realise that the corona pandemic is going to witness a burst in the demand for ventilators in his state. A few days after he returned home to Kashmir, this first-year student of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay found out that there were merely 97 ventilators in all of Kashmir. So, five of them, including a faculty member from the Islamic University of Science and Technology, Awantipora, started understanding what it takes to produce a ventilator. Just as they were doing so, they realized that they had developed a ventilator with their very own design. Thus was born Rudhaar, a frugal ventilator prototype. “Our first aim was to replicate some tried and tested design with available materials but this journey led us to create our very own design. The prototype cost us Rs 20,000. But with large-scale production that rate can come down dramatically,” Zulqarnain, a first-year IIT-B’s Industrial Design Centre student, told TOI. ‘Rudhaar’ uses a stepper motor to power the ventilator in a controlled mode. The rotary motion of the actuator is converted into linear motion using a standard rack and pinion arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-b-student-from-jk-helps-develop-ventilator-prototype/articleshow/75384707.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon hospitals to get two SRPF units each for 24x7 security||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have decided to beef up the security at all the Covid-19 hospitals in Malegaon by deploying two units each of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) for round-the-clock protection.Following attacks on the medical staff, superintendent of police Arti Singh on Friday reviewed all the hospitals and felt the need to strengthen the security.After speaking to the management of all the hospitals, Singh decided to increase the security of Jeevan Hospital, Y N Jadhav School and Mansura Hospitals reserved for Covid 19 patients along with the general hospital in Malegaon for non-coronavirus patients.The SP said there will be two units of SRPF at all the hospitals concerned for 24x7 security. Each unit of SRPF comprises 30 personnel and an officer.In total, there would be 24 constables, 10 police officers and nine units of SRPF jawans providing security to the four hospitals.“There will be round-the-clock security for all the doctors and medical staff at the hospitals. People who attack doctors and create hindrance in the treatment of patients would not be spared. Such people would be booked under the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons, Medicare Service Institution (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said Singh.Being an MBBS doctor herself, Singh consulted the supervising doctors and decided to allocate adequate security to the respective hospitals.A total of seven SRPF companies from Aurangabad, Jalna, Dhule and Amravati have been deployed in Malegaon, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-hospitals-to-get-two-srpf-units-each-for-24x7-security/articleshow/75383610.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||First batch of 2,224 migrants returns; Uttar Pradesh readying 15 lakh jobs||LUCKNOW: As part of the Uttar Pradesh government’s policy to bring back migrant workers from other states, 2,224 of them returned from Haryana on Saturday. Another about 9,500 will be brought back till Sunday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has set up a committee and directed his officials to prepare a plan for creating at least 15 lakh jobs in rural Uttar Pradesh to meet the rush of about 5-10 lakh persons who are being expected to return to the state over the next two months. “The people who returned from Haryana in 82 buses on Saturday belong to 16 districts in the state and have been taken to their respective district headquarters for institutional quarantine,” additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said. After 14 days, each person would be given a ration kit, Rs 1,000 and sent home where they will remain in home quarantine for another 14 days. Another official said that the government had reached out to other states as well and as soon as any of them had their logistical issues in order, UP would initiate the process to bring back workers from there as well. “Haryana’s records were absolutely in order. A lot of people were in quarantine in the state and they had names and numbers for everyone. That is why we were able to bring back people so soon. However, we are now waiting for other states to respond as the CM is very clear that only those who have been in quarantine for 14 days will be allowed to return,” the official said. The state has more than 30 lakh registered unemployed persons and is expecting about 10 lakh more in the coming months. While the government says that it would be able to use many of them for the several infrastructure and industrial projects that are ongoing or will be taken up in the coming days, the CM has asked for a plan on providing employment to at least 15 lakh persons. As part of that strategy, he has asked for MNREGA projects to be pushed. Awasthi said that 44,478 projects are going on in 18,823 gram panchayats, employing 4,23,231 persons. He added that it was due to the return of over 2 lakh migrant labours from other states that for the first time, there was no shortage of labour in harvesting wheat and sugarcane this year. Manoj Kumar, principal secretary, Panchayati Raj, has been directed to take forward the work of MNREGA and village development through village heads. The CM has also said that MSMEs should be encouraged as there is “no danger of infection spreading through these works”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1st-batch-of-2224-migrants-returns-state-readying-15-lakh-jobs/articleshow/75384492.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Officials, vets check health of 5 elephants||Trichy: Forest department officials along with the veterinary doctors took stock of the health condition of five elephants including three from various temples in Thanjavur on Saturday. Though it was routine, officials said the outbreak of Covid-19 has given it a new dimension. The officials followed the advisory in this regard and looked for any indications of the virus spreading among animals or transmission from humans to animals. The elephants belonged to Kumbeswaran temple in Kumbakonam, Oppiliyappar temple at Thirunageswaram and Ayyarappar temple of Thiruvaiyaru. This apart, two animals which were maintained by one Ashok, mahout of Kumbeswaran temple elephant, were also examined by the doctors, DFO Gurusamy said. “We also observed their general behaviour and whether they are having their food properly”, he said. A camel was also brought for check-up. Besides Gurusamy, forest rang officer G Jothikumar, assistant director of animal husbandry Syed Ali, officials from HR&CE department and veterinary doctors were part of the team. The team sprayed disinfectants at the animal enclosures. The health reports of the animals would be sent to the state government, the DFO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/officials-vets-check-health-of-5-elephants/articleshow/75384490.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Health workers to be part of squads||Kozhikode: District collector Sambasiva Rao issued an order on Saturday to include a health worker in every squad deployed at border checkposts to screen inter-district and inter-state passengers entering Kozhikode. District medical officer will appoint the health workers with necessary screening facilities. Those who have symptoms of Covid-19 at the time of screening will be taken directly to hospital in an ambulance or will be kept under observation at house. The screening will be held in all the border areas of Kozhikode district. In Kozhikode taluk, screening will be conducted at Ramanattukara Junction (Nisari Junction), Ramanattukara flyover (Malappuram-Palakkad), Kottakkadavu, Kadalundikkadavu, Urkkadavu Mukkam - Irajimavu, Pazhamparamba-Pannikkodu Junction-Airport Road, Mukkamkadavu, Pullikkadavu and Thottumkum. Passenger screening will also be conducted at Lakkidi, under Thamarassery Taluk. Vadakara taluk: Azhiyoor checkpost, Manthal bridge, Parakadavue, Chetakandi bridge, Parakkadavu Munduthod Bridge, Parakkadavu Koalatt Thazhi Bridge and Peringathoor Bridge in the limits of Thamarassery Taluk. The district administration has decided to screen all the passengers entering the district. At present, there exists no facility to screen the people who travel with required documents to Kozhikode and also drivers and assistants of vehicles arriving with essential commodities from elsewhere. Transport committee nodal officer and deputy collector (RR) K Hima will coordinate the screening. The district heaved a sigh of relief on Saturday as no new Covid-19 case was reported. Two people from Edacheri were discharged from Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital (KGMCH) on Saturday after they tested negative for Covid-19. With their discharge, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases undergoing treatment came down to 11 in Kozhikode. Of the 24 Covid-19 positive cases reported in Kozhikode, 13 people have recovered and the remaining 11 are undergoing treatment in KGMCH. Now, a total of 1,193 people have been kept under observation at hospitals or under home quarantine. Of the 1,193, a total of 58 have been admitted to the KGMCH isolation ward. The health department has sent a total of 26 samples for testing. Of the 812 samples tested so far, 781 results were obtained and 751 of them tested negative. 56 volunteers in quarantine An official with the health department said it has kept 56 volunteers at a temporary Covid-19 care centre under quarantine. This comes after a 67-year-old man, who was a resident of the care centre, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He was among the 100-odd residents of the camp who were picked up from streets of Kozhikode city as part of a temporary rehabilitation process initiated by the district administration following Covid-19 lockdown. The health department also isolated around 20 people in the camp who have come in close contact with the 67-year-old man during his stay in the camp, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/health-workers-to-be-part-of-squads/articleshow/75382724.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra asks 6 states to take back 3.5L stranded migrants||MUMBAI: Even as the first batch of 100 Sikh pilgrims stranded at Nanded’s Takht Sri Hazur Sahib during the lockdown left for their home states of Punjab, Haryana and New Delhi after a push from Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and a nod from Union home minister Amit Shah, the state’s chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Saturday asked his counterparts in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh to take back 3.5 lakh migrants from these states stuck in Maharashtra. Mehta said Maharashtra was willing to ferry the migrants to the borders of their states and hand them over. The Himachal and Haryana governments too sent Kashmiri workers and those from UP back to their home states on buses on Saturday. A total of 3,800 pilgrims from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi who came to Nanded on March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown was put in place, have been stuck in Nanded. Read AlsoCoronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra yet to take call on opening of shopsThe Maharashtra government is yet to decide whether shops be allowed to remain open in view of the amended guidelines issued by the Central government. An official said on Saturday that the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday night was under an "active consideration" of theWhile the first batch left on Friday in buses, the Punjab government on Saturday despatched 80 buses which are expected to reach Nanded on Sunday and shift the other pilgrims back. The buses will cover a distance of 3,300km. Each bus has three drivers, one conductor and one policeman. According to reports, Mehta told his counterparts in the other states that if they agreed, the Maharashtra government would drop off migrants from their states at the borders of those states. Similarly, workers from Maharashtra stranded in other states could be dropped off at the state’s border. Coronavirus pandemic: Live coverageA senior bureaucrat told TOI, “Ajoy Mehta raised this issue during a video conference with the Union cabinet secretary. Mehta suggested states take responsibility for repatriation of migrants.” According to reports, CM Uddhav Thackeray had taken up the matter with the NDA government as well as with the visiting Central team, but there had been no response. Over 1,500 migrants had gathered on April 15 at Bandra railway station after rumours circulated that long-distance trains had restarted. Takht Sri Hazur Sahib is one of Sikhism’s holiest spots. After the extension of the nationwide lockdown, the pilgrims stranded there got in touch with Punjab CM Singh, who spoke to Thackeray. Thackeray told Singh he had no objection to the pilgrims’ return but it would require permission of the Central government in view of the nationwide lockdown. The Punjab CM then took up the matter with Amit Shah, who granted permission for transportation of the pilgrims as a special case. After chief secretary-level talks between Punjab and Maharashtra, permission was granted and the Nanded collector was directed to grant a travel pass to the Sikhs. “We have asked the pilgrims to follow social distancing norms in the buses. Accordingly, against the capacity of 52 passengers, only 35 will be allowed in each bus. We think that in order to send back 3,800 pilgrims, they may require more than 100 buses,” the bureaucrat said. Before the pilgrims boarded the bus on Friday, their medical examination was conducted and they were allowed to go only after they had tested negative for the novel coronavirus. “After reaching their destination, we expect they would stay in quarantine for 14 days,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-asks-6-states-to-take-back-3-5l-stranded-migrants/articleshow/75384708.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 26, 2020||Patna||State records 53 covid cases in a day, tally at 223||Patna: Bihar recorded its highest number of coronavirus cases in a single day on Friday, with 53 people testing positive till Friday evening, taking the total number of cases to 223. Maximum cases were reported from Munger where 31 people tested positive on Friday. Four of the positive people are those who are undergoing treatment at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (IGIMS) and include a 44-year-old Dakbungalow resident from Patna. State health department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said apart from the Dak Bungalow resident, one each from Masaurhi, Madhepura and Munger, who have tested positive, are undergoing treatment at the IGIMS, Patna. Even on Thursday, a Siwan native admitted at the tuberculosis ward had tested positive. Others who tested positive include 12 from Buxar, three from Nalanda (one from Asthwan and two from Biharsharif), two from Aurangabad and one each from Masaurhi in Patna, Bishanpur in Banka, Bhagwanpur in Saran. While the youngest to have tested positive on Friday was a 14-month-old girl child from Buxar, the oldest was a 70-year-old Munger man. This is the highest ever one day positive result from Bihar. So far, 45 people have recovered and two have died, taking total number of active cases to 176 in Bihar. On Thursday, 27 people had tested positive in the state, including eight people from Khajpura in Patna. As per the information shared by the state health department principal secretary, there are 36 containment zones in 15 districts with 2.82 lakh households with 15.19 lakh people under containment. 19 IGIMS staffers quarantined Nineteen health workers of the IGIMS, including a senior medical officer and nine nursing staff, have been put under home quarantine and their samples have been sent for test. They attended to a patient admitted at the multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB) ward whose test report confirming Covid-19 came on Thursday night. The patient, a Siwan native, was admitted on Wednesday night. As per information shared by IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal, entire MDR ward has been sanitized and sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-53-covid-cases-in-a-day-tally-at-223/articleshow/75372660.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 26, 2020||Nashik||30 doctors from Nashik division rush to Malegaon to treat coronavirus patients||Nashik: With Covid-19 cases rising fast in Malegaon town, about 100 km from Nashik city, the office of the deputy director of health services has prepared a list of 30 doctors, including physicians and MBBS doctors to treat the patients there.Suresh Jagdale, civil surgeon of Nashik civil hospital, said the physicians and MBBS doctors who were serving at the Nashik civil hospital, regional referral hospital and other medical facilities across the district and division have been instructed to report to Malegaon. So far, there have been 11 Covid-19 casualties in Malegaon while over 110 have tested positive for the infection.Shriram Vithhal Gosavi, associate professor of community medicine department, and Sushant Pawar, assistant professor of surgery department of SBH Medical College, Dhule, have also started working from Malegaon to contain the spread of the virus in the textile town.Malegaon has a population of approximately 10 lakh. Over 70% of the people in Malegaon are below poverty line. In addition, the density of the population is also huge with about eight to 10 people living in a single room in most parts of Malegaon. As a result, the spread of Covid-19 has been rapid in less than a month’s time.The district health department is making a lot of efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 in Malegaon. As the holy month of Ramzan has started, the district administration has taken it upon itself to provide fruits, vegetables and other necessary items to Malegaon residents so that they do not have to venture out of their home and travel long distances. The aim is to stop the movement of people so that the spread of virus is also prevented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/30-doctors-from-nashik-division-rush-to-malegaon-to-treat-coronavirus-patients/articleshow/75383632.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ramzan arrives but pandemic shadow looms over festivities||HYDERABAD: Ramzan, the month of fasting, began in the city on Saturday without the traditional hustle and bustle associated with it. With the lockdown in force and Muslim clergy appealing to the devout to stay home and keep off mosques, the busy Charminar and its bylanes presented a deserted look. The historic Mecca Masjid too was abandoned with no five daily congregational and late night Taraweeh prayers. The Covid-19 pandemic has also robbed Hyderabadis of their favourite Ramzan dish, Haleem. The busy market streets of Pathergatti and Charminar in were without people. Ramzan is the time when thousands of people throng Charminar to make the purchases right from the day one. The Mecca Masjid was not illuminated this time. The Lad Bazar where women throng in thousands to buy bangles remained closed. Many mosques had put up boards announcing that there would be no congregational prayers. Special night prayers called Taraweeh wherein the entire Holy Quran is recited in parts spread over 30 days was not held in mosques. Offering Taraweeh prayers has been the tradition since the early days of Islam. On the first day of Ramzan, people in were seen opting to shop for essentials and fruits in tyhe morning. This is in contrast to earlier years when Ramzan was a busy affair from dawn to dusk for businessmen. “Although all of my family members are at home, the memories of past hectic Ramzan hurts a lot,” said Syeda Jabeen, a homemaker. This year the handout calendars (Nizam ul Auqat), which used to range from postcard-sized printouts to pamphlets, have been circulated among members on social media platforms. “With the announcement of first phase of lockdown in India, most Muslims were mentally prepared that Ramzan has to be spent amid restrictions,” said Sirajuddin Anwar Pasha, a businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramzan-arrives-but-pandemic-shadow-looms-over-festivities/articleshow/75384495.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Farmers stage black flag protest demanding financial assistance||Trichy: Hundreds of farmers in the delta districts, staged a protest by holding and hoisting black flags in front of their houses on Saturday, demanding the disbursal of financial assistance as per an order of the high court to manage the lockdown. The farmers, belonging to the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam of the CPM, also condemned the state and central governments for announcing financial assistance which was not enough even for a week. The protest was led by district secretary of the sangam, N V Kannan.The protest comes in the wake of a decision taken during a recent meeting held in Thanjavur. During the meeting, several resolutions were passed and the farmers reiterated the same on Saturday. They demanded the immediate disbursement of Rs 10,000 for small and medium farmers and also the waiver of agriculture loans. They also appealed to the Union government to include agricultural works in the list of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. Due to the lockdown, farmers lost their standing crops as they could not attend regular work in the farms. So, the government should announce compensation for crop loss. Another foremost demand was the disbursement of Rs 7,500 for poor families.Farmers alleged that despite official announcement that required volume of fertilizers were available, private agencies are creating artificial demand by hoarding the fertilizers. This should be sorted out, they said. Another resolution insisted 24-hour three-phase electricity supply to save the standing crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-stage-black-flag-protest-demanding-financial-assistance/articleshow/75384494.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||5 women, 10-year-old girl test +ve in Ajmer||Ajmer: Five women and a 10-year-old girl tested positive for coronavirus in Ajmer on Saturday. Till now, the district has reported 112 positive cases, including six children between 2-10 years. The infection started spreading from Mochi Mohalla of dargah region to Lakhan Kotri and Nallah Bazaar. There was no positive case in Ajmer on Friday, but six cases emerged on Saturday morning. District medical and health department released the list of eight positive members on Saturday morning, but later amended when it was found that names of two patients were repeated with different names and deleted the two cases. Of the 112 cases, 89 are from Mochi Mohalla and surrounding areas and in the last 72 hours, total 82 cases have been reported from this region. Reports of about 300 samples are awaited. About 266 teams are conducting a survey in this region. Two more testing machines reached Ajmer and the department has increased its testing capacity.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-women-10-year-old-girl-test-ve-in-ajmer/articleshow/75384121.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 811 cases, highest 1-day tally by a state, and Mumbai a record 602||MUMBAI: A staggering 811 cases — the highest in a single day anywhere in India since the Covid-19 outbreak started — were reported across the state on Saturday, taking the state tally beyond the 7,000 mark to 7,628 cases. Mumbai continued to add the largest chunk of cases — 602 — to this tally to reach 5,049 cases, crossing its own 5,000 mark. The state reported 22 deaths, the joint second highest for a day so far. Of these, 13 were from Mumbai—the second highest for the city too. The toll of Maharashtra was 323 on Saturday and Mumbai was inching close to the 200 mark, reaching a total of 191 deaths. The previous highest single-day addition of cases was on April 23, when the state recorded 778 cases and the city 522. The latest 1,000-case jump for Mumbai and Maharashtra took place in just two days. Data shows that the state took nearly a month to record its first 1,000 cases, but it breached the 2,000 mark in six days after that, and another 1,000 cases were added in the next four days. The time taken to breach the 4000 mark was three days, and the fifth and the sixth thousand cases were added in two days each. National Health Minister director Anup Kumar Yadav said Saturday’s numbers are not an indicator of Covid-19 taking a serious turn in the state. “We have included cases diagnosed from previous days. This number isn’t an indicator of one-day increase,” he added. BMC civic officials too said the figures are high due to the bunching up of positive reports by private laboratories. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are now focusing on the doubling rate. At present, the doubling duration is 7 days, we want to make it 10 days.” BMC projections suggest that the doubling rate should increase to 10 days within the next 10-12 days. BMC's Dr Daksha Shah said the numbers reflect the fact that Mumbai has been vigorously testing and tracing high-risk contacts of patients. “We have actively found cases and are treating them,” she said. Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the increase in the number of cases were due to the large number of tests the state was conducting, and Mumbai was a large contributor to the number. “We are conducting over 7,000 tests across 40 labs in the state. However, there is also a large addition of cases from Mumbai which we are trying to bring down by taking preventive measures,” said Tope. He also said that the number of people getting discharged after treatment too was increasing, and as on Saturday, 1,076 patients were discharged from different hospitals across the state. He also said that the case fatality rate in the state and the city has seen a dip since the past many days. The CFR of the state as on Saturday was 4.2% and of the city was 3.7%, down from 7% 15 days ago. In the meantime, four deaths were reported in the Pune Municipal Corporation area, and one each in Malegaon, Pune rural, Pimpri- Chinchwad, Dhule and Solapur city. Thane city recorded two deaths, taking the toll there to eight and the total number of cases there past 200. Five more deaths were reported on Saturday in Pune, including that of a resident of Baramati, who was admitted to a private hospital in the city. All the deceased had co-morbid conditions. The Pune Metropolitan Region reported around 100 fresh positive cases for the third consecutive day. With this, the total cases in the region rose beyond the 1,100 mark. As per the state release, there were 555 active containment zones across the state where surveillance activities were being carried out. A total of 8,194 surveillance squads worked on Saturday across the state, carrying out surveillance of 31.43 lakh population. Mumbai's Dharavi area on Saturday reported 21 new cases. The total number of patients from the area have now gone up to 241, which includes 14 deaths. The number of cases on Saturday were a sharp increase compared to a day ago, when only six cases were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-reports-811-cases-highest-1-day-tally-by-a-state-and-city-a-record-602/articleshow/75384710.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Veteran actor Ravi Vallathol passes away||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Veteran actor Ravi Vallathol – who straddled film, serial and theatre fields – died at his Vazhuthacaud residence on Saturday. He was 67. He is survived by his wife Geethalekshmi. The cremation will be held at Santhikavadom on Sunday at 9 am. He made his debut in film in ‘Swathi Thirunal’ directed by Lenin Rajendran in 1987. His soft, slow-paced rendition of dialogues lent a distinctive quality to his characters, especially in television serials that were broadcast on Doordarshan. His voice and eyes often evoked a touching quality of pathos in the most understated manner. Even with a natural flair for acting and an identity he had acquired over the years, he seldom got his due in films; a regret which Ravi expressed in his close circles as quietly as he could. CM Pinarayi Vijayan recalled him as a blessed artiste. "He had an inimitable skill in portraying characters and etching them in the minds of viewers. His demise is a loss to theatre, film and serial fields," said Vijayan in his condolence message. . He had acted in nearly 50 films and was a popular actor when television serials took entertainment scene in state by storm. Ravi, who had written many short stories, penned the story ‘Revathikoru Pavakutty’ which was later made into a film by director Sathyan Anthikad. He was born as son of TN Gopinathan Nair and Saudamini in Malappuram. He completed his graduation from Mar Ivanios College, Thiruvananthapuram and completed his postgraduation from University of Kerala. He was a known presence in director Adoor Gopalakrishnan’s films.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/veteran-actor-ravi-vallathol-passes-away/articleshow/75382750.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||This Ramzan will be without mass prayers, iftar parties||Dharwad: Members of the Muslim community in Dharwad district have decided to follow the Covid-19 lockdown guidelines and offer namaz at homes during the holy month of Ramzan which began on Friday. The leaders of Anjuman-e-Islam in the twin cities said mass prayers, tarawih prayers and iftars will be held in mosques. Iftar meets and mass dinner are also banned in houses. Except for the Imam, Muzzain and mosque administration committee member, nobody is allowed to perform prayers at mosques. A religious leader said there is permission for alerting people before sehri and iftar. Azan and other announcements will be made in low decibel. Anjuman committees have circulated guidelines of the Wakf Board through social media platforms to ensure that lockdown is not violated during Ramzan.Jamat-e-Ahle-Sunnat Karnataka general secretary Moulana Mufti Mohamed Ali Qazi and joint secretary Maulana Niyaz Alam Shaikh have urged the community members to adhere to the directions given by the Wakf Board and district administration. They asked people not to form crowd under the pretext of giving alms. After the moon sighting, Muslims offered special prayers on Friday night and observed the first roza (fasting) on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-ramzan-will-be-without-mass-prayers-iftar-parties/articleshow/75382748.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 26, 2020||Trichy||As blood banks run low, donation camp to be held tomorrow||TRICHY: As there has not been any blood donation camps in the last one month due to the lockdown, the current stock position at the blood banks at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital here and the government headquarters hospital in Manapparai has come down. Collector S Sivarasu has announced a blood donation camp at the National College here from 9am to 4pm on Monday. Predicting a demand for blood for treatment and surgeries during and after the lockdown, officials at the blood bank at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital are looking for volunteers to donate blood of all groups. The blood bank at MGM has called up a few of the registered volunteers with them and got blood donated whenever in need, said an officer on the condition of anonymity on Saturday. Sources said that around 70 volunteers have enrolled their names by sending a message ‘Want to Donate’ on WhatApp or SMS to 94431-82847 and 99655-19761. Blood bank officials were also in touch with over 1,300 volunteers registered with the district administration. The volunteers will be screened before they can donate blood. The blood bank expects 200 units to 250 units of blood at the camp The requirement for blood for transfusion during baby deliveries and some emergency care treatment remains almost equal before the lockdown. One month on, the stock position at the blood banks at MGM and government headquarters hospital in Manapparai is not impressive as there has not been any voluntary blood donation camp during the curfew. Officials are of the view that the blood banks have adequate storage of blood at the two blood banks and 20 blood storage units set up at government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) in the district till May 3. The blood bank at MGM requires 800 to 900 units of blood per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-blood-banks-run-low-donation-camp-to-be-held-tomorrow/articleshow/75384498.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Wedding industry hit hard by pandemic||An auspicious day for weddings, Akha Teej or Akshaya Tritiya, is doomed by coronavirus this year. Falling on Sunday, the day will not be witnessing any wedding event due to the lockdown and prohibition on assembling of more than five persons at a place. The virus has ruined the business of caterers, wedding gardens, tent houses as well as service providers like beauticians, band companies, florists, photographers, safa (turban) sellers, costume sellers and pandits.  Ghanshyam Mehra, who owns a shop selling torans, said that usually there is a huge demand for torans on Akshaya Tritiya, especially from rural areas. “But the entire material we had prepared considering the demand on Akha Teej is just wasted,” said Mehra, pointing to the rack of torans lying tattered in a corner of his shop near Ghantaghar. Amri Devi’s concerns are no different. She sells traditional earthen pots for rituals of wedding at Akhaliya Circle. “I usually sell 200 sets of pots on Akha Teej. But there is no demand at all this time. This has dealt a reasonable monetary blow to many like us, who wait for big sales on this day,” she said. A pandit, Sunil Dutt Vashisth, who solemnises approximately 7-8 weddings on this day is sitting idle this time. “I stand to lose about Rs 1 lakh this year as there are no weddings taking place due to the lockdown and fear of virus,” Vashisth said.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wedding-industry-hit-hard-by-pandemic/articleshow/75384119.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid-19 steals Akshaya Tritiya sheen, jewellers pin all hopes on online sales||HYDERABAD: On Akshaya Tritiya all that glitters is usually gold. But the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown has ensured a washout this year with gold sales expected to be down by over 95-98%. Jewellers point out that the biggest deterrent is the poor buying sentiment due to Covid-19 worries and the lockdown has only wiped out whatever little demand there was for the yellow metal, the high prices notwithstanding due to the global uncertainty. Gold was quoting at over Rs 4400 per gm for 22carat and over Rs 4800 per gm for 24 carat in Hyderabad on Saturday on the eve of Akshaya Tritiya. “With all stores closed there will be no sales. We got some queries and pre-bookings from regular customers, but its a fraction of normal Akshaya Tritiya sales. In any case, jewellers have only old stocks of jewellery and coins and hardly any raw material or artisans to make new jewellery. There is no buying sentiment as customers are more preoccupied with their struggle to survive,” said Darshan Gupta, partner, Mangatrai Jewellers. “In 20 years of experience I haven’t seen such a washout Akshaya Tritiya. We have been getting couple of customers calls daily asking if our store will open,” said Srinivas K, operations manager, Manepally Jewellers. With all stores closed, the only saving grace has been online sales for large jewellers like Tata Group’s Tanishq and Kalyan Jewellers, who are wooing customers with gold rate protection and making charges discount offers. TS Kalyanaraman, CMD, Kalyan Jewellers, said while a majority of Akshaya Tritiya sales is traditionally driven through showrooms, this year website traffic has seen three-fold jump due to their ‘gold ownership certificate’ offer, indicating that consumers are adapting to purchasing gold online. Ajoy Chawla, CEO, jewellery division, Titan Company Ltd, said though online sales typically account for less than 1% of sales for traditional jewellery players, Tanishq’s online sales jumped three to four-fold this year. “We launched the online gold rate protection offer because 54% of our festive season buyers said they were interested,” he said. In Vijayawada too, some jewellers tried to woo customers with special pre-booking discounts but saw poor response. “The lockdown has affected everyone financially. People are busy buying essentials, not thinking about gold,” said G Suman, gold trader from One Town area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-steals-akshaya-tritiya-sheen-jewellers-pin-all-hopes-on-online-sales/articleshow/75384502.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 26, 2020||Nashik||100 shanties gutted after fire breaks out in Ganjamal slum||Nashik: Close to 100 shanties were gutted in a fire broke that out in the Bhimwadi slum of the Ganjamal area on Saturday morning. While there were no casualties, three firemen received minor injuries.Firemen doused the fire in three hours. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.At 9.30 am, a fire broke out in the dense Bhimwadi slum, which has close to 500 shanties. The fire brigade got a call at 9.40 am and 18 fire tenders of the Nashik Municipal Corporation and four from other areas like the Deolali Cantonment Board, HAL, were pressed into service. Due to the lockdown and roads being barricaded, it took some time for the fire tenders, arriving from all the directions, to reach the slum.Chief fire officer Sanjay Bairagi said, “Three LPG cylinders had also exploded, which further spread the fire. Since the shanties were very closely packed, the firemen had problems reaching the fire. We had to attach one hose to another to reach the fire to control the spread. Still, it took us close to three hours to douse it completely.”Bairagi said they could manage to save 70% of the shanties from getting gutted. Three firemen, however, received minor injuries, said Bairagi. While one fireman suffered injury from a fall, two others got bruises from the iron sheets and other articles inside the shanties.Many poor slum-dwellers, who were already facing hardships due to the coronavirus-related lockdown, have now completely lost their source of livelihood.Sufiyan Jin, the corporator from the area, said they have shifted the slum-dwellers whose shanties have been gutted to the B D Bhalekar school. They will be provided with food and other essentials for the next week until further arrangements can be made.Meanwhile, the Dawoodi Bohra Nashik Jamaat and its Saifee Ambulance went to rescue people who were left stranded after the fire broke out. The Annapurna and Robinhood groups provided food to 2,300 people in the slum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/100-shanties-gutted-after-fire-breaks-out-in-ganjamal-slum/articleshow/75383645.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Sastra univ donates robots to aid health staff in Covid wards||Trichy: Robots designed and developed by Sastra Deemed University will be donated to help health workers reduce their contact with Covid-19 patients at government hospitals in Tamil Nadu, vice-chancellor, S Vaidhyasubramaniam said on Saturday. The first robot was handed over to the dean of government medical college hospital in Thanjavur, Dr Kumudha Lingaraj on Friday. The university will be donating 20 such robots to various government hospitals. The medical supply robot was designed and developed by Sastra in collaboration with one of its TBI Incubatees Propeller Technologies. The robot was ideated and designed to minimize the contact between patients and healthcare staff in hospitals.The robot, designed with three stacks can carry and serve food, medicine and water to the patients being treated in isolation wards.It can be operated from a distance of 100m and has been equipped with an LED screen to enable the doctors and nurses to interact with patients from a safe distance. Capable of rotating 360 degree, the robot can also be easily sanitized before every single use. The healthcare staff can operate it using a joystick or mobile application. Sastra has given training to the hospital staff on how to operate the robot. It may be recalled that the robot was tested a couple of weeks ago at the Stanley Medical College Hospital in the presence of state health minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sastra-univ-donates-robots-to-aid-health-staff-in-covid-wards/articleshow/75384503.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP follows Centre, freezes hike in DA||LUCKNOW: Around 16 lakh government employees and 12 lakh pensioners in the state will have to forgo a hike in dearness allowance (DA) till July 1, 2021, after UP government decided to continue with the July 1, 2019, slab till next year in tune with Centre’s decision. The order, issued on Saturday, states: “State’s revenue has dipped due to covid-19 and to ensure prevention and control, sufficient funds are required. Therefore, like the Centre, dearness allowance will not be reviewed till July 1, 2021 in Uttar Pradesh.” The order impacts state employees, employees of aided education institutes, technical education institutes and urban local bodies. Those who retire from these institutes or organisations and are eligible for pension will also not get DA hike. An official said, dearness allowance is reviewed every six months, on January 1 and July 1. UP follows the Centre in implementation of DA and it would have been hiked by 4% with effect from January 1, 2020. However, the decision was put on hold. “We cannot assume the exact rate of revision in July 2020 and January 2021. Presuming, DA would have been revised again by 4% in July, the state government would have spent an estimated Rs 7,000 crore on DA in a single year,” said an official. The Joint Council of State Employees has criticised the move, calling it a “one-sided decision”. General secretary Atul Mishra said, it’s not just DA, the UP government has put on hold six other allowances like city care allowance and department specific allowances which will affect PWD, police and irrigation department. “All employees recently donated a day’s salary to CM’s COVID fund, amounting to more than Rs 200 crore and we were ready to give a day’s salary each month for next one year. That would have been in excess of Rs 2,400 crore over a year. Government employees are working on the frontline of the battle against COVID-19 and this decision will demoralise workers,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-follows-centre-freezes-hike-in-da/articleshow/75384504.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Cop leaves behind father suffering from cancer to be on duty||Nainital: The only time in a day 34-year-old Ruchi Datta gets to check in on her 64-year-old father, a cancer patient, is after her 14-hour shift at Mukhani Chauraha area of Haldwani. The constable hasn’t been home in Rudrapur for nearly two months now, causing her father to miss his monthly medical appointments. For Datta, duty comes first. “We as police have the responsibility to tell people that it is not safe to be out on the streets at this time. If we start abdicating our responsibility, things could spiral into chaos, which we cannot afford at the moment,” she said. The eldest among three siblings, Datta used to take her father every month to Delhi for regular check-ups. But due to the coronavirus outbreak, her father, who is battling death, hasn’t been to a doctor since his surgery last year. Datta has another reason not to return home. Working on the frontlines, she cannot risk infecting her father. “I cannot go to Rudrapur because my father is too old and there is the risk of him getting infected if I happen to be carrying the virus,” Datta said, while speaking to TOI. The nationwide lockdown, enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus, has left several police personnel working on the frontline vulnerable to the highly-infectious disease. Because of the nature of their job, many security staffers have been maintaining a complete distance from their families to avoid passing on the infection to them. Datta said that during these difficult times, a video chat every day with her family is what keeps her going. “I talk to my father every day and make sure that he is well. He understands that it is my duty to be on the field and keep people safe. I have assured him that I will come home as soon as the situation goes back to normal and will take him to Delhi for treatment,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cop-leaves-behind-father-suffering-from-cancer-to-be-on-duty/articleshow/75383647.cms||Prashant Jha
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Eye on frontline workers after cop, volunteers test positive||VIJAYAWADA: Amid the rapid growth in the number of positive Covid-19 cases in the city, the Krishna district administration has stepped up measures to safeguard its frontline workers. Doctors, paramedical staff, police and village and ward volunteers are part of efforts to tackle the spread of coronavirus in the state. After an officer of the rank of sub-inspector (SI) and two ward volunteers tested positive for the virus, workers and family members who came into contact with them have been moved to quarantine. While the SI who tested positive has a travel history to Hyderabad, the ward volunteers contracted the virus while conducting a door-to-door survey. Officials have the moved the SI, members of his team and another SI who shares a flat with him to quarantine. Recently, an SI on a Disha team who took a patient to hospital in his vehicle, was quarantined, as was the rest of his team after the patient died and tested poisitve for Covid-19. As many as 60 frontline workers and their contacts are now awaiting their test results. With the number of cases in areas such as Krishna Lanka and Karmika Nagar increasing, the district administration is putting in place extra precautions to guard workers. Speaking to TOI, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said they have given hydroxychloroquine to all frontline workers as a precautionary step. “As large-scale testing is being carried out in red zones which involves deployment of more frontline workers, we are taking all precautions that they will not fall victims to the virus in their line of duty,” Imtiaz said, adding “the safety of frontline workers is paramount to us and we have provided all safety gear to shield them from the virus.” The district administration has also ramped up testing in areas identified as red zones. “Though the increase in number of cases is a cause of concern, we were able to detect them and stopped further spread of the virus. The testing has been intensified in these areas and we are testing all the persons with even an iota of suspicion of contracting the virus even though they are not exhibiting any symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eye-on-frontline-workers-after-cop-volunteers-test-positive/articleshow/75382764.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Ramzan ushered in with low-key festivities||Vijayawada: With Ramzan beginning on Friday, police have put in place precautions for the Muslim community to observe its prayers. Addressing the community, Vijayawada police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said only some persons would be allowed to perform prayers in mosques and sound the prayer sirens this year. Police have also held meetings with masjid committees under various police station limits in the city. “The virus (Covid-19) does not look at caste, religion, rich, poor or race when it affects people. Our station house officers and senior officials have held discussions with the mosque committees and explained that precautionary measures are in place and urged them to conduct their roza or namaz at home this year,” Rao said. Members of the community in One Town and Bhavanipuram are looking to keep the spirit of Ramzan alive within their homes by making vermicelli kheer, kubani ka meetha and haleem. Businesses, however, that rely solely on the festival are disappointed as they had hoped for some relaxations in keeping their stores open. Across the city, Ramzan was ushered in with mosques deserted and officials urging Muslim families to avoid activities such as handing out free food and money to the needy during the season. They also instructed against holding mass gatherings for iftar parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ramzan-ushered-in-with-low-key-festivities/articleshow/75382784.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Corona warriors who fly with the virus||BHOPAL: In the current situation, lesser mortals would be frightened at the mere thought of travelling anywhere along with the samples for Covid-19 testing, but for Bhopal’s corona warriors - Captain Majid Akhtar and Captain Vishwas Rai - it is a regular job. These two bravehearts fly these samples from Bhopal airport to Delhi for testing in a special plane of MP government. Both pilots have till date ferried 5500 samples during their four trips in the past 10 days. Out of these, three trips were to Delhi and one to Pondicherry. To ensure that they stay safe, both the pilots have to wear PPE kits while flying. Speaking about his assignment, Captain Majid said, "It was little scary when we had to fly with Covid-19 samples on the first day. It was challenging too as we had never undertaken such a job earlier in life." Speaking about the safety gear while flying, Majid said, "Initially, we felt quite suffocated, because we were not used to operating the aircraft wearing such a kit. Even if there is itching in any part of the body, we can’t do anything till the flight lands." Each time, they also have to sanitize the plane to stay safe. Majid has been flying the planes of Madhya Pradesh Government for the last 25 years and has ferried Governors, Chief Minister, Chief Justice, Union Ministers and many other VVIPs "I am lucky that during this pandemic, I have got the opportunity to serve the state. My wife is a doctor; she is also playing the role of a corona warrior. Since my wife and I are doing sensitive work, I have sent my mother to my sister's house and my son is staying with his granny," said Majid. Capt. Vishwas Rai, another pilot of MP Aviation Department, has been flying the aircrafts of Madhya Pradesh government for over 14 years. He said that this is the first time in his career when he is carrying samples of corona patients and not the VVIPs in government planes. "When we were told to fly these samples, it felt little scary initially. However, at the time when everyone is playing a crucial role in fight against the lethal virus, we felt how can we stay back when we have got this chance," said Vishwas. On April 12, both the pilots took their first flight following full protocol issued by the Department of Health. “My younger brother Captain Adarsh Rai is also a pilot in MP Vimanan Department. During this period, my entire family is living with my younger brother in his house and I stay alone," said Vishwas. Both the pilots have been advised to keep taking chloroquine tablets every week for next seven weeks. Appreciating the work being done by these warriors, director Madhya Pradesh aviation department, T Ilayaraja said, "Their contribution to the society is invaluable."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/warriors-who-fly-with-the-virus-in-sky/articleshow/75383661.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown reins in child marriages in Rajasthan||KOTA: The Covid-19 pandemic has come as a blessing in disguise in checking child marriages, which were solemnised despite strict administrative vigilance in large numbers in Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran districts of Hadauti on Akshaya Tritiya, also called Akha Teej that falls this year on April 26. Akha Teej is believed to be an auspicious occasion to solemnise marriages, particularly child marriages in the rural belt of Hadauti in Rajasthan, mainly in Gurjar, Meena, Bairwa, Mali and other SC/ST communities. However, fortunately, no report of child marriages on this occasion has surfaced so far from any of the four districts of the division. The district administration of the four districts of the region used to be extra cautious during Akshaya Tritiya, but this year has come as a relief. However, Kota district collector Om Kasera on Thursday directed district officials to ensure that no child marriage takes place in the district on Akshaya Tritiya on April 26 and to form the vigilance teams to monitor the rural areas. “The reports of child marriages on Akshaya Tritiya this year are nil (zero) so far, due to strict enforcement of lockdown,” said deputy director, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), Bundi, Bhairu Prakesh Nagar. The anganwadi and ASHAs are already in the field to survey for Covid-19 and they have not reported any suspected child marriage in the area on Akshaya Tritiya so far, he further said, adding unlike previous years, no control room for child marriage, ahead of Akshaya Tritiya, has been set up this year. However, one-stop centre in the district is functional to receive and sort out women-related grievances including that of child marriages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-reins-in-child-marriages/articleshow/75384122.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||RNA extraction kits in short supply in Covid-19 testing labs||Bhopal: In war against the ongoing covid-19 pandemic, lab technicians are armed with sufficient real time PCR kits, but the RNA extraction kits are in short supply in the laboratories across the state. Officer on special duty at Madhya Pradesh Public Health Services Corporation Limited, S Dhanaraju, said: “As of now, just 6000 RNA extraction kits are available.”Covid-19 samples once collected are placed for RNA extraction but the automated RNA extraction kits are in short supply. After the RNA is extracted, the Covid-19 test is run for RT PCR. “Across MP, the demand for RNA extraction kits is being managed on a day-to-day basis although we have sufficient buffer of RT PCR kits,” said Dhanaraju.These two kits are separate from rapid test kits, of which MP has a holdover stock of 30,000. These kits would only be used after authorisation from ICMR. On Saturday, Indian Medical Association, greater Bhopal chapter representatives, had a video conference with CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. They urged the CM on the need to augment purchase of rapid test kits. “We need to increase testing to detect those at risk of this infection and also increase screening and epidemiological assessment,” said IMA representative Dr Sudeep Pathak.Covid-19 tests are being conducted at 11 laboratories in MP. As on Saturday, 27866 samples were tested for Covid-19 in MP, 25921 tested negative,1945 tested positive and test report of 9021 samples was awaited. Last week, about 8000 tests were conducted on samples from across the state.Hamidia hospital official, however, said that demand for test kits was met on Saturday morning. AIIMS Bhopal official said that shortage is not hindering tests for corona infection.In real time PCR, the instrument is equipped with block design and software, whereby it can run applications below even 40 min time scale. However this may not be applicable for all types of tests/experiments run on the system. The machine should essentially be capable of extracting RNA at least 100 or more samples per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rna-extraction-kits-in-short-supply-in-covid-19-testing-labs/articleshow/75383655.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||All hospitals in 9 green zones to function in normal way||Dehradun: Considering that nine districts in Uttarakhand have almost nil cases of novel coronavirus, the state government on Saturday decided to declare these areas as green zones and allow hospitals to function in a normal fashion from Sunday. Similarly, shops in these districts will remain open from 7am to 6pm as directed by the Union government. In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, every district hospital in the state was notified as a centre for treatment of novel coronavirus patients. However, as no cases were reported from seven districts and only one each from Almora and Pauri, the state government has decided to resume normal OPD and in-patient services in these areas. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the decision would mainly help those living in the hills. “This is the time when diarrhoea and dengue cases start. The move will help those with health issues in these districts,” he added. The CM pointed out that four hospitals — Mela Hospital in Haridwar, Doon Hospital in Dehradun, Rudrapur medical college in Udham Singh Nagar and Sushila Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani – are still reserved for Covid-19 patients. Similarly, shops in the green zones would be allowed to remain open between 7am and 6pm. However, liquor stores, barber salons, and some other shops would continue to remain shut as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. Also, no movement of vehicles, be it inter-state or inter-district, would be allowed. The CM has also formed a three-member cabinet sub-committee headed by agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal to suggest ways to recover the financial losses faced due to the lockdown. The sub-committee would explore ways to generate employment at the local level and measures to improve the financial condition of economically weaker sections. Rawat added that he would interact with businessmen, industrialists and people of the state settled elsewhere through video conferencing to discuss such measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/all-hospitals-in-9-green-zones-to-function-in-normal-way/articleshow/75383660.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Gold sales go online this Akshaya Tritiya||VIJAYAWADA: As gold shops remain closed due to the lockdown, citizens are gearing up to celebrate Akshaya Tritiya without purchasing gold this year. Hindus consider purchasing gold on Akshaya Tritiya sacred and is believed to give prosperity and wealth. Every year, gold shops—which gives offers and discounts on this day—see a huge rush of buyers. But the situation is quite different this year. With the fall of stock markets due to Covid-19, investors have preferred investing in gold. As a result, the cost of 24-carat gold is Rs 45,920 in local markets on Saturday. Despite the high price, many buyers were still prepared to buy gold, but there were no shops opened in the city with the lockdown. “We have never celebrated Akshaya Tritiya without new gold ornaments. But the lockdown has forced our hand this year. Hope we can celebrate it with double joy if we overcome the pandemic next year,” said Koganti Jyothirmayi, a homemaker. A few gold traders in the city offered special discounts on pre-booking gold ornaments online, but received a poor response. “Lockdown had impacted the financial situation of all sectors. People have not bought gold this year,” said G Suman, a gold trader from One Town area in the city. Meanwhile, a few buyers showed interest in buying gold online: “Online vaults are the safest option to buy gold this Akshaya Tritiya, in my opinion. We can easily buy gold online and encash it whenever we want. Our safety is more important than anything else,” said M Bindu, who works at a private bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gold-sales-go-online-this-akshaya-tritiya/articleshow/75382776.cms||Venu Lanka
April 26, 2020||Indore||Central team oversees action plan for hotspots||Indore: Emphasizing that micromanagement of contact tracing, sampling, testing, health screening and other efforts are needed in containment zones, team of Union government officials on Saturday asked incident commanders to play the role of multi-tasker in Covid-19 hotspots to help control outburst of the disease. On sixth day of their visit, Central government’s team leader Abhilaksh Likhi held discussion with officials appointed as incident commanders and sought details of implementation of Covid-19 plan in respective areas. Though video-conferencing, Likhi asked officials to keep their focus on completing health survey of the people, contact tracing of suspected people and their screening and close monitoring in localities to ensure better implementation of complete lockdown situation. “In hotspots, every activity should be planned properly and efforts should be made for impressive implementation of the same. Lab testing of samples should not be delayed while appropriate actions, especially when report comes positive, should be taken without wasting time. The incident commanders should also ensure supportive supervision with other teams working in the field,” Likhi said. He added that administration need to stay alert and prepared to deal with the disease at every stage and even on decreasing its impact, officials should not take it lightly and make more efforts to check its spread in near future. “Required steps and precautions should be taken to keep areas, outside containment zones, safe from spread of Covid-19,” the senior official said. During the day, Centre issued a guideline related to ongoing situation and Likhi discussed the same with local officials concerned to ensure better implementation of the same. In the meeting, divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi asked the local officials to continue their work with full dedication while IG Vivek Sharma asked police officials to increase patrolling on roads and keeping a close watch on barricading on district borders. Collector Manish Singh asked officials to ensure medical shops serve like that of normal days while complete ban will be there in marriages and functions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/central-team-oversees-action-plan-for-hotspots/articleshow/75384111.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Indore||Poultry sector suffers Rs 70cr loss||Indore: Poultry sector has suffered an estimated loss of Rs70 crore in Covid-19 lockdown amid plunge in demand and lack of market, claimed industry players. Decline in demand and rising rearing cost have led many farms to destroy eggs and cull chicks in lockdown period, a measure to contain spread of deadly novel coronavirus. Satpal Singh Bhatiya, a poultry farm owner with over 60 per cent share in eggs business in Indore said, “Losses are rising day by day in absence of access to market. The sector is reeling under heavy losses that will increase further with lockdown period. District administration should allow sale of eggs through their channel so that industry can be saved and consumers will also get protein diet.” An average daily consumption of eggs and chicken in Indore is about 7 lakh pieces and 20,000 pieces, according to industry estimates. Industry players said despite reducing output, production is huge with poultry farms owing to which few players are storing eggs in cold storages. A senior executive with another poultry farm wishing to be anonymous said, “We are storing eggs in cold storages but the state do not have sufficient facility. This is leading us to destroy eggs before the chicken comes out and cull chicks.” Industry players said, demand for eggs and chickens has begun to drop before lockdown was announced as consumption was linked with spread of the pandemic. A few poultry farms said they are feeding less to birds as a measure to keep a lid on production and growth amid lack of market. Though backdoor supplies of eggs and chickens are happening in few pockets of city at higher rates and during Ramadan prices have shoot up sharply, said residents and retailers. They said eggs are available at Rs 5 to Rs 10 per piece.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/poultry-sector-suffers-rs-70cr-loss/articleshow/75384113.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
April 26, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Amid lockdown, Alavi Bohras take to virtual worship||VADODARA: As the clocked ticked towards midnight on the first night of Ramzan on Friday, they gathered in their homes and picked up their mobile phones. At midnight, thousands of Alavi Bohra community members in Gujarat and other states offered the Ramzan namaz while watching their spiritual leader online. Amid clarion calls from maulivs and community leaders to observe Ramzan prayers at home to maintain social distancing, they have stayed away from gatherings at mosques and taken to virtual worship during the holy month. This is the first time the community is observing Ramzan through this virtual mode. The community members have downloaded a video application that helps them connect with their spiritual leaders and each other. “Every year during Ramzan, we offered namaz in mosques. But it won’t be possible this time. Namaz is very important and it has to be offered properly. So we decided to use technology,” said Dr Zulkarnain Bhaisaheb, an Alvi Bohra community leader. The initiative has been taken by Alavi Bohra community in Vadodara who have connected members in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi and other states. “We have a WhatsApp group that has members of our community from Gujarat and other states. Before starting our online discourse, we post a link of the app in the group and whoever clicks on the link can see live images of our spiritual leader who, sitting at his home in front of a camera and mike, imparts a message for a few minutes before performing namaz,” Bhaisaheb told TOI. Saiyedna Saheb, the spiritual head of Alavi Bohras, says, “Ramzan is the month of spiritual bliss and everyone should be connected with spiritual teachings during this time. Technology has come to our rescue and we are connected with the Almighty in the same way as before." The video reaches everyone who joins the online session. Apart from Saiyedna Haatim Zakiyuddin Saheb, who is spiritual head of the community in Vadodara, Mukaasir Nuruddin Saheb, Saeed Ul Khayr Bhaisaheb and Zulkarnain Bhaisaheb conduct namaz online and address Alavi Bohra muslims in several states across the country. The namaz is offered in morning, evening and at midnight. “Due to lockdown, we have to refrain from gathering at mosque. But we are able to connect with our spiritual leaders and other community members through the virtual spiritual discourse and namaz during the holy month of Ramzan,” said Qasim Barodawala, who teaches at a private university on the outskirts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amid-lockdown-alavi-bohras-take-to-virtual-worship/articleshow/75383804.cms||Tushar Tere
April 26, 2020||Indore||No dates for the rozedars this yr||Indore: Dates may be in short supply this Ramzan due to lockdown. Amid lockdown, shops dealing in dates are shut in wholesale as well as retail markets restricting supplies to consumers. Ramzan is one of the peak demand season for dates and dry dates after winters when consumption remains on its peak. A wholesaler of dates in Siyaganj said, “Demand for dates go up significantly during Ramzan every year but this season we are not able to sell anything because of lockdown.” Traders said fresh supplies of imported dates from Dubai are also halted this season amid lockdown. Supplies of dates from Indian ports to respective centers are also impacted due to nationwide lockdown, said traders. Another dry dates seller from Siyaganj said, “My orders are stuck at Mumbai port. I could not get deliveries because lockdown was announced and there was not much time to make arrangements for delivery.” A few residents said limited supplies of dates are available in market but at very high prices. Hamid Khan, a resident of Khajrana said, “Supplies of dates are very limited. There are a few people who are supplying in limited quantities at doorsteps but they are charging high prices.” District administration has relaxed supplies of only essential food grains from wholesalers and retailers to consumers. While talking to TOI, district collector Manish Singh on Saturday said, “We came across demand for special arrangements at quarantine centers for Roza at 3pm for which we refused because the priority is to fight Covid-19. We will follow protocol of patients and there will not be any changes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/no-dates-for-the-rozedars-this-yr/articleshow/75384120.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 test lab starts at GDMCH, CM Rawat inaugurates facility||Dehradun/Haridwar: The authorities of Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) started Covid-19 tests on Saturday. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, while inaugurating the newly-functional lab via video conference, said that the process of Covid-19 test will speed up as three government labs in Uttarakhand are now equipped with diagnosing coronavirus. Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal of GDMCH, told TOI that 11 samples were tested at the newly-inaugurated Viral Research and Diagnostic Lab (VRDL) on April 25. “This lab is placed at the second level of bio-safety and we are upgrading it to third level very soon. The lab will also be used for research purpose. In the first phase, we have started Covid-19 tests here,” he added. At present, the Covid-19 tests are being conducted at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh, GDMCH and Ahuja pathology labs in Dehradun. On the day, one more Covid-19 positive patient was discharged from GDMCH. Now, 26 patients have fully recovered from the disease in Uttarakhand. The state till now has 48 Covid-19 positive cases. Additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant informed that 153 samples were sent for Covid-19 test on the day and results of 411 samples are still awaited. “We have sent 5,194 samples to the four labs across the state so far. Among these, reports of 4,423 samples were found to be negative,” the official said while adding that special guidelines have been issued to all the government healthcare facilities to ensure that delivery, neonatal care, immunisation and other related cases are not being neglected. Meanwhile, Haridwar district administration is also planning to establish a Covid-19 testing lab at Mela Hospital. This decision was taken in view of the rising number of coronavirus suspected cases in the district. Till now, seven coronavirus positive cases have been found in Haridwar. Among them, six patients are associated with Tablighi Jamaat. Notably, samples of more than 1,000 suspected cases have so far been sent for Covid-19 test to AIIMS Rishikesh. Haridwar’s district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, “We have planned to set up a Covid-19 test laboratory at Mela Hospital. Sending samples to AIIMS Rishikesh takes a lot of time. We have sufficient budget and staff to run the Covid-19 test lab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-test-lab-starts-at-gdmch-cm-rawat-inaugurates-facility/articleshow/75383676.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 26, 2020||Indore||Students pitch in, conduct survey in green zones||Indore: While teachers, anganwadi workers, Asha workers have already been conducting surveys to get an update of health status of red zones, administration has also roped in college students to conduct survey of green zones (comparatively safer) of district. Around 120 college students and professionals were given one-day training to go to the green zones including places such as BCM heights, Shalimar township, Scheme no 54, etc to conduct survey of health status of residents. These volunteers have to put up information of health status of families residing in green areas on Covid-19 mobile application of Indore district. City-based home maker, Malti Tiwari who lost her elder son to an accident last year was concerned about her younger son, Puneet's decision to volunteer and conduct survey as she feared for his health. While the parents have their own reservations due to health concerns for children, these volunteers coaxed their parents to permit them for helping out with the survey. Volunteer and college student, Chayya said that her mother was extremely upset with her decision to go out and conduct survey as it might be a threat to her. However, after getting her father's approval she was able to join. These volunteers were told about the usage of the Covid application and the precautionary measures while conducting surveys of houses in the green zone, said coordinator of Covid war room, Dr Punit Diwedi. “My parents are no more. But, I'm sure they must've been proud of me. I have been pumping in around seven to eight hours in surveys daily. It’s an experience of a lifetime for me,” said college student Mukul Mahawar, who lives with his elder brother. Among 120 volunteers, there are around 10-15 females volunteers too who have been rendering their services on field or coordinating with the team members and officials. Each volunteer has to cover as many as 300 houses in three days. These volunteers have been going around in groups of four to five together for the survey. These volunteers will have to go again to conduct the survey of the same houses after a span of 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/students-pitch-in-conduct-survey-in-green-zones/articleshow/75384114.cms||Laveena Francis
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Labourers stuck in Jaisalmer sent to various dists||Around 6,037 labourers stuck in Jaisalmer were sent in 76 buses to various districts of the state on Saturday and Friday District collector Namit Mehta said that still a large number of labourers are stranded in Jaisalmer. “Following the directions from the state government, they are being sent back to their districts. Around 6,037 labourers were sent in 76 buses to 18 districts of the state on Saturday and Friday,” he said. In the last three days, 10,800 labourers have been sent to their homes. “On Friday, 2,418 labourers were sent to Ganganagar in 36 buses, 937 to Hanumangarh in 15 buses, 127 in three buses to Baran, 14 to Jaipur and 41 to Jodhpur. While on Saturday, 2,500 labourers were sent to their homes,” the collector said. All these passengers were medically tested and buses were sanitised. Food was provided to all the passengers, Mehta added. On the other hand, Nachna police on Saturday caught a truck from Haryana that was taking back 35 labourers from Jaisalmer. SP Kiran Kang said that illegal vehicles from other states were coming to Jaisalmer to take back labourers. On Saturday, police stopped a truck from Haryana near Bhadaria. It was found carrying 35 labourers from Jaisalmer. All of them were sent to a shelter home in Nachna, while the driver was arrested and the truck seized. Besides, the Barmer district administration is now planning to bring local students who went to Jaipur and Sikar for coaching. District administration is making a detailed action plan based on the estimated number of students. “Many students from Barmer district had gone to Jaipur for taking coaching for administrative services and competitive examinations. While many students were in Sikar preparing for engineering and medical exams. With the coaching centres closed, these students will be brought back to Barmer in phased manner,” Barmer collector Vishram Meena said. The wards of these students should inform the district education officer about their children studying in Jaipur and Sikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourers-stuck-in-jaisalmer-sent-to-various-dists/articleshow/75384118.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Police extend helping hand to elders staying alone at home||Trichy: Redefining the role of policing, Trichy range police are leading the way by lending a helping hand to senior citizens staying alone at home. Trichy range DIG V Balakrishanan had drafted the scheme to provide care and protection to them throughout the lockdown period so that they do not face any inconvenience. The project was launched on March 24, soon after the lockdown was imposed, and the police carried out an enumeration and identified 1,852 senior citizens staying alone at the houses in Trichy rural, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. The identification process was done with the help of local body representatives and police personnel. Besides assigning policemen from the respective jurisdiction to visit each senior citizen at their houses, the police also released a mobile application ‘Reach Me’ and was able to rope in 168 volunteers. Volunteers joined hands with the policemen and took care of almost all essential requirements of the elderly people, said the police in a statement. The reason for involving the volunteers was to provide care to the elderly people living close to their areas whenever the policemen were not available for help. The mobile app helped the police to identify locations of volunteers and assign them tasks accordingly. At places where there were no volunteers, the local body representatives were asked to chip in. Elderly people were given the contact numbers of emergency care, police stations and personnel on patrol in the area to seek help at any time. Trichy range police claimed that the morale of senior citizens has improved because of their caring approach during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-extend-helping-hand-to-elders-staying-alone-at-home/articleshow/75384508.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 57-year-old is Mumbai’s first cop casualty||MUMBAI: A 57-year-old constable died of Covid-19 on Saturday afternoon—the first among Mumbai police personnel to die of the disease. The constable’s Worli residence is located near an area that has been declared a ‘containment zone’, said sources. Until Saturday, 96 state police personnel had tested positive Covid. The deceased cop’s wife, two sons and a daughter have been quarantined and will undergo tests, said a senior police officer. The constable had been posted at Vakola police station and was assigned desk duty recently, considering his vulnerability due to age. As he was running a temperature, he was admitted to Nair Hospital on Wednesday where he tested positive. The officer said one of his three close colleagues has also tested positive and has been admitted to a hospital. The other two have been quarantined at home, but have not shown any symptoms so far. Police sources claimed that the constable could have contracted the virus around his residence. The deceased cop, who hails from the Konkan region, had joined the police force in 1988 and. He had been serving at Vakola police station since 2015. Last week, he informed his seniors that he had a fever. Civic officers were immediately informed and the constable was taken to hospital. He passed away in hospital around 3.30pm. Deputy commissioner of police Manjunath Shinge said they have devised a rota by which every staffer works for 12 hours and then gets the next 24 hours off to rest. “This is very important for their physical and emotional well-being,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/57-year-old-is-citys-first-cop-casualty/articleshow/75384712.cms||Nitasha Natu
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||After Delhi, plasma therapy to treat critical patients starts in UP||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh joined Delhi to start plasma therapy to treat critical coronavirus patients in the country. King George’s Medical University (KGMU) collected the plasma of two donors on Saturday and became the first medical institute in the state to began the therapy to treat serious patients with matching blood group across the state. Two corona survivors Dr Tauseef Khan, a resident doctor at KGMU and one Uma Shankar Pandey, a native of Lakhimpur donated their plasma on Saturday. In this therapy, antibody-rich plasma (a blood component) is taken from donors who have fully recovered from the coronavirus infection to treat critical patients. One donor plasma helps in treating two patients. “Two corona warriors have recovered fully from the virus and have become an inspiration in KGMU’s fight against coronavirus,” said KGMU vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt. The university has two more voluntary donors for plasma therapy lined up for Monday. All these patients were treated at KGMU.“Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) gave us permission for plasma therapy a few days back and we immediately started counselling patients who had been treated at KGMU to get the donor plasma. The two who donated their plasma on Saturday belong to B+ blood group type and will be helpful in treating covid-19 patient with the same blood group,” said head of KGMU’s transfusion medicine department, Prof Tulika Chandra. Adding to it, in charge of the covid-19 unit medicine professor Dr D Himanshu said, “Critical patients across the state can benefit from these antibodies. Only the blood group of the patient and the donor should match. If required, we can go to the patient, or the patient can be called to KGMU for this treatment. From one person, 500ml of plasma is taken which can then be used for treatment of two patients.” Prof Tulika Chandra explained that her department has separated the 500ml of plasma into two bags of 200 ml each and one with 100 ml. “On the first day, a patient will be given 200ml of plasma with antibodies against the virus. If the patient responds to it their parameters including oxygen need will start improving in 24 hours. If not, after 24 hours the patient will be given another round of 200 ml plasma from another donor with the same blood group, so that the antibodies received have a higher capability to fight the virus. The combination method is used for better results,” explained Prof Chandra. The process, experts said, is around one to one and a half hours long. After donation, the patients are made to rest for some time and the plasma is secured for use. While a number of states in the country have applied to ICMR for approval to begin the therapy, it is only Delhi and UP that have started the process after due approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-delhi-plasma-therapy-to-treat-critical-patients-starts-in-up/articleshow/75384512.cms||Yusra Husain
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||28 new-cases in Bhopal, recovery rate 26%||Bhopal: One-fourth of people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal city bhave recovered, the health department informed on Saturday. Recovery rate in Bhopal is a high 26%, while the average rate of recovery after Covid-19 infection in the state is 14.4%, according to health department data. As many as 28 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of infected cases to 388. Condition of two people hospitalised with Covid-19 is said to be critical. Those who tested positive on Saturday includes two nursing staff from AIIMS Bhopal, confirmed institute official. JP hospital official also confirmed that one nurse and one staffer tested positive for Covid-19. All are said to be in stable condition. Seven people who were quarantined at Hajj house and came in contact with Jamaat members also were on the list of 28 people who tested positive on Saturday. According to district administration, a list of about 10,000 people which includes close contacts of the about 388 Covid-19 has been prepared. These people are from across the state capital. They would be health screened and tested for Covid-19 in the coming days. Covid-19 test takes place in four Bhopal laboratories. The city has 156 containment areas. District has been divided into hotspot zones, containment areas and non-hotspot zone. Officially, so far there is complete lockdown in Bhopal. The main criteria of these hotspot zone are those from which more cases are being currently reported or where the rate of growth of cases is more, that is the doubling rate of cases is less. Special teams are to be setup to trace all contacts as well as conduct house to house surveys. These teams include the health staff, local revenue staff, BMC and other volunteers. Government has classified hospitals as Covid-19 care centres for mild cases or very mild cases. Covid-19 health centres for clinical moderate cases requiring oxygen support and dedicated hospitals for severe and critical cases with ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/28-new-cases-in-bhopal-recovery-rate-26/articleshow/75383674.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Woman jumps to death with 7-year-old son in Jhunjhunu||JAIPUR: A 40-year-old woman on Saturday committed suicide by jumping into the well at her Dabri Baloda village home in Jhunjhunu along with her younger son, who also did not survive. The reason is yet to be ascertained as no suicide note was found and the family is unable to give any apparent cause. The deceased were identified as Sangeeta Jat and her 7-year-old son Priyanshu. Mukundgarh SHO Ram Swaroop said, “The woman took her son who was asleep and jumped into the well. She jumped while her elder son and mother-in-law were asleep inside the house. The cause of deaths appears to be the injuries which they suffered after falling into the well.” At present, police are uncertain about the reason behind the suicide. The official said, “She left behind no suicide note and it is not clear as to why she took her younger son along with her. Her father-in-law had died a few years ago and she stayed with her mother-in-law and children while her husband worked elsewhere.” According to the family, Sangeeta’s husband had been working abroad for nearly five years and for the last two years was based in Dubai. “The family is not able to tell anything at present and claimed that nothing happened in the past few days which could have made her take this step. However, it cannot be denied that she was under stress otherwise there was no reason why she would have jumped along with her son,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-jumps-to-death-with-7-year-old-son/articleshow/75384124.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Stuck in Chennai, Bhopal youth awaits help to return home||Bhopal: Even after spending 31 days in quarantine, there seems no end to the nightmare for Bhopal’s 26-year-old Ankush Dey, who is stuck in Chennai. Working for a Malaysia-based company, the ordeal began for Ankush on March 18 when he was about to board the flight to reach Chennai enroute Colombo from Kuala Lumpur. “I am working in a company in Malaysia. When I was not allowed to board the flight, I requested the officials to permit me to go back to my home in Kuala Lumpur. However, they told me that I have to be quarantined at the airport only. After spending six days at Kuala Lumpur airport, I and about 50 others were airlifted to Chennai on March 24,” said Ankush. He added that at Chennai airport, he was led to be quarantined. “I followed their instructions at the Chennai airport and went to quarantine. Surprisingly, instead of 14 days quarantine, officials put for 31 days of quarantine and released me on April 24,” said Ankush. Though he is not corona-positive, Ankush came out of quarantine in Chennai on April 24. He is still uncertain about his return to Bhopal as both air and services have not declared the date of resuming their services. After moving out of quarantine, Ankush is in a private hostel in Chennai. “Now, I am spending money from my own pocket. My family is worried in Bhopal. I never tested positive for COVID-19 even though two tests were conducted. Please help me,” said Ankush. He claimed that several people have moved out after paying from their pockets. “I can’t pay a hefty amount to go back to Bhopal. I have no choice except to wait till the transport services resume. I hope Madhya Pradesh government will do something to bring me back to Bhopal,” said Ankush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stuck-in-chennai-bhopal-youth-awaits-help-to-return-home/articleshow/75383685.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 26, 2020||Indore||150 industries apply for resuming operations||Indore: As many as 150 industries of the region have applied to resume operations with industry department following relaxations to industries in lockdown period. A four-member District Crisis Management Committee (DCMC) has been constituted to verify applications and recommend which industries can operate in lockdown period. Sunil Tripathi, general manager, District Trade Center, Pithampur and also a member of the committee said, “We are working on around 150 applications that have reached us from various industries. These applications will be scrutinized and then the committee will give recommendations to industry department.” The industry policy and investment promotion department of Madhya Pradesh has issued guidelines allowing certain industries located in rural areas, Special Economic Zone (SEZ), Madhya Pradesh Industry Development Corporation (MPIDC), District Industries Center (DIC), export oriented, manufacturers of medicine, medical equipment, essential services and cold storages to operate after getting clearance from DCMC. Following guidelines of state government, committee is allowing industries on basis of priorities set by government. Tripathi said, “Firstly, we are allowing industries that have arrangements within their campus to accommodate workers, secondly all those units that are calling all their workforce from Pithampur and nearby areas and thirdly such industries that falls under essential services.” The state government has issued instructions and safety norms to be mandatorily be followed by industries operating in the lockdown period. The committee said such industries that have a large number of workers coming from Indore, shall not be lowed to operate. Industries located in Indore will also not be allowed to function in lockdown period, according to the committee. The panel is also ensuring not to allow permissions to those industries that have employees coming from containment areas or any of the infected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/150-industries-apply-for-resuming-operations/articleshow/75384123.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Stuck in Pithoragarh, 37 tourists from WB seek state’s help for return||Pithoragarh: As many as 37 tourists from West Bengal who have been stranded at Uttarakhand’s Chaukori for over a month have now sought the assistance of the Mamata government to return home stating that they are running out of money and other essential items including medicines. Of the 37 tourists, a group of 27 said that they reached the hill state for a leisure trip on March 19 but were stranded as the lockdown was announced soon after. Talking to TOI, group member Shantanu Sarkar said, “We started our journey from Kolkata on March 13 and reached Munsyari on March 19. Then we visited Nainital, Almora, Kausani and reached Chaukori on March 21. Soon after, all modes of transport were suspended and the lockdown was announced. We have been stranded for over a month now. Our group includes elderly and heart patients too. As we are running out of money and other essential items, including medicines, we want to return home as early as possible.” Another group member Golop Chatterjee said, “We had train reservation to return home on March 23 but it was cancelled without notice. We are ready to stay in quarantine. We just want the Bengal government to rescue us and take us home.” Another group of 10 members from West Bengal also echo similar sentiments. A group member Tarak Dhar said, “We have been stuck here for the last one month. We are now facing both emotional and financial problems.” Meanwhile, the district administration said that the groups are being provided both ration and medicinal supplies. Pithoragarh district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said, “We are arranging essential items and medicines for them. However, they are not permitted to travel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stuck-in-pithoragarh-37-tourists-from-wb-seek-states-help-for-return/articleshow/75383689.cms||Prem Punetha
April 26, 2020||Trichy||‘Nungu’ vendors feel pinch of lockdown||Trichy: The fall in demand and sale of ‘nungu’ (palm fruit), has left the seasonal vendors in the lurch amid lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. Vendors said that there is a steep decline in the supply of the fruit due to curfew restrictions and added that even the number of customers has gone down. While summer is the peak season for palm fruit, sellers in the city said they are getting very limited stock from the farmers as they could not travel to the area where the fruits are available. V Selvam, 55, a resident of Woraiyur in Trichy usually sells the fruit during summer. He had leased a palmyra grove in Thanjavur, which has around 2,000 trees. However, due to lockdown, he could not cross the district borders to get the fruits, he said. “Since I am not allowed to cross the district border, I could not get fruits from the grove. I was forced to roam around the outskirts of Trichy in search of palmyra trees and their owners. I managed to collect two gunny bags of the fruit. For these two bags, I have to spend Rs 500 to Rs 750 for a mini truck to carry them. Due to so much expense, I could not earn a profit. Sales equalize the cost of purchase,” he said. Another vendor P Krishnamoorthi from Kattur, said that due to poor demand he could not sell the fruit at a nominal rate. “Due to lockdown, I hardly find people on the roads. After hearing the price of the fruit, nobody is willing to purchase it. However, I could not sell them below the purchase cost,” he added. Every year the price of the fruit has been increasing. Nowadays people realize the goodness of ‘Nungu’. So, automatically the demand has gone up, said R Prasad, a resident of Woraiyur. “Last year I bought one fruit for Rs 5. Now it is Rs 7 to 8. Vendors attributed poor supply for the rise in price,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nungu-vendors-feel-pinch-of-lockdown/articleshow/75384513.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two survivors bring hope for Covid-19 patients||LUCKNOW: Dr Tauseef Khan, a resident doctor at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), was fasting on Saturday but that was not what made him special. What made him different was that despite fasting he lay on a recliner at transfusion medicine department to donate plasma, becoming one of the first two persons in UP to donate plasma for convalescent therapy being tried across the world for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Dr Khan was not alone in the pursuit as he was joined by 53-year-old Uma Shankar Pandey in the noble cause. Both Dr Tauseef and Uma Shankar had contracted coronavirus infection earlier in March and recovered fully after undergoing treatment at KGMU. Having experienced the disease up and close, the two decided it was their time to give back hope to other patients by donating plasma. Dr Tauseef contracted the infection while treating the first Covid-19 patient of Lucknow – a Canada-based doctor. However, it didn’t affect his resolve to treat patients by all possible means. “My family was a little apprehensive as I had to fast from dawn to dusk. They were afraid that I would feel weakness due to plasma donation. I dispelled their misconceptions and finally got their support,” he told TOI. His two brothers also encouraged him in his endeavour. The doctor also issued a video appeal calling upon other patients to donate blood. Uma Shankar Pandey (53) from Lakhimpur Kheri also reached KGMU on Saturday morning for plasma donation. Pandey said he was admitted to the hospital on March 18 after a trip to Turkey. “I have got a new lease of life after treatment. Since I was getting information about plasma therapy through news, I decided to be a donor. If I can save even one life, my being alive will become meaningful,” he said. “I did not feel any problem while donating plasma. Even during illness, I kept my calm and hoped for recovery,” said Pandey, who returned to his village Maiganganj with his son on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-survivors-bring-hope-for-covid-patients/articleshow/75384528.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t ostracize entire group over mistakes of a few: Bhagwat||Nagpur: It is not right to ostracize an entire group if a section of it has committed an irresponsible act out of fear or anger leading to the spread of Covid-19, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat in an online address on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on Sunday. In an obvious reference to Nizamuddin Markaz incident of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi and its fallout, Bhagwat said it was not right to have same yardstick for an entire community. “There are black sheep everywhere,” said Bhagwat who stressed such incident should not fuel hatred in the country. “There is a segment active these days that has evil intentions of dividing the nation. The common man should understand they should not react with hate and understand that each of the 130 crore people living in India belong to our motherland and are our brothers,” said Bhagwat. There should be no reaction out of fear or anger from either side and leaders of every group should be preventing their people from such acts, said Bhagwat as he also deplored the killing of sadhus in Palghar. “Much has been said about the incident. However, the question is should it have happened. Should people have taken the law in their own hands,” he said about the Palghar killings. “There have been calls from Hindu Dharma Acharya Sabha and Vishwa Hindu Parishad on holding a programme to pay homage to the sadhus on April 28. We all will be taking part in it,” said Bhagwat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-ostracize-entire-group-over-mistakes-of-a-few-bhagwat/articleshow/75394276.cms||Shishir Arya
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Joint effort: Family prepares 100 meals everyday to feed poor, emergency staff||VISAKHAPATNAM: At the Rao family in Venkojipalem in HB Colony, the day begins early. Vegetables are peeled and cut and meals prepared by 11 am. The food is then packaged and the packets are taken out for distribution to around 100 persons. Since the lockdown began, the joint family took the decision to utilise its time buying rice and vegetables, preparing and distributing meals to the poorer sections of society and those on emergency duty, instead of staying idle. A section of the meals is also prepared to feed street dogs in the locality. “Since the lockdown we are preparing meals, mostly fried rice, for around 100 persons. A portion of the meals are being served for the street dogs of our locality,” said Koteswara Rao, a real estate developer. “It is a noble cause. And I am happy to be part of such a kind effort,” Rao’s son Sai Yashwanth told STOI. The family is distributing food in several localities across the city. Beneficiaries include street dwellers, sanitary workers and even a section of police officials on duty. “Yet no developer in the city has taken such an initiative. I want to tell them that it is the right time to give something back to the City of Destiny, the city that gives us business round the year,” added Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/joint-effort-family-prepares-100-meals-everyday-to-feed-poor-emergency-staff/articleshow/75382846.cms||Arpit Basu
April 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Suicide of guest workers in state puzzles officials||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It could be lockdown stress or personal issues; the labour department has been dealing with suicides among guest workers in the state who have been hunkered down in government-run camps and individual shelters. Seven suicides among guest workers have been reported from five districts in the state, with most of the cases being reported in April. In the review meeting held on Thursday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan directed local self government department to provide available jobs to guest workers to keep them engaged citing the seven suicides reported during lockdown. All the seven suicides reported from five districts happened in places where the victims had stayed independently in camps or houses. The officials said that not all deaths could be attributed to anxiety during lockdown. In Pathanamthitta, two suicides were reported this month. “We understand that the reasons may have been personal in both these cases. One of them lived with his wife and had reportedly had a fight with her. Another person also reportedly got into a fight with his girl friend at home over phone. Both of them were from West Bengal,” an official with labour department said. The person from West Bengal who committed suicide in Bharanikavu near Kollam may have died of the fear that he had caught the infection. He was employed along with four people in a hollow bricks company and they stayed in a shelter near the company building. Three of them had caught fever and all of them went to the nearby hospital and took medicine. While returning to their shelter, BodaMalik, who ended his life asked others to go ahead and he hanged himself from a tree behind a bank building. Another labourer from West Bengal who committed suicide in Alappuzha had been in the state for years. He had initially been employed in a wood mill and later he took up domestic works in a house taking care of cow and doing agriculture. “He had regular supply of food and provisions. He also had regular job and income. We don't know why he ended his life,” the official said. The department has not enlisted another case as a labourer since he was 17. He came to Ernakulam in March along with seven other persons from Bihar for a job at a construction site. However he was not enrolled in the muster since he was 17. Two other suicides happened at Ottappalam and Kanjikode. A man from Madhya Pradesh who was employed as a priest in a temple was found hanging in his room recently at Ottapalam, while the other suicide happened at Kanjikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/suicide-of-guest-workers-in-state-puzzles-officials/articleshow/75382861.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Shops in 9 U’khand districts to open from 7 am to 6 pm||Dehradun: The state government on Saturday decided to allow shops in nine districts, which had been declared green zones since they had not reported Covid-19 cases, to remain open from 7am to 6pm as directed by the Union government. Also, hospitals will function in a normal fashion in these districts from Sunday. In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, every district hospital in the state was notified as a centre for treatment of novel coronavirus patients. However, as no cases were reported from seven districts and only one each from Almora and Pauri, the state government has decided to resume normal OPD and in-patient services in these areas. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the decision would mainly help those living in the hills. However, liquor stores, barber salons, and some other shops would continue to remain shut as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. Also, no movement of vehicles, be it inter-state or inter-district, would be allowed. The CM has also formed a three-member cabinet sub-committee headed by agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal to suggest ways to recover the financial losses faced due to the lockdown. The sub-committee would explore ways to generate employment at the local level and measures to improve the financial condition of economically weaker sections. Rawat added that he would interact with businessmen, industrialists and people of the state settled elsewhere through video conferencing to discuss measures to bring the economy back on track. This interaction, the CM said, would be somewhat like Raibaar, the reach-out initiative started by his government to connect to people of the Uttarakhand diaapora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shops-in-9-ukhand-districts-to-open-from-7-am-to-6-pm/articleshow/75383708.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 26, 2020||Chennai||1 dies in Tamil Nadu; greengrocer, 6 kin test positive in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s biggest red zone, Chennai, continued to record the most number of cases in the state on Saturday with sporadic infections being reported from crowded market areas such as Koyambedu, Royapuram and Puliyanthope. A vegetable vendor, who gets his stocks from Koyambedu wholesale market, tested positive along with six of his family members minutes before health officials found 15 more people positive at a row of houses at Asirvadapuram in Puliyanthope. The state registered 66 new cases taking the total number of cases to 1,821, of which 835 continue to be in various hospitals. Late on Saturday, Krishnagiri collector S Prabhakar declared the district’s first case — a 43-year-old man, who was working in a private company in Mysuru, had tested positive in Hosur. His name, however, was not added to the state’s count as samples have been sent to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research in Chennai for verification, Prabhakar said. Meanwhile, two Chennai cases formed nearly 50% of the 43 new cases recorded in the district. The total number of cases in Chennai went up to 495. The number of “unlinked cases” in TN people whose source of infection, officials have not been able to track and their contacts was nearly 100 when officials closed their records on Saturday. The list also included one doctor from Anna Nagar. A 36-year-old man, who was admitted to Chromepet Government Hospital on Friday, died on Saturday after he tested positive for Covid-19. His death took the toll in the state to 23. According to officials, the man has not been out of his house for more than a month, but complained of fever and cough on Thursday. Doctors at the Kundrathur PHC gave him antibiotics on the first day and referred him to Chrompet hospital when his symptoms worsened. He was admitted to the hospital at 5.30pm on Friday. “He died today. We are doing an audit to find out the cause of his death,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, at least four cancer patients from a private hospital tested positive for Covid-19. The patients were getting treated in the same room at the Adyar Cancer Institute where another patient had tested positive. “So far, six patients and two staff nurses have tested positive. We are testing all high-risk patients, doctors and staff,” said hospital chairman Dr V Shanta. “People with cancer are vulnerable to the viral infection. We’re doing everything we can to keep this place safe from the pandemic,” she said. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu crossed 52% when 94 patients, including six PG doctors admitted the RGGH, were discharged taking the total number of people recovered from the infection to 960. “We have one of the largest recovery rates in the country,” said Vijayabaskar. “The doctors who have been discharged today have also signed forms volunteering themselves as plasma donors. They are our real heroes,” he said. ESI Coimbatore has discharged 185 patients and Karur Medical College Hospital has discharged 144 patients. With these discharges, the number of active cases in the state has came down to 835 on Saturday compared to 864 on Friday. “Since most patients are asymptomatic, we are now testing more people for the infection. In the last 24 hours, we screened more than 7,000 people and we have added at least seven more labs. We now have 30 government labs doing PCR tests free of cost,” he said. On Saturday, 27,277 people were under home quarantine, 25 in government quarantine facilities, and 1,865 people under isolation at hospitals across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-dies-in-tn-greengrocer-6-kin-test-ve-in-city/articleshow/75384519.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Gangotri shrine opening ceremony commences||UTTARKASHI: Strictly following the lockdown norms, the palanquin of Goddess Ganga left for Gangotri shrine from her winter abode Mukhba village in Uttarkashi district on Saturday. As many as 21 people, including priests and members of Gangotri temple committee, participated in the ceremony. All of them had received permission from the administration Earlier in the day, the priests took out the idol of Goddess Ganga from the winter temple and kept it in the palanquin after performing traditional rituals. Subsequently, the procession of devotees carried the palanquin to the Bhairav temple where they halted for a night and performed special prayers. Suresh Semwal, president of Gangotri temple committee told TOI, “Procession of Goddess Ganga, which included limited number of people, will leave for Gangotri shrine on Sunday morning from Bhairav temple, where portals of the shrine will be reopened at Shubh Muhurat (auspicious timing) of 12.35 pm on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya.” He added that the devotees will not be allowed to visit the temple due to lockdown norms but the priests will perform routine prayers in the temple. “We are planning to broadcast live visuals of daily "aarti" on social media platforms so that devotees are able to get the blessings of Goddess Ganga,” Semwal informed. Meanwhile, priests and members of Yamunotri temple committee also completed the preparations of the opening ceremony of Yamunotri shrine. Kriteshwar Uniyal, secretary of Yamunotri temple, told TOI, “Only 21 people will participate in the Doli Yatra which will start from Kharsali village on Sunday morning. The portals of Yamunotri shrine will be opened at the auspicious timing of 12.41 pm on the day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gangotri-shrine-opening-ceremony-commences/articleshow/75383709.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Tenure of retiring govt doctors, nurses extended by 2 months||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday announced that doctors, nurses and technicians of health and family welfare department, who are due to retire on April 30, would be given two months extension of service on contract basis. They would be given consolidated pay for the extended tenure. The state government will also induct 1,323 nurses into service immediately. Several senior health officials, including the director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy, are due to complete their service period by the month end, officials said. In a statement, the chief minister said the government would issue appointment orders for temporary service of doctors, nurses and technicians. “The doctors, nurses and technicians, who were to retire on March 31, have already been given extensions of service,” the CM said. The government had recently inducted 1,509 lab technicians, 530 doctors and 1,000 nurses into service. They were recruited based on their performance in competitive examinations conducted by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Recruitment Board. “In continuation to that, the board has selected 1,323 more nurses. Appointment orders are being given to the candidates and they have been informed to join service immediately,” Palaniswami said. Every year, more than 3,000 health personnel retire from the health department. Records show between March and May, at least 1,500 staff were retiring from service. “At the time of pandemic, it is important to retain experienced people to avoid vacancies and ensure seamless transmission of workflow. The newly appointed staff will also be given good training,” said a senior health department official. The state health department has about 20,000 doctors working in the three directorates and at least 28,000 nurses, including 12,700 contract nurses, besides other technicians and healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tenure-of-retiring-govt-docs-nurses-extended-by-2mths/articleshow/75384132.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Citizens push norms aside, rub shoulders to shop for lockdown||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government’s ‘complete’ lockdown from Sunday gambit for five red hotspot districts panned out disastrously on Saturday as people in their thousands poured out of their homes, ignoring social distancing norms, to stock up on essentials. Shops, small and big, markets and roads were all teeming with panicked crowds on a buying spree. The scene was identical in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tirupur and Salem traffic snarls on roads and teeming crowds in markets. Policemen were mute spectators as people blatantly ignored the lockdown protocol under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Section 144 of the CrPC, to clean out the shelves in stores. Goods, essential and non-essential items, vanished; no one cared about prices. The government extended the timings of ration shops to 3pm, but they had run out of stocks. Defending the government’s decision to enforce a ‘complete’ lockdown, health minister C Vijayabaskar said, “Chennai is a densely populated region. It is a challenge to deal with a pandemic like this in a city with a population of nearly 1.5 crore people.” Meanwhile, chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil said “Lockdown is not going to get us anywhere, but it will probably prolong the agony. I am not privy to the information with the government, so I suppose there must be some reason for the government to do it.” Watch Covid-19: Panic buying grips Chennai, locals violate lockdown norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/citizens-push-norms-aside-rub-shoulders-to-shop-for-lockdown/articleshow/75384963.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Citizens push norms aside, rub shoulders to shop for lockdown||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government’s ‘complete’ lockdown from Sunday gambit for five red hotspot districts panned out disastrously on Saturday as people in their thousands poured out of their homes, ignoring social distancing norms, to stock up on essentials. Shops, small and big, markets and roads were all teeming with panicked crowds on a buying spree. The scene was identical in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tirupur and Salem traffic snarls on roads and teeming crowds in markets. Policemen were mute spectators as people blatantly ignored the lockdown protocol under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Section 144 of the CrPC, to clean out the shelves in stores. Goods, essential and non-essential items, vanished; no one cared about prices. The government extended the timings of ration shops to 3pm, but they had run out of stocks. Defending the government’s decision to enforce a ‘complete’ lockdown, health minister C Vijayabaskar said, “Chennai is a densely populated region. It is a challenge to deal with a pandemic like this in a city with a population of nearly 1.5 crore people.” Meanwhile, chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil said “Lockdown is not going to get us anywhere, but it will probably prolong the agony. I am not privy to the information with the government, so I suppose there must be some reason for the government to do it.” Watch Covid-19: Panic buying grips Chennai, locals violate lockdown norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/citizens-push-norms-aside-rub-shoulders-to-shop-for-lockdown/articleshow/75384964.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||All rituals being followed: Sanchaita||Visakhapatnam: Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, hereditary trustee and chairperson of Simhachalam Devasthanam, said on Saturday that the temple board took a call to bar entry of devotees immediately after the Covid-19 pandemic, even before the government’s lockdown announcement. “The decision was a critical one. While ensuring no special preference to anyone, we also ensured that temple rituals and traditions are followed. Arrangements were made to reach out to devotees using technology,” Sanchaita said. She added that she will attend the Chandanotsavam for ‘pradhama darshan’ — a traditional ritual where the hereditary trustee gets the first ‘nijaroopa darshanam’. However, she said won’t bring her family along for the main puja. “The Devasthanam is tending to around 50 people who have got stranded there. They have been accommodated in our guest houses where all lockdown rules are being followed,” she said. The temple board has provided a WhatsApp number (99497 25433), through which devotees can contact temple authorities to offer special prayers, avail prasadam and chandan (sandalwood paste). The chandan and prasadam would be delivered by post at devotees’ homes after postal services are reinstated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/all-rituals-being-followed-sanchaita/articleshow/75382863.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Despite Covid-19, Mumbai March toll down from earlier years||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 outbreak has claimed 191 lives in the city and affected 5,049 Mumbaikars so far, but the BMC on Saturday produced data to show how the viral infection has not pushed northwards the death graph for this time of the year. If at all, the number of deaths and other related statistics have registered a drop, said BMC officials. In one data set, it was seen deaths in cases harbouring chronic conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and heart problems registered a dip of almost 36% this March compared to the same month in previous years. Diabetes, hypertension and heart problems can be life-threatening when the patient contracts another disease like Covid-19.In March 2017, there were 729 deaths owing to some of these co-morbidities, in March 2018 the number was 883 deaths, and in March 2019 it was 937. This March, the number of deaths dipped to 595. After widespread criticism of the healthcare infrastructure for the death of Covid-19 patients within 24 hours of admission, BMC officials also dug out data on deaths in the April 14 to April 21 period over the last few years. While there were 99 deaths within 24 hours of admission in 2018, the figure was 92 in 2019 and 90 this year. The BMC officials said that the figures showed Covid-19 had not worsened the death statistics in the city so far. The death analysis also showed that 62% of the total patients expired within three days of admission, while 30% of fatalities were from the low-income group and 32% were among people living in chawls. In a meeting held recently, it was mentioned that mortality rate was high due to patients reporting late to hospitals. “Therefore, in the current situation, potentially vulnerable people will be screened by trained teams from the BMC, who will visit door-to-door with an oximeter (to measure oxygen concentration) and conduct a scan using a portable X-ray machine and suspected patients can then be shifted into the necessary healthcare facility,” a civic official said. Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said that considering the projections that have been made of the increase in number of Covid-19 cases by the end of May, they were working towards ramping up their facilities as well. “We have had discussions about it, and on how Mumbai’s death rate has been low despite Covid-19, with the central team last week. Steps with regard to these are being taken,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-covid-city-march-toll-down-from-earlier-yrs/articleshow/75384716.cms||Richa Pinto
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Citizens push norms aside, rub shoulders to shop for lockdown||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government’s ‘complete’ lockdown from Sunday gambit for five red hotspot districts panned out disastrously on Saturday as people in their thousands poured out of their homes, ignoring social distancing norms, to stock up on essentials. Shops, small and big, markets and roads were all teeming with panicked crowds on a buying spree. The scene was identical in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tirupur and Salem traffic snarls on roads and teeming crowds in markets. Policemen were mute spectators as people blatantly ignored the lockdown protocol under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Section 144 of the CrPC, to clean out the shelves in stores. Goods, essential and non-essential items, vanished; no one cared about prices. The government extended the timings of ration shops to 3pm, but they had run out of stocks. Defending the government’s decision to enforce a ‘complete’ lockdown, health minister C Vijayabaskar said, “Chennai is a densely populated region. It is a challenge to deal with a pandemic like this in a city with a population of nearly 1.5 crore people.” Meanwhile, chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil said “Lockdown is not going to get us anywhere, but it will probably prolong the agony. I am not privy to the information with the government, so I suppose there must be some reason for the government to do it.” Watch Covid-19: Panic buying grips Chennai, locals violate lockdown norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/citizens-push-norms-aside-rub-shoulders-to-shop-for-lockdown/articleshow/75384962.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Citizens push norms aside, rub shoulders to shop for lockdown||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government’s ‘complete’ lockdown from Sunday gambit for five red hotspot districts panned out disastrously on Saturday as people in their thousands poured out of their homes, ignoring social distancing norms, to stock up on essentials. Shops, small and big, markets and roads were all teeming with panicked crowds on a buying spree. The scene was identical in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tirupur and Salem traffic snarls on roads and teeming crowds in markets. Policemen were mute spectators as people blatantly ignored the lockdown protocol under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and Section 144 of the CrPC, to clean out the shelves in stores. Goods, essential and non-essential items, vanished; no one cared about prices. The government extended the timings of ration shops to 3pm, but they had run out of stocks. Defending the government’s decision to enforce a ‘complete’ lockdown, health minister C Vijayabaskar said, “Chennai is a densely populated region. It is a challenge to deal with a pandemic like this in a city with a population of nearly 1.5 crore people.” Meanwhile, chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil said “Lockdown is not going to get us anywhere, but it will probably prolong the agony. I am not privy to the information with the government, so I suppose there must be some reason for the government to do it.” Watch Covid-19: Panic buying grips Chennai, locals violate lockdown norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/citizens-push-norms-aside-rub-shoulders-to-shop-for-lockdown/articleshow/75384550.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corpn begins distribution of kabasura kudineer to workers||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation on Saturday started distribution of kabasura powder, a natural immunity booster, to about 2,700 sanitary workers, volunteers and corporation employees involved in Covid-19 preventive work.The packets, each weighing 100g of kabasura powder are being provided to the sanitary workers in four zones. The workers have been told to ensure that their family members also consume the herbal water daily. Siddha practitioners said the kabasura powder contains 15 types of natural ingredients, including chukku (dried ginger) and thippili (long pepper), lavangam (clove), adathodai leaf and mulli ver. The decoction will help improve immunity.Practitioners said that 5g of kabasura powder should be mixed with 300ml of water and boiled to reduce the water quantity to 30 ml. While adults can consume 60ml per day, children can consume 30ml daily.. The civic body has also made the decoction available at urban primary health centres (UPHCs), main corporation office and zonal corporation offices for the public.“We have been distributing kabasura powder packets in Covid-19 containment zones where people cannot come out. At the same time, 18 UPHCs have placed the kabasura kudineer in water cans for people to collect in vessels,” said corporation medical officer Dr V Rathna.The corporation has maintained that it has adequate stock of kabasura powder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-begins-distribution-of-kabasura-kudineer-to-workers/articleshow/75384549.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||Encyclopedia on Ramayana to trace Lord Ram’s footprints across world||LUCKNOW: The state government is planning a global outreach on its ambitious ‘Encyclopedia of Ramayana’ project with Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan in the process of documenting every ‘tangible and intangible’ legacy of Ramayan and tracing Lord Ram’s footprints across the world. The government’s objective is to present well-researched and documented facts on Lord Ram to the younger generation while forming a ‘Group of Ramayan Nations’ as part of its ‘soft-power’ diplomacy. The project got the nod of the UP government on Saturday. “Our research on Ramayan would turn out to be voluminous. Now, we have planned 100 volumes of the encyclopaedia,” said director of Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan, Y P Singh. Presence of Lord Ram is found in every state of the country in various forms of art, literature, Ram kathas, Ramlilas, paintings, music, dance, sculptures, idols and even tradition. The encyclopedia would document these after verification and research with expert help. The project has a five-year deadline. Ramayan’s legacy in Europe and south-east Asian countries like Thailand, Sri Lanka and Mauritius that perform various forms of Ramlila, and also performed in Ayodhya during Diwali, would be documented. The research institute receives funds of Rs 60 lakh from both Centre and state. “Funds won’t be a problem,” said the director. It would be printed in various languages for its global outreach. The institute would also seek assistance from Union ministries of culture, external affairs and human resource development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/encyclopedia-on-ramayana-to-trace-lord-rams-footprints-across-world/articleshow/75384547.cms||Neha Shukla
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No Chandanotsavam at Simhachalam, after 100 years||VISAKHAPATNAM: It will be a crowd-less Chandanotsavam at Simhachalam Devasthanam on Sunday. The last time the ancient temple witnessed a shutdown was in 1920, when the Spanish flu outbreak wreaked havoc across the subcontinent. Now, exactly 100 years later, it’s again a virus that has forced the temple to shut its doors. “We are not taking any chances this year. Barricades have been set up at seven key points. We have requested additional police force too. The festival will be a quiet affair,” temple executive officer M Venkateswara Rao said. Temple authorities said priests are working on rotational shifts to prevent crowding in the sanctum sanctorum. “It’s a sensitive issue, but we have restricted the number of priests and Vedic pundits to 20,” EO added. All rituals would be duly observed. Four Vedic pundits will chant mantras during the main puja, while five priests will work on three shifts each. Special pujas would be held from May 28 and would be telecast online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-chandanotsavam-at-simhachalam-after-100-years/articleshow/75382878.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 26, 2020||Chennai||High Covid-19 positive cases brings central team to Chennai||CHENNAI: The city recording a high number of Covid-19 positive cases led to the ministry of home affairs declaring the situation ‘serious’. On Saturday, Chennai’s Covid-19 positive count was close to 500, with the city finding a slot among the top ten metros with a high incidence of infection. Another factor worrying the Centre is the high number of lockdown violations in the city – close to 50,000 cases so far. While experts have suggested maintaining a fine balance between saving lives and saving livelihoods, the Tamil Nadu government has been struggling to enforce strict lockdown and containing the virus spread. As the state government announced total lockdown in Chennai for four days from April 26, an inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) led by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) additional secretary V Thiruppugazh, arrived in the city on Friday evening to take stock of the city corporation’s anti-Covid operations. Defending the government’s decision to enforce a complete lockdown, health minister C Vijayabaskar said, “Chennai is a densely populated region. It is a challenge to deal with a pandemic like this in a city with a population of nearly 1.5 crore people.” The health and family welfare department strongly recommended a complete lockdown. “The aim is to break the chain. If we stop people from getting out of their houses in the next few days, then we will be able to push back the virus,” he said. The high incidence in the city is also because of aggressive testing, said the minister. “We test more than 1,500 people from the city every day,” he said. Meanwhile, after a presentation on the measures being rolled out to check the virus spread at the corporation headquarters Ripon Buildings on Saturday, the team visited a shelter for guest workers at C P Ramasamy Road. The team quizzed the 53 inmates about facilities provided by the civic body and then visited a public distribution system outlet at Alwarpet to inspect the provisions kit to be given to workers. The team reviewed the ration stock and inspected the Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet. It visited the testing centre and quarantine facility besides containment areas in north Chennai’s Royapuram zone and Tondiarpet. The team members held a preliminary meeting with chief secretary K Shanmugam at the secretariat, followed by interactions with health and Chennai corporation officials. Other members of the team included Safdarjung Hospital community medicine professor Dr Anita Khokar, National Institute of Disaster Management professor Surya Prakash, Food Corporation of India chief general manager Lokender Singh and Integrated Vaccine Complex CEO Dr V Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/high-ve-cases-brings-central-team-to-city/articleshow/75384140.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Two bootleggers hit cop, nabbed||BHOPAL: Two bootleggers speeding on a two-wheeler hit a cop on duty at Suraj Nagar police outpost near Judicial Academy in Ratibad while the cop signalled them to stop on Saturday afternoon. The cop sustained severe injuries in his leg and head. The two were nabbed by other cops deployed at the check post and a box of illegal liquor was recovered from their possession. During investigation, it was revealed that they were smuggling the liquor from Sehore to Bhopal. Ratibad police have registered a case against the accused identified as Faizan and Ajay, residents of Banganga. SHO Ratibad SI J P Tripathi said that victim head constable Shyam Singh, posted at Kamla Nagar police station, was deployed at Suraj Nagar checking point and was rushed to a private hospital in Shahpura where his condition is said to be stable. Meanwhile Khajuri police stopped an SUV with ‘Police’ sticker in Khajuri and seized the vehicle along with 36 beer bottles and 86 litre liquor from the vehicle and registered a case against the accused. The accused Ajay Katare was trying to smuggle liquor from Sehore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-bootleggers-hit-cop-nabbed/articleshow/75383712.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Home guard ends life in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: A home guard posted at the sub-divisional magistrate’s office here allegedly ended life by consuming a poisonous substance on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Roshan Singh Panwar (40), a resident of Tehri Garhwal district. Police found him lying unconscious at home when they had gone to check on him as he did not report for duty on Saturday and could not be contacted on phone either. He was then rushed to the civil hospital where he was declared dead. Mussoorie station officer Vidhya Bhushan Negi said, “Although no suicide note was found, we assume that he took his own life. The exact cause of death is not known at present and will be clear only when the postmortem report arrives.” Dr Virendra Panthi said, “It seems that he had consumed a poisonous substance.” The deceased was living alone in Mussoorie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/home-guard-ends-life-in-mussoorie/articleshow/75383716.cms||Anmol Jain
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Community kitchens distribute dates and sharbat for Iftar and Sehri||Bhopal: Amid the corona lockdown, Ramzan began on Saturday, with faithfuls all the more keen to provide succour to people in distress. They have joined hands to start community kitchens and distribute packets of dates and bottles of sharbat to ensure that those observing Roza have enough supplies for Iftar in the evening and Sehri at the break of dawn . Syed Qazim-ul-hasan, a volunteer at a community kitchen near Hamid Manzil, said: “People give zaqat during Ramzan and this year we have pooled in a lot of groceries, bottles of sharbat, dates, papads as we all know that there are families who would need all these items for Iftar and Sehri. People are also donating money. People have been very generous with their donations; we distributed Iftari to around 500 people on the first day of Ramzan that will last them for two weeks at least, we will continue doing this till Eid.” A counsellor at Mahila Thana, Mohib Ahmed, told TOI that her family had distributed some lemon and mango squash, biscuits, chips, fruits etc along with flour and rice in the areas where people are struggling to make the two ends meet due to ongoing lockdown. “My maid lives nearby and told me about the plight of her neighbours. While we ensure that her family has enough groceries, this time we distributed packets of milk, sugar, snacks, cold drinks etc. in the locality. We also distributed packets of cereals and pulses, so that they can have a healthy Sehri in the morning,” she said. People of Bhopal are also seen opting for healthier foods for Iftar in Covid-19 season, as opposed to heavy and oily snacks preferred earlier. Noted architect of the city S M Hussain threw light on the changing food palates. He said, “Earlier, Bhopalis used to prefer items like nukti and khaare, papads and oily snacks. For the last few years, they have started opting for healthier options, including sprouts, fruits, dates, salads and other healthy items to stay fit while fasting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/community-kitchens-distribute-dates-and-sharbat-for-iftar-and-sehri/articleshow/75383728.cms||Shuchita Jha
April 26, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad cybercrime cell recovers Rs 65 lakh lost in email fraud||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Timely intervention by the Pimpri Chinchwad cybercrime cell helped a city-based company to recover around Rs65lakh it had fraudulently transferred to a bank account operated by cybercrime fraudsters. The company had transferred the money on March 20 to a bank account mentioned in an email, which mirrored that of a German firm it had been in business with for years. On Saturday, the money was transferred by the bank authorities to the Pimpri-Chinchwad based company. The entire operation was executed by the police despite the constraints of lockdown. According to the police, the company was tricked into sending the payments for a consignment worth 90,000 US dollars (approximately Rs65lakh) to a new bank account number of a different bank as mentioned in the email. After the company transferred the amount, it got in touch with the German firm to find out whether it had received the payment. The German firm replied that it had not sent any payment request, nor has it received any payment. Realising that it had been duped, the Pimpri Chinchwad-based company lodged a complaint with the police. A team headed by deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath and senior inspector Sudhakar Kate swung into action. The officials immediately brought the fraudulent transaction to the notice of the bank to which the money was transferred with a request to freeze the account. The bank officials froze the account and conducted an inquiry following which the money was reverted to the company, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-cybercrime-cell-recovers-rs65lakh-lost-in-email-fraud/articleshow/75384717.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: UGC panel wants all colleges to start in September, forego winter leave||CHENNAI: The new academic year for universities and colleges can start from September instead of July in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a panel appointed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) has said. Another panel has recommended conducting online exams wherever possible. If the recommendations are implemented, students may not have winter holidays next academic year, and colleges may have to work on Saturdays and holidays to compensate for the lost working days. One of the committees led by Haryana University vicechancellor R C Kuhad was formed to look into ways of conducting exams in universities amid the lockdown and work on an alternative academic calendar. The second committee, set up to suggest measures to improve online education, was led by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) V-C Nageshwar Rao. Both the panels submitted their reports on Friday and the ministry of human resources development is likely to issue a notification next week after studying the reports. Final year exams may be conducted soon after lockdown endsP Duraisamy, vice-chancellor, University of Madras, said, “We can make it up by working on Saturdays and winter vacation. Usually, semester exams would be conducted in November, and in December there would be winter vacation. By working during the winter holidays, we can achieve mandatory 90 working days per semester.” The expert committee also proposed to conduct online test for end-semester exams. “Except Delhi University, all other universities expressed concerns about conducting online test for end-semester exams. It is difficult to conduct online exams as all students may not be take them,” said the VC who was one of the special invitees to the UGC’s expert panel to improve online education. After the lockdown, exams can be conducted immediately for final-year students. “Once the colleges are reopened, we can conduct the exams and publish results in 30 to 40 days. For the first-year and second-year students, exams would be conducted leisurely and evaluation can be done during weekends,” he added. An official from the Anna University also ruled out conducting online exams saying all students may not have access to internet. “Any delay in conducting exams will affect final-year students. If the exams are held in July, we will be able to declare the results by the end of August and they can begin postgraduate admissions in September,” Thomas Amirtham, principal, Loyola College, said, adding that winter vacation would be cut short to enhance the working days. “If we work on Saturdays and winter holidays, the academic year can still be finished in May,” he said. Colleges and universities also need to complement classroom coaching with online classes. K Maran, director of Sairam Engineering College, said the delay of academic year or change in exam schedule will not affect students. “If a disaster strikes a state or a country, then it would affect the higher education prospects or job prospects of students. But since the effect has been global, everything would be delayed,” he said. Some students in final year said the crisis delayed their offer letters and they are unsure about writing exams soon after college reopens. Joel Shelton Terrance, a final-year MA student from Loyola College said he is yet to receive the offer letter as the final selection process was postponed. “I tried to reach out to the company through mails. But I’m yet to get any response from them,” he said. Annie Christopher, a second-year student, said she is concerned whether she could do well in exams. “The lessons were taken long ago and exams will be conducted many months later. I am not sure I can remember them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ugc-panel-wants-all-colleges-to-start-in-sept-forego-winter-leave/articleshow/75384560.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||3 months’ interest waiver, easing of curbs required: Industrialists||DEHRADUN: In the wake of the nationwide lockdown, Uttarakhand industrialists have demanded three months’ interest waiver from the state government. They have also questioned the stiff conditions issued by the Centre for operating factories post lockdown. In a bid to prepare a post lockdown economic roadmap, the Uttarakhand government had set up a five-member committee last week, headed by former chief secretary Indu Kumar Pandey. On Friday, responding to industry demand for three month’s interest waiver, Pandey said, “The committee will examine the proposal after hearing the views of all stakeholders.” Pushing hard for the waiver, Pankaj Gupta, president of Industries Association of Uttarakhand, said, “The state and central governments must think of giving industry three months interest waiver on dues with the government. This will help all small and medium sized industries across the state.” Industry owners also said despite lockdown, they are paying wages, operating with limited resources and following all other lockdown guidelines. “The rules say we have to look after workers, their food and stay. If after that they get infected with Covid-19, action will be taken against the industrialist. Who can operate under such conditions?” said Manral Doval, an industry owner. Speaking on behalf of the education industry, D S Mann, the chairman of Doon International School, said, “The deferring of payments to banks for any type of loan is fine. Three months' interest should also be waived for industry. Lockdown has severely impacted all sectors in Uttarakhand.” Experts believe the Covid-19 outbreak will hit the hospitality industry hardest. The next three months will be very difficult for hotels, resorts and restaurant owners. Sanjeev Bhambri, the managing director of a city-based luxury hotel, said, “Waiving off three month’s interest on the principle amount is logical, and will give boost to industry for the tough times ahead. Industry needs the support to withstand the troubled times.” He added all industries will be forced on cut costs to keep afloat, because recovery looks distant. CEO of Devbhumi Industrial Estate in Roorkee, Pradeep Dutta, said, “Government must give 1% interest loans to industry to cover expenses like salaries, otherwise it would not be possible to give wages to everyone during and after lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-months-interest-waiver-easing-of-curbs-required-industrialists/articleshow/75383727.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||NMC files complaint against Satranjipura man for hiding 10 family members in Kalamna godown||Nagpur: Yet another case of people from Satranjipura, the city’s Covid-19 epicentre, hiding their family members to avoid getting tested has come to the fore. On Saturday, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) lodged a complaint at the Kalamna police station against a man for hiding 10 family members in a godown in Vijay Nagar, Kalamna.“It is a very serious issue and causing hurdles in containing Covid-19. I directed the officials to register an FIR with the police. We are putting in efforts to contain Covid-19 and testing people so that all positive persons should get treatment on time. But we are not getting a satisfactory response from the people of Satranjipura,” municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI.Officials from NMC’s Lakadganj zone lodged the complaint. “The process to register an offence in the case is under way,” said senior PI Vishwanath Chauhan. NMC officials said, “The person is a close contact of the 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura (city’s first and only death from Covid-19). Teams from three zones were searching for the person for the last 10 days. He was not traceable. Finally, our team with the help of the police traced and quarantined him at the institutional quarantine, Wathoda. He told the NMC medical team that his family members were residing in UP and Bihar.”NMC officials added, “People from Vijay Nagar, Kalamna, noticed that lights were on in a godown in the wee hours of Saturday. On enquiring from those staying in the godown, they learnt that they were from Satranjipura. People locked the door from outside and informed us and the police control room. A team from NMC and Kalamna police rushed to the godown. Over there, we came to know that they are the man’s mother and other family members. We quarantined 12 people — 10 family members and two from the same locality — at MLA hostel,” they said.The reports of the man are awaited. The samples of 12 persons were taken on Saturday and reports will be out in the coming days. If any case is positive, then Vijay Nagar, Kalamna, will be added to the list of containment zones.It is second such case from Satranjipura. A couple, a relative of the Satranjipura deceased, was booked on April 23 for hiding children in Bhaldarpura. The couple and one of their two children had tested positive. Due to the incident, Bhaldarpura was notified as a containment zone.Apart from these cases, two Covid-19 positive persons were booked of which one is the nephew of the Satranjipura deceased. He faced action for giving wrong information. The other, a cap seller from Mominpura, had violated home quarantine norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-files-complaint-against-satranjipura-man-for-hiding-10-family-members-in-kalamna-godown/articleshow/75384142.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Coronavirus hotspots in Kerala to come under ‘triple lockdown’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief Loknath Behera on Saturday said vehicular movement across state borders with Tamil Nadu will be regulated for 60 hours from Sunday to Tuesday in the wake of the complete lockdown announced by Tamil Nadu government. Tamil Nadu had announced a complete lockdown in major cities, restricting all public movement from Sunday to Tuesday as part of intensifying its fight against the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Behera said motorists will not be allowed to pass the border and enter Tamil Nadu. The movement of goods vehicles will also be strictly regulated. State borders have been reinforced with additional personnel. The DGP also said that Kasaragod-model of ‘triple lockdown’ will be emulated in regions identified as Covid-19 hotspots by the state government. It involves restricting people’s movement in and out of the region identified as hotspots by closing down all entry/exit points, barring one. It will enable police to keep a tab on each person who enters or exits the region. The police will deliver essential commodities at doorsteps to prevent people from coming out of their residences. Senior police officers will be assigned to oversee the arrangements put in place in hotspots. Behera further said that in the wake of government deciding to relax restrictions on lockdown, the police will assist merchants to ensure that customers adhere to social distancing norms when shops are opened. All station house officers of local police stations have been given directions in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/corona-hotspots-to-come-under-triple-lockdown/articleshow/75382923.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Plans afoot to carry out 100% fever survey across Visakhapatnam district in 2 weeks||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district administration has planned to cover the entire population of the city within two weeks as part of their next round of door-to-door fever survey in order to make surveillance and detection of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases foolproof. This field-level surveillance will involve 574 survey teams with each three-member team comprising an Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM), GVMC ward volunteer and ASHA worker. Elaborating on it, principal of Andhra Medical College and member of district covid control committees Dr PV Sudhakar said, “The city’s population is approximately 25 lakh. As per the strategy drawn by our district administration, each team will visit 100 houses per day, which is around 400-500 people, considering each house has four to five members. In this way, 574 teams will visit 57,400 households in a day and the target is to survey 5.74 lakh households in a span of 10 days.” The door-to-door survey had been going on since early April and now the fourth phase will begin. The teams are enquiring about any travel history or fever case in the family. Interestingly, one of the teams was asked to go away when they went for survey at a prominent politician’s house in Seethammadhara during the previous phase. Meanwhile, intense testing with the 16,000 rapid test kits received from South Korea has also begun. “In the coming days, AP’s target is to conduct 5,000 tests, per million population, especially in red zones and Vizag will scale up the number of tests. Currently, with close to a 1,000 test per million population, AP tops in Covid-19 testing in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/plans-afoot-to-carry-out-100-fever-survey-across-dist-in-2-weeks/articleshow/75382907.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Unsafe to transfer doc’s body, says corpn||Chennai: Exhuming Dr Simon Hercules’ body from the Velangadu burial ground and transferring it to a private cemetery in Kilpauk will not be possible due to safety reasons, the city corporation said on Saturday, turning down a request by Simon’s wife. Dr Simon, was admitted to a private hospital on April 4 after he developed health complications and was tested positive for the virus on April 7. He died of the infection on Sunday last (April 19). On April 21, the doctor’s wife, Anandhi Simon, made an appeal to the chief minister to have the mortal remains exhumed and rested at Kilpauk cemetery, as per Dr Simon’s final wish. In an official release, the civic body said, “We discussed the request with a committee consisting of public health experts and sought a report. The report said transferring mortal remains of a coronavirus-infected person after proper burial is not advisable due to safety reasons. So, we cannot entertain the request.” Events surrounding the Dr Simon’s burial shook the conscience of the public. In the early hours of Monday, separate groups of residents at Kilpauk and Anna Nagar tried to deny him an honourable burial. At Velangadu near Anna Nagar, a mob attacked the ambulance carrying his mortal remains, injuring three people. The body was finally buried with police protection around 3am. Police booked several people who had opposed the burial at Velangadu.  The widow’s appeal to the CM had struck a chord with many coming forward to assist in case the government gives a go ahead. Former mayor of Chennai, Karate R Thiagarajan had said in a statement that if the corporation commissioner permits, the mortal remains can be exhumed and buried at the Kilpauk cemetery as per the doctor’s last wish. “There are people willing to execute the whole process free of cost. The chief minister should consider the request,” Thiagarajan had stated. Dr Simon Hercules was a neurosurgeon and managing director of New Hope Medical Centre in Kilpauk. He was seeing several patients with flu-like symptoms but it is not clear from whom he contracted the virus. His daughter, also a doctor, tested positive for the virus as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/unsafe-to-transfer-docs-body-says-corpn/articleshow/75384146.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Pune||Cops in red zones given PPE kits||Pune: The city police have provided personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to its personnel stationed in the high-risk zones of the city like Kasewadi-Bhavani Peth, Dias Plot, Gultekdi and Mangalwar Peth, among others. Several people have been tested positive for Covid-19 from the slum pockets of these areas and many have been quarantined after contact tracing. A team headed by deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Virendra Mishra procured the PPE kits for the personnel. Deputy commissioner of police (zone I) Swapna Gore told TOI that the protective gears were necessary for the officers who were implementing the lockdown rules in the areas. “It gives them a sense of security,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-in-red-zones-given-ppe-kits/articleshow/75384718.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In times of corona, tax tribunal stays tax dues to enable builder to care for workers||MUMBAI: A construction company, which during the Covid-19 pandemic wanted to take care of its workers and employees, but was unable to do so because of an outstanding income-tax demand of Rs 2.91 crore, frozen bank accounts and attachment of its debtors, has obtained a favourable order from the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT). The Mumbai bench of the ITAT intervened by treating the matter as urgent considering government advisories for employers to take care of their workforce during the pandemic. It also noted that the firm had paid its tax dues for the financial year 2009-10 and the sum of Rs 2.91 crore related to outstanding interest and penalty. The business operations of Pandhes Infracon, the construction company, had come to a standstill and it was not able to meet its obligations towards its workers. In its first hearing, via video-conferencing, the ITAT bench granted a stay of tax dues and suspension of the orders issued by the I-T authorities on bankers and debtors of the company, however, the favourable verdict delivered on April 24 comes with conditions attached. The funds obtained from stay of I-T demand, unfreezing of the accounts and lifting the orders on debtors are to be first utilised to pay the overdue and current wages and salaries. The builder also pointed out that as per the collector’s order, the company has to make available a partially-completed building for quarantine facilities for Covid-19 patients. The ITAT bench stated that the amount available after payment of wages and salaries should be used for construction for creating the quarantine facilities and the balance could then be used for its construction business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-times-of-corona-tax-tribunal-stays-tax-dues-to-enable-builder-to-care-for-workers/articleshow/75384720.cms||Lubna Kably
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Confusion over labourers’ salary dues||Ahmedabad: The nearly 40-day lockdown has left industries grappling with shrinking revenues amid a disruption in cashflow cycles. Though the state government as well as the central government have issued directives to industries to pay full salaries to labourers, the same has been challenged in the Supreme Court. This has left industrialists in a state of confusion over whether to clear full payments of all workers, or only pay those who have stayed back. In the recent past, several industry bodies have also made representations to the state government as well as to the Centre seeking a relaxation in the directive to make full salary payments. One of the representations by the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) also suggested that workers be paid wages in accordance with what has been proposed under MGNREGA. “Labourers who had already left to their hometowns and villages at the time of lockdown announcement were anyway not expected to resume work,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham Gujarat. “At a time when the industry is reeling from liquidity shortage, with no production during the month of lockdown and order books getting impacted, there needs to be some relaxation on paying labourers.”  Even though the state government has also issued a directive telling industries to clear full salary dues of labourers for April, the petitions filed in the Supreme Court have left industrialists confused. Many are considering paying only those labourers who have stayed back. “We have made representations to the state government seeking some relaxation in clearing salary dues of labourers because industry is facing a massive liquidity crunch,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). “The government must consider the demands and allow us to make part payments.” Sources said that industrialists are also concerned that workers will return to their home states as soon as they are paid and this will cripple industrial operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/confusion-over-labourers-salary-dues/articleshow/75512532.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Ordinance brings stringent laws against assault on health personnel||Nagpur: The Epidemic diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, passed by the central government last week aims to ensure that perpetrators of violence against health service personnel fighting the Covid-19 fight feel the heat. The ordinance widely covers a whole gamut of personnel, from doctors to even municipal health workers working at the community level. The government had to bring the ordinance to quell the anger of the health service personnel across the nation following attacks on them during their course of duty in the Covid-19 fight. The Indian medical association (IMA) which had threatened a stir also withdrew their agitation after the law to protect them was made stronger. Apart from manhandling or scuffling, the ordinance also included within the definition of ‘acts of violence’ issues like harassment, obstruction, hindrance, loss or damage to property of health service personnel making them a ‘cognisable’ and ‘non-bailable’ offence with minimum six months and maximum seven years of imprisonment along with minimum fine of Rs one lakh and maximum Rs five lakhs. The ordinance also makes any act leading to suicide or abetment of suicide by health service personnel punishable with an imprisonment minimum three months and maximum five years along with fine of Rs50,000 minimum and Rs two lakhs maximum. The ordinance also underlined the fact that the offences would be investigated by officers not below the rank of police inspector. The investigation is also mandatorily have to completed within one month from the date of filing the FIR. Mentioning a speedy trial, the ordinance also lays down the norms to complete the proceedings within one year which can be only extended by six months at a time by the judge after recording the reason for such delays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ordinance-brings-stringent-laws-against-assault-on-health-personnel/articleshow/75391597.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Sheer madness||Coimbatore: It was nothing but the storm that was induced before the calm as people, who have hitherto been confining themselves to the four walls of their houses by and large, stepped out in large numbers and crowded vegetable markets and grocery shops on Saturday to stock up essentials for the four-day complete lockdown in the city corporation limits. And it seemed like any other normal day as they moved around in groups, throwing physical distancing norms to the wind. On Friday, the state government had unveiled the plans to bring the city corporation limits under complete lockdown from 6am on Sunday to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic by restricting the movement of public. But the day after the announcement, people flocked to the markets at RS Puram, Gandhipuram bus stand, Singanallur bus stand and Ramalinga Chettiar Higher Secondary School in Saibaba Colony without any restraint. While police managed to control the crowd and make them stand in a queue at the entrance of the markets, the situation was altogether different inside the market. In a hurry to purchase vegetables before they emptied out, people cared little for physical distancing. J Janaki, a resident of Thudiyalur, said, “What will we do if we don’t get vegetables and grocery items during the complete lockdown period? Already, police are stopping us at multiple points to know why we are out. We didn’t want to take any risk.” S Subramaiam, organizer of welfare association for farmers of Singanallur market, said the crowd was uncontrollable. “We sold out vegetables in just three hours, against the usual five hours. It was not just because of more number of customers, people were buying in bulk.” Pointing out that most vegetables were sold out as early as 8am, he said many had to return empty-handed. Nowadays, markets function from 5am to 10am. While people also thronged grocery shops, some shopkeepers managed to ensure physical distancing by the customers. However, RG Street that is filled with wholesale shops didn’t draw much crowd. “It might be because shopkeepers didn’t want to refill goods in view of the complete lockdown,” said a shopkeeper who didn’t want to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sheer-madness/articleshow/75384559.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: People connect on WhatsApp for medical needs, essential goods||VISAKHAPATNAM: With several areas across the city sealed by the police as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19), supply of essential commodities have become a cause for concern. In such times, residents of these areas have formed WhatsApp groups to remain connected and also ensure that supply of commodities is not disrupted. Around 200 families in Thatichetlapalem, one of the areas where movement has been restricted, depend on a WhatsApp group named “Essential Services” to arrange for their daily needs. The stretch from Akkayyapalem, Railway New Colony to Thatichetlapalem, which is a mix of individual houses and apartment blocks, has been put under total lockdown. In Thatichetlapalem, the building where a resident had tested positive for Covid-19 has been barricaded by the police with guardrails to ensure no one steps in or out without reason. “We have become a close-knit family now. I never thought we will get vegetables and fruits so easily even after being under complete lockdown. Whenever we need something, we just put it on the WhatsApp group,” said 58-year-old homemaker Galla Shanti, who lives at Railway New Colony. The police said that the residents had been asked to only step out for buying essentials such as groceries or vegetables or if there is an emergency. “For buying essentials, they are allowed only till the barricade where vendors from the market come every day for 10 to 15 minutes,” said Bhaskar Rao, working for the Railways. For medical emergencies, residents either depend on WhatsApp video calls with doctors or on the local police to allow doctors known to the concerned family to enter the neighbourhood. “The other day, a 15-year old boy in our neighbourhood had a medical emergency. We managed to connect with a doctor through video call. He prescribed some medicines, which we bought with the help of the local police. The boy is fine now,” said Konda Ravi, a car mechanic. The neighbourhood also has a plumber and an electrician as part of their WhatsApp group. The survival strategy in Abidnagar is slightly different with some residents volunteering to help others by taking care of their daily needs and seeking the help from the apartment’s watchmen. Vemula Kumari (49), is one of the 15-odd residents who have come forward to support the daily needs of the people in the area. “I have a list of senior citizens and those with disabilities who stay alone or have financial difficulties. I receive requests for medicines from elderly people. We note down every request and try to deliver the medicines within a few hours. Since I have a scooter, I can move around and collect essentials also,” Kumari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/people-connect-on-whatsapp-for-med-needs-essential-goods/articleshow/75382921.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Migrants take rations not meant for them; booked||BENGALURU: Varthur police have registered a case against migrant labourers for taking away food that was supposed to be delivered to some other labourers’ camp. Though the incident happened on April 7, the complaint was registered on Thursday. Police said Suresh, a senior labour department officer in Mahadevapura range, and his colleague Shivanand were taking 54 packets of rations to be delivered to migrants living in Gunjur. On their way, over 50 persons blocked their vehicle by parking a tractor in the middle of the road. They claimed they were hungry and asked them to distribute the rations in the area. Though the officials declined, they forced them to distribute rations among the poor in the locality. Suresh, who lodged a complaint after consulting his seniors, said people who took the food did not provide their Aadhaar and phone numbers. They also did not maintain social distancing. When contacted, the Varthur police inspector refused to share information. Suresh said he’s not aware of the case being registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/migrants-take-rations-not-meant-for-them-booked/articleshow/75384148.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||District admin silent on Amt in red zone||Amravati: With the district administration remaining tight lipped, there’s been no official communication to confirm whether Amravati is in the ‘Red Zone’ or not after 16 positive cases were detected since the lockdown.“We have no communication in this regard either from the state government or from the centre,” said collector Shailesh Naval. As all the cases have emerged from one area, they have been put in a cluster zone. Naval clarified that he was not in a position to make any official comment on the ‘Red Zone’ status of the city.Divisional commissioner Piyush Singh said Yavatmal is in the ‘Red Zone’. Amravati, too, is in that zone but only ‘technically’ as practically, it has seven positive cases in the hospital while five tested positive after death and four have recovered.When asked if the covid pandemic is on the threshold of a community spread, Singh replied in the negative. “There is no community spread of the virus as yet. All the positive cases are confined to families only,” said Singh, while Naval added that nothing could be said as of now. “We will have to see how the new cases emerge in the next week,” he said.The APMC vegetable markets at the science core ground, Dussera maidan, Bhaji Bazar and the fruit yard which were initially declared closed till April 27, will now remain shut till May 3 due to the sudden spurt in positive cases. Vendors will have to seek permission from AMC to sell vegetables in cluster and containment zones.Naval said citizens will be able to buy essential items between 8am and 12pm only from Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-admin-silent-on-amt-in-red-zone/articleshow/75384143.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||EDITEDOnline frauds rising across state in lockdown, at least three cases reported daily||Bhopal: The number of online fraud cases reported at the state cyber cell and district cyber cells across the state have increased during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. On an average, about 3-4 online fraud cases are being reported at the state cyber cell and other centres every day. Police said that although the individuals are duped of amounts ranging between Rs1,000 and Rs1 lakh, the magnitude of the fraud amount across the state may run into crores. Cyber cell cops said that the main reason of cyber frauds is that usually the people are not aware of the general precautions to be observed while using the Internet like using strong passwords in the digital space, not clicking links shared by strangers or not sharing their credentials with strangers over phone. Police have issued an advisory of dos and dont’s for people to follow while using the Internet. Inspector Abhishek Sonekar, posted at state cyber cell headquarters in Bhopal, told TOI that there has been a rise in online fraud cases during the Covid-19 lockdown. Most of the people are using digital payment options without observing necessary precautions, which makes them prone to online fraud. Speaking on the major modus operandi used by online fraudsters, Sonekar said that police have found around half a dozen such common modus operandi being used by online fraudsters to dupe people. A popular fraud is that of hacking social media accounts, especially Facebook accounts or creating fake duplicate account in the name of the victim and sending SOS messages to people in the friend list of the victim to seek monetary help from them on the pretext of a fake crisis. The victim’s friends then transfer money into the bank account/ online payment wallet/ UPI wallet given by the fraudster in the message. Over the past two months, there has been a surge in such cases. Sonekar said that the another way fraudsters use to dupe is through fake online shopping, home delivery or online service websites. During the lockdown, many people search for online stores that can home deliver sanitiser, mask, grocery items and other home essentials. Fraudsters have created fake websites, fake mobile apps and even sent online links through bulk SMSes through which they lure the victim in their net and siphon money from their accounts. Another modus operandi is to use UPI-based applications. Many people use UPI-based online payment apps on their phones. The fraudsters send fraudulent links via messages on the victim’s phone and once they click on the link, the accused hack their account. They send these links through online forms and once the victim submits his details, the information is shared with the hacker. As the UPI is linked to the bank account of the user, money is siphoned by the fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedonline-frauds-rising-across-state-in-lockdown-at-least-three-cases-reported-daily/articleshow/75383750.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Mishandling of suspected cases behind spurt in Ytl?||Yavatmal: Even as 20 new cases reported on Saturday, and eight earlier on Thursday have caused panic in Yavatmal, it has come to fore that the health department officials have been lax in handling suspected patients of Covid-19. Yavatmal has recorded total 34 positive cases so far. If close relatives of some of the patients are to be believed, there have been serious lapses on the part of the health department officials.On April 13, one of the primary contacts of a positive patient was taken to hospital and allowed to go home after his swab sample was collected. This person took part in various activities till April 16 when he was found positive in the swab sample report. He was immediately brought to the isolation ward in GMC where he is said to be stable. Confirming this, Covid-19 coordinator and former dean Dr Milind Kamble said that the person was released after collecting his swab. There was no explanation on why the person was released before getting conformation of his swab report. The health department often avoid phone calls from media for any updates by claiming that they are in meetings. According to experts, this is matter of grave concern.On April 17, a person from the hotspot area of Pawarpura, who worked as a helper at a grocery shop in Kalamb Chowk, tested positive. It is still not known how many came in his contact at the grocery store.A political party activist who has tested positive was engaged in distributing food packets and grocery kits among the poor. Again, it’s a mystery as to how many came in his contact at the grocery shop.Another person from the hotspot area of Indira Nagar was taken to GMC on April 22. After swab collection, he was sent to the girls hostel on Dhamangaon Road where he freely mixed up with others housed there. On April 23, the person tested positive and was admitted to the isolation ward of GMC. His condition is said to be stable.Even on April 25, one person at institutional quarantine facility tested positive. He too has come in contact with those quarantined there. As soon as his report received on Friday late night, he was shifted to the isolation ward.RISKY MGMTOn April 13, a primary contact of a positive patient was allowed to go home after his swab sample was collected His samples tested positive on April 16. Till then the person took part in various activities No details about contacts of a grocery store helper who tested positive on April 17. He hails from hotspot area of PawarpuraA political party activist distributed food packets and grocery kits before testing positiveBefore testing positive on April 23, person from hotspot area of Indira Nagar was kept at an institutional quarantine facility where he freely mixed up with others there On April 25, one person at institutional quarantine facility tested positive. He too has come in contact with those quarantined there||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mishandling-of-suspected-cases-behind-spurt-in-ytl/articleshow/75384150.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag was ready to deal with Covid before any other dist: Joint collector||Visakhapatnam: Joint collector Lotheti Siva Sankar on Saturday said the district has so far successfully managed to keep the number of coronavirus cases under control. He attributed it to the support and cooperation of the public and government officials. On completion of a month of lockdown, Siva Sankar, who is heading key committees such as isolation and monitoring material, urged the public to continue their cooperation as home quarantine period has gone up to 28 days from 14 days. He said since the first positive case was reported in Visakhapatnam on March 10, even before the lockdown was imposed, the district administration took steps to deal with the impending crisis. “We were prepared before any other district in the state and we detected Covid-19 cases early. The district collector acted timely,” the joint collector told TOI. “We should avoid mass gatherings, maintain social distance, and continue using masks. The district administration is working in a transparent manner and has been strict in its implantation of the lockdown,” he said. Speaking about the initial hurdles, he said, the district administration in the beginning faced issues with supplying essential commodities, but it resolved those issues. “Twenty-two teams, including legal meteorology, vigilance and police, were set up to address price hike and artificial shortage created by traders. They registered 406 cases after inspecting 1,254 shops. We conducted meetings with wholesalers and retailers at regular intervals,” Siva Sankar said. Seventeen agencies were given permissions to door delivery. He added that every day, around 4,300 door deliveries are taking place and district officials put banana stock from Kadapa and Anantapur on sale in rythu bazaars and distributed some of them in shelters. The joint collector said the first two phases of free ration distribution witnessed 96% turnout and the third phase will start from April 29. For this, nine RTC buses were arranged for farmers including those in Araku. “Farmers’ produce should not be damaged as per the chief minister’s instructions. We have acted accordingly. The Anakapalli jaggery market was opened after the collector got a call on 1902 about the woes of jaggery farmers,” he said. District authorities have received 4,000 grievances so far, including 720 on their toll-free number and 3,277 on 1092. Around 99% of grievances have been addressed by the authorities. Siva Sankar said they are now focused on procurement of paddy and maize. They aim to procure 9,000 tonnes of paddy and 700 tonnes of maize, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-was-ready-to-deal-with-covid-before-any-other-dist-joint-collector/articleshow/75382932.cms||Siva G
April 26, 2020||Pune||Flyover at Savitribai Phule Pune University likely to be pulled down||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday gave an in-principle approval to pull down the flyovers near SPPU and E-Square, though the final decision rests with the state government. Pawar gave the approval at a meeting of all stakeholders of Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar line of the Pune Metro rail project — PMRDA, Pune Municipal Corporation, elected representatives and the mayor. Sources said everyone agreed that the flyovers need to be pulled down to accommodate both the Metro line and vehicular thoroughfare atop one pillar. Also discussed at the meeting were the cost that would be incurred, whether the demolition can be carried out during the lockdown (as was the case with Amrutanjan bridge), and whether police can manage traffic movement once the structures are pulled down. “The discussion on the cost factor centred on who would bear it,” an official who attended the meeting said, adding, “The final decision will have to be taken after a state-level meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-flyover-likely-to-be-pulled-down/articleshow/75384719.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Gadarpur market opens amid lockdown as residents misinterpret MHA order||RUDRAPUR: Confusion prevailed in Gadarpur town of Udham Singh Nagar district after Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday night permitted the opening of some essential shops from Saturday. Traders and shoppers, assuming all lockdown guidelines had been lifted, rushed to the market. Police and administrative officials, caught by surprise, reached the market and requested all shopkeepers to close their shops and wait for a state government directive on the matter. The head of Gadarpur Traders’ Union Pankaj Sethia said, “I discussed the MHA order (on shops being allowed to open) with the sub-divisional magistrate, who told me that only a few shops will be allowed to open. But as the message did rounds on the social media and news outlets, traders, being unaware of the terms and conditions, opened their shops first thing on Saturday morning.” “The message was misinterpret by shopkeepers,” said Jaswinder Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Gadarpur police station. “As soon as the shops were opened, scores of people rushed to the market to buy commodities. We received information and I reached the market with police personnel to have people maintain social distancing and avoid chaos. We talked to the traders and after 3 hours, the market was once again shut down,” Singh added. “We were not expecting any such situation as markets are usually closed in Gadarpur on Saturday,” said tehsildar Bhuwan Chandra Arya. “We told the traders that they have to adhere to the lockdown guidelines and pull down the shutters till the state government issues an advisory, which will be forwarded to them by the district administration,” Arya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gadarpur-market-opens-amid-lockdown-as-residents-misinterpret-mha-order/articleshow/75383753.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||Postman detained for dumping documents||MADIKERI: A postman has been taken into custody for allegedly dumping documents like letters, SSLC marksheets, aadhaar cards, ATM cards, cheque books etc in a gunny bag on the roadside at Hammiyala Road near Madapur. It is suspected that he has not delivered these items to the addressees. According to police, Jayanthi, a resident of Hammiyala village, found a gunny bag lying by the roadside on Hammiyala-Mutlu road in Somwarpet taluk on April 21. When she opened the bag, letters, SSLC markssheets, Aadhaar cards, ATM cards, cheque books and other documents – dating back from 2017—poured out. All the addresses come under Surlabbi post office and hence Jayanthi shifted the bag to her house and informed members of Kodagu Seva Kendra, who visited the village to distribute food kits, about the incident. Further, it was revealed that all the documents were to be delivered to the addressees by postman Mahesh, who was recently transferred from Surlabbi post office to Cheyyandane post office. A complaint in this regard has been filed at Somwarpet police station by Kodagu Seva Kendra member Pramod Somaiah. The police has taken postman Mahesh into custody and are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/postman-detained-for-dumping-documents/articleshow/75382935.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Second member of Moradabad family succumbs to Covid-19; three brothers die in 20 days||BAREILLY: A family in Moradabad’s Nawabpura, which has been quarantined ever since one of its members, a 49-year-old man, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9, lost its second member to the pandemic on Saturday. This was the third death in the family in the past 20 days. The 44-year-old man, who died on Saturday, was the third brother the family lost. His elder brother had succumbed to the novel coronavirus on April 13. Prior to that, their eldest brother, 70, had died due to an “unknown” disease and was buried secretly in a nearby graveyard on April 5. The health department suspects that he also suffered from Covid-19 since he had visited the Nizamuddin area in Delhi recently. Health officials said that at least 31 members of the family and relatives – 12 women and 19 men – are under quarantine. Notably, after the first member of the family had died of Covid-19 on April 13, a team of health staff and policemen had reached the Nawabpura area to bring other family members to the quarantine centre when a mob pelted stones at them, which left two doctors and four policemen injured. Moradabad has 92 active Covid-19 cases while four have lost their lives. In a big relief, 140 suspects, including 21 medical staff and 33 policemen, tested negative on Saturday. Moradabad chief medical officer Dr MC Garg said that three suspects tested positive on Saturday. “Among three positive cases, one is a police constable, second is a resident of Peerjada locality whose younger brother is already positive. The third one had died on Saturday morning hours before his report came in.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/second-member-of-moradabad-family-succumbs-to-covid-19-three-brothers-die-in-20-days/articleshow/75383773.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid patient who delivered baby discharged||Kannur: A woman from Kasaragod, under treatment for Covid-19, who delivered a baby boy while under treatment on April 11, has been discharged from the hospital. The mother and child are healthy, said the officials. The woman, identified as Fathima, was admitted to Government Medical College, Pariyaram, along with her husband on March 20. On April 9, she had tested negative but in order to ensure safe delivery, she was not discharged and on April 11, she gave birth to a baby boy. Her husband was discharged earlier. Health minister K K Shailaja congratulated the medical college staffers for the excellent treatment provided to the mother. Meanwhile, a twenty-year-old man from Peringathur in Kannur district tested positive for Covid-19 in on Saturday. He was infected through contact. The swab was collected on April 23. With this, the total positive cases reported has become 112. Out of this, 56 have been discharged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-patient-who-delivered-baby-discharged/articleshow/75382953.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai pilot lets passion soar past the silent skies||CHENNAI: Cruising at 35,000feet on a Boeing 737 loaded with essential supplies and medical equipment, captain Arun Prakash often misses the chatter in the radio, for the sky is near-empty with all passenger flights in the country grounded as part of the Covid-19 lockdown. Though qualified to fly passenger flights and freighter planes, Arun had never flown cargo until now. The captain now takes off on a flight with supplies strapped to its empty seats at least four times a week. The city-based pilot was among the first to volunteer when SpiceJet sought pilots to fly essential cargo across the country. While the shutdown grounded most pilots, Arun Prakash’s passion for flying did not let him sit idle. “I have operated 15 flights over 10 days during the shutdown. I find it thrilling to think of my effort as an opportunity to help the country in its fight to contain the virus. That keeps me going,” he says, adding that it is rare for pilots to sit at home for such a long time so it’s nice to fly. “In a day’s flying, I cover three airports. Some days I may not be able to return to Chennai, where I live. As not many freighters are being operated, so I may not find a freighter to fly back home. I end up spending the night in some hotel, away from family,” says Arun. The experience of flying a plane is a joy during shutdown, he adds. Since only flights that ferry cargo and supplies are being operated by all airlines, there are hardly five to ten aircraft in the country’s airspace at a time, against the thousands that used to crowd the skies in the pre-shutdown days. “There are no delays, no air congestion over airports, no need to wait for landing. But I miss my colleagues on air. I feel gloomy when I walk into an empty airport and I miss the frequent inflight announcements I used to make for passengers,” he said. He used to make announcements in Tamil too. “Passengers used to like it.” He doesn’t dwell on it much, as he knows that every flight of his is crucial for people struggling in these tough times. Between March 24 and April 24, SpiceJet has operated 28 international cargo flights to and from Chennai and carried over 100tonnes of cargo. The flights were to Bangkok, Singapore, Kuwait and Myanmar. In the same period, SpiceJet operated close to 110 domestic cargo flights from Chennai, carrying 630tonnes to Surat, Thiruvananthapuram, Vishakhapatnam, Kolkata, Kochi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kozhikode, Delhi and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-pilot-lets-passion-soar-past-the-silent-skies/articleshow/75384151.cms||V Ayyappan
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Hailstorms wreak havoc in Chittoor dist||Tirupati: Strong gales coupled with hailstorms created havoc at cities and towns across Chittoor district on Saturday. Following the heavy rains, trees and electric poles were uprooted at various villages in Penumuru, Vedurukuppam, Kuppam, Ramakuppam, Gudupalle, V Kota, Punganur, Karvetinagaram and other mandals of Chittoor district. Power supply was suspended for almost 3 hours on Saturday afternoon. Drains overflowed in the temple city of Tirupati and roads overflowing with water resembled tiny ponds at various arterial junctions. Farmers across the district were up in arms as the untimely heavy rains damaging crops, which included mangoes, various vegetables, betel and the like. Meanwhile, hailstorms were reported at certain hilly areas in the district, including at Tirumala and at Horsely hills. Just a few hours of rain led to a scenic waterfall at the Kapilateertham temple in Tirupati. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hailstorms-wreak-havoc-in-chittoor-dist/articleshow/75382950.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka students stuck in Kota seek government’s help to return home||BENGALURU: Around 272 students from Karnataka who are stuck in Kota, Rajasthan, have urged the Karnataka government to help them return home. In a twitter video, several students wearing face masks, are seen requesting the government to arrange some means to help them get back. The students point out that other state governments like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Assam have done it for their students. “I have been in Kota since June 2019 for NEET coaching. My mother too came down recently and we were supposed to return to Karnataka on March 30. I had applied for CET. That’s when the lockdown came into force. The hostels have started emptying out as other governments have arranged transport,” Dhanush Hollak, a student at Allen Coaching Centre, told TOI from Kota. Veerabhadra Patil, a student from Kalaburagi who is taking JEE coaching said there are only four students left in his hostel. “There were 64 students earlier. The loneliness is getting to us. Before the lockdown, food used to be served in a mess. Now, we get tiffins. We are concerned where the tiffin comes from,” he said. M Patil from Kalaburagi sent his car to Kota to fetch his son. “His mother has health issues. So, I took special permission from the deputy commissioner and sent the car. It took them 22 hours to reach Kota. They will start back on Saturday morning,” he said. Kota in Rajasthan is the country’s coaching hub. Students from across the country get coaching for medical and engineering entrance tests in Kota. Uttar Pradesh’s move to bring back 3,000 students from Kota resulted in much controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-students-stuck-in-kota-seek-govts-help-to-return-home/articleshow/75384152.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
April 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cops keep patrol car ACs on all the time, waste fuel||PANAJI: As summer reaches its peak in Goa, the state’s police force is facing a peculiar problem in keeping cool. The new AC vehicles used as Police Control Room (PCR) and highway patrol have become a source of consternation for senior cops, as drivers and staff keep the AC on even when the vehicle is idling. The issue recently came to light when senior officers began monitoring the fuel economy of PCR and highway patrol vehicles. Crime branch SP Pankaj Kumar Singh told TOI that it has been observed that the fuel economy of some vehicles has reduced drastically. “We got to know that the fuel economy of some of these vehicles if 6-7kmpl instead of the expected 12-13,” he said. After a preliminary inquiry, senior officers figured that drivers and staff of PCR and highway patrol vehicles keep the ACs on — thus burning fuel — to keep them cool in the summer heat even when the car is stationed in one place. Singh said that whenever a police vehicle is stationed, the driver should immediately switch off the engine and either sit in office or wait outside the vehicle. Goa police has 32 PCR vehicles and 10 vehicles for highway patrol. Drivers of all these vehicles were sent a wireless message from Singh about optimal fuel usage. “The fuel consumption of new official vehicles — specially PCR and highway patrol — has been reported to be very high, which is a reflection of poor handling,” he said. “Some staff have been seen sitting idle in parked vehicles with the AC turned on, resulting in high fuel consumption and low mileage per litre.” Thus, he issued an instruction for better efficiency. “All drivers and other staff handling official vehicles, especially PCR and highway patrol, are directed to ensure that mileage is above a certain standard average, failing which departmental action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-keep-patrol-car-acs-on-all-the-time-waste-fuel/articleshow/75384158.cms||Murari Shetye
April 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Students craft face covers for villagers||POINGUINIM: The students of Shree Mallikarjun and Shri Chetan Desai College of Arts and Commerce in Canacona have taken it upon themselves to ensure that the people of the taluka have access to free face masks, especially those in remote areas like Cotigao and Gaondongrim. Motivated by their principal Manoj Kamat, over 200 members of the college’s NSS unit began the project to make face masks around the end of March. Till date they have distributed 2,106 masks. Around 400 homes were covered, and each family was given four to five masks. “As the masks are sturdy and washable, residents were asked to reuse them,” Kamat said. The students scouted for mask designs and fabric varieties online and learned how to make them by watching Youtube videos and taking sewing advice from their mothers. Some of the masks were machine-stitched while many were also hand-stitched. Kamat said that after the students had a significant number of masks ready, they set out distributing them to the residents of Cotigao, Gaondongrim, Poinguinim, Loliem, Mashem, Bhatpal, Shristhal and Agonda and even to a few people living within municipal limits. “Just education is not sufficient to make us complete human beings. We need to help people in need to become better human beings,” a student involved in the project, Tina Fernandes, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-craft-face-covers-for-villagers/articleshow/75384153.cms||Albert Fernandes
April 26, 2020||Goa||186 samples test negative||Panaji: A total of 186 samples tested negative for Covid-19 on Saturday, while 48 reports are awaited. One person was placed in isolation at GMC while eight have been placed under facility quarantine. On Saturday, 165 new samples were sent for testing, said the directorate of health services’ update. There are presently six patients in the isolation ward at GMC, 33 quarantined at Margao residency, 13 at Old Goa , 11 at Mapusa and six at Mayem residency . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/186-samples-test-negative/articleshow/75384154.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||APSRTC scrambles to stay in business||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corp (APSRTC), whose fleet of 12,000 buses has been off the roads since March 23, has been doing its bit to help the district administrations during the ongoing lockdown. “Some of our buses have been modified by removing the seats to carry cargo, vegetables and other essential items in the districts. We are mainly charging for fuel and keeping a small margin,” said Madireddy Pratap, vice-chairman and managing director of APSRTC, which was made a government entity on January 1. The corporation is also deploying its buses to transport vegetables. “This service is offered with the permission of marketing committees in the district. Our buses take the vegetables to various residential colonies in the district,” Pratap added. RTC has a workforce of 51,000, which means 4.25 employees per bus. “It’s a challenge to keep the 51,000 workers engaged during the lockdown. The monthly wage bill itself is Rs 300 crore,” he said, adding that the corporation is now trying to introduce cashless transactions in its buses. “We are working on a strategy to increase contactless and cashless service in the buses. Eventually, we want to run buses without conductors issuing tickets and collecting the fares.” The cashless service was launched in Vijayawada in February. “The app was launched in association with Chalo, a Mumbai-based software company. It allows commuters to buy tickets in advance. It has been quite successful, getting about 10,000 subscribers in a month till the lockdown stopped our services. We plan to roll out app in other districts after the lockdown gets over,” Pratap added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-scrambles-to-stay-in-business/articleshow/75382962.cms||Shaukat Mohammed
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||NMC notice to pvt hospital, lab over ‘violation’ in collecting swab sample||Nagpur: Private hospitals can collect swab samples for Covid-19 only through the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Yet, a private hospital engaged a private laboratory which collected swab samples of an 88-year-old patient from Bhaldarpura and sent it to its centre in Mumbai. The patient died at Government Medical College and Hospital on April 23. Now, the patient’s family is running pillar to post from last three days to get possession of the body as the private laboratory is yet to give the report.Considering it a violation, the civic body served notices to Orthonova Hospital and Critical Care Unit, Gandhibagh, and SRL Diagnostics, Ramdaspeth, on Saturday.In the notice issued to SRL Diagnostics, NMC chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai stated that it was clearly informed to all medical establishments that nasal and throat swab samples from suspected patients of Covid-19 within city limit are to be collected through NMC health department. “The NMC control room is there to clear any confusion. It is mandatory to test samples only in government recognized laboratories. But we have come to know that you collected samples of a patient on April 23. Why we should not take action against you for this violation. We expect reply within two hours or action will be initiated,” Dr Savai said in the notice.In the notice issued to the hospital, Dr Savai pointed out despite NMC norms the hospital did not inform the civic body about the patient.Representative of SRL Diagnostics assured to give statement but later did not issue its version. When called and inquired about reports of the patient, a person from the laboratory said, “Samples were sent to its Mumbai-based center and are awaited.”Dr Savai said, “SRL Diagnostics in its reply claims to have authorization. We got it cleared from AIIMS Nagpur — recognized by central government for giving permissions to government and private laboratories in the state — before issuing notice. We are writing to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) whether any laboratory having no recognition for its centre here can collect samples and get it tested from its centre in Mumbai. Further action will be based on reply from ICMR,” he said.Dr Salim Kamal from Orthonova Hospital and Critical Care Unit said, “There is no communication from NMC that samples should be collected only through it. SLR Laboratory was asked to collect samples only when it said they have recognition,” he said.Dr Kamal added, “When patient was admitted for hip fracture on April 19, we did not find any symptoms of Covid-19. Surgery was done on April 21. The patient started complaining about chest pain on April 23. We took samples and later referred the patient to another private hospital. According to the family members, the other hospital advised them to take the patient to GMCH,” he said.GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said, “The patient died immediately after admission. Since family members said samples were taken by a private laboratory, there was no need for taking them again. I will look into the delay in the report,” he said.There are five government laboratories in the city where samples from entire Vidarbha are being tested free of cost. The report is generated within 24 hours in case of deaths. If the deceased tested positive, it helped in containment. In case of negative reports, the body was handed over to family immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-notice-to-pvt-hospital-lab-over-violation-in-collecting-swab-sample/articleshow/75384161.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 26, 2020||Bhopal||Akshaya Tritiya mass marriages put on hold in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL:The mass marriage ceremony usually organised on Akshaya Tritiya (April 26, Sunday) will not be held for on the assigned date for the second consecutive year in Madhya Pradesh. Last year, it was due to model code of conduct in place for Lok Sabha elections and this year it is due to corona lockdown across the country, with assembly of people banned to avoid the spread of the pandemic. Around 25,000 mass marriages were expected to be solemnized on Akshaya Tritiya across the state this year. Government pays Rs 51000 per couple at this event. The suspension of mass marriages would provide financial relief of over Rs 125 crore to the cash-starved government, at least for the time being. An official, however, said on the condition of anonymity, “The calendar is fixed for the entire year to conduct the mass marriages. There were nine dates fixed for the purpose last year. It is true that majority of mass marriages are solemnized on Akshaya Tritiya, but in case the event is suspended - like for elections last year -it is held on other on one of the other dates fixed for the purpose. Same happened last year and this year too, the event will be organised once the corona crisis ends.” This scheme was first introduced in 2006 by Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government with an objective to provide government assistance for poor girls’ marriage. It was earlier named Mukhya Mantri Kanyadan Yojana, but was later renamed as Mukhya Mantri Kanya Vivah Evam Nikah Yojana in 2015. Under the scheme, the earlier BJP government used to pay Rs 28,000, which was raised to Rs 51,000 after Congress came into power in December 2018. Kamal Nath-led Congress government fell after 15 months’ rule in March this year and Chouhan again became the chief minister of MP for the fourth time. Nath government increased the money, but did not pay all the couples who had got married under the scheme, leaving an outstanding of around Rs 155 crore for the incumbent Chouhan government to pay under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/akshaya-tritiya-mass-marriages-put-on-hold/articleshow/75383781.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Goa||Work on Manohar Parrikar Smriti Sthal to restart, administration building on hold||PANAJI: After all infrastructure projects ground to a halt due to the lockdown, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) has started issuing work permits and travel passes to contractors and has asked them to restart work at all project sites. According to the corporation’s officials, construction activity at the Manohar Parrikar Smriti Sthal, Sanquelim bus stand and government schools will restart in the coming week. The foundation stone for the Manohar Parrikar Smriti Sthal was laid at Miramar on December 13 and work had commenced immediately. “Passes are being issued to all the contractors so that they can mobilise workers who are in the state. We have also asked the contractors to take workers from the shelter homes if required. Workers from outside the state will not be allowed,” a GSIDC official said. GSIDC has simultaneously decided to put certain projects on the back burner, especially the Rs 150 crore administrative complex at Patto. The 75m-tall building with 15 floors for government offices was to be ready by 2021. In view of Covid-19, the corporation has decided to delay the design selection process for the building till the threat of the pandemic has passed. “Due to the lockdown, we cannot have the presentation of the designs. We will continue the process later,” a GSIDC source said. As a priority, GSIDC will try to complete the government primary schools that are in need of urgent repairs before the monsoons and before the next academic year starts. Projects that have been tendered have been kept on hold till the lockdown is lifted, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-on-parrikar-sthal-to-restart-admin-bldg-on-hold/articleshow/75384160.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||District admn, police facilitating revival of rural sector economy||Nagpur: Gradual relaxation is being given in lockdown for restarting economic activity, especially in rural sectors, with police and district administration focusing on implementation of social distancing and other related norms. The administration and police, following guidelines from ministry of home affairs (MHA), are playing the role of facilitators to allow economic activities for agro-based industries and allies services, animal husbandry, road works, pre-monsoon preparations, ginning and pressing, apart from essential commodities and emergency services. Tehsildars, now nominated as ‘incident commanders’, are coordinating with local police machineries. IG KM Mallikarjun Prasanna, having Nagpur rural, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Wardha districts under him, stated that the transportation of goods, especially essential, agro-based and emergency services, is being allowed with least obstructions. “Police station in-charges and incident commanders have to run the show on ground zero,” he said. Prasanna said that the inter-district and inter-state borders would remain closed and passenger traffic of any type, including that of industrial and agro-based activities, would not be permitted. “Police would not permit any kind of congregation, whether static or moving. Incident commanders would finalize names and details of industries or economic activities allowed and share it with police,” he said. “Checking at nakabandi points would remain strict and only permitted vehicles or persons will be allowed to pass,” he said. Prasanna also said that police may not visit any industries or factories to check whether norms set by incident commanders are being followed. “Owners and management are expected to adhere to the guidelines. The labourers can be put up either at the site or at places in the vicinity like mangal karyalayas,” he said. TM Karande, tehsildar and incident commander, Saoner, said that the administration is working closely with the police department. “We will inform police and seek assistance wherever there is a breach or violation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-admn-police-facilitating-revival-of-rural-sector-economy/articleshow/75391670.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 26, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 cases surge in Kottayam, six in two days||Kottayam: Three more persons were confirmed with Covid-19 in the district on Saturday. Now, the total number of Covid patients currently in the district has risen to six. A 50-year-old lorry driver from Manarcad, a 55-year-old woman from Sankranthi and 60-year-old mother of the health worker who was earlier confirmed with Covid-19 in Panachikkad are the three new positive cases. Earlier, a woman from Pala was confirmed with Covid in Idukki district. She was later shifted to the government medical college hospital (MCH) here. The other two cases are a headload worker in Kottayam market and a health worker in Panachikkad district. All six have been admitted in the Covid treatment centre at MCH here. The lorry driver who was confirmed with Covid-19 on Saturday has been driving interstate trucks. Health officials said the person was under home quarantine after arriving from Maharashtra on March 25. The Sankranthi resident had arrived from Sharjah over one-and-a-half months ago. The samples of the mother of the health worker was taken for lab test as she had come into contact with the Covid-19 confirmed son. Confusion continued over the source of infection of the headload worker in Kottayam market. Initially, it was thought that he had contracted the virus from the truck driver who had come from Tamil Nadu. A person, who travelled with the driver had got down in Palakkad, was earlier confirmed with Covid-19. So naturally, it was thought that the driver too had contracted the virus and the headload worker had got infected from him. But now, the driver has been tested negative for Covid-19. Many who had visited Kottayam market turned panicky after the headload worker was confirmed with Covid-19. The control room has been receiving several calls. District medical officer have advised all those who visited the market in recent days having breathing difficulties, throat pain and fever to contact the tele consultation number 7034322777.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-19-cases-surge-in-kottayam-six-in-two-days/articleshow/75382977.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Iran-returnee is Kolhapur’s first case in almost 3 weeks||Kolhapur: Breaking an almost three-week streak for Kolhapur, a 38-year-old man tested Covid-19 positive after returning from Iran on Saturday. This is the first case emerging from the city after almost three weeks.The man who is a resident of Nagala Park had tested positive while he was in Iran. He underwent treatment there and arrived in Kolhapur on Saturday. His last two reports had tested negative in Iran. Dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye said the swabs of the person and three others who returned from Iran were taken for testing. “He had earlier tested positive and completed treatment. As a precaution, we tested his swab and found that infection still exists. We have admitted him to the hospital for treatment,” she said. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti had earlier adopted a rigorous containment strategy in the city immediately after the cases started emerging. “There were no new cases in the last several days. But we did not relax. The complexities in the transmission of the disease made us work harder. A week or so from now, the lockdown will be eased. But we have to continue with social distancing practices, disinfection, wearing masks and gloves, and ensuring regular surveys of citizens’ health status,” said Kalshetti.The throat swab samples of 26 suspects earlier sent to Miraj for testing had reported negative. Over 700 suspects from the city have been tested so far. Currently, there are seven active cases in other parts of the district undergoing treatment. As there are no containment zones in the city, we have eased the movement .The district health administration is planning to start plasma therapy for active cases. The process of setting up of collection centre of plasma at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital is underway. The plasma contains the antibodies generated after the infection to the virus. These plasma antibodies form the natural defence mechanism that stops the infection to grow in the lungs and other organs. Plasma treatment is helpful in the covid positive patients with morbidity since the body's defence mechanism gets slowed down due to already existing disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/iran-returnee-is-kolhapurs-first-case-in-almost-3-weeks/articleshow/75383802.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||Out to check illegal fishing, 2 forest dept staffers drown in Kabini||MYSURU: Two forest department personnel drowned after their patrolling boat capsized in the backwaters of Kabini at Gundre forest range under Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Friday night. There were reports that four department staffers on a mission to check illegal fishing were attacked by miscreants, leading to the mishap. However, Hediyala ACF Mohan Kumar said that they lost balance after one of them fired in the air after realising that miscreants were approaching them. The body of guesthouse caretaker Mahesh was fished out while that of temporary watcher Shivakumar could not be traced till Saturday. The operation to fish out his body will resume on Sunday. Forest guard Mahadev and another temporary watcher Bomma survived the mishap. Based on an alert, DRFO Kumaraswamy, forest guard Madahev, forest watcher Manju, Mahesh, driver Dileep, temporary watchers Bomma, Shivakumar and Cheluvraj, who are tribals, reached the spot around 11 pm. They found fishing nets on the backwaters, but no fishermen on the spot. Mahadev, Mahesh, Shivakumar and Bomma took a boat to remove nets from the waters. Mohan Kumar said the miscreants came from the Nagarahole side, which is notorious for poachers. Meanwhile, the family members and relatives of Shivakumar raised suspicion over his death. They sought to know why Shivakumar was involved in the operation when he was deputed in the Begur office. Holding the forest department responsible for the death, they demanded an investigation into the incident. “We suspect the involvement of some persons,” they said. Beechanahalli police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/out-to-check-illegal-fishing-2-forest-dept-staffers-drown-in-kabini/articleshow/75382975.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Cattle, horse owners hit hard as fodder prices soar||Jaipur: With the ongoing lockdown in the state affecting the availability of cattle and equine fodder, farm owners are facing unprecedented economic hardship and uncertainty.Many cattle owners have been paying 40% extra to feed their cattle, while those with horses are paying similarly high prices to ensure the animals don’t starve. Ajay Vikram Singh, a stud and cattle farm owner in Manda village, said, “Cattle and equine feed is hard to procure and prices have shot up. Before the lockdown, the price of a 100kg gunny bag of barley was sold for Rs 1,300. Now, not only does it cost as much as Rs 1,700, it is not available easily.” Prices have shot up as transport has become a hassle after state and many district borders are sealed and distributors are avoiding to risk police intimidation. Bajranag Gujjar, a cattle farm owner, said, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had exempted animal husbandry farms from the lockdown list, however, it did not clarify specific details due to which cattle owners are facing problems. Lucerne grass (rijika), husk, bran and straw for cattle are available; however, truck drivers are not ready to transport it. This has pushed up the prices by at least 30%. A bundle of rijika that used to be sold at Rs 3, has gone up Rs 15 due to the demand created by the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cattle-horse-owners-hit-hard-as-fodder-prices-soar/articleshow/75384167.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||One death, 42 +ve cases: Worst Covid day for Vidarbha||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha crossed the 200-mark on Saturday as 42 new cases were reported from three districts in the region. Yavatmal recorded 20 new cases in a day, which is a record for any city in Vidarbha. With this, 19 new cases came from Nagpur and 3 in Amravati, taking Vidarbha’s total number of confirmed positive Covid-19 cases to 225. Out of three patients reported today in Amravati, a 52-year-old who was admitted in Covid-19 hospital died just 2 hours before his reports arrived. Due to this, total number of Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha reached 10, six of them being in Amravati itself. Other four include one each in Akola, Buldhana and Nagpur while one patient had committed suicide in Akola. Meanwhile, 3 patients recovered and discharged from Buldhana and one from Washim on Saturday. With this, total number of patients who recovered from Vidarbha region reached 59. A good news is that this number is likely to increase on Sunday as more patients are likely to get discharged. Deceased tests positive in AmravatiA 52-year-old patient, who died at Covid hospital in Amravati on Saturday, is among the three new Covid-19 cases that were detected positive. This has taken the number of positive cases to 19 in Amravati. These include six deaths and four discharged. Nine are in Covid hospital now.The 52-year-old Yusuf Nagar resident was admitted to Covid hospital on April 23. He died there at 4pm on Saturday. His swab report came positive late in the evening along with two others. Total 13 reports were received this evening. Ten tested negative.The second male who tested positive is a 53-year-old man from Badnera. He has been admitted to Covid ward while his contacts are being identified and quarantined.The third positive is a 35-year-old man from Tarkheda locality who had come in contact with April 23 Covid-19 positive deceased woman and was already institutionally quarantined. He has now been shifted to Covid positive ward for treatment.20 positive in Yavatmal A total of 34 active positive patients are in the isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal, of whom 20 were tested positive on Saturday. Total 38 test reports were received on Saturday. Out of them, 14 were negative. Remaining 4 reports will be referred to the lab for a fresh test. As soon as test reports confirming 20 positive reached here, the health workers accompanied by the police forces launched a manhunt from the hotspot areas in the containment areas of Yavatmal. There are 100 persons in the institutional quarantine while 829 are in home quarantine. The district administration has already started the survey in the containment areas. Swab samples would be collected during survey and they would be sent to the lab for the test. The people who have come in contact with the positive patients should come forward for the test, urged the district collector MD Singh. He has also urged the people to strictly adhere to the set norms and rules and cautioned the people in the hotspot areas of stringent action if they try to violate the curfew rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-death-42-ve-cases-worst-covid-day-for-vidarbha/articleshow/75384168.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 26, 2020||Goa||Now, chemists seek nod to travel by KTC buses||Panaji: After Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) buses finished a week of successfully transporting government employees to and from work during the lockdown, chemists — also essential workers — have reached out to the state-run corporation to let them ride the bus too. “Pharmaceutical services are also essential, so it is imperative that our staff has ease of transport, said Prasad Tamba, member and former president of the chemist and druggist association of Goa and secretary of the Indian pharmaceutical association’s Goa branch. Tamba said that pharmacy proprietors have so far been carpooling to work and back home, which is discouraged by the new guidelines that specify a two-person limit per car. KTC, however, maintained that the service is being operated solely for the transportation of government employees, and that they can’t accommodate other passengers without government approval. “The order must come from the government. The chemist and druggist association will therefore have to first write to the state,” said KTC general manager Sanjay Ghate. He added that KTC will have to deploy a fleet of buses and draw out fresh routes according to the demand put forth by the association. “They will have to give us a figure of the number of passengers expected to travel, so that we can estimate the number of vehicles required ,” he said. Following the commencement of industries’ operations, the corporation has also received requests from them. “We can only carry a few passengers per bus (to adhere to social distancing norms), owing to which they (industries) will have to rent more buses,” Ghate said. “The total cost is too high for them, due to which it’s not feasible to provide them the transport service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-chemists-seek-nod-to-travel-by-ktc-buses/articleshow/75384173.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, Srikakulam enters Covid zone with three positive cases||Srikakulam: Srikakulam district registered three Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, the first three in the district, said district collector J Nivas. All three cases were reported from Pathapatnam mandal, close to the Odisha border. The collector said that a lockdown would be enforced in 18 villages under Pathapatnam mandal. Villages around Kakawada, Seethe and Koravawada have been marked out as containment zone and will be provided with vegetabbles, medicines, drinking water and other essential items through doorstep delivery. Animal feed will also be provided. Speaking on the positive cases, the collector said the three patients are family members of a man who returned from Delhi. He was tested on Thursday and his results returned positive. Later, the samples were sent to Kakinada for a final test and the test results were negative. “The man did not have any links with the Delhi Markaz,” said Nivas, but three of his family members tested positive. The collector said that the man had come in contact with 29 people. Around 211 people who had returned from Delhi after March 20 have been placed in home quarantine. Altogether, 13,500 people from Delhi, Mumbai and other parts of the country have been put in home isolation, Nivas said. Nivas asked people who have returned from Delhi, Mumbai and other places outside the district to remain at home. A control room has been set up for each mandal, he said, and officers and staff of revenue, medical, panchayati raj and rural water supply departments will remain available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-srikakulam-enters-covid-zone-with-three-positive-cases/articleshow/75382974.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 26, 2020||Pune||Students clasp placement offers amid schedule flux||PUNE: The extended lockdown due to the spread of Covid-19 has led to a number of companies deferring the joining dates on campus placements offers made to students. In fact, the joining date is expected to be postponed from July till September or October, said training and placement officers at most well-known colleges in the city. At the same time, the officers have also been assuaging anxious parents and students regarding the status of their placement amid fears of a global economic slowdown. While no offers have been rescinded so far, the performance of markets in western countries may as well decided the future course of action, said officers. BB Ahuja, director, College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), explained, “The joining date has been postponed by most companies as of now. New dates will be communicated after the lockdown period ends. This is essential as our academic term will get extended, followed by semester-end examinations. As of now, none of the companies have given the pink slip to our students.” Manish R Mundada from IIMS Saibalaji Group said, “About 90% students were placed before the lockdown, most of them had joined their workplace while others are yet to do so. No offer has been cancelled. Most offer letters were handed out before March 24. Hiring has slowed down because of the lockdown but companies are conducting interviews through Skype and Zoom. Recruitment is still on but at a very slow pace.” Manjusha Kulkarni, professor at Modern College at Ganeshkhind, pointed out that students have been selected but they have been asked to join after their results are declared. She said, “Some appointments depend on students’ performance in exams.” Anand Bhalerao, principal of Bharati Vidyapeeth deemed University College of Engineering, said, “Campus placements at our college were in progress till March 12. Students are expected to join from July/August 2020 after completing the company formalities. Most companies that visited our college have promised to stick with their offer letters.” Placement officer at the Army Institute of Technology Manoj Khaladkar said “We have received indications that the joining date may defer till September or November but no offer has been cancelled yet. The industry may be going through a bad phase but they do need fresh engineers. Joining may be deferred even till January next year, but they would always need new recruits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-clasp-placement-offers-amid-schedule-flux/articleshow/75384164.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 26, 2020||Goa||Ambiguous MHA order spurs opening of non-essential shops||PANAJI: Non-essential shops continued to keep their shutters down on Saturday as confusion over the Union ministry of home affair’s (MHA) new relaxations kept shop keepers guessing. While a handful of them, including a salon, opened for operations, most chose to wait for guidance from the state government and local urban bodies. In Panaji, a few hardware and electrical supply stores operated with partially open shutters, keeping a watchful eye for the arrival of police or Corporation of the City of Panaji staff. Most standalone stores and shops registered under the Shops and Establishments Act remained closed, while some smartphone retailers changed their business overnight and began selling groceries. “The central government issued guidelines late last night and since then we have been getting a lot of calls to ask us if they can open. Some shops, including spas and barbers, have gone ahead and opened their stores without studying the guidelines. Now the Goa government has given clarity,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. The MHA order stated that “all shops, including neighbourhood shops and stand-alone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective state and UT will be allowed to open during the lockdown”. The ministry also said shops located in registered markets located outside the municipal corporations and municipalities can open after following the drill of social distancing and wearing of masks, but with 50% strength. Many people interpreted it to include salons, two-wheeler mechanics, furniture stores and ventured out expecting shops to be open. It was only later in the day that the Centre and the directorate of health services in Goa cleared the air. “There is no clarity. We will wait till CCP or the state government extends the Centre’s guidelines to Goa,” said a proprietor who opened his store for a brief moment to provide goods to an acquaintance. Given that grocery stores and shops selling essential goods have been allowed to function, a mobile store and a cafe have morphed into vegetable vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ambiguous-mha-order-spurs-opening-of-non-essential-shops/articleshow/75384165.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 26, 2020||Goa||Pharma cos ask to bring in outstation staff, turned down||Panaji: Pharmaceutical firms have approached the district collectors seeking permission to bring in employees from neighbouring states to work at their manufacturing plants in Goa. The state executive committee (SEC), which was informed about this request, has advised drug makers to sustain operations with the employees available in Goa. North Goa Collector R Menaka raised the issue at the SEC meeting saying that the workers who are in other states have been asked to join duty. The SEC asked principal secretary Puneet Goel to “sensitise the pharma companies on utilisation of staff who are available within Goa”. “Such permits will be issued only after a proper protocol is put in place,” the SEC said. Menaka also held a meeting with postal authorities to put in place a mechanism to ensure efficient delivery of postal packages, especially between Goa and Maharashtra. It was decided that postal vehicles from Goa would hand over the mail and parcels at the Maharashtra border to their counterparts from the neighbouring state and pick up items for Goa. Meanwhile, health secretary Nila Mohanan said that kiosks to collect samples for testing have been installed at Patradevi and Keri borders. While reviewing utility services, PWD said that the recently repaired pump at Padosem has developed a fresh snag and would have to be either replaced or technicians would have to come from another state to repair it. Till then Tuem would have restricted water supply. The SEC also said that as per the Centre’s directives, NGOs can pick up foodgrains directly from the FCI godowns for use in relief work. Registration offices in the state would be open from Monday and KTC buses will not run on Sundays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pharma-cos-ask-to-bring-in-outstation-staff-turned-down/articleshow/75384169.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Madurai||Farmers hoist black flags, seek relief||Madurai: Farmers from nearly 20 villages in Sivaganga district hoisted black flags at their homes on Saturday, demanding a compensation of Rs 10,000 each and waiver of agricultural loans for a particular period in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The villages included Kandramanickam, Kurunthampatttu, Kallal, Ladanendhal and Panikkanendhal among others. Farmers said that this is the most uncertain period in their lives and the government should take steps to protect the livelihood of the farmers, they said. Sivaganga district secretary of the Tamil Nadu farmers association, K Veerapandi said the central government should immediately release the Rs 13,000 crore funds that the Tamil Nadu government had sought. In Sivaganga district alone, bananas and leaves cultivated in 5,000 acres and over 10,000 tonnes of chillies were going waste because there was neither procurement nor proper transport facilities. The period of interest on free gold loans given to farmers should be extended till the Covid-19 crisis ends, he added. Veerapandi said the district had over 85,000 workers, who had worked under the 100-day work guarantee scheme and that none of them had received the Rs 1,000 cash dole promised to them by the government. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-hoist-black-flags-seek-relief/articleshow/75384174.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Equity MFIs in Gujarat suffer Rs 14,793 crore erosion in March||AHMEDABAD: The bloodbath in the Indian equity markets in March triggered by rising concerns over spike in cases of coronavirus infections and its impact on global markets, economy and corporate sector earnings cost investors in Gujarat a bit too dearly. The total assets under management (AUM) in equity-based mutual funds suffered an erosion of Rs 14,793 crore in March, in Gujarat, declining by 17.45% from Rs 84,787.6 crore in February to Rs 69,994.21 crore in March, suggests data by Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). According to analysts, investors suffered radical losses with indices including those of Sensex, Nifty, mid-cap and small-cap suffering a steep fall of 25-35% in March against the peak in February. “Sharp fall in stock market indices last month caused the net asset value (NAV) of several investments to decline significantly. This is one of the reasons for the abrupt reduction in AUM in equity-based mutual funds. In fact, in certain mutual funds the fall is so drastic that returns over the past five years have reduced to zero,” said Jayesh Vithalani, an Ahmedabad-based financial analyst. The last ten days of March particularly showed a negative trend in the stock markets. With this, AUM of majority of investors in Gujarat, particularly from Vadodara, Surat, Ahmedabad and Rajkot who tend to invest in equity-based funds, showed a decline. Vithalani also said that due to sentimental effect, rate of withdrawal was high in March. While the NAV of investments suffered during the mayhem in equity markets in March, there was a significant outflow of funds from the equity markets as well. “From March 20 to April 15, the market indices fell approximately by 30%. The outflow of funds by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) was ongoing since the budget announcement in February, and it further worsened after the stock market crash from March 20 onwards,” said Mumukshu Desai, director of a city-based financial advisory firm. Sources said that several FIIs withdrew major sums of money to adhere to margin calls, as global markets too witnessed a downfall in March, amid rising concerns over the fallout of Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. March is usually the month when withdrawal of funds, particularly by corporates and HNIs, take place for tax payments and other clearances usually made to lawyers and auditors among other professional services. Apart from equity-linked mutual funds, an 8% erosion was also witnessed in the overall AUM from Gujarat, according to AMFI data. The overall AUM fell from Rs 1.88 lakh crore in February to Rs 1.72 lakh crore in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/equity-mfis-in-gujarat-suffer-14793-cr-erosion-in-march/articleshow/75384196.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Order to reopen shops sparks confusion among owners||Kolhapur: Chaos reigned supreme in many market areas across the city on Saturday as shop owners rushed to open their units following an order passed by the Central government on Friday night. A wine shop in Tarabai Park chalked out squares outside the outlet to help customers observe social distancing. However, the owner had to erase the boxes after the civic staff visited his unit and told him that no such order of reopening shops had been passed.Later, the central government came out with a clarification that only shops selling goods were allowed to open and not those offering services like haircut. The wine shops come under the excise department while the shops selling other kinds of goods fall under the shop act. The central government has left it on the state to decide whether to allow shops to operate with 50% staff, provided they follow social distancing norms, based on the status of Covid-19 cases. The state government is yet to issue a notification on the opening of shops. An official from Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said, “Many shopkeepers were confused about the Centre’s notification. Its not that the shopkeepers had already opened their units and started selling goods. They were just taking preparations of opening their shop. We are in touch with the traders’ body for proper communication. However, we will take action if anyone deliberately or even unknowingly opens the shops which sell non-essential goods.” Meanwhile, district guardian minister Satej Patil gave into the demand of the bakeries to open their establishments. All the bakeries in the city as well as the district were allowed to open their units. The bread manufacturers too have been allowed to start their operations. However, the shops involved in the sale of sweets and other savouries will still remain closed. An official from the district administration said that the detailed notification of allowing shops to reopen would most likely be issued on Sunday. The official said that the administration was making all arrangements to ensure the shops which want to reopen fall in line with the instructions stipulated by the government. “There is a high chance that suddenly opening all the shops could lead to a chaotic situation and increase the chances of infection spread,” said the official. He added that a report about the containment zones in the district have been submitted to the government since no shops were allowed to open in such zones and the nearby areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/order-to-reopen-shops-sparks-confusion-among-owners/articleshow/75383807.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Madurai||Fisherman dies of decompression after diving||Madurai: A 29-year-old fisherman in Tuticorin district died of decompression sickness late on Friday night. He dived into the sea to release a fishing net entagled in a rock earlier that day. The deceased was identified as Benziger a resident of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Lurdhammalpuram, Tuticorin. Tuticorin marine police who is investigating the case said that the man and three others went fishing from Therespuram coastal village around 6 pm on Thursday. While they were fishing about 15 nautical miles (27 kms) from the shore on Friday morning, a fishing net got stuck in the rock. Benziger and another fisherman Syed dived into the sea with the support of a tube to release the net. After they returned to the boat Benziger complained of severe pain in the limbs. Immediately they returned to Thermal Nagar Beach and took him to a hospital on a bike. The man was referred to the Thoothukudi government medical college and hospital, where he died around 11.30 pm that night. “Doctors explained that it was due to decompression after a careless deep dive,” a police officer said. A case of unnatural death was registered under section 174 of the code of criminal procedures. Since there are allegations that such mode of fishing is in practice to collect shells or for collection sea cucumber – which is prohibited under The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 – a probe is underway to find if the fishermen were involved in any form of illegal fishing and the person for whom they worked.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fisherman-dies-of-decompression-after-diving/articleshow/75384176.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Goa||Mission Rabies seeks help in tracking infected dogs||Panaji: Goa runs the risk of registering positive cases of rabies after it has been found that stray dogs are traversing for long distances, especially from the Pernem-Maharashtra border into the state. As of 2020, Goa has had zero human rabies cases, and in a bid to maintain this record, intensive surveillance is being carried out by Mission Rabies in Goa. The team has appealed to the public to watch out for rabid dogs. “Throughout 2019, there were no canine rabies cases outside of Pernem, but since the lockdown we have responded to cases in Bardez and Bicholim. We need Goans to make us aware as soon as they see rabid dogs and help prevent rabies returning to those areas of the state where the disease has not been seen in years,” Dr Praveen Mathapati, Mission Rabies Surveillance Manager in Goa, said. Routine vaccinations are halted during the coronavirus lockdown, but Mission Rabies has an expert team on call seven days a week to safely deal with any suspected case of animals with rabies. The team has appealed to Goans to contact the Mission Rabies Emergency Hotline on 7744029586 if they see any animal showing possible signs of rabies such as aggression, confusion or foaming at the mouth. “It is essential that we maintain Goa’s record. We are proud that not a single person died from rabies over the past two years. The state’s dog vaccination scheme, which routinely vaccinates one-lakh dogs per year, has not only eliminated human deaths from this disease, but also seen a dramatic decline in dog cases,” he said. Mission Rabies’ Goa Project Manager, Julie Corfmat, said the charity will continue protecting the state post-lockdown. “As soon as the coronavirus situation allows, you can be rest assured that our vaccination teams will be doubling their efforts to make up for lost time during the lockdown,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mission-rabies-seeks-help-in-tracking-infected-dogs/articleshow/75384180.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘One should concentrate on needs and not wants’||With the global pandemic putting the brakes on the economic activity, the working class is staring at salary cuts and in some cases, even layoffs. Given the uncertain situation, managing the family finances is a big challenge. In an interview with TOI, financial planner Bharat Parekh suggests a roadmap for families to navigate through the rough economic journey ahead.Excerpts... Q. How should a family prepare a home budget in such challenging times?A. One should concentrate on needs and not wants. While budgeting, include all family members in the discussion about how to reduce costs. Provision should be made for daily household needs like grocery, vegetables, electricity bills, all EMIs (personal loan, home loan, auto loan), house rent, medical expenses, medical and life insurance premium. Keep variable costs like internet, mobile bills, app purchases low and plan a budget for the next six months. Q. What kind of expenses must be curtailed first?A. Many expenses have automatically been curtailed, like going out for movies, eating out and shopping for clothes, thanks to the lockdown. Review all your bills and obligations and see how you can reduce what you need to pay by at least 10%. Use only one TV instead of multiple TVs. Similarly, avoid use of multiple ACs. If you have multiple net connections, it can be disconnected. Individuals who have Amazon Prime are now subscribing to Netflix, Hotstar and YouTube films. These are additional costs and can be reduced. One can save a lot by prudently using the mobile recharge plan. There are many plans priced at the same amount. It is your job to choose the most economic plan. If you use a postpaid mobile plan, it is time for you to switch to a prepaid plan. You can cut down on consumable habits like smoking or excessive drinking. Q. Many want to save money but are not wanting to compromise on their standard of living. What’s the way out? A. Look at your income flows and see if it is enough to fulfil the expenses required for matching the current standard of living. If it is not sufficient, then start compromising with less urgent expenses/wants. In challenging situations, reasonable provision for food, clothing, shelter and medical exigencies itself is a sign of a good standard of living. One of the best options to save money is to repay your existing loan. Money saved is money earned. Good quality of life will ensure good standard of living. Doing this math, you are actually cutting out on a lot of unnecessary expenses. Q. Investment in mutual funds and even stocks have taken a hit. Many feel it’s best to withdraw and shift to FD. What would you suggest?A. Investment in mutual funds and equities are made with proper financial planning and goals in mind. An oft-repeated advice during a bear market is to ‘play dead’ or do nothing. Essentially, you let your investments run and don’t tinker with your portfolio. This advice may not suit everybody. Actually, how aloof you remain should be guided by your age or time horizon for each invested rupee. For younger investors, who would not need the money for at least 8-10 years are indeed better off doing nothing — at least to the extent that you remain calm throughout. There is no need to panic and no need to exit from the same. Q. How should families plan the next one year from a financial point of view? A. Your top financial priority should be ensuring that you have a sizeable emergency fund. Aim to put away three to six months’ worth of expenses in a savings account. This becomes doubly important because you may lose your job because of the economic slowdown, avoid expecting a salary hike and avoid switching jobs. Families should put in place provisions for basic necessities like food, EMI, rent, provisions and premiums for insurance both life and health and children’s education. Other expenses can wait. LIC has given extension for payment of premiums. It can be delayed by 30 days without any loss of benefits. Make the most of such concessions. Health insurance premiums can also be paid in instalments when you renew your policy. These facilities will help you to plan for the next one year. Q. The government has allowed withdrawal of some amount of PF under the special Covid-19 clause. Is the move beneficial?A. The government is allowing part withdrawal of up to 75 per cent of the EPF balance or three months of basic salary, whichever is lower. As far as possible withdrawal from PF should not be made as this is a provision for old age. It also gives you tax free returns and you cannot to put the money back into the PF. People should not opt for withdrawal if it does not have the above mentioned purposes. If there are pressing demands to meet expenses like food and medical, then the minimum amount should be withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-should-concentrate-on-needs-and-not-wants/articleshow/75384188.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 26, 2020||Pune||Lockdown to hit scholars eyeing international degree||PUNE: With the lockdown being extended, students planning to go abroad for higher education are under stress about the future course of action. Also, the number of foreign students choosing to pursue courses in India may also decrease this year due to the pandemic, stated some college officials. All universities are currently shut and they have postponed their examination schedule, which is expected to fuel further delays. However, representatives of agencies facilitating study-abroad programs said that delayed results will not affect admissions as the universities accept the final mark sheet till December. Dilip Oak, who runs an organization that guides students seeking admission abroad, said despite the stress no student has cancelled his/her application yet. Oak said, “The semester starts in August and there is still plenty of time. Even if the lockdown is extended further, there is still time for embassies to complete the visa process. Moreover, since they earn revenue from students, they might give them priority when the consulate opens. The delay in university exams won’t affect admissions abroad because students can submit their documents till December.” Varsities are also worried about the lockdown affecting students coming to India. “Admissions of foreign students will take a big hit this year. Pune, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Delhi and Bangalore attract a number of foreign students and these are also hotspots of Covid-19,” said Vidya Yeravdekar, principal director of Symbiosis Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-to-hit-scholars-eyeing-international-degree/articleshow/75384170.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||New Covid officer for S’kulam dist after positive cases||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy directed officials to post a new officer for Srikakulam district, where coronavirus positive cases were reported this week. Speaking to the ministers and officials on the medical and health initiatives by the state government to combat Covid-19, at the camp office on Saturday, the chief minister expressed concern over the spread of the virus to Srikakulam district, which hadn’t recorded any cases till now. CM Jagan directed officials to find out the reason for the positive cases reported from the district despite a lockdown being in place and the health initiatives taken by the government. The CM directed the officials to post a special officer to Srikakulam district, who should monitor Covid operations and ensure that the the virus does not spread further. He said that Srikakulam district had not seen positive cases for all these days and wanted to know the reasons for its spread to this district. The CM also directed officials to convert the district headquarters hospital at Kurnool into a Covid hospital in view of the increasing positive cases in the district. He also directed officials to speed up the process of establishing village clinics across the state. He wanted the officials to open new laboratories to test for Covid cases wherever labs are unavailable. The CM stressed on the need to increase the medical and health infrastructure to meet Covid requirements now and in the future too. The officials told the chief minister that they have conducted 6,928 tests in one day and with this, the state had conducted 61,266 tests so far. The state tops the list in the country with 1,147 tests conducted for every million people in the population, the officials told the chief minister. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the mobile rythu bazaars and availability of vegetables to the people during the lockdown in the state. He told officials to plan to continue these janata bazaars even after the lockdown. Ministers Botsa Satyanarayana, Kurasala Kanna Babu, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, medical and health special chief secretary KS Jawahar Reddy and other officials were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/new-covid-officer-for-skulam-dist-after-positive-cases/articleshow/75382984.cms||Gopi Dara
April 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Just 2 active cases as 3 more recover in Malappuram||Malappuram: Malappuram is inching closer to being Covid-19 free after three more recovered on Saturday, leaving just two active cases of the viral infection in the district. The three — a 39-year-old man from Thekkanpullur in Tirur, a 30-year-old-man from Chungathara near Nilambur and a 45-year-old woman from Kannamangalam near Vengara were shifted to the step-down ICU of Manjeri medical college after they tested negative. Two others remain at the medical college isolation ward. To date, 20 positive cases have been reported in the district and 17 of them have recovered. On Saturday, 76 persons who are under observation in the district tested negative for the virus, taking the tally to negative results to 1778. Currently, there are 1925 under observation in the district, including 108 that joined the list on Saturday. There are 31 others under observation at various hospitals. District collector Jafar Malik has announced relaxation in restrictions in the areas except for hotspots starting Saturday. Relaxation would be given to farming activities, animal husbandry sector, plantation works in rural areas, workshops, and mobile shops. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/just-2-active-cases-as-3-more-recover-in-malappuram/articleshow/75382998.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Satranjipura cases swell to 78 as 19 more coronavirus positive in a single day||NAGPUR: Nagpur district registered its highest single day tally of Covid-19 patients after 19 more neighbours of 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, city’s first and only death of Covid-19, tested positive on Saturday. The earlier highest single-day number was 17 positive cases, reported on April 12. The number of positive patients from Satranjipura case now stands at 78. Satranjipura alone has contributed 62.90% of total positive patients from the district whose cases have now swelled to 124. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had identified and quarantined 150 people from Satranjipura on Thursday. Out of them 116 were quarantined at Wanadongri institutional quarantine centre while remaining were taken to MLA Hostel. Those quarantined at Wanadongri were on Saturday shifted to Pachpaoli after objection raised by Hingna MLA Sameer Meghe. Out of 116 now quarantined at Pachpaoli, 17 tested positive on Saturday. The other two positive patients reported on Saturday were quarantined in another facility a few days ago. They are among the close contacts of the deceased’s family members who had tested positive earlier. Out of the 150 quarantined on Thursday, reports of many persons are awaited. On Friday, a woman from among these 150 was tested positive. Now, the NMC will trace and quarantine more persons from the Satranjipura locality. With many family members, close contacts including some neighbours of Satranjipura deceased testing positive since April 10, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, additional chief medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane had decided to quarantine and test all neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/satranjipura-cases-swell-to-78-as-19-more-ve-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75384175.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Stray animals to get ambulance, dedicated facility for dogs||Kolhapur: A dedicated ambulance for stray animals will soon be introduced in the city, said district guardian minister Satej Patil on Saturday. The decision was taken after animal rights activists approached Patil explaining to him the plight of stray animals, especially during the lockdown. He said that the funds from district development and planning council will be sanctioned for the same. “The animals too need healing touch to their pains. We discussed in length what the administration can do to relieving the pain and suffering of the stray animals. We have decided to buy one animal ambulance. It will carry the animals requiring medical care to veterinary hospitals and dog care centres. I have learned that the Kolhapur municipal corporation has set aside Rs 50 lakh to develop a shelter for the stray dogs. I have asked the civic authorities to immediately start the work. The facility will be developed for permanent basis and if KMC requires more funds will be made available,” said Patil. The dog lovers said that they are taking all possible efforts to make the strays comfortable. “We have decided to mark the zones in the city and one team will look after the stray animals from there. They will feed them, carry out vaccination and start putting the belts around their neck for identification. The stray animals mostly the dogs will be counted and a record of these dogs will be maintained for regular use,” said one of the NGO representatives. The dog lovers have agreed to make the doctors available. “We too are talking to health experts to take care of the dogs. The system developed will soon be in place permanently," said Patil. Currently, the civic administration runs a birth control centre for dogs at Shenda Park. “The facility is inadequate and more space is required to set up a big facility.,” added Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/stray-animals-to-get-ambulance-dedicated-facility-for-dogs/articleshow/75383810.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Muslims offer namaz at homes on first day of Ramzan||Kolhapur: The district administration on Saturday appealed to all Muslims to offer prayers at their homes during Ramzan while adhering to social distancing and lockdown norms amid the spread of Covid-19.Various Muslim organisations too came ahead and stated that all the mosques will be locked and no one will be allowed to enter the mosques to offer prayers.As the Ramzan moon was sighted on Friday, the fasting began from Saturday as the community welcomed the holy month by staying at home and praying with their families. “With the coronavirus lockdown in place, we have already appealed people to not to gather outside their homes and pray indoors and not hold congregations prayers. We also appeal people to not to gather on the terraces of their homes and pray together,” said Gani Ajarekar, president of Muslim Boarding. He advised the Muslim brethren to avoid the congregation for the first iftar. “On the first day of the month, people celebrated iftar with their close ones at home,” he added.As per the lockdown directives, all the mosques from the district are closed and locked from outside. “People will not be allowed to enter the mosques. On behalf of all people, only five people will pray namaz observing social distancing rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/muslims-offer-namaz-at-homes-on-first-day-of-ramzan/articleshow/75383813.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Three held for poaching, cooking meat at Ranthambore||JAIPUR: Poaching incidents in Ranthambore National Park (RNP) have increased in the wake of the ongoing lockdown. Another incident came to fore on Friday, when forest department with the help of local police, arrested three accused who were cooking meat in a guava orchard near the Baler range of Ranthambore. These people were allegedly poachers and had killed a wild animal inside the national park. A forest official said, “We received a tip-off from our informer that the poachers went for a hunt in the park and were cooking the meat. Acting on the information, we raided that orchard, where four people were cooking meat. While one accused fled from the spot, three were arrested. The meat samples will be sent to laboratories in Bharatpur and Dehradun.” Sources said, till now the team has not found any hunting remains from the spot and its surrounding area. Also, the department is not able to ascertain as to which animal the poachers killed. “The poachers did not reveal anything about the animal they killed during the interrogation,” said the source. With sparse public movement during lockdown, state forest department has reported a surge in the movement of poachers inside national parks and sanctuaries. The incident has been reported three days after four poachers were caught on a camera trap with weapons in their hands in Keoladeo National Park in Bharatpur. A senior official said, “As movement of villagers and authorities is restricted, poachers are trying to take advantage of the lockdown, killing wild animals for their meat.” On April 1, a father-son duo was nabbed with a gun at Kala Devi Sanctuary in Karauli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-held-for-poaching-cooking-meat-at-rbore/articleshow/75384185.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Madurai||As The Palaniswami Government, In A Questionable Move, Announced The Four-Day Total Lockdown In Short Notice, It Was... Sheer Madness||Thousands of people, including those in containment zones, thronged markets and grocery stores in Madurai on Saturday defying curfew restriction to store essentials a day before a four-day complete lockdown proposed by the state government in some cities including Madurai took effect from 6 am on Sunday. As people went in for panic purchase, vendors ran out of stocks and started leaving as early as 9 am. Serpentine queues of people — standing or moving in close proximity — could be found everywhere throwing caution to the wind and jeopardising the lockdown already in place for over a month. At some places, police presence made them stand in line and maintain social distance, but inside markets the norms went for a toss as people vied with each other to buy vegetables. M Muthulakshmi, a resident of Jaihindpuram, said when she reached the market, traders had stared leaving after sale. Those who had something left, sold them at higher price. “A kg of tomato, which was sold at Rs 15 till Friday, was sold for Rs 30. Fresh vegetables were already sold off and what was left was old. We did not have an option, but to buy them,” she said. There were takers even for dry, blackened lady’s finger and carrots, which otherwise would have gone to the garbage pile. V Selvam, a vendor at Wakf Board College ground, said he reached there with his usual vegetable consignment of onion, potato, lady’s finger and brinjal weighing about 200 kgs. If he used to leave with at least half of it unsold, on Saturday he could sell all his stock before 9 am. With grinding mills open at many places despite having no permission to function, large crowds gathered outside them. People also came onto the streets trying to locate the mobile vegetable markets being operated by Madurai corporation but these were nowhere in sight. Bakeries and snack shops were also crowded. S Janakan, a resident of Anna Nagar, who came out of his house to purchase groceries, said, “what is the guarantee that government will not extend complete lockdown after Wednesday. It is important we store extra,” he said. ``I spent a good Rs 1,500 buying 10 packets of Aavin milk, sugar, flour, biscuits, sarbath, sauce, cornflakes, maggie and what not as they were the only things available,’’ said S Ganeshan of Thapalathanthi Nagar. A higher police officer said there were huge crowd at markets, but they did not go out of control. However, he expressed their inability to stop people from leaving their house. “We cannot stop people from leaving houses but can only register case against them and seize vehicles, which we are doing regularly. They should have some responsibility and be careful not to get into crowded places,” he said. ``The CM’s announcement that shops could remain open till 3 pm came at 11 am, but by that time all shops had closed. They should make such announcements after creating enough awareness,’’ said Selvaraj, a resident. President of Gomathypuram-Thendral Nagar Association D Raghavan, who helps people in the contained areas, said he called up mobile vegetable vans at 9 am. ``They told me people waylaid them and bought Rs 100 bags in bulk and there was nothing to bring,’’ he said, adding that such situations were a cause of grave concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-the-palaniswami-government-in-a-questionable-move-announced-the-four-day-total-lockdown-in-short-notice-it-was-sheer-madness/articleshow/75384190.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Resdiscovering the terrace||Chennai: Last week, for the first time ever, Chennai photographer Praveen Padmanabhan and his two-year-old daughter Kalki celebrated their birthdays at home. The occasions that fall barely a week apart, have always called for an outdoor celebration — dinners or long drives. This time too, the party was taken outdoors, except it was under the stars on the terrace, feasting on mangoes plucked from the tree outside their home, and playing ‘fetch’ with the dogs. With the lockdown keeping families inside homes, the ‘motta maadi’ is emerging as the cool new outdoor space for kids to experience the joys of cycling, adults to make new friends, birdwatch, have skipping matches and even take a refreshing run. "I don’t remember the last time I plucked mangoes off a tree and ate them. All the natural light and breathing space has brought out a new side to us as a family. Netflixing and browsing was fun when it was a break from a week of work. Now, after sitting at home all day, the terrace has become our breakout spot. We take the speakers there, and Kalki has even invented a new game for our evenings there," says Praveen’s wife Trupti Jaikumar. With the lockdown putting an increased emphasis on family time and the old practice of bonding with neighbours, there seems to be no better place than the so far underutilised space, to do this. Weeks into the lockdown, videos of residents playing tambola from their terraces, and making music videos went viral. For Madipakkam resident R Pavithra, what began as a show of solidarity against Covid-19 with lights and lamps after the PM’s appeal on April 4, led to a new fitness routine with her neighbour. Starting April 5, they have met every evening for a skipping contest for about 45 minutes. "Previously, although I wanted to start working out, I couldn’t because I need company to sustain what I start, and my husband isn’t exactly a fitness freak. But ever since we lit lamps and came out on our rooftops, I started bonding with my neighbour and we have found a common love for the skipping rope. Now it has become a routine, and one that will stay even post lockdown," says the 26-year-old. For many IT employees and parents of young children, time and opportunity away from the laptop has instilled a new love for running. Indhu V of Madipakkam, who used to log 10-hour shifts in her software job, now has most of her evenings free despite working from home. And what an expensive gym membership failed to do, a running game with her four-year-old daughter on the terrace has. "Kids her age get easily bored of the same toys and games and turn cranky. At first, we started our run-and-catch terrace routine as she missed the outdoor activity at school. Now, I spend about half an hour running even after she finishes her cycling. The physical exhaustion helps us both get a good night’s sleep," says Indhu. "Also, we had always wanted to do something about her gadget addiction for sometime now, but didn’t know where to start. The lockdown has helped us make this shift and now that she has taken a liking to the outdoors, may be post lockdown, she can continue cycling outside our home instead of playing Candy Crush," says Indhu. But with every resident, particularly in apartment complexes, turning to their rooftops, social distancing has become a challenge. That’s why, Chennai designer Sruthi Kannath and her neighbours worked out time slots for themselves every morning and evening to ensure they keep safe distance and get a breath of fresh air. "At my parents’ home in Mogappair, some of the residents came to the terrace at the same time I did. Since most of us wanted to do a brisk walk, or play badminton, the crowded space became a problem. So we worked it out like this — the 4pm to 5pm slot would be for the aunty living across, 5pm to 6pm would go to the family with children next door, and 6pm to 7pm would be my running time," she says. Psychologists say time on the terrace — now at the heart of socializing — fitness and fresh air, does wonders to a population that’s fighting the gloom of an outbreak. "You step out of the four walls, get some air, see people happy, engaged in healthy routines — it certainly boosts your morale," says psychologist Mini Rao. "But more importantly, it’s giving us all a good dose of vitamin D, which many previously took as pills. There is nothing as great for vitamin D as the early morning sun and it’s an essential step towards lasting good health."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/resdiscovering-the-terrace/articleshow/75384192.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Goa||Colva police crack whip on pre-dawn fish markets||Colva: The Colva police has clamped down on the pre-dawn sale of fish at Colva beach, after the TOI report highlighting the crowding and lack of safety precautions among shoppers. A large number of people, including mobile fish vendors and seafood retailers from other districts were gathering at the beach to buy the fish brought in by trawlers from 3am to 5 am. PI Melson Colaco said that upon the instructions of South Goa superintendent of police Arvind Gawas, he posted personnel at various sites and put an end to wholesale and retail sale of seafood in the area. “I posted a patrol vehicle with police personnel at the beach ward and brought an end to the activity,” he said. He added that fish being sold at various other spots in the village in the wee hours of the morning was also stopped. On Friday, TOI had raised concerns about hundreds of people from various places in Goa visiting Colva village to buy fish. During the two hours, social distancing and wearing of masks to avoid transmission of coronavirus as advised by the health ministry was thrown to the winds so as to get the best deal to purchase fish either for personal consumption, sale or in bulk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colva-police-crack-whip-on-pre-dawn-fish-markets/articleshow/75384182.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Trichy||PPEs handed over to docs of health centre in Kovilpappakudi||Madurai: Personnel protective equipment (PPE) kits were handed over to doctors, paramedics and hospital employees of primary health centres in Kovilpappakudi in Madurai district. The PPEs were given to them on behalf of the Madurai district police. Additional superintendent of police S Vanitha gave away the PPEs on Friday. Hospital employees, district vigilance and monitoring committee member Rajkumar and child welfare committee member B Pandiaraja were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ppes-handed-over-to-docs-of-health-centre-in-kovilpappakudi/articleshow/75384203.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Duty first: Delhi IPS officer puts corona fight before cancer care||NEW DELHI: Young IPS officer Anand Mishra, currently posted as additional deputy commissioner of police, outer Delhi, was unfazed when the doctors told him about a cancerous growth on his thyroid glands. He quietly continued with his service as a Covid warrior in the area where a large number of migrant labourers were stranded due to the lockdown. However, during a recent check-up, the doctors advised an immediate surgery as the growth was spreading rapidly through his glands. Mishra had to be admitted to a hospital right after duty and operated upon. At present, Mishra is under 48-hour observation before doctors can come to a conclusion. Senior police officers said the Mishra had been at the forefront of Delhi Police’s relief efforts in outer Delhi. “He would drive out with his team every day to monitor distribution of food among the stranded migrant labourers,” said a senior officer. His colleagues said that on April 1, Mishra first reported about a pain in his throat and approached a doctor. After a few tests, including that of Covid-19, doctors sent his samples for a test that confirmed a cancerous growth. “He did not lose his vigour for work, infact we did not know about it until lately,” said Delhi Police PRO Mandeep Singh Randhawa. Doctors had advised an immediate surgery last week after a check-up. Colleagues said that he went on to conduct his duty till the day he was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre, where he underwent a surgery. “He was doing well after the surgery but doctors kept him under observation for the next 48 hours, which was considered to be critical,” said his cousin Jitender Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/duty-first-delhi-ips-officer-puts-corona-fight-before-cancer-care/articleshow/75384199.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Three more test positive for Covid in Kollam||KOLLAM: Three more persons in the district tested positive for Covid-19, taking the number of Covid-positive cases in the district to 9. A family hailing from Panapetti near Sasthancotta had arrived from Sharhjah last month was undergoing home quarantine for 28 days. On the 35th day, a seven-year-old girl in the family tested positive. On April 24, she was brought to the Sasthamcotta taluk hospital with fever. Later, her serum samples were collected at the Karunagappally taluk hospital. The girl has 63 primary contacts and 12 secondary contacts. The second case is of a 51-year-old man, a native of Kulathupuzha and a friend of the youth who tested positive here after returning from Puliyangudi in Tamil Nadu recently. He has 18 primary contacts and 22 secondary contacts. The third case is of an Asha worker, a native of Chathannur. Her route map is being prepared. Her serum samples tested at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Biotechnology reported positive by noon on Saturday. All the three positive cases have been referred to the medical college hospital, Paripally. The girl’s parents also have been admitted here in the isolation ward. Secondary contacts have been brought to the Corona care centres. It is for the first time in the district that three cases tested positive in a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/three-more-test-ive-for-covid-in-kollam/articleshow/75383032.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||Foresters bust illegal fishing racket in River Cauvery||MYSURU: Acting on a tip-off, personnel from the Cauvery and Male Mahadeshwara wildlife divisions in Chamarajanagar carried out a raid to apprehend those involved in illegal fishing activities on the River Cauvery on Friday evening. As many as 80 foresters were involved in the operation, which entailed scanning 10km of the banks of the Cauvery from Doddamakalli to Muthathi. The operation yielded 13 coracles, 30 fishing nets, four baits and 20kg of Dhupa fish. The foresters also confiscated from the fisherfolk vessels used for cooking, plastic covers, plates and other bags. However, there was no sight of those who were involved in the illegal activity throughout the duration of the operation, which lasted from 7am to 4pm. Deputy conservator of forests (Cauvery wildlife division) S Ramesh said, “We were unable to nab those who were carrying out the activity. We think that the fishermen catch the fish at night, and sell their catch in Shilvepura, Jaageri and Sathegala Hand Post.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/foresters-bust-illegal-fishing-racket-in-river-cauvery/articleshow/75383022.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Goa||Neighbourhood shops to open as Goa adheres to MHA order||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday that all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops, and shops in residential complexes in rural and urban areas would be allowed to open. However, shops in markets, market complexes and malls will remain shut. Meanwhile, Sawant said that liquor shops and stores that sell liquor-related items will continue to remain shut. However, on Friday, ports minister Michael Lobo suggested that the chief minister allow keeping retail liquor shops open for home consumption. Lobo said that some arrangement should be made to make liquor available as there are small functions and even weddings in the second phase of lockdown. “No bar-and-restaurant should be allowed to open, but retail shops with sale of small quantity (should),” he said. Sawant said that shops in the permitted categories won’t require special permissions from civic bodies, and that they can start immediately. He also said that electrical, plumbing, hardware and construction-related shops are also allowed to open. While shops will open, social distancing remains essential. “We have revive economic activity by maintaining social distancing,” Sawant said. “Police will keep watch on social distancing at shops, and if it is not maintained at any shop, it will be shut and remain shut till May 3.” E-commerce service, he said, will continue to only supply essential goods. On Saturday, the government stated that its March 14 order remains in force, and that all gymnasiums, theatres, swimming pools, spas, massage parlours, salons, river cruises, nightclubs and multiplexes continue to remain shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/neighbourhood-shops-to-open-as-goa-adheres-to-mha-order/articleshow/75384573.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Police seize 277 motorcycles on Saturday||Kolhapur: The city police have seized 277 motorcycles of people violating the lockdown rules on Saturday. They have recovered fine worth Rs 83,000 from them. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh has asked the police officials from all the police stations in the district to continue their action against people violating the social distancing norm after the government announced some relaxations on the business activities and shops in the district. “With some shops and business activities likely to start, we have increased our presence on the road to ensure people follow the social distancing norm. Action will be taken against the ones violating the social distancing norm,” said a senior police officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-seize-277-motorcycles-on-saturday/articleshow/75383819.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Raj govt lax in curbing Covid spread: BJP to central panel||Jaipur: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday complained to the central team about laxity by the state government in containing the spread of coronavirus. A group of BJP leaders met the central team members at Jaipur collectorate. The team took stock of the health system in the state.The leaders demanded that Ramganj area should be sealed in order to contain the situation.The area has emerged as one of the biggest hotspots in the country with 500 positive cases. Meanwhile, leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria slammed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for calling reduction in the salary of Central government employees by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as inhuman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-lax-in-curbing-covid-spread-bjp-to-central-panel/articleshow/75384194.cms||---
April 26, 2020||India||Sonia writes to PM, wants Rs 1 lakh cr wage protection package for MSMEs||NEW DELHI: In a raft of suggestions to revive the MSME sector after the corona lockdown, Congress president Sonia Gandhi Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce a Rs 1 lakh crore “MSME wage protection” package and a Rs 1 lakh crore credit guarantee fund. She said these crucial measures would help in creating jobs and boost morale during the economic spiral triggered by the pandemic. In a letter to Modi, the Congress chief warned that if economic concerns like the paralysis in the sector that employs 11 crore people were ignored, it will have an intense ripple effect which would cripple the national economy. Sonia said the credit guarantee fund will ensure immediate liquidity for MSME units which would need capital the most after lockdown. “MSMEs contribute close to one third of the nation’s GDP and account for almost 50% of our exports. They employ over 11 crore people. At this moment, without appropriate support, more than 6.3 crore MSMEs stand on the verge of economic ruin,” she wrote to Modi, adding that every day of the lockdown cost Rs 30,000 crore to these units which have come to a complete halt. “The 11 crore employees in MSMEs are at the risk of losing their jobs,” she wrote. Sonia’s letter of suggestions resulted from deliberations by an AICC consultative group comprising senior party leaders including former PM Manmohan Singh. The Congress leader wrote to the PM that government must ensure that RBI’s decisions were immediately acted upon by commercial banks to ensure easy credit to MSMEs, which would also require sound fiscal support from the Centre. She also sought an expansion of RBI’s moratorium on payment of loans to MSMEs beyond the present three-month period as also an interest subvention for them. Sonia Gandhi asked the government to address the issue of “high collateral security” which was denying credit to MSMEs. “A 24x7 helpline in the ministry to assist the MSMEs during this period would also be of enormous value,” she added. Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesman Kapil Sibal demanded that judiciary should evolve a policy to ensure that justice delivery system was declared an “essential service” during crisis like the corona pandemic. He also slammed the Centre for not creating a “national plan” to deal with corona crisis as mandated by the Disaster Management Act and for delegating the responsibilities to state governments. “Without necessary infrastructure and adequate financial resources, state governments are not in a position to effectively deal with this pandemic,” he said. He urged the government to rethink on lockdown measures as the country cannot have the "lockdown of people and lockout of the economy".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-writes-to-pm-wants-rs-1-lakh-cr-wage-protection-package-for-msmes/articleshow/75384846.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two supermarkets sealed for violating lockdown norms||HYDERABAD: GHMC’s directorate of enforcement, vigilance & disaster management (EVDM) sealed two supermarkets — Vijeta Supermarket, Chandanagar and Value Mart Supermarket, Madhuranagar on Saturday for not following social distancing guidelines. According to EVDM officials, social distancing was not followed inside the two supermarkets and many people were allowed inside the supermarket at the same time. “Based on complaints, the supermarkets were inspected. Surprise inspections were done on Saturday and the stores sealed were found flouting norms,” EVDM director Vishwajit Kampati said. The stores sealed should provide an affidavit after which they can reopen. “As it is a first time violation we are allowing them to open after they provide an affidavit. If any store violates the rules for the second time, we will shut it down indefinitely and also pursue a criminal case,” said Kampati. One of the store owners also argued with EVDM staffers. In his defense, he said his store was big enough to accommodate the crowd. Some supermarkets were flouting norms, while several of them were strictly following guidelines. The outlets following guidelines did not allow people without a mask and ensured social distancing. Guidelines to be followed by customers were also pasted on entry/exit doors of some stores in the city. “Only one person per family allowed, no entry without masks and maintain social distancing’ were the guidelines pasted on entry and exit doors. In April, a total of four supermarkets have been sealed, including the ones sealed today. Staffers not wearing safety gear and stores ignoring social distancing led to sealing of some stores earlier this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-supermarkets-sealed-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75384211.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Social ‘sanitisation’ in child marriage hotspot||LUCKNOW: While Covid 19-induced lockdown has police and administration on hot trail of violators, officials in at least 10 districts of UP have to also deal with another menace -- child marriage. Shravasti, on the bottom of human development indices across India, is the hotspot here. Although the lockdown has brought down the numbers, administration is leaving nothing to chance. The district administration in Shravasti has issued a note to all field officials to keep a strict vigil on child marriages, as their numbers take a surge on Akshay Tritiya which falls on Sunday, April 26. 'Akshay' means what can not be destroyed or remains forever. Akshay Trititya, therefore, one of the most favoured day among Hindus to solemnised marriage. In Shravasti, however, a large number of these are child marriages. The administration has come forward with several ways to check it. "We have made gram pradhans sign an affidavit that no child marriages will take place in their villages or they, too, would face the heat," said district probation officer, Shravasti, Chaman Singh. The local administration has also proposed a reward of Rs 1,000 for informers who tip-off officers and police. At least 95% of those involved in the crime call off marriages after police and administration intervenes, 5% are those who are very adamant. In such cases, FIR serves the tool. In last financial year, four FIRs were registered in this regard in Shravasti. In the last wedding season, district reported two to three complaints daily against child marriages. Shravasti is the biggest hotspot of child marriages in Asia, the fact that even the district administration and NGOs working in the region find hard to deny. But there are at least nine other districts that score on the count, though cases may be few and far between -- Bahraich, Balrampur, Gonda, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Chitrakoot, Chandauli, Sitapur and Gorakhpur. "Terai belt which also has tribal population and lot of migrant labourers scores more on the count. Districts that share border with Nepal have such cases running high. Even in Shravasti, two of its development blocks that are close to Nepal border, Jamunaha and Sarsia, are the bigger violators, " said Rizwana from Mamta Health Institute for Mother and Child, an NGO that works with district administration against the social evil in Shravasti. NGOs and officers blame it in the patriarchal society in these districts. "As soon as the girl starts to menstruate that father marries her off. The boy she is married to is also less than 21 years of age," said Yogendra Mani Tripathi, an activist working against the menace since 2007 in the region. "But given the administrative strictness, now only those get successful in marrying off their children at an early age who do it within the confines of their homes, in temples or stealthily," he said. Such marriages are based on fake age certificates or made-to-order "kundlis" (horoscope). It's a menace associated with backward districts which have not grown much on economic, educational and social standards. "One of the common perceptions is that if we marry our girls at an age beyond 25 we might need more to be given as dowry. Also, younger girls and boys don't exercise their choice and can be pressured into what parents want them to do. But, all this has resulted into multiple marriages, more by men, in these societies and that's another anomaly," said Rizwana. Though over the years and given the strictness by the state government machinery, change has started reflecting in these districts, yet lot is to be done. Yogendra Mani Tripathi said, "I have been holding Chaupals in villages and insist on calling women. On and off, there are district administration officers also coming to these Chaupals. Idea is to make women the decision makers." Marrying a woman between 14 years to 16 years results into health disasters as well. As per National Family Health Survey (NFH-4), a woman in Shravasti, on an average, gives birth to six children in her lifetime. This compromises health of both child and mother. "Upper castes don't practise it anymore. Mostly, the ones who have little access to education and employment are practising it more," said Sharad Tiwari who has his NGO working against social evils in Mahoba. District administration acts with caution when such complaints are received. "Many a times, we receive fake complaints by people who may have a grudge against the family. We get medical examination done of the girl and the boy being married to avoid confusion," said the DPO. Families are also counselled so that they don't take it as a stigma that the marriage of their girl or boy has been called off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/social-sanitisation-in-child-marriage-hotspot/articleshow/75384581.cms||Neha Shukla
April 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: As matka business gets locked down, bookies turn fruit vendors, egg sellers||Across villages and towns in Goa, there are familiar faces doing unfamiliar jobs. With the lockdown pushing many out of business, matka bookies of the state have turned into fruit and vegetable vendors with some even selling eggs. Matka, though illegal and despite stray raids, is big business in Goa. There are no official numbers, but the business is understood to have a daily turnover of Rs 10-12 crore with approximately 10,000 bookies accepting bets across the state. Starting with the ‘Janata Curfew’ announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22, matka business has come to a standstill. People cannot step out of their houses and place bets, bookies can’t go door-to-door and online betting doesn’t work, simply because matka is largely about payments in cash. So, the bookies who were earlier accepting bets on behalf of their agents have now got into selling fruits and vegetables for a living. “If a month ago I had tried to set-up a vegetable cart here, I would have been stopped. I am known in this locality by my customers, so most of them back me and buy stuff from here,” said one bookie. This business, according to the bookie, is hassle free. Matka is illegal and needs ‘protection’ from the authorities. For the vegetable cart, only the landlord needs to be paid for occupying the space. ‘Opportunity to make some money when matka is shut’Another bookie, not too far away, has started selling eggs. He does not have a fixed spot and keeps shifting, unlike matka business where being at the same spot is a must. “For matka, you have to be at the same spot, otherwise you lose customers. This business is an opportunity for me to make some money when matka is shut. You move around with trays of eggs, and since there is demand, nobody minds paying a slightly higher price,” he said. Once the lockdown is over and things slowly get back to normal, most will return to their old jobs. For bookies, there is no investment, and returns are guaranteed. “Matka has been stopped due to curbs in flow of hard cash. Payments for predicting the correct number has to be made in cash and on the spot. With no inter-state transport, all channels of cash flow are affected, otherwise gamblers would have continued to bet through phone-calls,” said another bookie. Despite intervention from the court, matka business has continued to flourish in Goa. In 2017, the high court had pulled up the crime branch for its slow progress in investigating the illegal business and directed it to submit a status report within 24 hours. But nothing much has changed. The lockdown has done what the police couldn’t manage all these years. But once the lockdown is over, almost certainly it will be business as usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-matka-business-gets-locked-down-bookies-turn-fruit-vendors-egg-sellers/articleshow/75384575.cms||Nisser Dias
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Who ordered the four-day complete lockdown and why?||CHENNAI: As people in several cities poured out on to the streets, gearing up for a lockdown within a lockdown, and police watched helplessly, the question uppermost was: Whose brainwave was it and what was the rationale behind it. Did not the policymakers foresee such a situation when they announced a ‘total’ lockdown in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Tirupur? Officials say it was chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who first mooted the idea to discipline violators. Concerns about the rising Covid-19 positive numbers in the three cities and failure on the part of the general public to respect the lockdown norms prompted Palaniswami to make the declaration, admit officials. “It was the chief minister’s idea, backed by a core team, including senior police officers. In fact, the CM wanted to extend the total lockdown to the entire state,” said an official, seeking anonymity. On Friday morning, the chief minister convened a meeting of senior officials including chief secretary K Shanmugam, director general of police J K Tripathy and Chennai police commissioner A K Viswanathan. The concern of police officers was that there was no meaning of a lockdown with all relaxations in place with people moving freely on the roads. The Chennai police had to block much of Anna Salai on Thursday due to huge increase in vehicular traffic. The officials advocated stricter measures. “When the officers talked about people violating the lockdown, the CM suggested total lockdown until May 3. When it was pointed out that April 30 is salary day and the following three days were government holidays, the CM then suggested that the total lockdown be enforced until April 29,” another source said. The corporations were chosen based on population density, movement of traffic and inputs from the police. Greater Chennai Corporation officials said stern action had been directed against shops and people flouting norms and shops monitored throughout the day. But officials had failed miserably to foresee the utter chaos that reigned for several hours on Saturday with people rushing to stock up on essentials, cocking a snook at the establishment. “In the coming four days, the monitoring will be stricter,” said a corporation officer. Meanwhile, health experts have strongly advocated a staggered exit of the lockdown. While the lockdown measures may reduce the transmission, its effects are temporary as once the lockdown is lifted, the cases will increase, said chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil. “It will be like a Yo-Yo, going up and down,” he said. Muliyil said the right way to reduce the transmission was to encourage and educate people to protect themselves by maintaining a distance from each other, washing hands and wearing masks. At this stage in Tamil Nadu, the state is unlikely to get rid of the virus completely, he said. “Lockdown is not going to get us anywhere, but will probably prolong the agony. I am not privy to the information with the government, so I suppose there must be some reason for the government to do it,” said Muliyil. (With inputs from Srikkanth D)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/who-ordered-the-four-day-complete-lockdown-why/articleshow/75384202.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 26, 2020||Goa||Lockdown? Not in Pernem, where foreigners arrange rave parties||MAPUSA: While the world is fighting the coronavirus pandemic by staying at home and maintaining social distance, foreigners in Pernem are busy arranging and hosting rave parties. One such attempt was foiled by locals of Paliem and Arambol late on Friday. Sources said a cashew farmer at his distillery on the Arambol plateau saw about 30 motorcycles travelling in the jungle through narrow lanes near the famous banyan tree. We checked, but didn’t find any foreigner: PoliceOn his way home, he informed locals that foreigners have moved inside the jungle. Already upset with music parties held earlier, locals dialled the Arambol police outpost. Two Robert police vehicles arrived at the site and, along with locals, marched towards the banyan tree. Seeing them, the foreigners fled inside the jungle. Furious locals then deflated tyres of the motorcycles. “After locals informed us that foreigners are arranging the party, police immediately rushed to the site. We checked, but didn’t find any foreigner,” said Pernem PI Sandesh Chodankar. But when TOI visited the site on Saturday morning, foreigners were trooping out of the forest towards the two-wheelers. “How much can police monitor and make everyone follow lockdown guidelines? I appeal to everyone not to provide their bike (on rent) to foreigners who indulge in such activities,” said Santosh Korkankar, who volunteered and joined police in its search. A few days ago, sources said, another party was organised by foreigners at Arambol which went on till 4am and was stopped only after intervention of the locals. Morjim, too, saw another party by the foreigners. “After the lockdown was announced, guests left hotels and moved into houses (on rent). At Nasnoskarwada in Arambol, there are plenty of foreigners who stay in houses and roam freely, violating lockdown norms,” said one local. At Bhomwada in Paliem, foreigners have captured a huge banyan tree and have now started living there. “We fear to enter cashew plantations as about 25-30 foreigners are seen there, smoking and doing other activities. They even cook food there. We fear an outbreak of coronavirus here,” said another villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-not-in-pernem-where-foreigners-arrange-rave-parties/articleshow/75384577.cms||Keshav Naik
April 26, 2020||Goa||CCP may adopt an odd-even model in Panaji||Panaji: Taking cue from Delhi’s odd-even model, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) may allow shops in the capital’s core business areas to open on alternate days in order to prevent crowding. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that stores that wish to open up in the coming week need to obtain permission from the civic body. Madkaikar said that hair salons, spas, gyms, street food stalls and bars will remain closed as per the Union ministry of home affairs’ (MHA) guidelines. “If there are standalone shops in buildings, we will allow them to open immediately,” Madkaikar said. “But, if a residential complex or building has, say, 10 shops, we will allow five of them to operate on alternate days. If all open together, there will be a crowd, and we can’t allow that.” Madkaikar cited the case of the city’s main shopping street, 18th June road. “We can think about how to allow them to open based on how many shops apply,” he said, adding that while the CCP wouldn’t charge additional fees to reopen stores, the annual trade license fees will be collected. These fees can be paid online, he said. From Monday, CCP will allow hardware stores, consumer appliance stores and other shops to open after taking prior permission from the civic body. “They will have to follow social distancing,” he said. All the stores that want to open should paint circles at a distance of 1.5m on Sunday to regulate social distancing. When our inspectors go on Monday, they will check this.” He also warned that the CCP would not hesitate to act against shops that start functioning without permission. “If social distancing norms are not followed, if we see crowding, we will shut down those shops. The municipal market will not be allowed to open till May 3,” he said. Inset: CCP mulls veg, fruit market at Inox courtyard Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that discussions were on to see if vegetable and fruit vendors from the Panaji municipal market could be temporarily accommodated in the Inox courtyard. The multiplex, which is closed due to the lockdown, has a vast parking lot. “We are thinking of allowing fruit vendors and vegetable vendors to sell their wares at the open courtyard at Inox,” he said. We will create markings and allow Goan vendors to sell vegetables and fruits in the open while maintaining social distance. This is something that we are thinking about, but no decision has been taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-may-adopt-an-odd-even-model-in-panaji/articleshow/75384586.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Madurai||Mutton sold at Rs 1,000/kg as butchers exploit situation in Madurai||MADURAI: Demand for mutton ahead of the four-day complete lockdown pushed the prices steeply as many stall owners in Madurai exploited the situation and increased it to Rs 1,000 per kg. Usually, a kg of mutton is sold for Rs700. Most stalls said they exhausted their stock by 8am. Some of the stalls, however, claimed they sold at the regular price. “I used to sell four goats during any Saturday. But, I had only two goats for today. There is a difficulty in procuring goats and uncertainty over sales due to sudden changes in restrictions. We increased price due to demand. People were ready to pay higher amount,” said a stall owner from Viraganoor. S Muthukrishnan, president of mutton retail merchants association, said they used to procure goats from Karur, Namakkal, Erode, Virudhunagar and Tuticorin districts. Ever since the lockdown came into force they are purchasing them from the villages in Madurai. “Although price of goats has not increased, mutton stall owner increased it to Rs 1,000 due to their greed to earn more money. It is not ethical to sell at higher price at this time,” Muthukrishanan said. Meanwhile, chicken prices also witnessed an increase. While some sold for the regular Rs 140 per kg, some were selling it at as high as Rs 240 a kg. Similarly, price of fish also went up. Inland fishes, which were sold at Rs 150 a kg until a couple of weeks ago, was sold for Rs 300 on Saturday. Sea fish varieties also sold at higher price due to increased demand and less supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mutton-sold-at-rs-1000/kg-as-butchers-exploit-situation/articleshow/75384214.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tension at apartment over entry of domestic helps||HYDERABAD: Mild tension prevailed at an apartment complex in Begumpet on Friday night, after a group of residents opposed the entry of maids into the premises, during the lockdown. A heated argument broke out between them and other residents of the building — in favour of allowing maids to report to work — forcing the local police to intervene to resolve the matter. “They are not only putting everyone in the building at risk, but also the maids who are coming to work. If all other apartment buildings in the city can implement the lockdown, why can’t we? There are two other apartment buildings in our area consisting of 300 to 400 flats, they have completely restricted visitors, even cleaners and maids,” said Rakesh Gulati, a 61-year-old ex-serviceman who resides in the apartment building. According to the residents, about 20 people gathered in the common area within the building, on Friday night, to discuss the matter. But soon the scene turned ugly and the police had to be called in. “We spoke to the residents and it was decided that four families who are in dire need of assistance can let their maids come to work,” said Begumpet Inspector, P Srinivas Rao. However, on Saturday, residents claimed at least 11 families still got their maids to come to work. “Despite the police’s appeal, we found out that the four maids are still working in 11 houses — even in homes where people do not need assistance and can manage on their own. This is a clear violation of the lockdown norms. It is also worrisome because there are Covid-19 positive cases in Begumpet,” said Ajuli Tulsyan, who resides in the building. While the president of the apartment, Srinivas, confirmed that four maids coming to the building were working at two to three houses each, he refused to comment any further on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tension-at-apartment-over-entry-of-domestic-helps/articleshow/75384221.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Biz as usual despite full lockdown||Trichy: As per the colour-code system implemented by Trichy Corporation for the curfew, Saturdays and Sundays are supposed to be complete lockdown days. But on Saturday, a majority of the grocery shops in the city were doing brisk business with people crowding at the outlets. The colour-code system implemented by the corporation last week permitted the residents to go out for purchasing essential commodities and vegetables only for one day in a week. Five colour passes given to residents entitled them to venture out only between Mondays and Fridays. Saturdays and Sundays should be considered as complete shutdown days, except for medical establishments and pharmacies, and milk stalls. Residents without colour passes were seen on the roads in Big Bazaar Street, and serpentine queues were seen outside the grocery stores. “The crowd on Saturday shows the failure of the pass system. Many residents did not receive the pass on time, so they came out for shopping,” K Sivakumar, a resident of Eda Street, said. While implementing the curfew pass system, the corporation officials said that the city police would be shared the ward-wise colour codes and the days allotted for them to step out. But no such enforcement was seen on Saturday. “The crowds at shops have reduced only by afternoon on Saturday. It appears that pass system was ineffective,” a police officer in the city added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/biz-as-usual-despite-full-lockdown/articleshow/75384219.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 26, 2020||Madurai||2 cops test +ve, total in south TN rises to 378||Madurai: Eleven new cases - four in Madurai, five in Tenkasi and two in Virudhunagar - on Saturday took the total number of cases in the southern districts to 378. In Madurai, two city police personnel, deployed on duty at Kuppu Pillai Thoppu, a containment area in the city tested positive. This marks the first ever positive case among police personnel in southern districts. The patients have been identified as a 51-year-old special sub-inspector attached to the South Gate police station and hailing from Palanganatham area and a 47-year-old head constable attached with the city south traffic police station, and hailing from Perungudi. City police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham said that they have identified 567 people, who were in close contact with the two policemen. They are being tested for Covid-19 by health authorities. So far, tests have been conducted on more than 200 people, he said. When asked whether the respective stations where they were attached to, will be closed, Devasirvatham said that they will follow the procedures laid out by the health department. Madurai collector T G Vinay said that a decision on closing the stations will be taken later and they will screen the contacts first. Devasirvatham said that all police personnel and officials have been asked to maintain two metres distance while dealing with the public. They also have been asked to maintain distance with other police personnel on duty. Hand sanitizers have been given to all and they have been asked to use them frequently. Police officers have been instructed to use the public address system to prevent them from moving closer in the crowd, he said. A 38-year-old contact of the 71-year-old woman from West Masi Street, who succumbed to the disease on Friday, and a 21-year-old man from Sellur tested positive. Meanwhile, the total number of cases in Tenkasi district touched 38 with the five new cases, of which 34 are from the congested Puliangudi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-cops-test-ve-total-in-south-tn-rises-to-378/articleshow/75384218.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kochi||Swiss flight at Cial to evacuate its citizens||Kochi: A Swiss Airways flight arrived at Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) on Saturday night to evacuate 164 Swiss nationals stranded in Kerala due to lockdown. Most of them had reached Kerala on tourist visas and others, for medical purposes. The chartered flight (LX 8919) arrived in Kolkata from Zurich earlier on Saturday after receiving special permission from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to airlift 62 Swiss nationals from there and reached Cial later in the night. The health department has already conducted medical check-up of the passengers. The Swiss embassy had earlier made a list of the passengers who are stranded here and made arrangements to help them reach the airport in special buses with the help of the police. Cial followed the Covid-19 protocol for the evacuation operation. The baggage of the passengers was disinfected and they were provided with hand sanitizers. They had also undergone mandatory health-screening at the terminal. The passengers were given special seating area arranged towards the east side of the check-in counters. The check-in was completed in small groups with maximum five persons in a line at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swiss-flight-at-cial-to-evacuate-its-citizens/articleshow/75383052.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Trichy||As veggie market relocation fails, netizens take their protests online||Trichy: Netizens have started the hashtags #SaveTrichy and #ShiftGandhiMarket against the district administration for failing to relocate the congested make-shift wholesale vegetable market functioning at Palpannai on the outskirts of Trichy city. The administration had planned to shift the market to ensure social distancing, but backtracked after traders threatened to go on strike. When the district administration planned to relocate the Gandhi market functioning temporarily from Palpannai to a large ground in Samayapuram, the traders declared an indefinite stir. Later, a peace talk between the tourism minister Vellamandi Natarajan and wholesale vegetable traders led to the government reaching a consensus with the traders to operate from Palpannai. The U-turn made by the state government did not go well with the residents. Upset over the decision, netizens created memes highlighting the danger in allowing the wholesale market operate from Palpannai amid the Covid-19 scare. “It is disheartening to see vegetable traders being adamant in shifting their operation even during a pandemic. The district administration should have dealt the relocation issue with an iron hand,” said G Kanagarajan, general secretary, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours. Memes and posts criticising the administration’s decision flooded social media and hashtags like #SaveTrichy and #ShiftGandhiMarket were soon trending. People also changed their display images on social media demanding the authorities to prevent wholesale vegetable operation in Palpannai as social distancing was not followed. Meanwhile, a group of volunteers have announced that they will end their association with the district administration to promote social distancing if the wholesale market continues to function at Palpannai. “Around 200 of our volunteers working along with police are striving to make sure social distancing is observed in vegetable markets. But such efforts will go waste if the Gandhi market functions at Palpannai. We will end our support if the market resumes operations at Palpannai,” said M Sekaran, chairman of a citizens forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-veggie-market-relocation-fails-netizens-take-their-protests-online/articleshow/75384212.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard enters premises of hospital earmarked for Covid-19 patients, devours monkey||Dehradun: A leopard entered the premises of Haridwar’s Mela Hospital, which has been earmarked for Covid-19 patients, on Saturday morning According to hospital staff present on the spot, the big cat caught hold of a monkey and devoured it. Staff members alleged that leopards have been spotted in the area with increasing frequency. “Barely a month ago, a dog was taken away and devoured by a leopard. We have repeatedly urged the forest department to take action but nothing concrete has been done so far. Fortunately, all staffers were indoors when the leopard was strolling on the terrace,” said Rajendra Kumar, whose daughter first spotted the leopard at around 6:50 am. Disturbed at such instances, the hospital staff has handed over a memorandum to the forest department and also threatened to sit on a protest if the department takes no action in this regard. “It is a matter of grave concern for us as the staffers have to look after coronavirus patients and also deal with wild animals foraying into the area,” said Dinesh Lakhera, general secretary, Fourth Class State Employees Union, Health and Family Welfare Services, Uttarakhand. Notably, Mela Hospital area is close to Rajaji Tiger Reserve which is why the wild animals find it easy to prey in this surroundings. Also, less human movement due to the lockdown has pushed wild animals to enter into the city from different and new routes, according to forest officials. The newly-appointed director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve Amit Verma told TOI, “We have always actively responded to all the rescue calls in that area. As per our team on the ground, a wall needs to be erected to prevent animals from entering into human habitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-enters-premises-of-hospital-earmarked-for-covid-19-patients-devours-monkey/articleshow/75383037.cms||Shivani Azad
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Targeted testing has helped us avert Covid-19 spread to 18,000’||GANDHINAGAR: Despite being the state with the second highest number of Covid-19 patients in the country, Gujarat has been able to control the spread of the pandemic in the past 35 days, claimed Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister. Kumar stated that the high number of cases also reflected how aggressively the administration had carried out testing in Ahmedabad and Surat to identify and isolate Covid-19 carriers. “There have been clear instructions from the chief minister that there is nothing to fear about high number of cases, but the sole aim of the administration must be to identify maximum number of patients to control the spread of the pandemic,” said Kumar. Kumar said that tests were conducted on 2,707 persons per million population in Ahmedabad, while the tests were carried out on 721 persons per million population in Surat. “This is one of the highest testing figures in the country. Instead of wasting testing capabilities on random tests, the administration has done intensive testing in hotspots. Because of the lockdown and targeted testing approach, we have been able to avert Covid-19 spread to 18,000 persons and have controlled the curve,” Kumar asserted. Comparing Gujarat to other global corona hotspots like Italy, France and Spain, the official said that Gujarat had successfully controlled the spread of the pandemic. “Spain registered 94,410, Italy registered 80,536 and France registered 56,972 cases in the past 35 days. In comparison, there have been 2,624 cases in Gujarat in the past 35 days,” said Kumar. Commenting on the aggressive testing strategy, Kumar said that on April 15, tests were performed on 17,343 persons, while the number of those undergoing tests increased to 43,822 on April 24. “The state had just one testing facility in the first week, which has now increased to 15. The per-day testing capacity has increased for 150 in the first week to 3,770 in the fifth week,” the official said. Kumar said that in a short span of time, the government had created a 10,500-bed facility in Covid-19 hospitals, while the total number of beds available for patients was 22,385. The secretary said that along with testing and treating, the government had ensured that essential items like food and medicines were provided to people during the lockdown. “Even as there was an exodus of people after the lockdown was announced, the government has set up over 350 shelters to manage the exodus,” he said. Kumar said that despite relaxation in the lockdown, the administration would be able to control the further spread of the pandemic and provide best possible treatment to Covid-19 positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/targeted-testing-has-helped-us-avert-covid-spread-to-18k/articleshow/75383882.cms||Kapil Dave
April 26, 2020||Madurai||Pharmacies see big turnout; home delivery not popular||Madurai: The pharmacies in Madurai, during the lockdown, have been seeing long queues of people every day. Many residents, in fact, prefer visiting pharmacies over calling for home delivery.With complete lockdown set to be introduced from Sunday for four days in Madurai Corporation limits, pharmacies, though allowed to operate, are likely to be open only minimally, said owners. They added that they are expecting only a small crowd and many of their employees may not be able to make it to work. “My grandfather is chronically ill and must have all his tablets. I have been coming to shops once in a few days because it has been difficult to stock up for even 10 days. Some tablets are rare and from a particular brand, which is not available in all shops,” said Kavitha M, a resident of KK Nagar. Pharmacists in Madurai, however, assured that there has been no shortage of medicines in anyway. “We saw a huge rise in sales during the initial days of lockdown in March as many were stocking up on medicines by buying in bulk. We are expecting sales to come down soon,” said a pharmaceutical stockist from the city.Meanwhile, the demand for home deliveries has so far been less. The Tamil Nadu chemists and druggists association had recently introduced a state-wide toll free number 18001212172 with a network of around 4,000 pharmacies. The customers would simply have to provide their prescription and the nearest outlet would deliver. However, there have not been too many orders. “People are just not used to buying medicines via home deliveries. It is unfortunate to see our home delivery service under-utilized,” said K K Selvan, secretary of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pharmacies-see-big-turnout-home-delivery-not-popular/articleshow/75384220.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Unorganized workers sell masks for a living||Trichy: The lockdown has forced S Gomathi, a 32-year-old homemaker, to sell face masks on the roads to make the ends meet, a job that she had never thought of doing. Gomathi is not alone; many workers in the unorganised sectors whose lives were severely hit in the lockdown have started selling face masks on Trichy roads. “My husband is a tailor who goes to the streets with a sewing machine to stitch faulty clothes. Since our earning has nosedived due to the lockdown, we started stitching face masks. Both of us sell it in different parts to make at least Rs 100 a day,” S Gomathi, who is selling face masks at Puthur, said. In the past few weeks, the number of vendors selling face masks on roads has doubled. The absence of public transport has hit other roadside vendors, but a bunch of face mask sellers were seen in Cantonment, Thillai Nagar and Puthur localities. Shahul Hameed, 42, hailing from Alwarthope had been selling scraps that he sourced from two-wheeler workshops to wholasale dealers. The closure of mechanic shops has drained his meagre savings. “Now I buy face masks for a price and sell them with a profit margin of Rs 2-5. Instead of being idle, earning Rs 50 to Rs 100 a day helps me to run the family,” Shahul Hameed said. Face masks are being sold at Rs 10, Rs 15 and Rs 20 based on the thickness of the cloth used. However, the business has become difficult in the past few days. With plenty of face mask sellers capitalising on the demand establishing makeshift shops, sales have come down. Also the dwindling stock of cloth material is also a cause of concern for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unorganized-workers-sell-masks-for-a-living/articleshow/75384223.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 26, 2020||Madurai||Teachers seek rationalisation of state board syllabus to cope with lockdown||Madurai: With uncertainty prevailing over reopening of schools due to Covid-19, managements are anxious about planning for the next academic year especially if time is lost due to extended closure. Many schools are calling for at least rationalisation of state board syllabus like how CBSE has done to ensure that there is no additional burden on students and teachers.“Schools may become fully functional only by July or August. For high and higher secondary classes, any loss of time will be an additional burden on the students and teachers to complete and review portions in time, particularly those appearing for board exams,” said a mathematics teacher. Teachers feel that rationalising the syllabus can help them plan ahead and ease pressure on them and the students.The Federation of Associations of Private Schools in Tamil Nadu has written to the state education minister K A Sengottaiyan seeking rationalisation of syllabus. “Our schools are struggling to plan the upcoming academic year with the current load of syllabus. To make up for any lost time, we request the minister to rationalize the syllabus proportionate to the time left for the current academic year,” said the association in its letter. However, rationalising syllabus could mean students missing out on certain topics which might otherwise be helpful, especially for those writing competitive exams.On the other hand, online classes seem to be the way forward for schools. At present, only CBSE schools are conducting online classes. “We are planning to try and reopen schools by June, even if not physically. We are planning to start online classes by then,” said the principal of a private school in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teachers-seek-rationalisation-of-state-board-syllabus-to-cope-with-lockdown/articleshow/75384222.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC to provide buses to carry industrial workers to MIDC areas||Kolhapur: The district administration will provide Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) buses to carry industrial workers to the MIDC areas so the industries from Kolhapur district can start operating soon.The decision was taken after the delegation of industrialists met with the district administration in presence of guardian minister Satej Patil and rural development minister Hasan Mushriff and put forward the problems they have been facing to start the industries.Sachin Shirgaonka, the president of Goshima (Gokul Shirgaon MIDC) said, “The industrialists are ready to start their units but they do not have enough space to make arrangement for the workers to stay and carry them from their homes to the industrial units. The government should provide them permission to travel from their homes to industrial unit in their own vehicles.”Addressing their queries, district collector Daulat Desai said, “Considering the situation and the possibility of spread of the virus, we cannot allow anyone to travel from their homes to MIDC in their own vehicles. However, we can make arrangement of KMT buses for carrying the workers from their homes to the MIDC. The industrialists can share the residence of their employees and the KMT officials can plan the bus routes accordingly.”“We will ensure that the KMT buses are sanitised and all the employees wear masks, and follow the social distancing norm,” he said.Sanjay Shete, president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce said, “There were some misconceptions among the industrialists that the government may initiate stringent actions against industrialists related to starting of operations. However, all our doubts were cleared and we will start our operations within two days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-to-provide-buses-to-carry-industrial-workers-to-midc-areas/articleshow/75383841.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Goa||66 seafarers are Covid negative, to leave for Goa today: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that the 66 Goan seafarers, who disembarked from Marella Discovery, have tested negative for Covid-19. He said that reports of seafarers from Karnika and Angriya are awaited. The tests were conducted at Mumbai. Sawant said that the 66 Goan crew members from Marella Discovery will leave for Goa on Sunday. There are 93 Goans on board Karnika and 23 on Angriya, he said. The chief minister said that the state government has told the seafarers’ agents as well as the ship owners that they can look out for hotels in Goa at discounted rates. He added that the government will finalise the same hotel as a quarantine facility for the seafarers. “They don’t have to pay the government anything,” he said. Sawant said that either the agents or ship owner should confirm that the hotel has a proper housekeeping setup and that food is available. “In case they want to opt for a hotel hired by the state government to quarantine their crew, then we have told the agents to pay between Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per room per day as a subsidised rate,” the chief minister told reporters. Sawant said that the state government would also collect swab samples at the Keri and Patradevi checkposts. He said that people should not use surgical face masks as they will be unable to dispose the same scientifically after use. “People should use homemade facemasks. Self-help groups have made 10,000 face masks so that they can be made available to the public at a reasonable price,” Sawant said. He said that 5,933 foreign nationals have been evacuated through 30 special flights to various countries. Municipalities and panchayats have given permission to allow completion of house repairs and construction works, Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/66-seafarers-are-covid-ve-to-leave-for-goa-today-cm/articleshow/75384587.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Leachate from landfill polluting wells: Residents||Mangaluru: Leachate flowing from garbage dumped at the Pachanady landfill poses a hazard for residents in the surrounding areas, at a time when the district is combating the Covid-19 pandemic. The dumping yard of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) had witnessed the sliding of garbage, which caused 27 families to get displaced, as their homes and agricultural property were destroyed. Though the city corporation has started the construction of a huge wall to prevent the garbage from sliding, leachate with pollutants flowing from the garbage heaps, not only pollutes wells, but also enters Maravoor dam, which is a drinking water source for nearly 20 villages outside the city. Stany Alvares, a resident of Pachanady, said the garbage at the landfill, caused the drinking water in the area to get contaminated. “Many residents have lost their homes and properties in villages near Pachanady, due to the heavy rain that lashed the area in 2019. Currently, the leachate from garbage piles has seeped into the wells at Mandara, Pachanady Gundi and surrounding areas. It also flows towards Maravoor dam built across the Gurupur river. Water in many wells in the area are not fit for drinking due to this, and the situation may worsen during the monsoon. Hence, the city corporation should take immediate measures to stop the leachate from flowing from the landfill,” Alvares said. MCC commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde said that work has started to stop the flow of leachate from the landfill. “A wall is being constructed to prevent the garbage from sliding from the landfill, at an estimated cost of Rs 4.5 crore. The work is under progress,” he said, and added that the necessary measures will be taken to prevent the flow of leachate from the landfill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/leachate-from-landfill-polluting-wells-residents/articleshow/75382113.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Second member of Moradabad family succumbs to Covid-19; three brothers die in 20 days||Bareilly: A family in Moradabad’s Nawabpura, which has been quarantined ever since one of its members, a 49-year-old man, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9, lost its second member to the pandemic on Saturday. This was the third death in the family in the past 20 days.The 44-year-old man, who died on Saturday, was the third brother the family lost. His elder brother had succumbed to the novel coronavirus on April 13. Prior to that, their eldest brother, 70, had died due to an “unknown” disease and was buried secretly in a nearby graveyard on April 5. The health department suspects that he also suffered from Covid-19 since he had visited the Nizamuddin area in Delhi recently.Health officials said that at least 31 members of the family and relatives – 12 women and 19 men – are under quarantine.Notably, after the first member of the family had died of Covid-19 on April 13, a team of health staff and policemen had reached the Nawabpura area to bring other family members to the quarantine centre when a mob pelted stones at them, which left two doctors and four policemen injured.Moradabad has 92 active Covid-19 cases while four have lost their lives. In a big relief, 140 suspects, including 21 medical staff and 33 policemen, tested positive on Saturday.Moradabad chief medical officer Dr MC Garg said that three suspects tested positive on Saturday. “Among three positive cases, one is a police constable, second is a resident of Peerjada locality whose younger brother is already positive. The third one had died on Saturday morning hours before his report came in.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/second-member-of-moradabad-family-succumbs-to-covid-19-three-brothers-die-in-20-days/articleshow/75383064.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||ASI accused in Rs 14-crore theft case held after 4 yrs||Kolhapur: The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) investigating the case of multiple-thefts case, involving Rs 14 crore, arrested Sharad Kurlupkar, an assistant sub-inspector who had been on the run over the past four years. Police picked him from Waghbil, when he was trying to get into Panhala taluka. A total of seven police officials, including two officers, were involved in the theft and all, barring one, had been arrested. The policemen attached with the Sangli police station were allegedly involved in cash thefts from a builder’s office in Warnanagar in March 2016. Builder Zunjar Sarnobat had claimed that Rs 14 crore were stolen from his office in separate incidents. Kurlupkar was presented before the local court through video conferencing and the court sent him to police custody up to May 8. Dinesh Bar, Kolhapur superintendent of police, CID, said, “When the lockdown was imposed, we suspected that the culprits on run may come out from their hideouts. Therefore, we had issued instructions to our team to increase vigilance. Our team received information from sources that Kurlupkar would come to the Waghbil area, and nabbed him.” “The initial investigation suggests that Kurlupkar was staying in Karnataka and Goa, where he is suspected to have purchased properties with the stolen money. We are investigating the case and will gather more information about the crime,” he said. The multiple thefts took place in March 2016, when one of the accused in the case, Mainuddin Mulla, along with his three accomplices, allegedly broke into the office of Kolhapur-based builder Sarnobat on March 8 and stole Rs 6 crore. Mulla was arrested by Sangli police on March 11. They brought only Rs 3 crore on record. After that, this a team of Sangli policemen visited Sarnobat’s office and allegedly took Rs 3 crore from the office. Later, Sarnobat lodged a complaint with Kolhapur police stating that a total Rs 14 crore were stolen from his office. The case was transferred to CID for investigation and seven police officials, who were involved in the crime, were suspended. CID officials managed to arrest six accused police officials immediately. Kurlupkar on Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/asi-accused-in-rs-14-crore-theft-case-held-after-4-yrs/articleshow/75383850.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drones will keep strict watch for gatherings, says Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: DGP Shivanand Jha on Friday said strong surveillance will be maintained through drones to prevent violation of lockdown norms and Section 144 CrPC. Jha said that to tighten implementation of lockdown, the state intelligence bureau has been given the responsibility of gathering information and inform the police about any untoward development. As far as attacks on police personnel and staff of other government agencies are concerned, Jha said that four more case of PASA ( Prevention of Anti- Social Activities Act) have been registered in the state, taking the toll to a total of 13 cases in which 35 people have been jailed so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-says-drones-will-keep-strict-watch-for-gatherings/articleshow/75383876.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 15 beds with little gaps, food not enough too, say shelter inmates||NEW DELHI: With no water and toilet facilities available, inmates of a night shelter near the Akshardham flyover in east Delhi are living in pathetic conditions. Around a dozen homeless visit the jungle nearby to relieve themselves; 15 beds placed close to each other violate social distancing norms too. The inmates say if the government can’t take care of them and give them proper food on time, it will be difficult for them to survive the lockdown. “We are poor and it’s easy for the authorities to ignore our needs. It’s 2.30pm and there is no sign of food. We request the chief minister to come and stay with us for a day to know our plight,” said Vinod Kumar, an inmate at the shelter. “Initially, we all had some ration and we used to prepare food ourselves. But now, we have run out of ration as well as money. We also arrange for water ourselves,” said Kumar. He further claimed that social distancing norms are being violated in the shelter. “Social distancing is a privilege which poor people cannot afford. When we all sleep and live next to each other, what social distancing are you talking about?” asked Kumar. Gulab Bai who used to work in Ghaziabad said she fears going to the jungle in the night and relieves herself nearby. “There is no toilet here and no official is bothered too. There are at least three women inmates and a seven-year-old girl staying here,” she said. How do the women bathe then? “We wear our clothes and bathe. People can see us even from the road. It is embarrassing, but we don’t have a choice,” said Neelam. Sixty-year-old Vishnu Prasad, who hails from Bihar, said that he was going to his son’s place in Faridabad when he was shifted to the night shelter. “The government is sending the foreigners back, but why can’t it arrange trains for us? We want to be with our family in the time of crisis. At times, we are asked to go to a nearby government school for food. But on the way, the cops start thrashing us,” he added. “Sometimes, some good Samaritans give us food packets. We hide the packets in our bags for the next day’s breakfast,” said Prasad. A Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) official, however, said the agency had made provision of a toilet in the vicinity. “There is a bio-digester toilet located close to the shelter home. The inmates should use it,” DUSIB member-expert Bipin Rai added. Rai accepted that late distribution of food was not acceptable. “I will immediately get it checked and ensure that the food is distributed on time. I will also look into complaints regarding bed arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/15-beds-with-little-gaps-food-not-enough-too-say-inmates/articleshow/75384234.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana hopes to procure 1.05 crore metric tonne paddy by May-end||HYDERABAD: Telangana government is expecting to procure 1.05 crore metric tonne of paddy from farmers by May-end as the rabi crop matures. Civil supplies commissioner P Satyanarayana Reddy appealed to ration card holders not to rush to fair price shops and break social distancing rule as there were more than enough stock of rice to be distributed in May. The Food Corporation of India procures rice from the state and gives back required quantities to be given to card holders through the public distribution system. Normally, the Telangana government gives six-kg per person rice at Rs 1 per kg to white card holders every month. However due to Covid-19-forced lockdown, leaving daily wage workers and the poor without any income, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had announced additional rice free of cost to the poor. Though the CM announced the 12-kg free rice sop first, the state later included the quota announced by PM Modi. State government has so far released 10.34 lakh metric tonne (MT) of rice from its warehouses to feed the stranded migrant workers andfor distribution in other states, but it still has enough stocks to feed over 87 lakh card holders and their families across the state for the next five months. Despite giving double quota of rice to ration card holders in April and supplying another seven lakh metric tonnes of rice to four states, civil supplies department has 8.5 lakh metric tonnes of rice even now. Another eight lakh metric tonnes of rice is available with millers from the last kharif crop. The millers had taken paddy and, after milling, were supposed to give back eight lakh metric tonnes of rice to state government. The government has supplied 3.34 lakh metric tonnes of rice at 12- kg per person in April to over 87 lakh card holders and other migrant labourers. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had announced that 12-kg rice per person would be distributed in May too. Meanwhile, Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy and former minister Md Ali Shabbir said the previous Congress government had introduced ‘Amma Hastham’, wherein a ration kit with nine essential items were supplied to poor people. The kit used to comprise a kg each of tur dal, whole meal atta, wheat, salt, palm oil, half kg each of sugar and tamarind, quarter kg chilli powder and 100 gm turmeric powder. “We request you to kindly supply similar kits among poor. Further, it is customary for state governments since decades to provide an additional kilogramme sugar on important festivals, especially Diwali, Ramzan and other festivals. Therefore, we request you to supply additional one kg of sugar free of cost to all white ration card holders,” Shabbir Ali demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hopes-to-procure-1-05-cr-mt-paddy-by-may-end/articleshow/75383885.cms||Roushan Ali
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur records nine new patients, 2 positive in Sangli||Kolhapur: Measured adopted by the district administration notwithstanding, Solapur continues to register a very high number of Covid-19 patients. On Saturday, nine more patients were reported in Solapur district, taking the number of confirmed patients here to 50. District collector Milind Shambahrkar said the administration received 82 reports on Saturday and of them, nine were positive. The administration is still waiting for 142 other swab sample reports. Solapur, which is a drought-prone district known for a large number of migrant workers, had not reported a single case in the rural area before. However, the first case was reported in the Sangola taluka on Saturday. Shambharkar said that a containment zone has been declared in the village in Sangola taluka. He said that the administration has also launched the contact tracing exercise. Solapur city, meanwhile, continues to record new patients. While patients were initially found in the Pacha Peth area, subsequently, cases emerged from areas like Modikhana, Mangalwar Peth, Kurban Husain Nagar, Shivganga Nagar, Joshi Galli, Bapui Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Indira Nagar, Jagannath Nagar, and Mother India slum area. Saturday’s patients were from Shantanu Nagar, Cantonment, Shantinagar, Kumtha and Modikhana. Most of the areas are already declared as containment zones. Four of the Covid patients are also SARI patients, Shambharkar said. The city has recorded four deaths in the past few days. Administration has already announced a curfew in the Solapur city, which will be in force till March 27. Citizens are allowed to purchase essentials like vegetables and milk from 8 am to 2 pm. However, the administration is finding it difficult to ensure social distancing because of huge crowds in the market. Police are confiscating vehicles of the people violating the lockdown. The citizens in 10 containment zones are not allowed to leave their houses and essentials are being provided to them by the administration. At present, Paccha Peth, Kurban Husain Nagar, Modi Khana, Shivganga Nagar, Joshi Galli, Bapui Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Indira Nagar, Jagannath Nagar, and Mother India slum area are under containment zones. Solapur city has registered 11 new coronavirus cases in the past two days. Two positive in Karad Meanwhile, Sangli district administration has taken all precautionary measures in two villages bordering the Karad taluka as two persons of these villages were tested positive for Covid-19. Both of them were working at a hospital in Karad. In an official communication, district collector Abhiit Chaudhari said that administration has launched the tracing exercise. All these people will be sent to institutional quarantine, he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-nine-new-patients-2-positive-in-sangli/articleshow/75383858.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Traders relieved as shops may reopen||Ahmedabad: Traders across Gujarat breathed a sigh of relief after the state government issued a notification on Saturday, allowing stores selling non-essential items to resume business as usual from Sunday onwards. While major markets, malls and commercial complexes in Ahmedabad will continue to remain closed, shops located in residential neighbourhoods are expected to resume business from Sunday. This means major markets in the Walled City, CG Road, Mithakali, SG Road, Anandnagar Road, Ashram Road, Bodakdev, Vastrapur, Thaltej and other areas will continue to remain closed. “Economic activity had come to a complete standstill over the past 35 days with all shops except those selling essentials remaining shut. The decision will greatly benefit small traders and repair shops located in residential neighbourhoods, which otherwise lose business to bigger players,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Trader Federation. Tanna added: “At the same time, it will benefit citizens who can get items such as mobile chargers, or electrical items or spectacles, among others, which are essentials too but were unavailable during the lockdown.” Tanna also termed the move as the first step towards resuming normalcy in trade. “The decision is more welcome and will ease out the liquidity crisis in the market. However, there needs to be a better coordination between the government and the executing agencies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traders-relieved-as-shops-may-reopen/articleshow/75384241.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Traders likely to lose business during festival||Kolhapur: The jewellery shops will remain close due to the outbreak of Covid-19, affecting the businesses of shop owners and traders on Akshaya Tritiya. People usually prefer to buy gold and silver jewellery on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya. It is celebrated on April 26, this year. But following the lockdown, the jewellery shops have remained shut and the traders feel that they have lost a chance to generate some revenue during the festival. They had already felt the heat during the Gudi Padwa due to the pandemic threat. Bharat Oswal, the president of Kolhapur District Jewellers Association said, “We had expected the government to relax some norms and permit starting some business activities after April 20 so we could open our jewellery shops before the festival. However, the government relaxed the norms for industrial sector but with restrictions.”  “Now the government has also allowed some shops to operate with restrictions. However, no decision has been taken to start the jewellery shops and we have lost one more opportunity after Gudi Padwa .” “We are also doubtful about the number of customers who will come to the jewellery shops even if the shops were opened amid the Covid-19 threat,” he said. “This is probably the first time when we are witnessing no business during this festival,” he said. “There is an option for people to invest in gold on papers through gold bonds,” he added. As per the tradition, people believe that buying gold on Akshaya Tritiya brings good health, wealth and fortune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traders-likely-to-lose-business-during-festival/articleshow/75383855.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chennai||The skies are alive||Chennai: The skies are clear, the stars brighter than ever, air pollution levels lower, which is why you will find amateur astronomers across the city binge-watching the heavens, poised on their rooftops with phones, iPads, telescopes, and binoculars pointed at the heavens. Midnight to early morning on April 23 saw one of the largest outpourings of amateur astronomers on terraces to witness the Lyrid meteor shower, says 24-year-old Venkataramanan S. The student of chemical engineering at IIT Madras was among the several amateur skygazers who captured the shower. "We have an astronomy group in IIT and we got news of the shower beginning on April 15. We knew the clearest sighting would be April 22 as it was a new moon day. So we were up from midnight," he says, adding that he saw more than 20 meteors per hour. From his terrace, and using his specialised Nikon binoculars, S Ravichandran, 56, has been spending time almost every day looking at the stars, a passion he has had since his school days. "The sky is clearer now than before, so it is much easier to see planets and constellations," says the deputy GM, SBI, who spotted Saturn, Jupiter and Mars together. Neeraj Ladia, who runs the Space-Chennai program, which offers classes on astronomy, says that as the air pollution has reduced, the stars and planets are brighter in the sky. "The light pollution though has only reduced a little, in the sense the streetlights are still on, but for astronomers this is a great time," says Ladia, who adds that the skies are usually clear in April but the lockdown has reduced the haze. Amateur astronomer D Vijaykumar, who used to organized sidewalk astronomy sessions for the public, until the lockdown, says the greatest excitement for skygazers here is that they can now see the Milky Way from the city. "You usually cannot see this from the city because of the pollution. So this was a good surprise. It is most visible at 4.30am along with the Scorpio and Sagittarius constellations," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-skies-are-alive/articleshow/75384236.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unknown person hacks into e-class||Ahmedabad: The executive registrar of Nirma University, Ramchandran Nair, 62, of Hebatpur lodged a complaint on Friday at cybercrime police station stating that during an online class, an unknown person with the username Faizaan Bakshi had entered the virtual classroom and used vulgar language during the class. A student of that class wrote to the National Commission for Women and on their direction the university had lodged a complaint. According to the FIR, on April 6, between 5pm and 5.40pm, a professor of law faculty, Pranav Shasvat, was taking an online class on a mobile application. At that time an unknown person, somehow hacked into the app and entered the online classroom and started posting obscene gestures. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unknown-person-hacks-into-e-class/articleshow/75383867.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kanpur||20 patients test negative for 2nd time||Kanpur: A day after a sudden spike in the number of coronavirus cases in the district increased the district tally to 150 caused ripples, there was some pleasant news from the Sarsaul Community Health Centre where 20 patients tested negative on Saturday. “Samples of 21 coronavirus patients undergoing treatment at Sarsaul Community Health Centre were sent for second test to the lab and 20 of them tested negative. It is the biggest figure of patients testing negative in a single day in the district. However, one Jamaat member is still undergoing treatment at the CHC,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. All the 21 had been declared corona positive following first round of test, he added.  “Their third sample would be taken soon and sent to lab. If the third report confirms them as coronavirus negative, they would be discharged and sent home,” the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/20-patients-test-negative-for-2nd-time/articleshow/75383853.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Beware ladies! Your ‘Saree Challenge’ photographs can end up as DeepNudes||MANGALURU: The ‘Saree Challenge’ has been going viral, with social media flooded photos of sari-clad women. However, reports suggest that these pictures of women in their six yards of elegance can be used for catfishing. According to reports, Deepnude.com, a website that was under fire last year for creating fake nude pictures of clothed people is back. Cyber experts warn the ‘Saree Challenge’ pictures uploaded on social media give endless opportunities to cyber criminals using this website. “It’s time to not just stay home and stay safe, but also to be cyber safe,” said Ananth Prabhu G, professor, Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management and cyber security trainer.. The original version of DeepNude — a machine-learning application that replaced women’s clothing in photos with an approximation of what they would look like underneath to create fake naked images of them — was seemingly abandoned after its developers, based in Estonia, realised, with the help of some online outrage, that their misogynistic creation could be misused. According to Prabhu, Deep Fake content is created by using two competing artificial intelligence algorithms — the generator and the discriminator. “The generator, which creates the phoney multimedia content, asks the discriminator to determine whether the content is real or artificial. So it’s more like a war between the generator and discriminator,” he said. “As the discriminator gets better at spotting fake video, the generator gets better at creating them. Now, the same technology is used to create DeepNude software, which uses a photo of a clothed person and creates a new, naked image of the person,” he added. There are tools that can detect Deep Fakes and Deep Nudes. “However the initial damage done cannot be reversed easily,” Prabhu warned. The fake photographs can either end up in pornographic websites or can be used to blackmail or harass women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/beware-ladies-your-saree-challenge-photographs-can-end-up-as-deepnudes/articleshow/75383070.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Village vigilantes, Hyderabad duo booked for tiff||HYDERABAD: Ten members of a vigilante group in Ghatkesar were booked for stopping two motorists while they were transporting meat from Bhongir to the city on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a counter case under Section 188 of IPC was registered against the motorists. Ghatkesar police said Abdul Aleem and his cousin Yakub went to Bhongir to buy meat. As they were returning to Begumpet, they were stopped at Edulabad by some vigilantes, who were preventing entry of outsiders due to fear of Covid-19. Some villagers, who were armed with sticks, picked up an argument and forced the duo to open their bag . On learning about it, a Ghatkesar police patrol team rushed to the spot, dispersed the mob and took the motorists away. However, in a recorded video, police hit one of the motorists with a lathi, while the villagers cordoned them off and forced them to open the bag. MBT leader Amjadullah Khan tweeted the video, tagging Rachakonda police. On Friday night, after taking a complaint from the motorists, police registered a case against the villagers. “As per the complaint lodged by the motorists, 10 villagers obstructed their travel and used filthy language against them,’’ Ghatkesar inspector P Raghuveer Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/village-vigilantes-city-duo-booked-for-tiff/articleshow/75384237.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Suryapet coronavirus chart continues to throw surprises||Hyderabad: Suryapet, which recorded its first novel coronavirus case on April 1, continues to baffle administrators as far as the number of positive cases are concerned. For instance, a person contracted coronavirus after spending 21 days in quarantine. In a peculiar case, a person who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi tested negative, whereas his wife had tested positive. In another case, a couple had not contracted the virus but their seven-year-old son tested positive. The virus had also been contracted by 30 persons from essential services establishments like medical shop, kirana store and vegetable shop in the city market area. So far, officials have not been able to zero in on the source of the virus or how it spread in Suryapet town. Over 360 people visited both the medical shop and vegetable shop and a worker in the medical shop was infected. District minister G Jagadish Reddy said though there have been no new cases in the district in the last couple of days, they have not let the guard down. “We averted a major disaster by shifting the vegetable market, just two days before the first case was reported. Since it is a congested area, the market has been relocated to five other areas,” he told STOI. In Epur village, 14 persons had tested positive for coronavirus where a seven-year-old boy became the source of the disease, while his father and mother did not get the disease. His father had gone to Suryapet market area for payment of chit amount. From the same village, a woman who had a travel history to Lucknow for attending a training programme, had tested positive, while her husband was Covid-19 free. Similarly, in Suryapet town, a woman had tested positive and her husband did not have symptoms. Sources in the health department said 11 persons, who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi, were identified. All of them tested negative and subsequently the district administration came to know that two more persons from Suryapet had also attended the event and one of them tested positive. Interestingly, the Tablighis and their primary contacts were placed under quarantine for 21 days and one of the participants had tested positive on the last day of their quarantine period when the officials conducted tests while releasing them. Known as the ‘Gateway of Telangana,’ Suryapet, located on Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway, saw a surge in the last 20 days with 83 positive cases, sending shivers down the spine of officials. Luckily, the district has not reported any fresh positive cases in the last couple of days. Standing next only to Hyderabad in terms of positive cases, it became a testing ground for officials. Five of the positive cases have been discharged after being quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suryapet-coronavirus-chart-continues-to-throw-surprises/articleshow/75383866.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 26, 2020||Pune||Police deflate over 4k tyres to curb commute||Pune: The Kondhwa police have deflated the tyres of more than 4,000 two- and four-wheelers of people commuting without valid reasons since April 12. The police started removing valves from tyres a week ago to deter vehicle users from filling air. They also seized valves from mechanic shops and warned them not to fill air in vehicles. The stringent action has reduced the crowd of wanderers on roads but it has boosted discontentment among people using vehicles for purchasing essential commodities between 10am and noon as the police has started taking action against them as well. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police station justified the action by saying that plying of vehicles was not allowed on roads expect during emergencies. Gaikwad told TOI, “People should purchase essentials from places outside their residence within walking distance. They should not travel to far-off places.” “Kondhwa has been declared a containment zone because of the rapid increase in the number of positive cases. We are sensitizing shop owners and customers to avoid crowding while shopping,” he said. Sameer Pathan, president of Nagrik Adhikar Manch, said, “The action of deflating tyres is wrong. Vehicle users undergo extreme hardships in reaching home. Police should allow people to use vehicles for shopping for two hours and not after that. We will take up the issue with police to use other means for disciplining people.” Home-maker Zeba Shaikh said, “My husband travelled to Kausarbaugh and Meethanagar to shop because there was a shortage of essentials in the stores on NIBM Annexe Road. The police deflated his scooter’s tyre, caned and abused him, and threatened to take him to police station for seeking an explanation even though he had completed shopping by 11.45am.” Activist Tanaji Lonkar said, “Police should seize vehicles for violating lockdown directives for a day and release it later. Police should instruct shop owners to ensure social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-deflate-over-4k-tyres-to-curb-commute/articleshow/75384235.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly district hospital & Budaun medical college to get labs for Covid-19 test||BAREILLY: The Uttar Pradesh government has approved a proposal seeking to set up bio-safety laboratories for Covid-19 test at the district hospital in Bareilly and government medical college in Budaun. At present, Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) conducts testing of human samples for Covid-19 collected from Bareilly and neighbouring districts. Chief medical superintendent, district hospital, Bareilly, Dr TS Arya said, “The state government has given a nod for setting up of a bio-safety laboratory level 2 here for testing of samples for novel coronavirus. We have proposed to set up the lab at the old operation-theatre building here.” Dr RP Singh, principal, government medical college, Budaun, said, “After approving a bio-safety laboratory level-3 here, the state government also sanctioned a budget of Rs 4.5 crore on Friday. We will now invite tenders to select a firm that will set up the laboratory. It will take over a month for the laboratory to become functional.” According to officials, once functional, these two laboratories will decrease the waiting time of the Covid-19 test reports. Like Bareilly, patients in Budaun will also be able to get the report the same day. Besides, the number of people being tested for Covid-19 will go up as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-district-hospital-budaun-medical-college-to-get-labs-for-covid-19-test/articleshow/75383074.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Children’s Academy to hold online contests||Dharwad: The Children’s Academy Dharwad has lined up three activities to test the creativity of students during the lockdown. It has announced essay competition on the subject of lockdown for high school and PU students. The topic for PU students is “Life After Lockdown” and for high school students it is “Lockdown and Me”. Students can write the essays in English or Kannada within 650 words. Participants can mail their essays along with name, addresses, mobile number and details of school or college to srinivas.wadappi@gmail.com (mobile number: 9900223584). The Academy will also hold a painting and drawing competition for students of class 8-10 on the theme “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Vision on Corona or Covid 19”. Paintings should be mailed to artist Manjunath Hiremath to the email ID hiremathmanjunath2@gmail.com (mobile number 98880787122). Last date of submission of essays, paintings and drawings is May 3. Children’s Academy will send the winning essays to the Prime Minister. Three winners in each category will be given attractive prizes and certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/childrens-academy-to-hold-online-contests/articleshow/75384245.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 cases rising, Uttar Pradesh not to give more relaxation to shops||LUCKNOW: The ministry of home affairs’ concessions to shopkeepers, allowing them to open up under specific conditions, will not be implemented in UP for the time-being. Sources said that the state government has already given relaxation for various industries and essential goods shops to function and will not be making any more concessions at this point of time. “It is crucial for UP to contain the number of Covid-19 cases. There are already 19 such districts where there are 20 or more cases. Three cases also surfaced in Prayagraj, where there had not been any new case for some days. The government has already permitted shops selling essential goods, like groceries and medicines, and 11 kinds of industries to function and will not be permitting any more to open up at this point. The situation will be reviewed in a few days,” said a senior government official. On Saturday, Sant Kabir Nagar district was added to a prior list of 18 districts for which nodal officers have been appointed. Additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said that the decision was taken after the CM reviewed the lockdown situation. “Nodal officers have been appointed for this district as well and have been asked to go there at the earliest,” he said. The nodal officers for each of the districts, one from the administration, a senior police personnel and one from the health department have been asked to stay in their respective districts for at least a week to assess the lockdown situation, condition of quarantine shelters, food distribution mechanism, preparedness at hospitals etc. The state has about 389 hotspots from where even one case has been reported, which are completely sealed and no activity is permitted. Only health workers, sanitization staff and doorstep delivery personnel are allowed into these areas. Officials said that permission to open shops would not have been applicable to these hotspots or 19 sensitive districts as it is. Awasthi said that about 90-95% Covid-19 cases have been reported from the hotspots but the CM has been clear that even in districts where no fresh cases have been reported, no leniency in the lockdown will be permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cases-rising-up-not-to-give-more-relaxation-to-shops/articleshow/75384605.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 26, 2020||Pune||Online bookings to ease buys on Akshaya Tritiya||Pune: An auspicious occasion for purchase of gold and other valuables, sales on Akshaya Tritiya will also be altered due to the ongoing lockdown in the city. Respecting people’s sentiments and tradition, jewellers and other traders in the city have rolled out an online shopping option. According to director of Ranka Jewellers Fatehchand Ranka, his store has made arrangements for online shopping of gold and gold items. “We got a lot of calls regarding gold sale and, considering people’s sentiments, we decided to make online shopping available. Customers can either visit our website to book an item and pay online or they can call our managers to make the booking. The managers will provide account details for transfer of amount for the booking. The delivery of items will be made eight days after the shop re-opens,” he stated. Ranka added that they have locked in a price of Rs45,500 per 10 gram of gold. “The price as on Saturday was Rs46,500 but we have already determined the sale price. If the price falls after shops re-open, we will pass on the benefit to customers. Many people also want to invest due to rumours of gold prices crossing Rs50,000 soon,” he said. Chairman and managing director of PNG Jewellers Saurabh Gadgil said, “We have launched Vedhani E-vouchers and Pure Price offer to facilitate booking. The vouchers are available in 1, 2, 5 and 10 gram of bullion only and delivery will be made after lockdown. Many customers have been unable to make traditional gold purchases at a time when gold prices are rising almost every day. To protect interests of customers at this time, we have made arrangements so that customers can avail the booking rate even after the lockdown in case the prevailing rates are higher. If the rates fall, customers can avail benefit of lower rates.” Local resident Anita Pawar pointed out that Akshaya Tritiya celebrations generally involve a puja of ceremonial copper or earthen pots, newly purchased valuables and offerings to ancestors. “However, due to the lockdown, we will be unable to conduct a puja of newly purchased gold. We will only conduct puja of the ceremonial pots and make some delicacies including mango pulp, puranpoli and other items,” she shared. Another resident Santosh Jalan said, “We generally cook moong rice on Akshaya Tritiya and we will do the same on Sunday too.” According to Ranka, not just jewellers but other traders may also provide an option for online sales on the occasion. “I sent out a voice message to nearly 1,700 traders, who are members of the Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), telling them that they can sell online as physical stores cannot be opened. People have sent messages to customers on WhatsApp to take bookings and deliveries can be made after shops re-open,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-bookings-to-ease-buys-on-akshaya-tritiya/articleshow/75384244.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand seeks Nepal’s help to repatriate 3k citizens stranded in state||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Saturday urged the officials of the Nepalese embassy in India to repatriate around 3,000 of its citizens stranded in various parts of the hill state in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to estimates, around 1,500 people are waiting in camps in Pithoragarh to return to the neighbouring country and a similar number is stranded across other parts of the hill state. On Saturday, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj spoke to Bharat Kumar Regmi, deputy chief of mission, Nepalese embassy, and apprised him about the situation in the state. The minister told TOI that he had sought the Nepalese embassy officials’ assistance to tackle the issue. Maharaj said that the state government was also willing to get the health check-up of the Nepalese citizens done, if needed. “Regmi has assured me that he will to take up the matter with the higher authorities. We are looking forward to a positive response,” he added. Notably, several Nepalese labourers, especially those staying in relief camps near the India-Nepal border in Pithoragarh district, are getting increasingly restive and are desperate to return home. As reported by TOI a few days ago, nine Nepalese migrant labourers who were staying in a relief camp in Dharchula tehsil of Pithoragarh district near the India-Nepal border had jumped into the Mahakali river (which acts as a natural border between the two countries), and managed to swim across the river which has a raging current, and reach Nepal. Although Pithoragarh district officials denied that any labourer had escaped, sources in Darchula district in Nepal (where the labourers had crossed over to) had confirmed to TOI that the nine men had reached Nepal and had been housed at a quarantine centre there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-seeks-nepals-help-to-repatriate-3k-citizens-stranded-in-state/articleshow/75383091.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 26, 2020||Goa||Goa Velha residents come to the rescue of 200 starving labourers||PANAJI: Research scholar in economics at BITS Pilani K K Birla Goa campus, Abhishek Sinha, in early April, came face to face with economic disparity like he had never witnessed before in the state. Sinha received a call from a former employee from Madhya Pradesh, who needed help to reach his daily wager nephew near Sinha’s residence in Goa Velha. When the youth met Sinha soon after, he led the latter to a settlement where 57 labourers were living cramped inside six rooms. “He had not eaten for two days. It is not that I have not come across poverty before. But never have I seen starvation in Goa in my decade-odd years here,” said Sinha. The researcher’s call for help saw ten members of his Glenwood Gardens Flatowners Association chip in, besides his erstwhile classmates from Goa Institute of Management. Bags of rice and atta were arranged for distribution. But, soon enough, Sinha and team received call for help from another group of 70 workers in Siridao. Most of them were daily wage labourers or made a living selling sugarcane juice, etc. To ensure that supplies are provided in a dignified manner to the workers and without the queuing and crowding, Sinha and his friends paid nearby store owners a lump sum and arranged for those in need to purchase directly from the shops. “Seeing the plight of the 57 workers living cramped up and starved in six rooms, I was moved and my friend started tagging the authorities on social media to draw their attention to these conditions. The next morning on April 17, the police department and the North Goa collector’s team came with help of some more supplies and we must thank them for their quick response,” said Sinha. He said that around ten members of the Glenwood Gardens Flatowners Association had already pledged soon after the lockdown was announced that ‘no one starves under our watch’. They began by extending help to construction workers and security guards stranded due to the lockdown within their own complex. “We tore open our own bag of rice and supplies. We are presently ensuring that supplies reach around 200 workers in Goa Velha and Siridao. Financial help is coming in from all quarters. We are hoping that others too will ensure that no one starves under their watch. One would be shocked at the conditions in which many of the stranded workers are presently living in Goa and we need to reach out,” said Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-velha-residents-come-to-the-rescue-of-200-starving-labourers/articleshow/75384243.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Bilari sugar mills management booked for buying cane ‘illegally’||Bareilly: At least seven officials, including the general manager, of Rana Group-owned Shri Lakshmiji Sugar Mills Co Ltd in Moradabad’s Bilari have been booked for allegedly purchasing sugarcane illegally transported from Muzaffarnagar to Moradabad. According to sources, district cane officer (DCO) Ajay Singh raided the sugar mill premises on Friday and seized 138 metric tonnes sugarcane illegally stored there. An FIR under relevant sections was registered on a complaint lodged by the cane inspector.the DCO said they also impounded two trucks that were used for transporting sugarcane from Muzaffarnagar to Moradabad. He said an FIR was lodged against the mill management, including managing director Rajeev Kumar Tomar. The cane officer said upon seeing officials, the truck drivers fled the scene leaving the sugarcane-laden vehicles behind.On Saturday, state cane commissioner Sanjay Bhoosreddy said the Moradabad cane officer informed him that trucks laden with 700 quintals sugarcane were found on the sugar mill premises, and when the mill management was questioned about the cane, they did not give a satisfactory reply.Bhoosreddy added that farmers present on the premises said the cane was illegally transported from Muzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bilari-sugar-mills-management-booked-for-buying-cane-illegally/articleshow/75383084.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 26, 2020||Pune||Pune administration to use private ambulances for carrying Covid-19 patients||PUNE: The district administration has decided to utilize private ambulances anticipating the need for a larger number of such vehicles following the spurt in the Covid-19 cases. This comes at a time when around 60% of private ambulances went off roads in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad due to lack of equipment and drivers’ fear of contacting Covid-19. “Due to spread of Covid-19, there may be a need for a large number of ambulances. All private ambulances in the entire district are being empanelled and will be pressed into service as and when required,” read the notice signed by deputy collector Neeta Sawant Shinde. “You will be contacted and the ambulance must be made available without any delay. Till you receive call for empanelment, you must continue to use the ambulance for prescribed purposes,” it added. Gopal Jhambe, secretary of Pune Ambulance Owners’ Association, said, “Only 30-35% of private ambulances are plying in Pune. Few drivers are willing to risk taking patients. We cannot afford PPEs. The association met mayor Murlidhar Mohol in March on the issue.” Sanket Shah, a resident of Timber Market and member of Divine Jain Group that works with the charity commissioner, said, “I recently got a call about a lady losing consciousness on the road and frothing at the mouth. On reaching there, I found people standing. They were scared to touch her. I alerted police and three hours went in arranging an ambulance.”  Ramesh Ranka of Ranka Hospital said, “Most drivers said they were scared to ply to hospitals, such as Naidu, Sassoon, Bharati, treating Covid-19 patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-to-use-private-ambulances-for-carrying-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75384239.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 26, 2020||Kolhapur||With 12 cases, Satara gets its highest no. of patients in 1 day||Kolhapur: Satara district has recorded the highest number Covid-19 cases reported in a single day after 12 people tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. With the fresh cases, the number of Covid-19 cases rose to 28 in the district.  District health officer Dr Amod Gadikar said that all the 12 patients have been admitted to the isolation ward in Karad’s Kirshna hospital and they are reported stable. Five people had tested positive early in the morning while seven more cases were reported late in the evening on Saturday. Gadikar said in an official communication that the 12 patients had come into close contact with the Covid-19 patient, who is currently admitted at Karad hospital. Of the 28 Covid-19 patients in Satara district, most of them are from Karad vicinity. Officials said that all the five patients, who tested positive in the morning, belong to the same family and live in a village near Karad. Considering the pandemic the citizens of Karad are observing complete lockdown for the past two days. Satara district has recorded two Covid-19 related deaths. Three patients have been discharged after recovering and completing mandatory isolation of 14 days. According to the official communication, 23 suspected patients of Covid-19 were kept in isolation in Satara civil hospital. Their throat swab sample have been sent for further medical investigation. Meanwhile, district collector Shekhar Singh has declared few areas in Patan and Jawli taluka as containment zones in view of the increasing number of suspected cases. In Jawli taluka, around 30 villages have been declared containment zones. Patan taluka, which connects Konkan region and Satara district, has five villages and the area under Patan Municipal Council as containment zones. According to an order issued by Singh, under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CRPC), the containment zone order will come into force from midnight of April 26 and will continue till further instructions. All the shops and other establishments in the containment zone will be closed till further orders. Clinic, hospitals and nursing homes will remain open. The citizens in the containment zones will get home delivery of domestic gas cylinders and other essentials. They are not allowed to come out of their homes. Singh has said, “The administration will go door-to-door and collect information and the citizens should submit true information..” He has warned of strict legal action in case anyone is found furnishing wrong information Singh has also warned against incidents like government employees being prevented from entering villages. He said, “Legal action will be taken against the people, involved in such incidents.” Gathering of more than two people has been banned in containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/with-12-cases-satara-gets-its-highest-no-of-patients-in-1-day/articleshow/75383888.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Doubling rate up to 6 days from 4’||Ahmedabad: It took just four days for the state to go from 617 to 1,272 cases earlier this month. From 1,272 to 2624, the rate has slowed to six days, said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare). Ravi on Saturday said that the Covid-19 situation is expected to continue for at least two months and caution by all is the only way forward. “We will have to adhere to the lockdown and social distancing norms to slow the doubling rate,” she said, adding that the lockdown has been an effective mechanism to arrest the spread. In the past 10 days – from April 16 to 25 – Gujarat recorded 300+ cases a day once, 200+ cases six times, 150+ cases twice and 100+ cases once. Ravi said that India’s national average of testing is 392.5 tests per million people. Compared to that, Gujarat has carried out 721 tests per million and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) figure is much higher, at 2,701. Compared to Gujarat, Delhi is carrying out 1,492 tests per million, Tamil Nadu 931, Rajasthan 836, Andhra Pradesh 786 and Maharashtra 710. “The state is carrying out the optimal number of tests. With new labs being added, the number is set to get much higher. Moreover, we are also conducting rapid antibody tests (RAT). A total of 3,280 such tests were carried out yesterday in various districts,” said the principal secretary. Ravi said they are also emphasizing the use of AYUSH medicines to improve the immunities of those in quarantine. “We have stressed time and again to take care of the elderly with co-morbid conditions, who are the most vulnerable group. The virus is affecting people with low immunity more,” she said. The health department officials said all 37 ayurvedic hospitals and homoeopathic clinics have been instructed to reach out to as many people as possible, apart from the strengthening of CHCs and PHCs to identify patients with symptoms of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doubling-rate-up-to-6-days-from-4/articleshow/75384252.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||Professionals juggle between work from home and work for home||KOLKATA: Balancing between chores and work-from-home for a month now, professionals seem exhausted to the bone. And for some of the caregivers, who earn on daily basis, life has suddenly taken a bleak turn, with no earning and uncertainty looming large. Gynaecologist Queene Aditya has turned into a one-man army, looking after her 82-year-old bedridden father, 77-year-old ailing mother as well as her 11-year-old daughter. “Life’s so difficult without my father’s caregivers. Even the help is not here. All the chores, my kid’s online classes, stocking up on provisions and my patients: I seem to be juggling too many things at the same time. My mother is trying her best to help. But how long can we go on like this?” she said. Aditya has to visit hospitals as well as attend to patients through tele-consultation from home. “Some patients need to be checked in person. Deliveries can’t wait. I am still attending to them, though a few doctors in the neighbourhood have tested positive for Covid-19. After returning from hospital, I bathe several times if I am going out for more than one emergency,” she said. The person being missed the most right now is the help, said NSE stockbroker Manish Dalmia. “Even as we are trying to adjust ourselves to the new normal, everyone’s patience is running out. With no domestic help around, the do-it-yourself routine has been leading to much blame game. The children don’t want to pick up each other’s utensils, the husband and wife are trying to pass the buck, demanding their own me-time or free hours,” the work-from-home father of two schoolkids said. For the Dalmias, the extra tablet that had been lying unutilized has suddenly become a life-saver as they need to log into three devices simultaneously. Even Aditya finds it harrowing, managing her daughter’s online classes, helping her log in and then, switching from laptop to phone when the WiFi goes off. “Lockdown depression is common. I feel myself slipping into it,” she said. She sings old Hindi numbers to drive away the blues. Another harried mom is Sushma Sahai, associate professor of geography at Loreto College. “With the news of the pandemic spreading like wild fire, I found myself among a dozen people in a serpentine queue outside the local medicine shop, praying to be lucky enough to buy surgical masks and sanitizers. More than a month into the lockdown, I feel the same anxiety. With senior citizens and a child at home, we are always on the edge, especially about stocks.” She has converted her bedroom into a virtual classroom and spends more than half a day on the laptop, either conducting classes on several online platforms or helping her teenage daughter with her unending list of assignments. “And mind you, there’s no help at home,” Sahai said. Life on the other hand has come to a virtual standstill for those very people without whom some families have been finding it difficult to manage. Kamduni resident Durga Mondal, who works as a caregiver for an elderly woman in Salt Lake, said, “If I don’t die of coronavirus, I will die of hunger. I used to get paid on a daily basis. But since March 25, I have not been able to go to my workplace and haven’t earned a rupee. My savings are running out. If the lockdown is extended, I won’t be able to feed my family.” Mondal is diabetic. “There’s no money to buy medicines either,” she said. But some are luckier. Kalpana Dey of Shahid Smriti Colony on EM Bypass said, “I am okay. When Modi announced janata curfew, Boudi (her employer) gave me the full month’s pay of Rs 5,000 in advance. Next week, I will go and get this month’s salary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/professionals-juggle-between-work-from-home-work-for-home/articleshow/75384246.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 26, 2020||Pune||ZP adds two more queries to its survey||Pune: From Saturday, the Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) added questions related to blood-oxygen-level and alcohol consumption to its checklist during the door-to-door survey being undertaken in rural areas. The survey started at Wagholi panchayat on Saturday and would be extended to other areas with priority given to Covid-19 positive clusters. ZP CEO Ayush Prasad said that lower level of blood oxygen is not a direct indicator of Covid-19 infection but it will help in early detection of any deterioration in a person’s health. “We have added blood-oxygen-level as a category and whether s/he regularly consumes alcohol to the checklist. Doctors treating Covid-19, have found that people consuming alcohol regularly are at a greater risk. They are regularly contacted to check if they have developed any symptoms,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-adds-two-more-queries-to-its-survey/articleshow/75384249.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Dealing With Lockdown: Now, street food. mithai delivered at home in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: The restrictions imposed due to the lockdown has made street-food vendors adopt home delivery so that their loyal customers are not deprived of their favourite 'gol gappe, chole-bhature', a variety of fritters and mithai, at least not in Shahjahanpur city. Besides, it makes business sense, too. Many vendors are now operating from home and delivering these items to their customers on their orders. So far, only one case of Covid-19 has been detected in Shahjahanpur and that too, nearly a month ago. The patient has recovered and been cdischarged from hospital. City’s Sadar Bazaar area is fulfilling the demands of the street food lover. The vendors here are doing brisk business, selling a small samosa for Rs 5 and a packet of four for Rs 20. A packet of gol gappe costs Rs 50. However, these items are home-delivered if one orders in bulk. At same time, the vendors have not raised the price of any item. Besides. delivery is free. Similarly, mithai-makers are delivering sweets to their customers' doorstep. A mithai-maker said, “We still have to accept the supply of nearly 150 kilos of milk every day from village suppliers. We cannot turn them away. We make a few milk products like milk cake, rabri, curd, white butter and desi ghee and supply them to our regular customers on their demand."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dealing-with-lockdown-now-street-food-mithai-delivered-at-home-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/75383093.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Online maths for Class X now, Delhi government reviews lockdown lessons||NEW DELHI: Sanchit Priyadarshi, a Class XII science student of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Yamuna Vihar, requested deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday to continue the online classes even after the lockdown was lifted. The education department was reviewing the progress of online and SMS/IVR-based lessons and teachers, students and parents joined in to share their experiences. From Monday onwards, online maths classes will start for Class X students as well in collaboration with Khan Academy. “All of us have been discussing how helpful online classes have been. We want these to be continued even after the lockdown,” said Priyadarshi. Sisodia then asked if the teachers were ready for it and they replied in affirmative. Delhi’s education minister also asked the teachers to share their experiences. Arun Sethi, a commerce teacher, said, “I was concerned about teaching accountancy online. Use of animations and practicals, however, came in handy and now, students are loving the sessions.” “Directorate of education should start a YouTube channel,” suggested Nandini, an English teacher. “We have a pool of teachers who join the classes as panellists. If there is an issue with one teacher’s network or system, another one takes over,” said Jyotshna, a teacher. Sisodia congratulated the education team, and said, “We wanted minimum damage to the students during the lockdown, as they are the future of this country. I wanted to see how successful we have been so far in this journey.” “I am a hawker, but I am glad that my children are studying well even during the lockdown. My daughter has cleared her CTET too,” said Raj Kumar Jha, father of Lokesh Nath Jha, a Class XII student. Arvinder Kaur, a resident of Geeta Colony, said, “Yesterday’s activity was about how to help each other. Today’s activity involved teaching the children how to use water judiciously. The online content is good.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-maths-for-class-x-now-govt-reviews-lockdown-lessons/articleshow/75384265.cms||Shradha Chettri
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cops seize bike of duo rushing home after kin’s death||HYDERABAD: The vehicle of a couple travelling from Golconda towards Chandrayangutta after the death of their relative was seized by duty police. According to police, Mohammed Khaja, along with his wife was travelling from Golconda towards Chandrayangutta when the couple’s scooter was seized. “Khaja’s son-in-law’s father, Mohammed Moin died due to a suspected cardiac arrest. However, we are only allowing immediate family members to attend such emergencies. Even if a person has to attend the event of an immediate family member’s death, they need to take permission from the police,” said Rajendranagar inspector, G Suresh. Later, Amjed Ullah Khan from MBT tweeted about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-seize-bike-of-duo-rushing-home-after-kins-death/articleshow/75384254.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Pune||More Asha workers in Velhe tehsil||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad will recruit around 30 more Asha workers in Velhe tehsil against the backdrop of the rise in Covid-19 cases. The tehsil has only 48 workers covering 70 villages and 129 hamlets at present. This strength is not sufficient to provide timely medical services to villagers due to the difficult terrain and lack of public transport.Ayush Prasad, zilla parishad chief executive officer, told TOI, "We have prepared a proposal which will be sent to the state government for approval. Our endeavour is to enhance our para medical services there in the coming months."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-asha-workers-in-velhe-tehsil/articleshow/75384247.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Government, private doctors begin free tele-consultation in Bareilly||BAREILLY: With the lockdown in place, many government and private doctors, including specialists, have started tele-consultation for free in Bareilly. Patients who are unable to visit hospitals due to the lockdown can consult these doctors over the phone for non-critical ailments. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have released the name and contact number of government and private doctors whom patients can call for tele-consultation for non-critical ailments. The service is available only during the lockdown period. We have published an advertisement in newspapers on contact details of government doctors who will offer tele-consultation while the list of private doctors under the aegis of the Indian Medical Association has been shared with the control room and on social media.” According to officials, the doctors will advise people with severe problems to visit the nearest hospital for consultations. If the doctor has prescribed medicines after tele-consultation, the patient can purchase it from a medical shop in his or her locality or can get it home-delivered from medical stores. Dr AM Agarwal, a physician at the district hospital who has been offering tele-consultation, said, “According to government order, the timings for tele-consultation is 8 am to 2 pm but as the timings were not mentioned in the advertisement published in the newspapers, most people are calling randomly anytime. On Saturday, I received more than 10 calls and most of the callers had general queries like if the out-patient department is open or not and timings for getting anti-rabies vaccination. A few people called as they had problems of joint pain or weight loss.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/govt-pvt-doctors-begin-free-tele-consultation-in-bareilly/articleshow/75383103.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 26, 2020||Goa||Tilamol man arrested for threatening Quepem cop||Quepem: History-sheeter Bryson Sebastiao Faria, 23, of Tilamoll, Quepem, was arrested on Friday for threatening to kill a police constable attached to Quepem police while on duty at Tilamol junction. Police said that Faria has several cases registered against him at the Quepem police station, while several ‘chapter cases’ are pending against him before the sub-divisional magistrate, Quepem. Constable Somnath Shelke in his complaint stated that Faria was riding a two-wheeler under the influence of alcohol and that at the nakabandi point at Tilamol junction he abused him and other police personnel present and obstructed them from discharging their duties. Faria also threatened them with dire consequences, Shelke stated in the complaint. The complaint stated that Faria was in possession of two liquor bottles. It also stated that Faria was not wearing a mask and that he did not have a valid travel permit. The chief minister had recently warned that strict action would be initiated against those obstructing or abusing police personnel on duty. Quepem PI Santosh Dessai arrested the accused under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the MV Act. The accused was produced before the judicial magistrate first class at Quepem on Saturday. The accused has been lodged at Colvale jail after court granted five days remand. DySP Kiran Poduval has appealed to the public to cooperate with police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tilamol-man-arrested-for-threatening-quepem-cop/articleshow/75384261.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Newly-married woman refuses to leave maternal home till lockdown is over, husband goes to police||BAREILLY: A man from Sambhal approached police on Friday after his wife refused to leave her maternal home in Amroha till lockdown is over. She had gone there only after a few weeks of marriage and got stranded when the lockdown was announced. Police, however, respected the woman’s views and asked the man to wait till things return to normal. The Sambhal man married the Amroha woman a few months ago. She had gone to her maternal house about two months ago, but couldn’t return due to the Covid-19 lockdown. When the man phoned his wife, she said that police wouldn’t allow them to cross the border of two districts and they would need the cops’ nod. It is learnt that the man tried to convince his wife assuring him that he would get a pass issued, but the woman still refused, saying they may be in danger of getting infected by Covid-19, if they travel. The man then urged his in-laws to convince their daughter but she remained unmoved. Finally, the peeved man reached the local police station on Friday to narrate his story and put forth his last argument that his mother was unwell, but the cops refused to buy that too. Superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said this was not an isolated case. “People stranded in other districts are approaching us for permission to bring their family home. Since it is a complete lockdown no such permission can be given till we get orders from the government of any relaxation,” he added. Meanwhile, nodal Covid-19 officer Dr Neeraj Sharma said that those stranded in other districts will have to undergo thermal screening before entering the district. Suspected Covid cases will be put under quarantine, Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/newly-married-woman-refuses-to-leave-maternalhome-till-lockdown-is-over-husband-goes-to-police/articleshow/75383118.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 26, 2020||Lucknow||Promote UP as investment hub post lockdown: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Industrialists and investors can look forward to easing of rules and concessions in policies as the government is preparing a industrial revival plan after the lockdown. On Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the state’s industrial revival strategy and said UP should be promoted as an investment hub. Earlier, anticipating that several industries could move base to India, especially from China, the CM had directed officials to reach out to such firms. “Investors should get the message that it will be beneficial to invest in UP. Strengthen existing units and bring to government’s notice any problems being faced by investors. There are huge possibilities in pharma sector. Explore the possibility of setting up a pharma park in Lucknow,” he said. The CM has directed the industries department to revisit all policies to make them industry friendly. He has asked for labour laws to be improved and a specific policy on sick units to see if they can be revived. Asking for creation of a land bank to encourage investment, he also asked officials to work on land acquisition policy. Industries commissioner Alok Tandon made a presentation before CM and said the government can also consider giving concessions in rules for restarting industries. He said in order to secure loans for industries, it would be necessary to communicate with banks and the Centre. “MSMEs will have to be encouraged for which there are several pending issues, like tax and compliances, approvals, financials and liquidity that need to be resolved,” he said. Industries minister Satish Mahana also interacted with industrialists through a video conferencing organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-promote-up-as-investment-hub-post-lockdown/articleshow/75384611.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt hospitals quake under NMC takeover plan for Covid patients||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s orders asking 12 private hospitals in Nagpur to be ready for Covid-19 treatment has shaken city’s private health care sector. On Saturday, Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA), a body of 110 private hospitals in Vidarbha issued a statement and expressed objections on handing over their requisite infrastructure, manpower, equipment, medicines, consumables and staff to handle Covid-19 patients. This order has also caused apprehensions and confusions among non-Covid patients taking treatment at these hospitals. “Where will the other patients go?,” asked Dr Ashok Arbat, VHA president. “If 4,000 to 4,500 beds in leading private hospitals in city are reserved for Covid-19 patients, where will rest of emergencies go? Many private hospitals have contractual, ethical and legal contracts with existing patients. What will happen to this?,” he further asked. Convener Dr Sameer Paltewar said that NMC should first utilize existing government facilities. “As per laws, Government is bound to initially utilize existing government facilities, private medical colleges based in government land, hospitals based in government land, charitable trust hospitals, NMC run hospitals/ isolation hospitals and then only reach out to private health care sector,” he said. Secretary Dr Alok Umre claimed that there is outcry among citizens based near the selected private hospitals who are objecting to having a Covid-19 treatment centre in the midst of their residential colonies. “Citizens are surprised at erroneous strategy of spreading positive Covid-19 patients across city. This will increase risk of cross-resulting in high mortality and morbidity as seen in Italy,” he said. People are even considering filing medical negligence liability on these private hospitals if they shift negative Covid-19 patients requiring urgent medical attention, he added. VHA had already highlighted the dire straits of private hospitals across the city. Hospitals are operating at shrunken revenues and enhanced costs after the lockdown. They don’t have enough number of PPE kits too. They have to pay salaries, utility charges, infrastructure usage charges and statutory taxation and financial obligations to creditors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-quake-under-nmc-takeover-plan-for-covid-patients/articleshow/75383905.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Bringing back mortal remains permissible, clarifies MHA||Dehradun/New Delhi: A day after immigration officials at Delhi airport returned the body of Kamlesh Bhatt, a 24-year-old man — who had died of a heart attack in Abu Dhabi in UAE — citing a ministry of home affairs (MHA) order that prohibited receiving of any such cargo from outside India, the MHA on Saturday released an office memorandum on the issue. The office memorandum, issued by the MHA’s foreigners division (immigration section), clarified that “…immigration functions in respect of arrival of dead bodies and mortal remains of Indian nationals/OCI (overseas citizens of India) cardholders are permitted subject to strict adherence to the guidelines/instructions issued by various ministries and government departments related with management of Covid-19 and submission of no objection/ approval/ concurrence from ministries of health & family welfare and external affairs in this regard.” A detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) for “importation of human remains of Covid-19 patients/suspects” meant for immigration officials, was also issued. The central government’s clarification on the issue came even as a petition was filed during the day in the Delhi high court by Bhatt’s cousin seeking repatriation of the mortal remains of his relative at the earliest. The Additional Solicitor General, representing the Union government, submitted in the court that “it was a unique case, and the central government was in the process of framing SOPs so that in future, there is no difficulty in similar matters.” The matter has now been listed for hearing on April 27. Bhatt, who was working at a hotel in Abu Dhabi, had passed away on March 17. After struggling for several days to get his body repatriated amidst the ongoing lockdown, his family members based in Tehri Garhwal were eventually helped by an Indian-origin social activist Roshan Raturi who arranged to send the body back to India on April 24 after getting the requisite clearances. Bhatt’s cousin Vimlesh Bhatt, who is based in Dehradun travelled to Delhi on Friday to receive the mortal remains but was told by immigration authorities that they had sent the body back. The family, that had completed all the preparations of the cremation, was left hanging. Rajesh Bhatt, 19, younger brother of the deceased, told TOI over phone from his village in Tehri Garhwal that his parents are devastated. “My mother has stopped eating. We got all the passes made for the cremation and now we have been told that the body is not arriving. My brother was the backbone of the family. It is difficult to bear the trauma that even though he did so much for all of us, we aren’t able to give him a decent cremation,” he said. Meanwhile, Roshan Raturi, the social activist who helped the family, told TOI over phone from UAE, that he will try to send the body again to India. “I just hope the government of India will help the family who only want to give a decent cremation to their son,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bringing-back-mortal-remains-permissible-clarifies-mha/articleshow/75383114.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Maulana held for prayer gathering||PUNE: The Bhosari police arrested a maulana for violating government orders and allowing people to gather at a Kasarwadi mosque on Friday afternoon for prayers. Around 50 to 60 people had gathered for the Friday prayers and the maulana also addressed them, police said. The state government as well as the Pimpri Chinchwad police had issued orders prohibiting gathering of people at religious places to contain the spread of Covid-19. The Bhosari police said notices had been issued to all religious places and to the maulana to keep the places of worship shut for public gathering and prayers. The maulana had then agreed to follow the directives, an official said. The Wakad police arrested seven persons for not following the norms of social distancing while operating mutton shops in the Thergaon area. A large number of people had gathered in front of these shops to buy mutton.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maulana-held-for-prayer-gathering/articleshow/75384255.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Team from Centre assesses state||Ahmedabad: A five-member team of central government observers is in Ahmedabad to assess the gravity of the Covid-19 situation in Ahmedabad, Surat, and the state in general ahead of the relaxation of the lockdown. The officials also looked into the high rate of deaths in the city. Most of the victims had co-morbid conditions, senior municipal officials said. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra spoke about contact tracing, the aggressive testing strategy, containment zone management, and cluster quarantine strategy. The police commissioner Ashish Bhatia spoke about law and order issues related to lockdown in the city. District collector K K Nirala made a presentation on relief and supplies and the overall management of the lockdown. The Covid-19 situation in rural areas was described by district development officer Arun Mahesh Babu. Each of these officers was asked to provide the list of best practices followed in their jurisdictions. “The central committee was in Gandhinagar after the detailed presentations were made to discuss the availability of beds, ventilators, and paramedical staff,” said a senior official in the state health department. It is worth mentioning that in Gujarat, in nearly of 45.5% Covid-19 deaths, the patients had co-morbidities. In 38.4% cases, there was one co-morbidity with or without risk factor such as old age. Cumulatively, 83.9% cases had co-morbidities. In 9% cases, there were risk factors but no co-morbidity whereas 7% of the deaths occurred without risk factors or co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/team-from-centre-assesses-state/articleshow/75384271.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Chenchu women join Covid-19 fight||HYDERABAD: Chenchu tribal women in the Srisailam forest area have started sewing cloth masks. The cloth is provided to them free of cost by the Rural Development Trust (RDT), the forest department and others. “The masks will be distributed to Covid-19 frontline workers, govt employees and vulnerable groups,” explained Aina Valldaura, communications manager of RDT. Each Chenchu woman makes 50 masks a day. “Once it is ensured that each person of the Chenchu community has at least three masks, the remaining will be bought at Rs 6 per piece,” Valldaura said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chenchu-women-join-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75383920.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||Activist Mahendra Kumar dies of heart attack||CHIKKAMAGALURU: Former state convenoer of Bajrang Dal, Mahendra Kumar, who later changed his ideology and founded Namma Dwani organisation, died of cardiac arrest at MS Ramaiah Hospital in Bengaluru on Saturday. The 47-year-old social activist from Koppa town had settled in Bengaluru. He is survived by wife Suma and two sons—Shanthanu and Arya. His body has been shifted to Koppa for the last rites. Mahendra Kumar had thousands of followers. He used to make videos on current issues, fake ideologies and political parties’ agenda. He had also actively participated in anti-CAA and NRC agitations. He also took part in many rallies in coastal Karnataka. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa and former CMs HD Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah expressed condolences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/activist-mahendra-kumar-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/75383110.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Gadkari to fix Rs10L cr target for road building||Nagpur: Exuding confidence, union road transport and MSME minister Nitin Gadkari said there can be no dearth of funds in his department, though it may not be the case for rest of the departments in the government. Addressing members of the CEOs’ club, Hyderabad, through a video conferencing, Gadkari said he is going to fix a target of Rs10 lakh crore for road building and money will not be a constraint. “Funds can be raised through the capital market, insurance funds, and banks,” said Gadkari, adding that this is however restricted to his own department. “We are moving a cabinet note to acquire land along the highways to build smart cities, smart villages, industrial clusters and smart housing. The land will be acquired through joint ventures with private investors. We are open to investments from abroad as well. I keep telling my colleagues to come up with innovative ideas” said Gadkari as he addressed the CEOs. “For example, in the railways, an investor interested in building a railway line from one point to the other can be paid 25% to 30% as an advance. The rest can be given in yearly instalments with bank interest added to the amount. The same can happen for electrification also,” he said. The National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI) will be increasing its target from building 30km a day to 60 to 90km. There are plans to increase liquidity in the road sector by resolving disputes at the earliest. All arbitrators have been asked to hold hearings though video conferencing. Issues of tax refunds will be addressed too, he said. For MSMEs, Gadkari said a plan has been mooted to have an insurance guarantee fund of Rs1 lakh crore. This will insure the MSMEs’ dues pending from government undertakings, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkari-to-fix-rs10l-cr-target-for-road-building/articleshow/75383913.cms||Shishir Arya
April 26, 2020||Goa||Stuck on foreign shores, Indian crew rue long wait as colleagues return||PANAJI: Goan seafarers around the world continue to wait for the Indian government to permit them to return as they watch crew of other nationalities disembark and be put on charter flights home. Most are frustrated at having spent a month at sea and say it is pure mental stress . “The Indian government should open airports and accept these charter flights just as other countries are picking up their nationals from Goa. The charter flights are paid for by our company, which is only waiting for the airports to be opened,” a seafarer Roger D’Costa told TOI. He is among 37 Goans, 130 Indians and 430 crew onboard the cruise vessel Rhapsody of the Sea that is in anchorage at Florida. Some of the crew have been onboard for seven months, others even more. All have undergone minimum 20 days quarantine with some kept in complete isolation. “(Crew) of all other nationalities — from Australia, South America and Africa to Europe and East Asia, among others — will be put on charter flights beginning April 27. We are the only nationality that is left behind. We are frustrated as the process of getting us home has been slow. Most of us were supposed to be back home for a well deserved vacation,” he said. For another cruise vessel in Barbados with 35 Goans among 138 Indians, charter flights are already being arranged for crew of other nationalities as the Indians wait. “Sixty six crew from Indonesia have already been sent back on April 6. Other countries are ready to accept their crew too but we are stranded. Goa needs to open its airports for us. Is the government going to wait till another disaster falls? How long can cruise companies hold on due to the lethargic idiosyncrasies of the government,” IT manager on a Royal Caribbean cruise, Joseph Fernandes, said. Rahul Shanbhag, 24, onboard MSC Grandiosa, which has been docked in Civitavecchia port in Italy since March 15, has appealed to the government to take a quick decision before things get out of hand. There are 70 Goans onboard among 200 Indians who have no idea when they will return home. “We are not aware of the government’s plans to bring us back. The company is taking good care of us. Our temperature is taken everyday and a rapid test was also done on us. Everyone is panicking here and finding it difficult to sleep after there were a few positive cases,” he told TOI. D’Costa said the crew should be brought directly to Goa and not be kept in quarantine in Mumbai where it is risky. “We have contributed towards the economy and society and bridged the gap of high and low class. We work hard and there is no corruption and bribery involved when it comes to our work and pay cheques. Those who don’t want us back have to realise that this is a humanitarian crisis,” D’Costa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stuck-on-foreign-shores-indian-crew-rue-long-wait-as-colleagues-return/articleshow/75384263.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six Covid-19 patients relapse in Gujarat||Ahmedabad: For Covid-19 patients, one four-day cycle is their most dreadful, when two samples are taken within 24 hours. If the two samples are negative, they can be discharged but if not – if one comes positive and another negative or inconclusive – they have to stay back. This is why some of the patients spend more than 14 days in hospitals. When the five patients from Patan – all contacts of the first Covid-19 patient of the district – tested positive after being found free of viral load, it made the authorities sit up and take note. The case histories of all these patients were studied and their results were compared with others in the same facility. On Saturday, Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said that one case from Narmada was also similar, taking the number of relapsed cases in Gujarat to six. “We discussed the cases with chief district health officers (CDHOs) and experts at BJ Medical College in Ahmedabad. There are two possibilities – a patient relapses when their immunity is not good, or residue of the virus could be not be detected and there was a false negative test report,” she said. “We firmly believe that these cases could be due to the first scenario.” Ravi also said that they have shared their findings with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Dr A S Salvi, CDHO of Patan, said the patients are related and had been in close contact. “We had 11 patients who completed their seven-day period of quarantine. We carried out tests and found that six were negative and five were positive. The five were kept at the facility and were not sent home. They will be tested again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-covid-19-patients-relapse-in-gujarat/articleshow/75384277.cms||Parth Shastri
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM gives permission to convert warehouses into grain markets||JAIPUR: The state government has taken another important step to make it easier for the farmers to sell their agricultural produce at the nearest warehouse amid lockdown. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday approved the grant of secondary market status to warehouses of Rajasthan State Warehousing Corporation and Central Warehousing Corporation. Agricultural Marketing Department had proposed to give exemption in licence fee, security fee and minimum area terms with a view to declaring the warehouses of Rajasthan State Warehousing Corporation and Central Warehousing Corporation as private secondary markets. Similarly, proposals for waiver of terms were also sent to private warehouses registered with Warehouse Development and Regulatory Authority (WDRA) in the state. With the approval of these proposals by the chief minister, it will be possible to notify 93 warehouses of State Warehousing Corporation, 12 warehouses of Central Warehousing Corporation and 157 private warehouses registered with WDRA as private secondary markets. Agriculture minister Lal Chand Kataria said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, 560 cooperative societies have already been notified as private accessory markets with a view to selling agricultural produce near the village. In addition, direct purchase licences have also been issued to 1,375 agro-processing units. Meanwhile, the scheme of providing free tractor and agricultural implements to farmers to harvest their crops has been proving very helpful for the needy farmers. About 4,000 farmers have utilised the service for more than 8,000 hours so far. This free service will continue till June 30, said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-gives-permission-to-convert-warehouses-into-grain-markets/articleshow/75384264.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Gadwal is new Covid-19 hotspot||Hyderabad: Gadwal, a small district carved out from erstwhile Mahbubnagar, with about seven lakh population is now one of the hotspots for novel coronavirus. As many as 45 cases have been reported from the district and one or two cases are being added almost every day. Officials said till March 31, there was not a single case in the district. Soon, cases began to mount, especially after those who attended Tablighi Jamaat meeting came out. Now, officials are worried about spreading of virus from neighbouring Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh. Of the total 45 cases, two pertained to those who had gone to see a doctor in Kurnool 10 days ago. The doctor has also tested positive now. “Gadwal town accounted for eight (one discharged) cases. Rest came from Waddepally, Moogavanipally, Vallur and other villages. Over 1,000 people, who are primary and secondary contacts of positive cases, are under home quarantine. Only those with symptoms are being sent to government quarantine,” Gadwal district additional collector P Srinivas Reddy told TOI. One family had four positive cases and all of them are under surveillance. Over 50 persons, who attended Markaz from the district, have been tested, Srinivas said. With Gadwal among top five districts for coronavirus cases, government appointed a special officer a few days ago. Various wards in Gadwal municipality have been categorised into clusters and sealed. “We pasted red stickers at homes where suspected cases are there. A team of officers visits every house to check whether any person is developing symptoms,” the additional collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gadwal-is-new-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/75383909.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||NRIs suffer losses as flights get cancelled||HYDERABAD: NRIs stuck in the India have lost a considerable amount of money just booking their flights. A Telugu woman stands to lose close to Rs 7 lakh in flight tickets. Sharvani Deshpande arrived in Hyderabad on March 7. She flew down to support her mother after her father’s sudden demise. “I booked my first flight with a foreign airline for March 28, which was cancelled because the lockdown was imposed. I booked another flight on March 30 with a national carrier which too was cancelled in the last minute. Since the foreign carrier allowed me to reschedule my flight, I booked another one for April 15, which too did not take off owing to the lockdown,” She said. Most of the tickets booked were business class because she wants to head back immediately. Deshpande added, “I have close to Rs 7 lakh that needs to be refunded.” As she made some of the purchases on a credit card, that is another recurring bill she needs to settle. Like Sharvani whose family is dependent on her income, Ramya too worries about the rising expenses. Currently, in Nuzividu, in AP, she booked her first flight on March 17, but had to cancel because her husband was an OCI card holder and restrictions were being placed on them travelling into the country, she said. “I rebooked on March 12 (a round-trip) to beat the deadline for which we could enter the country. The return trip was cancelled. After another flight on April 16 too did not materialize, I’ve simply given up trying,” she said. Till now she has lost around Rs 3.37 lakh. She has not been receiving her salary because her company does not permit her to work from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nris-suffer-losses-as-flights-get-cancelled/articleshow/75384273.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Verbal directions confusing states, Gehlot tells Centre||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused the Centre of creating confusion among states as it was not issuing specific written orders and was only giving verbal directions. “The Union home secretary gave verbal orders to Rajasthan for shifting students from Uttar Pradesh (UP) stuck in Kota and we made all arrangements. But the UP government refused providing transportation to the students pending a central nod. Such confusion could be avoided if the Centre issues specific written orders,” he said. Gehlot said, “A planned strategy with unified command structure of communication to the states can be more fruitful instead of unofficially communicating to different states by different officers of ministry of home affairs and cabinet secretariat to facilitate movement of students and migrant workers. This is not a comprehensive solution for the migrant problem we are facing.” He said only meticulously planned strategy with proper mode of commuting such as special trains to be run by the Centre will solve the problem.The chief minister later in a series of tweets said, “In fight against Covid-19, the whole nation stands united. The Centre should show the same unity when it comes to issuing guidelines for the states irrespective of the party lineage.”He added, “Since Day-1, I have been saying a strategy must be devised for a smooth movement of migrant workers stranded across the country, but unfortunately there is no clarity on the same.” He also asked for more freedom to the states in lifting the lockdown. Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot called for a ‘national policy’ on the movement of migrant labourers. Talking to TOI, he said migrant labourers are stuck at various places. “Similar to the steps taken to send Kota students to their homes, the Centre should announce a policy for migrant labouers as well,” he added. Pilot said these migrant labourers were devoid of any income. He suggested that the labourers should be allowed to go home after screening and testing at their present place and also at their home state to ensure that the virus did not spread to villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/verbal-directions-confusing-states-gehlot-tells-centre/articleshow/75384280.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Chemists, doctors asked to provide info on SARI cases||DHARWAD: The Dharwad district administration has asked all druggists, chemists and KPME-registered private medical practitioners to compulsorily provide information in a prescribed format to the government on the people visiting them with complaints of cough, cold and respiratory problems. They have been advised to use a recently developed app. Each private hospital and medical shop will be given a login ID and they have to provide the patient’s names, address, contact number and name of consulting doctor/telemedicine. The information will be consolidated by the drug control officials and help to control the spread of Covid-19 to a great extent, said deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan on Saturday. She added that an increasing number of people will be subjected to Covid-19 test in the coming days and it is important to have primary information on people with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection, influenza-like illness and related problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/chemists-doctors-asked-to-provide-info-on-sari-cases/articleshow/75384289.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Scientists begin sequencing of Covid viral genomes||Nagpur: To win the fight against the global pandemic of Covid-19, it is vital to have adequate information about the virus. To do so, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has launched a ‘SEQ-Mission’ which aims to sequence over 500 Covid viral genomes. Covid-19 is caused by coronavirus which has RNA (ribonucleic acid) as its genetic material and not DNA. According to scientists, the virus is pathogenic as it has some commands in its RNA that lets it attach to the humans. By using the technique of sequencing, it becomes possible to read the commands on a genome which is the complete set of genes of a living entity. Atya Kapley, senior principal scientist at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) which is a constituent laboratory of CSIR, compiled the process of the SEQ-Mission. The compilation states that the genome sequencing will provide the blueprint of the virus and help design better systems for clinical care. “The SEQ-Mission will focus on sequencing the viral genome from samples taken from all parts of the country. The larger the number of samples, the easier will it be to understand the pathogenesis,” it stated. Kapley informed that 28 Covid virus genomes from the country have already been sequenced. “CSIR plans to do 500 in 4 weeks. These are viral samples from different positive patients. So if we do pan India we can see more clearly as to what kind of strains are infecting us,” she added. The scientist further said that the sequencing will be done in-house at CSIR-IGIB (Delhi) and CSIR-CCMB (Hyderabad). Both the institutes claim to have the necessary sequencing facilities. Highlighting the need to study more samples to combat the disease, the compilation stated, “Just like the human genome project where it was necessary to sequence all races and communities to understand the overlap in our DNA as well as the unique features of each race, the same is needed in the case of Covid. It will help scientists understand why some are more susceptible to different diseases, why some are protected etc. Similarly, we need to sequence the virus across different regions of the world to understand variants, or we will not be able to design foolproof drugs and understand how the virus is binding to human receptors.” Stating that mutations have been found to be common in the SARS-CoV-2 genome (the coronavirus that caused Covid-19), the compilation added that the expression of its protein is linked with host-pathogenic interactions. Mutations are changes from the original sequence. “These clinical findings are important for understanding multiple outbreaks that occurred in different populations. There are three major known lineages (Lineages A-B-C) for beta-corona virus and SARS-CoV-2 belongs to lineage-B. These findings were possible from multiple sequencing and are still under investigation for respiratory infection, gastrointestinal and CNS infection in many patients. Thus, it is advisable to include multiple sequences and samples as India holds second rank in the world population,” it stated. Highlighting the major advantages of sequencing the viral genome, Kapley said, “The most critical outcome of the sequencing exercise is that it will reveal the genetic codes for viral pathogenesis and its life cycle, its variants and its drugs binding patterns. All these are essential questions that need answers if we are to fight this pandemic and win.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scientists-begin-sequencing-of-covid-viral-genomes/articleshow/75383923.cms||Manka Behl
April 26, 2020||Dehradun||Air quality much better across U’khand: Pollution control board||Dehradun: Minimal human activities in the past one month due to the ongoing lockdown has cleaned up air across the state, data compiled by Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) shows. The data which collates air quality index (AQI) levels across six centres – Dehradun, Rishikesh, Haridwar, Kashipur, Haldwani, and Rudrapur – shows that the AQI level in each centre is currently between 50 and 100. An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, between 51-100 is satisfactory, between 101-200 is moderate, between 201-300 is poor, between 301-400 is very poor, between 401-500 is severely poor, and above 500 is considered severe plus or emergency category. In particular, the air quality has improved significantly in the Garhwal region, especially in Dehradun in the past one month. In April last year, AQI of Dehradun was 202 but the AQI in the capital city in the corresponding month this year is just 72. Dehradun’s AQI was 196 in March before the lockdown. The NO2 and SO2 levels here have also gone down by 73% and 72% and PM 10 has reduced by 58% to 76 milli gram per cubic metre. “This is for the first time that we have recorded so low AQI levels across all centres of Uttarakhand. Absence of vehicles, shut down of industries, and lack of influx of tourists are factors that have played a strong role in improving air quality levels. Being the best recorded air quality index, these figures have certainly become a baseline data for us,” said SP Subudhi, member secretary of UEPPCB. “Out of all the six cities, the air quality has shown maximum improvement in Dehradun (by 124 notches), followed by Rishikesh (by 80 notches), and Haridwar (by 61 notches),” added SS Pal, chief environment officer of UEPPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/air-quality-much-better-across-ukhand-pollution-control-board/articleshow/75383152.cms||Shivani Azad
April 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Merces end of Atal Setu shut for repair work||PANAJI: The state government on Saturday shut the approach road to Atal Setu from Merces end towards Porvorim for a period of four weeks to undertake its rehabilitation work. TOI in February had highlighted the sinking of the bridge’s southern side approach road leading towards Porvorim. Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) has asked Larsen & Toubro, whic constructed the cable-stayed bridge, to undertake the major rectification of the approach ramps as the defects cropped up during the liability period. The ramps on either side had begun to show signs of asymmetry, causing vehicles to experience jerks while approaching the bridge. It must be noted that the bridge was inaugurated on January 27, 2019, by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar. Since the defects cropped up during the liability period, L&T will have to bear the cost for the rectification and repairs, a government officer said. The Merces-Porvorim ramp on the southern end of the bridge tends to get waterlogged during the monsoon due to heavy rainfall and also it being a part of the reclaimed land. A GSIDC officer said the other end of the bridge from Porvorim towards Merces will continue to remain operational for the public. In a letter to the North Goa collector, the corporation stated that L&T has been asked to do the rehabilitation civil work of the approach ramp located between Merces circle and KTC circles. It would impact the traffic proceeding from Margao towards Mapusa. The rehabilitation civil work has to be taken up urgently as the situation is deteriorating at the approach joint and may cause accidents, it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/merces-end-ofatal-setu-shut-for-repair-work/articleshow/75384279.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||DK administration to launch campaign on dead body management protocol||Mangaluru: Following the eight-hours long ordeal over the cremation of 75-year-old Covid-19 victim as the body was shunted from one crematorium to the other, district administration has decided to launch awareness drives on a war footing. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said, “We have started lots of awareness programmes to kill misinformation. There are very clear protocols set in for dead body management which we have issued to the public to allay their fears and concerns. Few of the widely respected members of the medical fraternity are also joining hands to create awareness.” “The manner in which the administration has taken measures to popularise concepts such social distancing, campaigns on creating awareness on dead body management protocol must also be taken up. It is shameful to protest and prevent the cremation of any human being which is equal to denying dignity in death — a constitutional provision,” said senior lawyer Asha Nayak. “The administration should also consider booking people for protesting and opposing cremation under Section 297 of the Indian Penal Code that deals with trespassing on burial places/ crematorium,” the lawyer added. Yathish Baikampady, chairman, disaster management committee, Indian Redcross Society, Dakshina Kannada said, “The district administration should invoke the necessary provisions of the Disaster Management Act or any other legal provision at its disposal and take necessary action against anyone denying the last rites to victims of epidemic diseases. This would work as an effective deterrent to the offenders. This will also effuse confidence to the healthcare workers who are rendering yeoman services to the society and nation and to the families of the deceased victims of Covid-19.” Public offer assistance *BM Bhat Patrame and Shyamraj Patrame from Patrame village, about 8km from Dharmasthala, have offered land in their 15-acre property to conduct last rites of Covid-19 victims. “When the district administration, doctors and police are working hard and risking their lives to control the spread of Covid-19, it is shameful that people are protesting and denying dignity in death to the victims,” said Shyamraj Patrame, panchayat member and agriculturist. *A group of 20 youths from different walks of life have come forward to assist the authorities in conducting the last rites of Covid-19 victims in the district. Led by Riyaz Kannur, of A1 cabs, they have decided to provide any kind of assistance, including providing land to conduct the last rites. “We have identified places in Kannur area for conduct of the last rites,” Riyaz told TOI. * Hindu Rudrabhoomi Renovation and Development Committee, Katipalla-Ganeshpura convenor Mohan Ganeshpura has written to the deputy commissioner offering land for the last rites of Covid-19 victims at a crematorium located about 20km from Mangaluru City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-administration-to-launch-campaign-on-dead-body-management-protocol/articleshow/75382242.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Woman quarantined in school gang-raped by 3 men in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A 40-year-old woman was gangraped allegedly by three youths in Sawai Madhopur’s Batoda police station area on Thursday night following which she registered a case on Friday morning and cops arrested the three accused. The woman, in her statement, said she has been stuck for a month in Sawai Madhopur due to the lockdown. She decided to walk down to her residence in Jaipur. Seetaram Meena, SHO, Batoda police station, said, “The woman lived in a rented accommodation in Jaipur and was trying to reach there. However, she somehow lost her way and found herself in a village in our police station area.” According to officials, they asked the local administration to ensure that the woman is provided boarding and lodging for the night following which she was housed in a government school. “The woman was kept in a government school alone by the villagers despite the fact that the local officials asked them not to as the school was vacant. However, the villagers were worried that she might be carrying the coronavirus because of which they wanted to keep her isolated. Sometime during the night, the three accused, who are locals, raped her,” said an official on condition of anonymity. The rape survivor’s medical was done and the three accused remanded in judicial custody. “The accused were arrested the same day when she registered the complaint and they all are in their mid to late 20s. They probably found that the woman had been provided shelter at the school and they decided to sexually assault her. Her statement has been recorded and investigation is under way,” said a police official. The woman has been kept in a quarantine centre and her samples have been taken to test for coronavirus though the report is awaited. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Shocking: Woman gangraped in quarantine facility in Sawai Madhopur, 3 held||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-quarantined-in-school-gangraped-3-held/articleshow/75384270.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||Mosques shut, no iftar, no night bazar: Ramzan starts off amid restrictions||KOLKATA: Muslims across Kolkata began Ramzan on Saturday under lockdown and tight restrictions due to the novel coronavirus outbreak, which has altered life altogether, including the way devotees across all faiths pray. Considered the holiest month for Muslims across the world, Ramzan is the time when they fast during the day. Sunset starts off a series of cultural and traditional activities, with families and friends meeting over iftar to break their fast and heading to the mosques for taraweeh, the exclusive evening prayer that continues well into the night. The bazaars come to life as people from across the city and beyond converge on the eateries set up on pavements to dig into halim and other delicacies that are available only this time around. Suhoor, or sehri, a pre-dawn meal ushers in a new day of fasting with early-morning prayers. But this Ramzan, mosques have been shut, special evening prayers cancelled and no iftar congregation has been held at the local mosques for the poor and for those travelling. Namaz and taraweeh are being held in mosques without public attendance. “I have never seen anything like this in my whole life,” said Qari Fazlur Rahman, the imam who is almost 80 years old. “Even in historical texts and religious scriptures, we do not find any reference to a time, when the devout had to change the way of worship. But the enemy that we are facing is merciless and we must fight it strategically by staying indoors,” said Rahman, who leads the Eid prayers on Red Road. Zakaria Street in central Kolkata that transforms into a food street wore a deserted look on Saturday evening. The ubiquitous bakeries, degs of halim and fish being fried in woks were missing. Access points to Zakaria Street have been sealed by cops. Charity is a one of the pillars of Ramzan when people donate to individuals as well as outfits to arrange for food for the poor. But mosques, where thousands usually gather for iftar, have closed their doors. “No gathering is allowed to minimise the risk of infection. People have been advised to break their fast at home,” said Hamza Ahmed, a businessman. People are also worried about the severe economic impact the restrictions are going to have. “People buy food, new clothes and do a lot of charity. But this year, there will be no Ramzan market and no shops will be set up for Ramzan and Eid. This is going to have a severe economic impact when businesses have already been shut for weeks. Many people use the donations they receive at this time of the year to marry off their children or spend it on their education,” said Mohammad Manzar Khan, an assistant professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mosques-shut-no-iftar-no-night-bazar-ramzan-starts-off-amid-restrictions/articleshow/75384297.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 26, 2020||Mysuru||Congress seeks aid for poor during lockdown||MYSURU: A delegation of Karnataka PCC led by former minister N Cheluvarayaswamy met deputy commissioner Abhiam G Sankar and submitted a 12-point memorandum urging the state government to look into the plight of all sections of the society during the lockdown. The delegation comprised former MPs and MLAs and sitting MLCs and MLAs. Mysuru city District Congress Committee (DCC) president R Murthy said the committee urged the state government to help people who have lost livelihood due to Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cong-seeks-aid-for-poor-during-lockdown/articleshow/75383174.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Irrfan Khan’s mother dies||Saeeda Begam, mother of actor Irrfan Khan, died at her Ramgarh Road-situated residence here on Saturday. She was 86 and was unwell since last few days. After the prayers, she was buried near Chungi Naka area. Her family members took part in the burial. She had been continuously briefed by the family members about the health of Khan, who is battling with cancer for the past 18 months. “We are not in a position to say anything. Her condition deteriorated on Saturday morning and she left us,” said Salman, Irrfan’s younger brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/irrfan-khans-mother-dies/articleshow/75384283.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Videos critical of facilities emerge in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: On the day when assistant municipal commissioner Deven Bhatt who was admitted to the Samras Hostel Covid-19 care centre was discharged, a couple of videos have surfaced showing women patient complaining that they are not getting food on time. A couple of videos have gone viral, in which women patients say they were given only tea at 1pm and lunch was served to some at 4pm while others were still waiting. The women said they should be isolated at home if the AMC cannot take care of them. Another set of videos have been circulated featuring a youth who was admitted to SVP hospital. The videos show purported mismanagement and unhygienic conditions, alleging that the beds were not sanitized even after patients were shifted, in a ward in which the majority of patients were women. Bhatt tested negative twice in the last 24 hours and was discharged on Saturday. He was in-charge of the Ghatlodia and Chandlodia wards and had tested positive on April 16. He said he may have caught the virus from field staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/videos-critical-of-facilities-emerge/articleshow/75384285.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Rajkot||Toddler punches ‘corona’, as doctor mom battles its spread in Rajkot||RAJKOT: He has heard elders saying that his doctor mother is fighting coronavirus. And, the word ‘fight’ translates as “dhishum-dhishum” for this two-and-a-haf-year boy. So, in their video conversation which has become a daily routine for the mother and son, no sooner she utters, “Corona”, the toddler throws punches in the air to kill the hidden ‘enemy’. Between such jovial engagements, it’s been close to a month that Dr Neha Ambalia, a coronavirus warrior who has been serving at Babra health centre in Amreli district for the past 25 days hasn’t met her son. “My duty comes first before my family,” says the medical practitioner, who adds that she has sensitized her son Neev to the evils of the dreaded virus. “I have put the fear in him so much that he now knows ‘corona’ is an enemy that needs to be punched at the very utterance of the word! He understands the gravity of this pandemic and also knows that his mother has to stay away from him to perform her duty as a doctor,” says Dr Ambalia. “We all are very proud of Neha for all that she is doing in the fight against Covid-19. In her absence, the entire family members are taking care of Neev,” says Tejas Ambalia, Dr Ambalia’s husband, an engineer working in Rajkot. As the distance between Babra and Rajkot is 80 km, Dr Ambalia is unable to travel to Rajkot daily. “Dr Neha is a coronavirus warrior in a true sense. We salute her for her untiring services,” said one of her colleagues at the Babra health centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/toddler-punches-corona-as-doctor-mom-battles-its-spread/articleshow/75383193.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Debts drive 22-year-old man to kill self in Secunderabad||SECUNDERABAD: A 22-year-old youth, nephew of a home guard, allegedly committed suicide by hanging due to financial problems at his uncle’s residence at Chilkalguda in Secunderabad on Friday. The victim was identified as Deshaboina Narayana, who worked as a receptionist at a hotel in Gachibowli. On Friday, the victim went out of contact after his uncle left for work around 2pm. Later, he was found hanging at the house. According to police, Narayana was suffering from financial problems after his father broke his leg. He took loans. Police and family suspect that he took the extreme step due to debts. Police found no suicide note and registered a case under Sec-174 (suspicious death) of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/debts-drive-22-year-old-man-to-kill-self/articleshow/75384288.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana urged to seek review of SC order on tribal teacher quota||HYDERABAD: The Human Rights Forum (HRF) on Saturday called upon the States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to seek a review of the recent Supreme Court judgment that quashed an April 2000 government order giving 100 percent reservation to local tribals in teachers recruitment in agency areas. Explaining the background behind this government order, GO MS No 3, HRF's AP and Telangana coordination committee members VS Krishna and S Jeevan Kumar said that prior to 2000 the state was vexed with excessive absenteeism that was rampant among teachers appointed in remote tribal tracts. It's not students. It was teachers that were bunking classes in remote forest and tribal areas leaving thousands of tribal kids uneducated. A worried state government used its extraordinary powers and got a notification issued by the governor under the fifth schedule of the Constitution in 2000. As per this notification, all the teacher posts in agency areas will be filled with local tribals. Those who were affected adversely by this order started a legal battle against this decision. Human Rights champion K Balagopal argued the case in favour of 100 percent quota to tribals in agency areas and single-handedly got them upheld by the high court in 2001. He is not there today. He died in Oct 2009. But the case is alive. The matter reached the Supreme Court where a five-judge constitutional bench nullified these reservations a few days ago calling them unconstitutional. Stating that an executive decision under schedule 5 to remedy a malady need not be brought under quota percentage conundrum, the HRF leaders urged the twin states to swing into action to protect the rights and education of Adivasis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-urged-to-seek-review-of-sc-order-on-tribal-teacher-quota/articleshow/75383931.cms||---
April 26, 2020||India||Sanjay Kothari, ex-Prez secy, is new CVC||NEW DELHI: Retired IAS officer Sanjay Kothari, who was formerly secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind, took oath as the chief vigilance commissioner on Saturday. Kothari was administered oath by President Kovind at a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. A retired officer of the 1978 batch, Kothari’s oath of office was attended by PM Modi and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, among other. Kothari was shortlisted as CVC by a high-powered panel headed by PM Modi in February this year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sanjay-kothari-ex-prez-secy-is-new-cvc/articleshow/75384854.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Goa||Benaulim local gets 7 days police custody||Colva: Melbourn Fernandes, prime accused in the murder of his girlfriend Jennifer Gonsalves, was remanded in seven days police custody by a local court. Police said the victim was the only child of her parents. The accused and victim would often squabble over marriage plans, police said. At around 2am, at Monte, Benaulim, Fernandes strangulated the girl following a heated argument. The post mortem report stated that ligature material was used to strangulate and smother the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/benaulim-local-gets-7-days-police-custody/articleshow/75384292.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||In new normal, taraweeh prayers from home on mobile app & YouTube||Nagpur: Probably, for the first time, Muslim community members have switched to mobile applications and YouTube playing the role of imams at their home to offer taraweeh (night prayers during ramzan). Closed Masjids and social distancing measures forced many to lead taraweeh at their homes with family on the first ramzan night. Some recited the verses from the book itself or mobile application, others used a widely circulated YouTube link to listen to the recital. Generally, the hafiz or imams recite the entire Quran consisting of 114 chapters in phases during the ramzan nights. Though not mandatory like five-namaz a day, taraweeh draws large crowds. Community members said that even if the lockdown is withdrawn from May 3, Muslims must continue to pray at home to avoid spread of Covid19 virus for the remaining ramzan days. “I led the Isha prayer and eight rakats of taraweeh while my son-in-law who resides on the next floor in the same building led the remaining 12 rakats (part of prayers). Both of us read from a mobile app of Quran. My wife and daughter, too, were present, maintaining social distancing as per government norms. The essence of taraweeh is to understand the message of Quran, the revelation of which started in this sacred month,” said businessman Majid Parekh. Asked if Islam permitted such practice, Parekh said, “Can anyone show acknowledgement of his/her namaz from heavens? Verse 22/37 of Quran tells us that it is only your god-consciousness which reaches God.” Jaffar Nagar resident Mobin Rahaman said Quran prescribes making home a place of worship. “We are offering all five times prayers and taraweeh with family. I am reciting directly from the book. Even while praying behind an imam, I used to keep a copy of Quran,” he said. Salahuddin Shaikh, an Arabic language trainer, said, “I keep booklets (paras) and have been praying at home for years. This was another good reason for praying with family.” Hamid Qureshi, secretary of Jamiat Islahul Muslameen, said, “I recited the Quran on the mobile app during Taraweeh.” Qureshi said Muslims must ensure no one is infected anymore and therefore even if the lockdown is withdrawn after May 3, mass congregation must be avoided. He said the administration has given permission for azaan as it is an indicator of namaz timings for residents. “No one should be under the impression that Muslims are congregating to pray. People are strictly observing offering namaaz at home only,” he said. AR Parekh, an alternative medicine practitioner, said the popularity of his YouTube channel ‘Roz Quran’ spiked on Friday night. Parekh has uploaded recordings of previous tarweeh held by Maulana Mahmud. Javed Alam Khan (58), who runs coaching classes, said right from the first day of the lockdown, they are praying at home. “Now in ramzan too, we are practicing the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-new-normal-taraweeh-prayers-from-home-on-mobile-app-youtube/articleshow/75383939.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||After spotting hoppers, locust containment begins||Jaipur: Farmers in Sriganganagar and Jaisalmer districts are jittery again after spotting new bands of hoppers (baby locusts which can move at shorter distances but can’t fly). The Locust Control Organisation (LCO) on Saturday said that the local circle offices and agriculture department teams have started the containment activities. “The locusts are in baby form which will convert to pink locusts and further into yellow locusts. It is better to contain them now. Some movement is witnessed at Hindumalkot (Sriganganagar) and also near the zero line connecting India and Pakistan,” said L K Gujjar, deputy director, LCO, Jodhpur. This is an indication that egg-laying has been done recently by yellow locusts. “Our teams are working at Sriganganagar and Jaisalmer where these hoppers were spotted,” he added. Since the crops have already been harvested, the containment process becomes easier. Rajasthan witnessed locus invasion in July 2019 which damaged crops across an area of 3.6 lakh hectares in 10 districts including western Rajasthan. The attack continued till February 2020. They ate up 75% of standing crops in the hardest-hit Sriganganagar district. The other nine affected districts were Hanumangarh, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Jalore, Sirohi, Nagaur and Churu.Amreek Singh, a farmer at Hindumalkot, who recently harvested the wheat crop, said, “I think this is the time when they should fully contain these hoppers. Because if these will grow further, they will damage the crops from July onwards like it happened last year.” Farmers seem to have learnt their lesson who immediately alerted the local locust office, revenue office and agriculture department after spotting the locust bands. “We have asked the authorities to take any call relating to spotting of hoppers seriously and follow it up properly,” Gujjar added.Meanwhile, agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria had on Friday asked the Centre to provide immediate financial assistance of Rs 84 crore in the wake of another locust attack in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-spotting-hoppers-locust-containment-begins/articleshow/75384298.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Erode||Tiger carcass found in Sathyamangalam reserve forest||Erode: Forest officials found the carcass of a 12-year-old dead tiger in Vilsonai forest area at Thalavadi forest range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) on Saturday.The forest officials said, the tiger died due to its age. “However, we have collected its vital organs for chemical test to ascertain the exact cause of its death,” S Sivakumar, ranger of Thalavadi forest range said. On Saturday, the ranger got the tip-off about the dead tiger based on which he rushed to the spot. The forest officials initially believed that the tiger may have been poached for its teeth and nails. However, the veterinarians were able to retrieve its teeth and nails. According to the forest officials, the male tiger had no food intake in the last few days. “There was no food found in its intestines,” the officer said.“We conducted autopsy on Saturday evening and buried the carcass in the reserve forest,” the ranger concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tiger-carcass-found-in-sathyamangalam-reserve-forest/articleshow/75384290.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||New UVC trolley to help push pandemic fight ahead||HYDERABAD: A UVC-based disinfection trolley to fight Covid-19 pandemic has been developed by the International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials is association with University of Hyderabad (UoH) and Mekins Industries Ltd. (MIL). The trolley can be used for rapid cleaning of the hospital environment and railway coaches. UV light in the range of wavelengths between 200 nm and 300 nm is capable of inactivating microorganisms such as bacteria and viruses. The UVC disinfection trolley consists of 6 UVC germicidal tubes, which are arranged to illuminate three sides with two tubes facing each direction. Floor disinfection is done by two smaller UV lights located at the bottom. The hospital rooms get disinfected when the trolley is moved around by an operator in a protective suit and UV resistant goggles. “Dry disinfection and sterilization of hospital rooms, instruments and other surfaces in the high-risk areas using a deep ultraviolet light is a good solution, which is implemented by the designer trolley in a compelling package that brings in ease, speed and efficiency,” said Ashutosh Sharma, secretary of DST. The trolley has been deployed at Employee’s State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital in Hyderabad for field trials. On average, the UVC trolley system with an average speed of 5ft/min can cover a room of 400 sqft within 30 minutes for complete (>99%) disinfection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-uvc-trolley-to-help-push-pandemic-fight-ahead/articleshow/75384301.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Infected woman’s daughter is 18th Covid-19 case from DK||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district recorded its 18th Covid-19 case on Saturday. This development comes two days after a 75-year-old woman, designated P-432, the mother-in-law of a patient designated P-390, who passed away on Sunday, was declared positive on Thursday, and passed away on the same day. The latest case has been designated P-489, in the bulletin released by the state government at noon on Saturday. She is a contact of a patient designated P-409, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. With this, the district has four active cases, after 12 patients were discharged, after responding to treatment. Two patients have so far died due to Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada. Two of the active cases are a married couple from Uppinangadi, who are undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital, the designated covid hospital in the district. P-432 in on ventilator support in the ICU, and her condition is being monitored regularly. P-489, aged 33, is the daughter of P-409. With the fresh case emerging from Bantwal, the district administration has further strengthened monitoring of containment measures already put in place in Kasba village, which has emerged as the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak in Bantwal town and taluk. Fire and emergency services personnel are sanitising the area under the directions of taluk and district health officials, and have pressed fire tenders into action. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, district urban development cell, and a core member of the district Covid-19 war room, said but for the pre-existing health conditions that the two patients who died of Covid-19 had, the others responded well to treatment. All containment measures regarding First Neuro, a private hospital where P-432 was being treated after suffering from a stroke, have been put in place, and the institution has been declared a supervised isolation centre, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/infected-womans-daughter-is-18th-covid-19-case-from-dk/articleshow/75382289.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Toymakers switch to making PPE kits||Hyderabad: With the state facing a shortage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, toymakers have now decided to manufacture them in Vishakapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ). Around 58 toymaker units, after obtaining fast-track clearances online, have completely switched over from manufacturing soft toys or plush toys to PPE kits in GMR Kakinada SEZ, which is a part of VSEZ. “So far, these units were exporting plush toys to the US. To meet the ever-increasing demand for PPE, the units are manufacturing PPE,” said Ajay Sinha, president, Pals Plush, a toys manufacturer firm. One of the leading toys manufacturer units in Kakinada of Andhra Pradesh said that PPE are being supplied to central drug stores across AP from their manufacturing facility. The Ministry of Commerce also scrapped basic customs duty, bringing down the cost of each PPE kit by more than Rs 45 per kit, thus saving as much as Rs 90 lakh against the present order of 2 lakh PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/toymakers-switch-to-making-ppe-kits/articleshow/75383936.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Please stay indoors, says Nehra||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) commissioner Vijay Nehra on Saturday urged the citizens not to step out of their houses in large numbers like they did on Friday. “Such mistake can prove to be disastrous for the city which is working hard to curtail the number of Covid-19 cases. However, if we continue to break the lockdown at the same rate, the city will have 10,000 Covid-19 cases by May 15,” warned Nehra. “We want to achieve the case doubling rate of 12 days so that the number can be curtailed to 7,000. However, achieving the case doubling rate of 12 days will depend on the habits of people and how much they stay indoors and follow the rules like washing hands and wearing masks.” he said. The commissioner said the AMC would now focus on details of active cases only as it needed to access the beds and other facilities in its hospitals and other places where it could house the patients. Of the 1,594 active cases till April 24, about 1,562 patients were stable and 33 were on ventilator. About the treatment, Nehra said that of the active cases, 477 cases were at SVP Hospital, 4,832 at Samaras hostel, 584 at Civil Hospital, 11 at HCG, 13 at Sterling Hospital, 15 at Covid Care Centre at a hotel on SG Highway and 13 at Haj House. About the testing, the commissioner said that so far in the city, 2,974 tests were conducted through passive surveillance, while 16,496 tests were performed through active surveillance. According to the AMC, the result of 831 cases are still being awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/please-stay-indoors-says-nehra/articleshow/75384296.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||All but 6 families against reservoir construction: AG||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Friday informed the high court that 148 families out of the 154 families in Kochaguttapalli village in Chinakondur mandal of Siddipet district have shifted to the rehabilitation colony built by the state in order to pave way for the construction of Ananthagiri reservoir that is part of the mega Kaleshwaram irrigation project. Advocate General BS Prasad informed this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy that was hearing complaints from some villagers that they were forcibly made to leave their homes at night. Referring to an affidavit filed by the land acquisition officer, the AG said only six families raised objections over compensation and rehabilitation. “We built 2BHK houses for the displaced at Lingareddypalli near Siddipet . We got them vacated at evening as water release would submerge the village,” he said. The AG said he was ready to hand over the rehab package cheques to the petitioners or their counsel. The bench sought a counter from the petitioners and posted the case to April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-but-6-families-against-reservoir-construction-ag/articleshow/75383947.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: PCB gives consent for drug units||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) on Saturday said that consent for operation needed for setting up life-saving drug industries has been given on a war footing as part of a comprehensive system to handle the Covid-19 outbreak. The CFO applications of bulk drug and formulation companies that produce life-saving drugs such as hydroxychloroquine or its intermediates were processed expeditiously. Ministry of Environment and Forests recently issued orders that projects or activities in respect of bulk drugs of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) or bulk drug intermediates shall be considered out of turn and clearances shall be issued expeditiously. “Drug industries may submit their proposals to the Board on email IDs, cee-tspcb@telangana.gov.in or tspcbseeunit2@gmail.com for permissions,” said PCB in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pcb-gives-consent-for-drug-units/articleshow/75384305.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Goa||Have asked Centre to fix SOP to bring back Indians from abroad: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah requesting them to finalise the standard operating procedure (SOP) to bring back Indians studying and working aboard. Sawant said that Goan students, who are stuck in other states and want to return, should apply online to the collector of the area they are presently in and to the collector of the home district in Goa. The collectors will grant permission on case-to-case basis. He said that students entering the state will be tested and, based on the results, it will be decided if they require institutional quarantine or not. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/have-asked-centre-to-fix-sop-to-bring-back-indians-from-abroad-sawant/articleshow/75384307.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Mild rain, gusty winds guide mercury down||Jaipur: Many places in the state witnessed mild showers, gusty winds and thunderstorms for the third consecutive day on Saturday. Jaipur Met office in its forecast said similar conditions will prevail for the next couple of days. Due to rainfall, some places witnessed dip in its temperatures. Barmer remained hottest in the state clocking 40.3°C. Attributing the weather conditions to active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, weathermen said similar conditions would prevail for the next couple of days. Some places in Churu, Bikaner, Sriganganagar and Sikar also witnessed hailstorms. People in Jaipur woke up to a pleasant morning with the minimum temperature clocking 24.1°C. It was followed by a sultry afternoon with the mercury touching a maximum of 36.4°C. In the evening, heavy dust storm was witnessed in the city while the outskirts of Jaipur including Bassi, Bagru, Chaksu, Shahpura and Dudu witnessed mild showers that guided the mercury to take a dip. In this month so far, Jaipur has touched 40°C on a few occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mild-rain-gusty-winds-guide-mercury-down/articleshow/75384302.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Top cop honours 2 lady constables for helping woman deliver baby||Coimbatore: Police commissioner Sumit Sharan on Saturday honoured two women constables for going beyond the call of duty and helping a woman deliver her baby on Thursday.Krishnaveni and Devi Rosy, constables at the Singanallur Police Station, were dispatched to the Singanallur Junction when they got a distress call from two NGO workers about a 28-year-old woman in labour. They soon realized that the ambulance would not reach in time to take her to hospital and began helping her. They placed barricades around the place the woman was lying and helped her deliver a baby boy. The woman and the baby are now recovering at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. The woman, Revathi, and her husband, Govindhan, a construction worker from Krishnagiri, were residing in Ondipudur. When his wife went into labour, Govindhan tried to take her to the government hospital on his two-wheeler. However, when he reached the junction, he had to stop his vehicle, because her condition had become serious. She lay down near the road and could not move.Govindhan rushed towards two NGO workers who were painting walls to create awareness on Covid-19 and requested their help.The NGO workers, from Aathma Arakkattalai and Ruthambara Arakattalai, immediately alerted police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/top-cop-honours-2-lady-constables-for-helping-woman-deliver-baby/articleshow/75384309.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Jaipur||Neighbourhood shops can open as Rajasthan adheres to MHA order||JAIPUR: In a fresh order issued by the state’s home department on Saturday, in accordance with amendments made by the Union ministry of home affairs, while registered standalone shops and those in residential complexes and neighbourhood areas are allowed to open, hair salons, barber shops, restaurants, eateries and parlours would remain shut. The sale of liquor and cigarettes remains prohibited. Among the additional permitted activities include shops of electric fans, outlets for recharge of prepaid mobile connection and shops of educational books for students and attendants for senior citizens. However, opening of shops will not be allowed in containment areas of hotspots and clusters. In the fresh order, the term ‘shopping complex’ is replaced with ‘market complex’, i.e. ‘bazaars’. The sale by e-commerce companies will also continue to be permitted for essential goods only. The kinds of shops that will remain open within municipal limits include all registered shops that are in the nature: (i) neighbourhood shops (i.e. in and near residential areas), (ii) standalone shops (i.e. individual shops), which are not a part of any market complex (bazaar/shopping complex building), (iii) shops in residential complexes, with 50% strength of workers and subject to precautionary measures, i.e. wearing masks and social distancing etc. Shopkeepers must wear masks, malls will remain shut in stateThis does not include shops in market complexes (bazaars), multi-brand and single brand malls. Those outside municipal limits include all registered shops including those in market complex, with 50% strength of workers and subject to the precautionary measures, i.e. wearing masks and social distancing etc. This does not include shops in multi-brand and single brand malls. The order states, “To prevent rush at bookshops, system of home delivery of books to parents/students be encouraged. District administration may coordinate with such shops and give permits/passes for them to engage vehicles for home delivery.” “Schools, colleges, other educational institutions and coaching centres shall coordinate in the process and communicate the phone numbers of such shops to the parents,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/neighbourhood-shops-can-openas-state-adheres-to-mha-order/articleshow/75384647.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: After duty, ASI and buddies serve food to those in need||AHMEDABAD: Priyanka Shrimali, 28, an assistant sub inspector of 2016 batch and posted in cyber police station since 2017 dons Khakhi throughout the day and after 8pm when the duty is over, she distributes food and food kits among the poor. She told TOI that they formed a group of four, named “buddies”, and started giving food soon after the lockdown. “Since Thursday, we have stopped distributing food and we have been currently distributing food kits among the needy, especially in Sabaramati area of the city. “I used to come to my office located in Shahibaug via Keshavnagar to pick up my friend who stays there. I saw many poor people under Keshavnagar Bridge who had nothing to eat. From that day, we four friends decided to feed the poor,” said Shrimali. She told TOI that they contributed from their pockets and asked a cook to prepare simple food items like khichdi, roti and vegetables etc. for 500 people. When asked how she could manage duty and serving of food, she said that her family supported her and with their support she and her friends managed everything. As everyone faces difficulties while doing something good, the “Buddies” also faced some difficulties when their cook stopped coming from Motera as a corona positive case was found there. The group then hired another cook. They used to give him money for patrol as he used to come on scooter to cook food for them. The earlier cook was not charging anything for cooking meal. Shrimali said when five more corona positive cases were detected in Sabarmati area, they stopped giving food to the poor from Thursday as they did not want that the person who goes to Sabarmati with the food comes back with a virus. Shrimali has a family of four — her father, Bhikabhai Shrimali, a retired government servant, her mother Pushpaben, who is a house wife, and brother Chirag. Her two elder sisters are married. Shrimali said that her younger brother Chirag also plays his role in the project. “He often gives us feedback where people need food and according to his feedback we go to that place and serve food to the needy,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-duty-asi-and-buddies-serve-food-to-those-in-need/articleshow/75384344.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
April 26, 2020||Mangaluru||MLA looks to chalk out plan to put Tulunadu economy back on track||MANGALURU: Amid growing worries over the spread of the Covid-19 infection, there is a palpable dread about the enduring effects that the nosedive that the economy has taken during the lockdown will have once things return to normalcy. Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath pointed to the strain of entrepreneurship running across the undivided Dakshina Kannada district, a trait that has always held the region in good stead ensuring a sense of economic self-sufficiency. Kamath, a cashew entrepreneur, has decided to constitute a team of professionals to help revive the local economy and to ensure a seamless transition to normalcy once the lockdown is lifted. “The core of this team is made of veteran chartered accountants, who boast a diverse clientele. Their financial acumen, sharpened by years of experience, will enable them to pinpoint where the economy has been hit, in addition to coming up with a rough timeline for the recovery of the businesses,” the legislator said. Kamath said that the plan he hoped to formulate was directed towards reviving the micro and small enterprises. The plan would be tailored to meet the needs of each sector, he added. “I have enlisted the expertise of various captains of the industry. These include AJ Shetty, N Vinaya Hegde, Yenepoya Abdulla Kunhi, and their collective insight will help put the region’s economy back on track.” Kamath said that the plan was also intended to help put skilled labourers such as plumbers, carpenters and electricians, professionals who have borne the brunt of the lockdown, back on their feet, in addition to ensuring that they recover their losses. “We need to ensure that they are sensitised about the need to adopt the highest standards of safety in the post Covid-19 world, which will play a vital role in their careers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mla-looks-to-chalk-out-plan-to-put-tulunadu-economy-back-on-track/articleshow/75383208.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 26, 2020||Bareilly||Social distancing goes for a toss in ‘overcrowded’ Pilibhit district jail||PILIBHIT: Authorities at the “overcrowded” Pilibhit district jail have a tough time maintaining social distancing norms on the premises with a whopping 820 inmates crammed into just 13 barracks. The jail with a capacity of accommodating a maximum of 602 prisoners in 13 barracks has, at present, 758 inmates lodged here in only 10 barracks, while three barracks have been converted into quarantine centres, said Pilibhit district jail superintendent Anoop Singh. “We have adopted a two-phase quarantine procedure that helps us keep prisoners safe from novel coronavirus infection. New prisoners coming to the jail need to quarantine themselves in two phases. In the first phase, they are quarantined in a unit for 14 days, and thereupon, they are shifted to another unit for seven days in the second phase,” said Singh. “As three barracks have been converted into quarantine centres for the new prisoners, the remaining 758 inmates — 62 are quarantining in three units — are crammed into 10 barracks. Thus, maintaining social distancing in such a scenario is not feasible. Officially, 10 units can accommodate only 472 inmates,” said the superintendent. Divulging details of the three quarantine units, Singh said, “The three centres have enough space for maintaining social distancing due to the limited number of new prisoners. At present, as many as eight new prisoners have been lodged in quarantine unit 1, which has a capacity of accommodating 25 inmates, while 18 new prisoners are quarantining in unit 2, which is comparatively bigger and can house 45 inmates. The third unit with a capacity of accommodating 60 inmates is being used for the second phase of the quarantine procedure. As many as 36 prisoners, who have completed their first phase in the first two units, are quarantined here for seven days.” The exercise is essential, said the superintendent, especially after asymptomatic form of novel coronavirus reported globally. “The barracks got overcrowded after three units were turned into quarantine centres. However, since March 29, we have released 83 undertrial prisoners and 15 convicts on interim bail for 56 days, following the Supreme Court order. It brought some relief,” said Singh. Talking about measures being taken by the jail administration in making the premise safe for inmates, the superintend said, “We sanitise the entire jail premises such as the floor, walls, doors, door handles, etc, twice a day as a precautionary measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-overcrowded-pilibhit-district-jail/articleshow/75383220.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Defence Security Corps fights hunger||HYDERABAD: The coronavirus-inflicted lockdown crisis turned the security personnel into hunger heroes. The Defence Security Corps (DSC) of the DRDO’s premier lab Research Centre Imarat (RCI) have received all-round praise for their noble gesture of providing food to the needy. Inspired by the turn of events, which left several poor and orphans without any food, the DSC incharge took the decision to distribute food packets to the people nearby. “Initially, we began with 200 food packets and now we are distributing 400 packets. We are preparing food in our central kitchen at the RCI premises,” sources told TOI on Saturday. DSC is carrying out food distribution within a radius of five to 10 km from RCI. The security personnel are covering Balaji Mandir, Shivaji Colony, Mallepally and other nearby areas. “We are also supplying food packets to the senior citizens at an old age home in Ravirala,” a defence official said, adding that the police are rendering selfless service during the lockdown crisis. RCI scientists are contributing contributing cash and providing essential commodities like rice, dal and other ingredients. DSC plans to continue food distribution until May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/defence-security-corps-fights-hunger/articleshow/75384350.cms||Sunil Mungara
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man files complaint against cops||HYDERABAD: A resident of Kothapet has lodged a complaint with Khammam police commissioner, accusing cops of stopping him at Sathupally despite him having a pass issued by Rachakonda police. B Sreenu, in his complaint, said he had gone to Rajahmundry in an ambulance to shift a pregnant woman with the pass issued by police. “We were stopped at Sathupally by the local police. Despite showing the pass, they used abusive language for no reason,’’ he complained. The cops allegedly made Sreenu delete a video which he shot while they were passing objectionable remarks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-files-complaint-against-cops/articleshow/75384317.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana welfare schools in an American book||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Welfare Residential Schools will now feature in an American academic book. RS Praveen Kumar, secretary, Telangana Residential Educational Institutions took to Twitter to announce the news. Telangana Welfare Residential Schools on global educational map. Springer Publishers are now releasing a book on ex… https://t.co/8sDxj7Z5oU— Dr. RS Praveen Kumar Swaero (@RSPraveenSwaero) 1587788704000 “Telangana Welfare Residential Schools on global educational map. Springer Publishers are now releasing a book on experiments in teacher empowerment in the world with one chapter on Telangana. All credit goes to our teachers, students and the larger community,” tweeted Kumar. The book wil be titled ‘Empowering Teachers to Build a Better World’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-welfare-schools-in-an-american-book/articleshow/75383960.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||City pvt schools get nod to distribute books||Ranchi: The district administration here on Friday allowed 14 private schools of the city to distribute books to their students, but made it a norm that only one parent or the students themselves should come to collect the books. The process is likely to start in a few days. The move comes after All Jharkhand Parents Association (AJPA) wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren and asked him to allow the distribution of books as students from families with more than one child and less number of smartphones and laptops are facing problems in studying online. The schools that were allowed are Bridgeford School, Bridge Ford GP Jalan Memorial Public School, Cambrian Public School (in Dhurwa and in Kanke), DAV Kapildev Public School, DAV Bariatu, DAV Hehal, Acharyakulam Namkum, DAV Nirja Sahay, SR DAV, Delhi Public School, Guru Gobind Singh Public School, DAV Mahatma Anand Swami School and Sachhidanand Gyan Bharati Model School. The principal of Delhi Public School, Ram Singh, said, “We are acting as a medium between the book vendors and the students and have provided only our space for distributing the books. Each class will have a fixed day and each section will have a fixed time to collect books in order to avoid overcrowding.” The district administration also asked the schools to use thermal guns and facilitate medical check-up of the staff and and submit a report to the administration. Employees above the age of 60 have also been prohibited. All schools will have to inform their circle officer before starting the distribution process. Welcoming the move, AJPA chairman Ajay Roy said, “We are happy that schools have realised the need of books and the district administration has also given its permission. Many students are turning towards explicit content on the internet while some do not have access to smartphones.” Meanwhile, distribution of books in government schools in Ranchi have been postponed. DSE Ranchi Kamla Singh said, “We had scheduled dates to distribute books to government schools’ students, but the distribution has been postponed. The new orders will be released from the director’s office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/city-pvt-schools-get-nod-to-distribute-books/articleshow/75383085.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Many from rural areas seek gold loan to tide over crisis||Nagpur: If the rich may be missing an opportunity to buy on Akshaya Tritiya, there is a segment which is too eager to sell or at least mortgage the yellow metal once the lockdown opens, say traders. The lockdown has left those in the rural areas short of cash and gold is being seen as the last resort, said jewellers-cum-money lenders operating in the hinterland. A section of them believed that as gold rates are on a high some may even hold on to the asset. At the same time, traders insisted that things would be clear only when the markets actually open. Vatsal Bangare, president (rural area) of Maharashtra Sarafa Swarankar Mahamandal, said the dynamics are entirely different in rural parts. Unlike in city where a large section has a fixed income, in villages gold is not a vanity item. Rather, it is purchased to tide over bad times. Bangare, who has a business in Saoner, said that there is a general sentiment that once the market opens farmers may rush to at sell or pledge their gold to get some cash in hand to carry on their expenses. “Apart from farming expenses, cash will also be needed for day-to-day expenses as well as to pay school fees for the forthcoming academic year,” said Bangare. According to Bangare, there are many inquiries for mortgage. However, there are apprehensions that a number of farmers may not be able to repay their loans and take back the gold mortgaged with lenders. This will only worsen their situation. Sanjeev Kumar Daga, who has a jewellery-cum-money lending business at Achalpur in Amravati district, said that the condition is desperate, especially in the tribal pockets of Melghat hills extending till over 90km from the town. “We have been getting numerous inquiries for mortgaging gold, from places as far as Dharni,” he said. He alleged that a number of illegal lenders have also cropped up due to the situation and are offering money at exorbitant rates. A similar situation was seen in some of the pockets in the city too. Ravi Harde, former president of Nagpur Sarafa Merchants Association, said that at least 10% of the inquiries are for selling gold due to the ongoing crisis. Girish Rathi, a jeweller in Wardha, said that he is expecting farmers to free their mortgaged gold when markets open. However, Rajesh Rokde president of Maharashtra Saraf Swarankar Mahamadal’s Vidarbha unit, said that there was a general perception on these lines due to selling in Thailand, but the Indian market has a different culture and here the people prefer to hold on to the gold belongings. ONLINE OFFERS * Gold rates were at Rs47,000 a tola (per 10 grams) without GST on Saturday. This is based on the last traded rate at the commodity exchanges on which a margin of Rs500 has been added. * With physical sale not possible this year, some of the outlets have come up with online offers with deliveries slated when the lockdown ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-from-rural-areas-seek-gold-loan-to-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/75383967.cms||Shishir Arya
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||City barbers worry virus scare may trim business||Ranchi: Salons across the city plan safety measures for the post-lockdown period, fearing that their customers may stay away due to contamination scare. However, while the big names have already come up with expensive ideas, the smaller ones fear loss of business. Ugesh Thakur, owner of Asian Men’s Salon in Bariatu, said, “If salons are allowed to open, we may get customers, but in very less numbers as they will be scared of contracting the coronavirus.” He added, “As a preventive measure, I am planning to offer masks and sanitizers, but anything beyond this will not be possible for me as I have already suffered huge losses.” At smaller salons, social distancing might be problematic, leading to loss of business, fear barbers. Manoj Kumar, a barber in Kusai Colony, said, “I have a small shop and maintaining social distancing is not possible. I fear that I will lose my customers.” Kumar, however, will wait to see the trend for a few days after the lockdown is lifted before shifting to some other business. Meanwhile, big salons are ready with expensive plans and are waiting for the lockdown to end. Udit Narayan, owner of Calvin and Hobbes, said, “The scare of the infection is bound to keep customers away from our shops and thus, we have planned to procure PPE kits for our staff and ensure sanitization of chairs and all other equipment after every use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/city-barbers-worry-virus-scare-may-trim-business/articleshow/75383179.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||Over 60 Rims staff exposed to virus||Ranchi: After three dozen staff of the Rims gynaecology department were exposed to coronavirus infection, when they helped deliver the child of a Covid-19 patient, without taking up any preventive measures, over 60 health workers of the same department on Saturday find themselves at risk of contracting the virus after they delivered the child of another coronavirus positive woman. In both the cases, the health workers had treated the patients without any precautionary measures as they had concealed their address — Hindpiri — the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in the city. The doctors, who treated the patients, said the gynaecology department functions for emergency services to keep the hospital running during the pandemic and the health workers work without personal protection kits (PPE). Suspected patients, including for delivery of pregnant women, are sent to the isolation ward by the Covid task force of the hospital. In the first case, the woman tested positive on Thursday. Saturday’s incident has sent panic waves among the staff of the department, who had been demanding personal protective kits, to treat each and every patient. In the incident, more than 60 health workers, including senior and junior resident doctors, MBBS interns, nursing staff and a trolley man, had attended to the woman, who tested positive on Friday night. The woman had undergone caesarean section on Monday night and was provided post-operation care by the hospital staff, thus exposing to the viral infection. The gynaecology department staff have alleged serious irregularities in the functioning of the Covid-19 task force and wrote a letter to Rims director Dr D K Singh regarding the irregularities along with demand for immediate sealing of the department for the next two weeks, its sanitization, sending all high risk staff in 14-day quarantine, collection of samples of all those who had come in contact with the patients for testing, provision of PPE to all health workers and formulate a plan as per the guidelines to separate Covid-19 patients. Talking to TOI, Rims director Singh said, “We have sent all those exposed to the quarantine centre for the next two weeks and operations at the gynaecology department have been suspended for now. We are also sanitizing the whole area and people who have had come in contact will be screened and their samples will be tested.” A senior resident doctor, who performed the surgery on the patient, said, “I along with my team members operated on the 25-year-old woman on Monday night after she was admitted to the gynaecology department with labour pain. I have also taken post-op follow-up on the patient for the next three days till she was discharged. The moment I was informed that the woman was tested positive on Friday night, I got scared, not only for myself, but also for my family as I was in regular contact with them.” A few senior doctors, including assistant and associate professors, rued that their students have to bear the brunt due to the mismanagement by Covid-19 task force. They said the task force has not been co-operative to all their requests. “I along with a few colleagues had met medical superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap a couple of weeks ago, demanding PPE for doctors and nursing staff, but not only our demands were rejected but the superintendent didn’t even hear our requests and asked us to do our duties. Why should we be risking our lives if the administration doesn’t want to help us?” said a junior resident, who had attended to both of the positive patients. Dr Kashyap did not responded to calls for his comments on the charges. The head of gynaecology department, Dr Anubha Vidyarthi said, “My whole team is working round-the-clock and is providing services to anyone who is visiting the department. The junior doctors didn’t refuse to attend to anyone even after they hid their hotspot address. But I am disappointed by the manner in which my whole department was put at risk due to the administration’s lack of guidelines and screening protocols.” Dr Vidyarthi added that Rims has now issued PPE kits after her request following Thursday’s incident, but rued that her staff were already exposed before the gear arrived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-60-rims-staff-exposed-to-virus/articleshow/75383056.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||No withdrawal of campus offers, say top state institutes||RANCHI: None of the recruiters who had offered jobs to students pursuing various professional courses from premier institutes across the state have revoked the appointments even amid the growing uncertainty within companies in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. TOI contacted all premier institutes of the state that offer various professional courses in engineering, management, law, mining and other fields and all of them said no recruiter has withdrawn any offer made to their students. However, the institutes added that the extended placement season during the summers has been affected due to the lockdown and they are hoping the companies will return to the campus once things normalize. Director of IIM Ranchi, Shailendra Singh, said placements at his institution are divided into two parts. The first one takes place between October and November, when students go for internship programmes, and the second one between June and February after the trainings are over. “We had 100% placement this year as all 248 students of 2018-20 batch recieved offers by February. None of the offers have been withdrawn,” Singh said. More than 80% students of Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra, have recieved job offers and no appointment was revoked. “As much as 73% engineering and 80% MBA graduates have been recruited. We had a recruitment session scheduled in April and May, but that has been cancelled due to the lockdown,” said Utpal Paul, dean of placement cell at BIT Mesra. He added that no company has cancelled future recruitment drives. Professor in-charge of placements at IIT (ISM) Dhanbad, Satish Sinha, said, “There has been no adverse effect on placements as the session for the last academic session ended in February and the session for 2020-21 will start in November-December. More than 700 students of the institute succeeded in getting campus placements and nearly 150 are already pursuing internships either from their homes or at the institute.” Sinha said, “A few companies had withdrawn the offers, but as soon as we were informed about it, we reached out to the 95 firms that had offered placements to our students and persuaded them to change their decision in the larger interest of the students.” In Jamshedpur, Xavier School of Management-XLRI, 108 recruiters made more than 362 domestic and international offers to the students. The institute said, “In addition to our fixed recruiters, 24 new companies participated in the campus placements in January and none of the offers have been withdrawn.” National University for Study and Research in Law, Kanke, also confirmed that their placement session ended in December and the students are set to join after June. “I do not have the exact figures as many students attend interviews on Skype and their data is yet to be collected. However, none of the offers made to out students till December has been withdrawn,” said S K Sinha, public relations officer of NUSRL. (With inputs from Anil Ashutosh in Dhanbad and B Sridhar in Jamshedpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-withdrawal-of-campus-offers-say-top-state-institutes/articleshow/75383204.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Tigress yet to reclaim stray cub||Chandrapur: Overnight operations to reunite the rescued cub with its family failed as the mother tigress did not turn up on Friday night. The three-month-old tiger cub had strayed from its mother and was rescued from village Sushi Dabgaon in Mul teshil on Friday morning. DFO of Chandrapur forest division, Ashok Sonkusre, said the rescued cub was taken to to Sushi Dabgaon and was kept at the place from where it was rescued. The officials were expecting the mother tigress to come in search of its cub. However, despite the overnight vigil, the tigress did not turn up. In the morning, the cub was again moved back to the transit treatment centre in Chandrapur. “We have deployed four teams to survey the area and identify the mother tigress. Camera traps, too, have been installed in the area to ascertain the link between the cub and its mother,” said Sonkusre. The team would once again undertake the exercise to reunite the cub with its tigress on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-yet-to-reclaim-stray-cub/articleshow/75383991.cms||---
April 26, 2020||India||Former PM Manmohan, govt spar over DA freeze||NEW DELHI: The government on Saturday hit back at former PM Manmohan Singh’s criticism of a freeze in an increase in dearness allowance and dearness relief for central government employees and pensioners, saying the measures were needed in “exceptional times” to support MSMEs and other vulnerable segments. “It should be noted that such measures are not unprecedented. In the aftermath of the 1962 & 1971 wars, much stronger measures had been instituted. The Compulsory Deposit Act 1963 applied to all taxpayers, property owners and all government employees,” principal economic adviser in the finance ministry Sanjeev Sanyal tweeted. Further, officials said, the DA freeze is temporary. Further, officials said, the government was not freezing the increase dearness allowance in perpetuity. It was a temporary move, necessitated by the circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-pm-manmohan-govt-spar-over-da-freeze/articleshow/75384866.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||Extra shifts at labs in West Bengal for more Covid-19 tests||KOLKATA: The state health department is planning on operating extra shifts at the Covid-19 testing laboratories and is working on ways to enhance manpower at these facilities. Heads of all medical colleges, hospitals, and district health administration heads have been asked to identify RT-PRC-trained lab technicians and make arrangements for their deployment at Covid labs. “Increasing the shifts will help ramp up the facilities and enable us to test more samples and also deliver results faster. Moreover, it will enable the labs to operate at optimum capacity,” said a state health official. Currently, seven state-run laboratories are testing swab samples in addition to ICMR-NICED. While labs attached to SSKM, School of Tropical Medicine, RG Kar Hospital and Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute are in the city, the rest — North Bengal Medical College, Midnapore Medical College and Malda Medical College — are in the districts. These labs are currently testing just 50-80 samples a day. Apart from the government-run testing units, at least six more private labs in Kolkata have been allowed to conduct Covid tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/government-to-take-in-more-rt-pcr-technicians-for-state-run-labs-for-testing-covid-samples/articleshow/75384015.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Trader drives 600km from Sodepur, delivers injection to Jalpaiguri patient||KOLKATA: The city showed its golden heart once again with a good Samaritan steering over 600km amid the lockdown to deliver life-saving drugs to a stranger. Kamal Das, a middle-aged trader who runs a sweet shop in Sodepore, drove for over 12 hours to cover the distance to take a precious injection to Jalpaiguri for a 38-year-old patient suffering from rheumatoid arthritis. The patient was desperately looking for this ‘Rituximab’ injection, which costs Rs 82,000 per file, but couldn’t find it in entire North Bengal during the lockdown. Das came to know about the patient’s condition through his Jalpaiguri-based business partner. That Subhrajit Ganguly, the patient, was administered painkillers and sleeping pills to cover up his acute pain moved Das. He got in touch with the patient’s family through his friend Mrinal Kanti Majumdar and got the prescription mailed to him. He then contacted Kolkata-based medicine wholesalers and managed to procure it. “After getting two files at Rs 62,000 with a discount, I didn’t think twice to go to Jalpaiguri in my car immediately. I went to the Khardah police station on Thursday to collect the transport pass and started for Jalpaiguri around 11am on Friday. I reached my friend’s house in Jalpaiguri around 11.30pm on Friday. I handed the medicine over to the patient on Saturday morning at his house. He was then admitted to a nursing home in Jalpaiguri, where he was administered the injection,” Das told TOI from the Jalpaiguri nursing home. “My husband is administered the injection twice a month every two years. He was in dire need of this injection in the first week of April. But despite contacting several medicine distributors, we couldn’t get it. The deadline of 72 hours given by doctor to administer the injection was almost over. Unable to bear the pain, my husband had to take painkillers and sleeping pills. Fortunately, we got in touch with Das through our neighbour Majumdar, who offered to deliver the medicine to us from Kolkata. We are indebted to him,” Ganguly’s wife Soma said. Das, a resident of Sodepur Prajatantra Pally, had earlier extended his help to the policemen and healthworkers in the Sodepur-Khardah area by providing masks, gloves and sanitizers when the lockdown started. He has also distributed relief materials among the poor in his locality. “I feel good to stand by people. The Ganguly family is now relieved and that makes me happy. I will drive back to Kolkata tomorrow,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trader-drives-600km-from-sodepur-delivers-injection-to-jalpaiguri-patient/articleshow/75384048.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
April 26, 2020||World||Sikh groups threaten legal action against Scottish government over census||The Sikh Federation UK (SFUK) is threatening the Scottish government with legal action claiming discrimination for failing to include a tick-box response option for Sikhs in the ethnicity section of its proposed census. The federation claims that this contravenes the European Convention of Human Rights, EU law and the Equality Act 2010. On 4 March 2020 the Scottish Parliament approved the draft Census Order for Scotland’s March 2021 Census. Sikhs were not a response option for the ethnicity question, though Indian, Scottish Indian and British Indian were. The federation, backed by over 150 gurdwaras and Sikh organisations, has via its lawyers, given two weeks notice to Scottish ministers to lay an amended Census Order in the Scottish Parliament with a Sikh ethnic tick box response option included, or face a discrimination lawsuit. Their pre-action letter states “UK law recognises the Sikh community has a distinct ethnic identity that was confirmed by the House of Lords in Mandla (Sewa Singh) v Dowell Lee [1983].” This is referring to a case about a boy Gurinder Singh Mandla who was refused entry to his school in Birmingham because he was wearing a turban in 1978. His parents took the case to the Commission for Racial Equality and the House of Lords, which at that time had a judicial role. The House of Lords held that “ethnic origins meant a group distinguished from others by a sufficient combination of shared customs, beliefs, traditions and characteristics derived from a common or presumed common past” and “that Sikhs were in that sense a racial group, although they were not biologically distinguishable from the other peoples of the Punjab.” The Scottish government is proposing that the question on ethnic group will include a prompt to write ‘Sikh’ as a response in the 'other ethnic group' section. But the federation says this does not go far enough. Without a Sikh ethnicity tick-box on the next census, the federation claims the Sikh community will continue to be at a disadvantage in relation to the allocation of public resources. “Sikhs in Scotland are consistently being overlooked and discriminated against by public bodies in deciding policies that impact on them. Without a specific Sikh ethnic tick box response option in the Census 2021, Sikhs in Scotland will fail to be properly monitored by public bodies and would as a result continue to face discrimination in terms of the fair allocation of resources and provision of public services,” said Harnek Singh, National Press Secretary, SFUK. The federation also on 16 April brought a second judicial review in the High Court against the Cabinet Office over the draft Census (England and Wales) Order 2020 which was laid before Parliament on 2 March 2020. The proposed questions also omit a Sikh response option to the ethnicity question. Instead the only option is “Asian/Asian British” and within that “Indian” can be selected. The SFUK is simultaneously appealing the High Court ruling from 12 December 2019 which stated that their first judicial review over a Sikh tick box in the England and Wales census was premature because the draft Census Order had not yet been laid. That appeal was lodged on 3 January 2020 in the Court of Appeal. “Now that the draft Census Order has been laid before Parliament, our lawyers advised us that we have to now put in a second judicial review,” explained Davinder Singh, principal adviser to SFUK. A spokesperson for the Network of Sikh Organisations slammed it as “frivolous litigation.” A Scottish Government spokesperson said: “National Records of Scotland (NRS) is committed to delivering questions which enable everyone in Scotland to access, understand and complete the census.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/sikh-groups-threaten-legal-action-against-scottish-government-over-census/articleshow/75384874.cms||NAOMI CANTON
April 26, 2020||India||Shops in markets or market complexes in urban areas to remain closed during lockdown, clarifies MHA||NEW DELHI: Seeking to end the confusion over its late Friday night order allowing opening of shops selling non-essential items, the home ministry clarified on Saturday that shops in markets or market complexes will remain closed in urban areas while standalone and neighbourhood shops and those in residential complexes can operate in non-containment zones. The Centre said shops offering services like salons, barber shops and restaurants will remain closed in both urban and rural areas. The clarification followed considerable confusion over the Friday midnight order that led to concerns over crowding if market places were to open and whether this would significantly dilute the national lockdown that is scheduled to end on May 3. The home ministry also reiterated that e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted to sell only essential goods and relaxation for certain categories of shops does not extend to liquor vends which will remain shut. The home ministry said its latest order modifying guidelines implied that in rural areas, all shops, except shopping malls, are allowed to operate. In urban areas, it added, all standalone, neighbourhood and shops in residential complexes will be open. “Shops in markets/ market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open,” it stated. Sources in the home ministry said all markets in urban areas, which are prone to large footfalls, will continue to be closed. “But to ease hardships faced by residents unable to access non-essential items during the lockdown and restore livelihood of small traders who have been unable to open their shops for a month now, it was decided to let some shops resume operations while ensuring that social distancing and safety norms are strictly adhered to,” said an official. The order essentially means while neighbourhood shops like general stores and standalone shops selling items like stationery may open, electronics and hardware shops in organised market places will not. The home ministry, in view of queries coming from various sections of society, clarified that all restaurants, salons and barber shops will remain closed. “They render services and relaxations given under lockdown restrictions yesterday (Friday) pertain only to shops selling items,” said an MHA spokesperson. Interestingly, however, a source indicated that neighbourhood tailoring shops may be allowed to function as they can also help stitch face masks for protection against Covid-19. “It is very difficult to put down a list of shops that can open as per items sold. As and when queries are sought, the clarifications will be put out,” said an official. The final approvals will be given by respective states and UTs, though the relaxations would have to be within the limits set by the guidelines. The states/UTs will also be free not to allow these relaxations or make further restrictions on shops that can be opened in non-containment zones. In its late night order on Friday, the home ministry had permitted all shops in residential and market complexes outside municipal limits as well as all neighbourhood, standalone shops and shops in residential complexes within municipal limits of non-containment zones to open. This concession was not extended to single and multi-brand malls outside municipal limits and single-brand and multi-brand malls as well as market complexes within municipal limits. The opening of shops, as per an order put out by the home ministry in modification of the April 15 guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be subject to the conditions that the shops that will open will operate with 50% staff strength and use of face masks and adherence to social distancing norms will be mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shops-in-markets-or-market-complexes-in-urban-areas-to-remain-closed-during-lockdown-clarifies-mha/articleshow/75384876.cms||Bharti Jain
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||7 cases of Covid-19 detected in 24 hrs, toll reaches 49||Aurangabad: As many as seven new positive cases were reported from Aurangabad in the past 24 hours — between Friday and Saturday — taking the total number of positive cases to 49 in the district. On Friday night, three women residents of Hilal Colony were tested positive while one each from Town Hall and Qile Ark area were detected with infection on Saturday. Even Samta Nagar area registered two cases on Saturday. Currently, 22 confirmed cases are under treatment including 18 at the district civil hospital and 4 at Government Medical College and Hospital. Three women of Hilal Colony are all high-risk contacts of the 60-year-old woman, who had died on April 22. All of them are aged 18, 26 and 31 respectively and are undergoing treatment at district civil hospital. On Saturday, a 70-year-old man resident of Town Hall area and 60-year-old woman of Qile Ark the area was confirmed positive and subsequently admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) medical officer Meghna Jogdand said that both the localities have been sealed as containment zones. “Our health teams will begin door-to-door screenings of residents from Sunday,” she said. The district civil hospital on Saturday screened 88 patients out of which 31 were home quarantine. “Throat samples of 65 people were collected and sent for Covid-19 analysis,” said Pradeep Kulkarni, medical officer at the hospital. In GMCH, 21 patients were screened out of which 11 swabs were sent for testing. The reports of two tested positive on Saturday while the results of five people are awaited. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said that the hospital has witnessed two deaths in the past 24 hours but they had no symptoms of Covid-19 infection. Covid-19 positive women dies in Latur A 70-year-old woman detected with Covid-19 infection died in Latur’s Udgir on Saturday evening said district civil surgeon Sanjay Dhage. “The woman was admitted to Covid-19 isolation centre on April 23. Her reports on Saturday afternoon confirmed her infection. She passed away while undergoing treatment at 4.15 pm. She had diabetes and high blood pressure,” Dhage said. The investigation to trace the source of her infection is still underway, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7-cases-of-covid-19-detected-in-24-hrs-toll-reaches-49/articleshow/75384891.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 26, 2020||India||T S Tirumurti to take over as India’s next ambassador to UN from Syed Akbaruddin||NEW DELHI: Secretary in the external affairs ministry, T S Tirumurti, will be India’s next ambassador to the UN, taking over from Syed Akbaruddin who will retire soon. India’s envoy to Brussels and European Union, Gaitri Kumar, will take over from Ruchi Ghanshyam as high commissioner to the UK. Ghanshyam is expected to retire from service later this summer. Akbaruddin has had a stellar stint at the UN, particularly presiding over the effort to proscribe Masood Azhar and push back against Chinese efforts to bring the Kashmir issue to the UNSC. India will become a non-permanent member at the UNSC for a two-year term in 2021-22. Santosh Jha, currently India’s ambassador to Uzbekistan will be India’s new ambassador to the EU in Brussels. The India-EU relationship has received fresh energy with Modi 2.0 devoting a lot of diplomatic attention to the continent. Raveesh Kumar, former spokesperson of MEA, is headed to Finland as ambassador, taking over from Vani Rao. Jaideep Mazumdar, who is India’s ambassador to the Philippines, will go to Austria as ambassador. He will represent India at the UN in Vienna as well as be India’s representative at the IAEA. Later in the year, Indramani Pandey, currently additional secretary (D&ISA) in South Block, is likely to take over as India’s permanent representative in the UN in Geneva. He will replace Rajeev Chander, who is expected to retire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/t-s-tirumurti-to-take-over-as-indias-next-ambassador-to-un-from-syed-akbaruddin/articleshow/75384892.cms||Indrani Bagchi
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Centre’s shop relaxation sparks confusion||Aurangabad: Despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, old city areas such as Shahgunj, Aurangapura, Old Mondha and City Chowk continue to see people stepping out for shopping in large numbers and violating the social distancing rule. Meanwhile, confusion prevailed after the Centre issued a notification allowing shops and establishments to open. Later, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey clarified that all shops and establishments will remain shut until the district administration issues orders otherwise. As part of the nationwide lockdown, schools, colleges, offices, industries and other commercial establishments have been shut in the city. By keeping the establishments closed, the government hopes that people will stay indoors, which will, in turn, help in flattening the curve of Covid-19 spread. However, regardless of the restrictions and appeals made by various authorities to stay at home, people were found crowding market areas and the temporary fruit and vegetable markets raised at different parts of the city. When asked, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) city engineer Sakharam Panzade, who is also a member of the Covid-19 taskforce under the municipal commissioner, said that the civic body is working in coordination with the police department to ensure that social distancing is maintained. Panzade, however, agreed that people are coming out of their homes and crowding markets, this jeopardizing the containment efforts. “People should act responsibly and not violate the lockdown orders,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police Nikesh Khatmode said the police department has designed a multi-pronged strategy to combat crowding. “We have identified around 30 market places that witness crowding in the city police limits. We are increasing the force in these areas. For residents in residential complexes, we have made fruits and vegetables available at their doorsteps. We are also using microphone announcements to ask people to maintain distance in markets and have roped in volunteers to ensure social distancing in Altamash Colony, Aref Colony and Aamkhas Maidan,” Khatmode said. He added that when people are asked why are they stepping out, 95% of them say they are out to get essential commodities or to provide essential services or that they are government employees. Khatmode appealed to people to stay at home as much as possible and if stepping out is necessary, they should do so by taking necessary precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/centres-shop-relaxation-sparks-confusion/articleshow/75384893.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Cash-starved private schools demand RTE reimbursement||AURANGABAD:As the state government has asked private schools in Maharashtra not to insist parents for paying fees of wards in view of lockdown, association of such institutions has made a plea before the government for releasing dues towards admissions done under the RTE Act. Claiming that the government has not released the desired dues for last two years, the Maharashtra English Schools Trustees Association (MESTA) has demanded the necessary release of money due to strained financial condition. According to MESTA, the government owes around Rs 700 crore to around 8,000 schools from different parts of Maharashtra. MESTA secretary Manish Hande on Saturday said that majority of the parents have not paid fees of second-term due to lockdown. “Most of the private schools could not conduct examinations due to lockdown which was declared on March 22 to contain the spread of Covid-19. It is a common practice in many schools for parents to pay the fees for the second-term for their children while collecting the result of the second-term. The entire academic schedule has gone for the toss, including fees collection,” he said. A trustee from one of the affected private schools said that the school management has to pay salaries of teachers irrespective of lockdown, besides bearing other expenses. “The government has issued directives prohibiting us from collecting fees from parents. While taking such humanitarian decision, the government should have also considered the issues faced by school management,” he said, preferring anonymity. The state government reimburses a sum of around Rs 17,000 per student admitted under 30% quota reserved under the RTE Act 2009. The dues towards such 30% quota claimed to have pending from the academic year 2018-19, excluding the current academic year 2020-21. MESTA, in the recent past, had been following the issue of non-release of dues toward RTE Act since February , but the schools failed to get any relief. “We have sent several letters the government and approached the authorities concerned through different public representatives. We are repeatedly told that the official process for the release of money was on. However, the release of dues is must now due to issues related to lockdown,” Hande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cash-starved-private-schools-demand-rte-reimbursement/articleshow/75384894.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR’s free meal supply crosses 2L mark||Aurangabad: The distribution of free hot cooked fresh meals by South Central Railway (SCR) during the current lockdown imposed in view of Covid-19 pandemic has crossed the two lakh mark on Friday. Out of the 2.08 lakh free meals supplied, about 1.48 lakh has been cooked and provided by the IRCTC whereas nearly 60,000 meals have been provided by various departments and NGOs working with railway organisations, an official release said. The railway protection force (RPF) has played a major role in the task of providing free meals, including food distribution. “In a short period of 25 days, more than 2.08 lakh needy people have been served with food. This goes in tune with the priority accorded by SCR top-brass to fulfil the paramount need to “feed the hunger” during these critical times,” chief public relations officer of SCR Ch Rakesh said. In its endeavour to feed the needy, the SCR has converted base kitchens into a round-the-clock service kitchen utility for staff to plan, procure material and cook meals continuously. “Primarily, relief in terms of free food supply is targeted to reach to segments of migrant workers and daily wage earners who are being clearly identified and catered so as to fulfil the basic objective of reaching the most affected. Considering the requirements of those attached to the railway organisations, free food distribution also covers the licensed railway porters, conservancy staff, coolies, daily wage earners, migrant labour, homeless, the poor and many other sections of floating population,” SCR authorities said. While delivering the food to the needy, social distancing and hygiene is being perfectly observed to also make the people aware of these two important factors in the fight against the spread of Covid-19 SCR authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scrs-free-meal-supply-crosses-2l-mark/articleshow/75384895.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Gaware Bal Bhavan prepares face shields for frontline workers||Aurangabad: Garware Bal Bhavan, a community center for children, has prepared around 2,500 face shields for the frontline workforce in battle against Covid-19. Center director Sunil Sutawane said the protective equipment have been distributed among doctors, police personnel and civic staffers of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. “Our center runs under the aegis of Garware Polyester Limited as it’s CSR activity. The company manufacturers polyester films which are used for making face shields,’’ he said. Each film used for face shield has a thickness of around 175 microns and the protective device can be re-used. “The face shield can be sanitised after daily use. The protective device has been approved by health experts for its effectiveness in contaikeeping the spread of the Covid-19 at bay,” Sutawane said. Sutawane said that they will continue making face shields anticipating more requirement. “'There are speculations that the Covid-19 situation may worsen further. The face shields will be essential in such scenarios for frontline workers,” he said Ramakant Rautalle, Shilpa Aswalikar, Vasant Wani, Jagdish Bedwal, Ishwar Ingle, Vishnu Tupe, Sandeep Patil, Vidyadhar Katkar, SV Pathak and ND Kshirsagar are among staffers who are involved in manufacturing of face shields. Meanwhile, Garware Bal Bhavan, which witnesses different recreational and other activities for children during summer vacation every year, is temporarily closed currently due to lockdown situation .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gaware-bal-bhavan-prepares-face-shields-for-frontline-workers/articleshow/75384896.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||2k students stuck in Kota, NGO writes to Cong functionaries||Aurangabad: A city-based NGO has written to top Congress leaders in Rajasthan to bring back 2,000 students from Kota, who have been caught amid the lockdown. In a communication to Congress party leaders, Vinod Patil, who runs the R R Patil Foundation NGO said many students from Maharashtra had gone to the educational hub in Rajasthan to prepare for various competitive exams. Patil said that Kota has over 100 coaching institutes that provide tuitions to lakhs of students from across the country including about 2,000 students from Maharashtra. These students stay at private hostels and guest houses to crack medical and other entrance exams. Patil said that he has written to Avinash Pande general secretary All India Congress Committee, Rajasthan and asked if the students can be sent back without violating any lockdown rules. “Since the educational institutions are closed on account of the lockdown, these students have got stuck up there and miss their families while facing depression. These students stay at facilities which don’t allow cooking and since most of them are teenagers they are also eager to return back to their respective native places in the state,” Patil told TOI. Patil said that after their arrival, they would be put in special rooms to complete their 14-day quarantine period. “RR Foundation would extend its services to bring the students back,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2k-students-stuck-in-kota-ngo-writes-to-cong-functionaries/articleshow/75384897.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||‘More we test, the better control of situation’||Aurangabad: It has been found that 2.3 percent of the Covid-19 tested cases have come positive, as per the data analysis team by the Aurangabad Smart City. The analysis also indicates that the diagnosis number goes up with testing, so there is an urgent need to do more testing. The analysis team is deployed with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) as a project management unit for analysis and data management support. The deployment was done by municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey to monitor the situation with an aim to contain the spread of Coronavirus. According to Pushkal Shivam, deputy CEO of Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd. (ASCDCL), the trends will help the administration to take focused steps. “The report shows numbers being doubled at any point of time comparing it with other cities or the national average. This will help in knowing out how is it growing and where it is going to go,” he said. Out of the 2246 swabs collected in the district until Saturday, 2140 have been tested of which 49 have tested positive for Coronavirus. The report states that 2.2 percent of total tested have turned positive. “Testing data shows that we are testing well and that number is going up. The more we test, the better control of the situation. As in, we know about contacts and we can take targeted actions,” Shivam said. The daily report gives statistics on the age, gender of the patients, helps in identifying the hotspots and containment zone across wards and zones. This helps to identify which area needs extra measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/more-we-test-the-better-control-of-situation/articleshow/75384902.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Dance event funds given for Covid-19||In view of Covid-19 pandemic, Tejaswini Memorial Trust has cancelled the Indian classical dance competition in memory of Akshata Prakash Kulkarni scheduled for September 2020. Adding more amount to the fund reserved for the competition, the trust donated Rs. 1 lakh to the Maharashtra chief minister’s relief fund for Covid-19. The cheque issued by Trust president P. S. Kulkarni was handed over to Ajay Chaudhari of district disaster management authority in Aurangabad district collector’s office on Friday. The cheque was handed over by the trust’s office-bearers Vijay Nyayadhish, Sudha Nyayadhish, Swati Joshi along with office bearers of International Redcross Kishor Gathadi, Rajendra Rathod, Ajay Deshpande and Vandana Saraf. Aurangabad First, Lions Club of Midtown feed poor Aurangabad First and Lions Club of Midtown have distributed 1.62 lakh food packets to the needy in the last one month. On March 24, Aurangabad First and the Lions Club of Midtown started two kitchens — one each Vedantnagar and Waluj — for preparing food for the needy families. As on Saturday, 1.62 lakh food packets had been delivered to the poor from these two kitchens. Pritish Chatterjee, Chandrakant Malpani and Kamlesh Dhoot of Aurangabad First said that recognizing the need of the hour, the kitchens were started and a team of 20 people was appointed for cooking and packing food. The packets are distributed through a team of 80 young volunteers in Aurangabad and Waluj. Each packed consists of puri-bhaji and sabudana khichdi. Aurangabad First president Mansingh Pawar, vice president Ravindra Kondekar, Ashok Kale and Rajesh Mandhani, Lions Club of Midtown president Kulbhushan Jain, Chandrakant Malpani and all office-bearers and members are working on management and co-ordination of the kitchens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dance-event-funds-given-for-covid-19/articleshow/75384907.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Aurangabad||SRPF jawan from Jalna tests positive for Covid-19||Aurangabad/Pune: A 27-year-old jawan from the Jalna unit of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), who was posted in Malegaon of Nashik district, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. He had travelled with the six other jawans, who had tested positive earlier and were placed in quarantine in Hingoli. Hingoli district civil surgeon Kishorprasad Shrivas said two groups of jawans of platoon number 12 of the Hingoli SRPF had returned from Malegaon and Mumbai on April 19 and 20, respectively. These jawans, about 107 from Malegaon and 87 from Mumbai, were placed in institutional quarantine at the SRPF camp Hingoli. The throat swab samples of the suspected cases were sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad, for Covid-19 analysis. On April 22, six jawans of the SRPF, five of whom were posted at Malegaon and one in Mumbai, were admitted to the isolation ward of the district civil hospital at Hingoli after they had tested positive for Covid-19. Gopal Kadam, resident medical officer at district civil hospital, Hingoli, said they started contact tracing of the six confirmed cases. During this process, they realized that one jawan, a Hingoli resident, had taken a drop at the Jalna SRPF camp. “He later travelled to Hingoli on a motorcycle. He too has now been detected with Covid-19. The 46 people, who came in contact with him at Jalna the SRPF, are being screened,” Kadam said. The district civil surgeon said all the jawans are stable and not displaying any critical symptoms. So far, as many as 13 SRPF personnel, posted in various parts of the state, had been detected with the Covid-19 infection. “Three personnel from Pune, six from Hingoli and three from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 as of Friday evening,” said Archana Tyagi, additional director-general of police, SRPF. The SRPF jawans have been on bandobast duty along with the local police units in Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Malegaon, Solapur, Nagpur and other areas, where positive Covid-19 cases have been reported. “The SRPF jawans are posted at the checkpoints as well as deployed for bandobast on the streets and lanes of the red zones to strictly implement the lockdown,” Tyagi said. She said the jawans come in contact with residents and, sometimes, with infected persons as well. “We have a team of doctors, who visit the checkpoints and the red zone areas where the SRPF jawans are posted and conduct their medical check-ups every day. If any personnel raises any health complaint, especially Covid-19 symptoms, he is sent to the hospital without delay,” Tyagi said. The SRPF personnel have been given the necessary masks, sanitisers and face shields for personal protection. The personnel working in the red zone areas or hot-spots will not be allowed to go back home immediately, Tyagi said. “We have good facilities at different command centres and we have also created a large isolation facility. The jawans will be sent to these facilities for 14 days before they are allowed to go home,” she said. Tyagi said the unit heads are looking after the needs of the personnel’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/srpf-jawan-from-jalna-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75384908.cms||Gitesh Shelke
April 26, 2020||India||Set AC cooling at 24-30 degrees to curb spread of Covid-19, suggests think tank||NEW DELHI: Amid common concerns associated with air-conditioning, ventilation and the spread of coronavirus, a think tank has recommended that the air-conditioner temperature should be ideally set between 24 and 30 degree and humidity should be maintained between 40% and 70%. The central public works department (CPWD), which is responsible for maintaining all central government offices and official accommodations, has shared the advisory with all its field officers for guidance and use. The guidelines have been prepared by Indian Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioner Engineers (ISHRAE). Referring to several studies, the guidelines suggest that survival of virus decreases progressively at moderate temperatures of 20.5 to 24 degree centigrade and further decreases at more than 30 degree centigrade temperature. It says to limit the risk of Covid-19 infection by air, it’s better to ventilate indoor environments with outdoor air as much as possible. “Mechanical ventilation systems and air conditioning systems, which provide ventilation, can perform this function more effectively than simply opening the windows, because they improve the quality of the outdoor air with filtration,” the guidelines mention. The guidelines recommend that rooms should be kept well ventilated when the AC is not running. They say that the desert coolers which are also called evaporative coolers must draw air from outside to ensure good ventilation. In the case of fans, these should be operated with windows kept partly open. For industrial units, it has recommended maximum ventilation with outdoor air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/set-ac-cooling-at-24-30-degrees-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-suggests-think-tank/articleshow/75384911.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 26, 2020||India||Poll finds 83% Indians believe govt handling pandemic well||NEW DELHI: A survey of 1,000 Indians conducted by Impetus Research & Gallup International Association has shown than 83% respondents reacted positively to a question on how well they thought their government is handling the coronavirus pandemic. The survey, which does not specify whether the government in question is the Union government or the states, in the Indian setup, has retuned figures which are among the highest approval rating for a government among populations across surveyed countries. The highest approval rate for the government was in Austria, where 88% of the 1,000 people question said the government handled the pandemic well. In the case of India, 39% strongly agreed with the governments’ tackling of the virus, while 44% agreed that they were doing well. About 4% people strongly disagreed that the government was handling the situation well and 9% were less vehement in their disagreement. The lowest approval rates, however, were in Thailand, Japan and Ecuador, followed closely by USA and Germany, where the survey showed more people disapproved of the government’s handling of the virus than those that backed the state. In the USA, 46% people disagreed that their government was handling the pandemic well, while 12% said they did not know, or chose not to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/poll-finds-83-indians-believe-govt-handling-pandemic-well/articleshow/75384913.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh readies infrastructure to counter Covid spurt||VIJAYAWADA: The state health department has decided to activate the second line of hospitals in anticipation of a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the next few weeks. All hospitals, including the five state hospitals and first and second line district Covid hospitals will handle only Covid-19 cases. Some time back, the government had identified six lines of hospitals including state-level Covid hospitals, district hospitals, private medical colleges, private hospitals and government medical colleges. While the first of the line of hospitals are currently operational, the state government has now decided to rope in the second line. District collectors have been asked to shift and divert patients with other ailments from the second line of hospitals to other nearby treatment facilities. Directions have been issued to ensure that such patients are not referred to the hospitals identified in the six lines of hospitals earmarked for Covid treatment. Before referring patients to other hospitals, those displaying symptoms of Covid-19 as well as those who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients will be tested. The directive states that if certain critical units such as dialysis and child delivery can function in hospitals earmarked for Covid treatment by segregating the units, the units can continue functions. In such cases, hospitals will have to prevent movement from one segregated space to another. KS Jawahar Reddy, special chief secretary (medical, health and family welfare) asked officials to shift expectant mothers who have been hospitalised to nearby government-run maternity hospitals. “If there is no such treating facility, patients should be shifted to not-for-profit maternity specialised trusts or missionary hospitals, if they have Arogyasri facility. Otherwise, they shall be shifted to other Arogyasri network hospitals,” Reddy said. He added that patients requiring treatment at other such specialised units would have to be shifted in a similar manner. Meanwhile, owing to reports of Covid-19 patients dying in transit, it has been decided that patients who have been found Covid-19 positive through Truenat tests in other hospitals would be shifted to Covid hospitals only after they are stabilised and will be transferred only in dedicated advanced life support (ALS) ambulances. If the hospital a Covid-19 patient approaches does not have testing facilities, even then, the patient should be stabilised and then referred to a Covid-19 treatment facility on an ALS ambulance. According to health officials, breathlessness is an ominous manifestation among Covid-19 patients and therefore extra care must be taken while referring patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-readies-infra-to-counter-covid-spurt/articleshow/75382956.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||High alert sounded in Vizianagaram||Vizianagaram: The Vizianagaram district administration has upped its vigilance after three Covid-19 positive cases were reported in neighbouring Srikakulam on Sunday. Both Vizianagaram and Srikakulam had no positive cases until these three surfaced. Joint collector C Kishore Kumar said, “We are taking all measures to ensure that our district is not affected by the novel coronavirus. Deliberations are going on about ways to increase ward surveillance and control traffic flow as the district in situated between Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam.” Kumar added that three check-posts have been set up along the Srikakulam border. Sources said medical authorities and the police have been asked to keep an eye on people entering the district. Citizens have been asked to inform the administration if they find anyone entering the district without due permission. “We are registering cases against people trying to illegally enter the district,” said SP B Raja Kumari. The SP added that the police have booked 200 people under the Epidemic Act, Motor Vehicles Act and Section 188 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-alert-sounded-in-vizianagaram/articleshow/75383024.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||HC issues guidelines for online hearings||Vijayawada: The high court on Saturday issued a set of guidelines for web hearing of cases. The high court has been taking up urgent matters for hearing through videoconference since the lockdown came into force. In an advisory issued to advocates and parties-in-person, the high court registrar general said the meeting ID will be shared to advocates whose cases are listed for hearing 15 minutes before the commencement of the hearing. The advocates will have to log into the video conference by providing their details and should mute their microphone till they are allowed to speak. The advocates should maintain dress code while appearing before the judges. They and parties-in-person should participate in video conference from their offices or residence offices only. The advocates are advised to use a device of their choice with good internet bandwidth. They have to choose a quiet place to avoid disturbance during hearing of the cases. They have to ensure proper lighting and must switch off their mobile phones, TV, radio and fans. As the lockdown is likely to continue for some more days, the high court will take up hearings only through videoconference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-issues-guidelines-for-online-hearings/articleshow/75383031.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man threw rooftop party before coronavirus struck him||CHANDIGARH: The resident of Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 who had tested positive for novel coronavirus on April 24 had organised a party on his marriage anniversary at the rooftop of his house on April 17 during curfew, leading the police to register a case against him. The ward attendant in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, had invited around 40 to 50 people for the bash. The information came to light after the municipal corporation (MC) questioned him about his whereabouts to trace his primary and secondary contacts. Charanjit Singh Virk, DSP, public relations officer, said the man had invited his relatives and family members who lived in the same locality. “There was no music or dance. Only food was served on the rooftop of his house to his family members,” Virk said. Sector 26 police registered a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread a deadly infection) of the IPC. As many as 138 people, who were found to be contacts of the patient, have been quarantined. These include his 16 family members, neighbours, relatives and people he met in the past few days. Residents of Mauli Jagran and housing board colony, Dhanas and a resident of Sector 29 are in the list. As it had come to notice that the patient had taken medicines from a doctor in Bapu Dham Colony, he and his family members have also been quarantined. Sources said the phone call details of the patient were checked. “The patient met his relatives in Mauli Jagran and Sector 52. All of them have been quarantined at their homes,” said officials. The MC found he had interacted with a resident of housing board colony in Dhanas and a resident of Sector 29. Both have been placed under home quarantine. “The health department has also taken samples of seven family members of the patient and other suspected people of the area on Saturday. Two blocks of the area have been sealed as a precautionary measure,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-threw-rooftop-party-before-coronavirus-struck-him/articleshow/75384916.cms||Deepak Yadav
April 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Operation ‘Kurnool Fights Corona’ launched; 14 new cases in district, 24 patients discharged||Tirupati: Operation ‘Kurnool Fights Corona’ has been launched to combat the disease in the district, announced state Covid-19 special officer and principal secretary Ajay Jain on Saturday. Kurnool has registered the highest number of Covid cases in the district. Jain spoke to reporters after reviewing the situation in Kurnool along with district collector G Veerapandian and other officials concerned. He said although the incidence of coronavirus has seen an upward trend in Kurnool district in the last few weeks, the comprehensive efforts by the district administration in terms of identifying and isolating suspects, enforcing strict lockdown and providing best medical care to patients will bear results in the weeks to come. With 14 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday morning, the overall number of cases in the district went up to 275, while the death toll is at nine so far. Meanwhile, five new cases were reported in Anantapur district, where the overall number of patients reported crossed the half century mark on Saturday. Out of the 51 coronavirus cases reported in Anantapur district, four patients died while being treated and 34 are at various Covid hospitals. Officials sounded a red alert in Hindupur assembly segment as all the five new Covid cases reported in the district on Saturday were from Hindupur. District collector Gandham Chandrudu said all the new cases were primary contacts infected patients who are already in isolation at the state government’s quarantine facilities. On the brighter side, 24 coronavirus patients in Kurnool who recovered completely were discharged on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/operation-kurnool-fights-corona-launched-14-new-cases-in-district-24-patients-discharged/articleshow/75383053.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 26, 2020||India||Modi remains in touch with world capitals for global fight against coronavirus||NEW DELHI: Through the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has maintained a steady stream of diplomatic engagements, pushing for India’s medical needs, ranging from equipment to PPEs and testing kits, as also assuring all help in the global fight against the pandemic. On Friday, Modi spoke to Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong about the state of migrant labour, who are being held responsible for the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the city-state. An MEA readout of the conversation said, “Prime Minister promised to provide all possible support for maintaining supplies of essential goods, including medical products, to Singapore. Prime Minister also expressed his appreciation for the support being extended to Indian citizens in Singapore.” India is also sourcing face masks from Singapore, especially through Indian-run fashion set-up Zilingo. On Thursday, Modi spoke to Leo Varadkar, PM of Ireland, from where India is sourcing a big batch of testing kits. “Prime Minister Varadkar appreciated the role being played by Indian-origin doctors and nurses in fighting the infection in Ireland. Prime Minister thanked Varadkar for the care and support being extended to Indian citizens present in Ireland, and promised to similarly facilitate Irish citizens in India. The two leaders agreed that India and Ireland can leverage their strengths in the pharmaceutical and medical fields to contribute to the global fight against the pandemic. They also deliberated on the potential for strengthening India’s cooperation with Ireland, as well as with the EU, in the post-Covid context,” said an MEA statement. The PM on Tuesday spoke to Ibu Solih of the Maldives, which is one of the two places where India has sent medical teams besides Kuwait. Modi has also spoken to Cyril Ramaphosa, president of South Africa which has received consignment of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine from India. Egyptian President Abdul Fattah Al-Sisi spoke to Modi as well. India has promised to send essential medicines, like hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol to Egypt to help in their fight against the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-remains-in-touch-with-world-capitals-for-global-fight-against-coronavirus/articleshow/75384920.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Truck owners seek extension of road tax payment deadline||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh truck associations have requested the government to extend the deadline for payment of road tax as business has been hit owing to the lockdown. “We pay road tax once every three months. In Andhra Pradesh we get an extension of one month from the last date of payment and Odisha government gives us an extension of only 15-days. Considering the present situation we have requested both the governments to give us a month’s extension, at least till the lockdown is lifted,” Janaki Ram Reddy, president of AP Lorry Owners’ Association told TOI. Truck owners pay Rs 7,000 to Rs 9,000 in road tax depending on the number of wheels. They said since the lockdown was imposed most of their trucks are in the garage. Only a few of them carrying essential commodities like medical products, coal, groceries and fish are plying. Even drivers and cleaners are staying home, with many of them having packed their bags and gone back to their hometowns. “First, there is no income for most of the owners, drivers and cleaners. Second, police are unnecessarily harassing truck drivers, especially when they cross the border and enter Odisha. The association had to intervene on several occasions after trucks from Andhra Pradesh were stranded in Odisha,” a member of the Visakha Lorry Supply Association told TOI. Truck owners claimed that what has compounded their problem is that most of the finance companies are reluctant to give them the three-months moratorium on vehicle loan EMI as announced by the Union government. “The financer did not approve my application for moratorium for the month of March. I applied again for April. They are yet to tell me their decision. Our business was already struggling and the lockdown has crippled us,” said T Rama Rao, a truck owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/truck-owners-seek-extension-of-road-tax-payment-deadline/articleshow/75383062.cms||Arpit Basu
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers suffering losses due to transport ban out of Wardha||Nagpur: Even though the sale of vegetables and fruits comes under essential services, farmers growing these items in Wardha district are suffering huge losses as they are not able to sell their produce at big markets like Nagpur and Amravati. Several farmers are giving away fruits and vegetables for free as they cannot afford to lose more money on harvesting items they cannot sell.The situation has arisen as Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar has notified a ban on all import and export of vegetables, fruits, chicken and mutton. The collector claimed the decision was taken as a temporary measure to keep Wardha Covid-19 free.“Even though fruits and vegetables come under essential supplies, our main issue is to control the spread of Covid-19. All the three districts adjoining Wardha have Covid-19 positive patients, and daily several fruit and vegetables sellers were coming in and going out of the district. So, it was essential to put a temporary ban on transportation. Farmers can sell their produce anywhere within the district. Most of the produce is anyway sold in the district so this decision was taken,” he said.“These farmers visit markets in containment areas so we had to take this decision. However, in the coming days we are planning to give some relaxation. It is a problem for farmers who sell produce in the district as demand has reduced exponentially everywhere,” he added. TOI spoke to some farmers anticipating a good profit this year, but ruined by the lockdown.M Premanand said they faced huge financial losses owing to untimely rain and hailstorms in January, February and March. “The lockdown due to coronavirus has added to our problems,” he said.He had sowed watermelon and muskmelon in his 10 acre agriculture land at Karanja Lad. The crop was good but the demand for both fruits is very less in Wardha city and its markets. “There is a great demand for both fruits in Nagpur city, but restrictions on transporting our crop outside the district has proved to be our downfall,” Premanand said.Homeshwar Dhoble, who owns 7 acres land at Khairi dam village, said pumpkins worth lakhs could not be sold. “I was expecting Rs3.50 lakh returns, to pay off my loans. But due to the restriction I cannot take my produce to Nagpur, and I am not even getting pennies for it here. If I go village to village to sell pumpkins, I won’t recover even the cost of petrol. So, I distributed it among villagers and am planning to burn the rest of it. We have also been eating pumpkin at our house for lunch, dinner and breakfast,” he said.Dhoble had also taken land on rent to grow watermelon and muskmelon, but fears the same fate for his fruits. “The fruits will be ready in a week, and if restrictions are not lifted, we will suffer huge losses. The government must buy our produce or give us permission to sell our produce in big markets where we get fair prices,” Dhoble said. Sunil Dhole, who hails from Borgaon Dhole village, also suffered loss in lakhs in fruits he produced. “I had invested Rs10 to Rs12 lakh but my fruits are not getting any value in local markets. I have stopped harvesting the rest of my produce. I am asking villagers to take what they want.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-suffering-losses-due-to-transport-ban-out-of-wardha/articleshow/75383891.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||Entertainment new route for cops to infuse lockdown sense||Nagpur: City police, experimenting with different forms and patterns of community policing, have now extended their interest to include entertainment for enforcing the lockdown norms of social distancing and asking people to stay at home to break the corona chain. On Saturday, city police had roped in Guinness book record-holder Rajesh Burbure and the team of Vidarbha Kalakar Sanghatna to kick-start an innovative strategy along with Swayam foundation at Variety Square to enforce the lockdown by taking entertainment to the doorstep, prompting people to enjoy from the comfort zone of their four walls. Burbure’s son Vaibhav and daughter Dhanashree, too, helped their father to spread awareness amid cheers from balconies and passers-by. Between popular patriotic songs, announcements were made regarding social distancing, the use of sanitizers and personal hygiene. Students of arts, groups and individuals were also invited to Variety Square to make murals and artistic designs related to Covid-19. Vicky Suryavanshi, a student of architecture, who painted a mural on the theme saving the planet from the Corona scare, said it was a welcome opportunity to be part of the police initiative. DCP, traffic, Vikram Sali, who along with senior inspector Parag Pote had conceptualized the plan, said the aim is to ensure that people do not step out and maintain social distance. “We are trying to say that the police will even bring entertainment to your doorstep if you feel bored, but don’t step out,” he said. Later in the day, Burbure’s team also visited the upmarket Capitol Heights society near Baidyanath chowk where senior inspectors Pote and Sarthak Nehete took the mike to croon popular songs while appealing to the residents to clap from their balconies but not to come down. Volunteer Kamal Lalwani said the police would reach out to citizens through such entertainment projects and convince them to cooperate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/entertainment-new-route-for-cops-to-infuse-lockdown-sense/articleshow/75383900.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||15 lakh litres treated potable water used for civic body’s disinfection drive||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation is using over 50,000 litres of treated potable water on an average every day for disinfection drive. The NMC’s sanitation department and fire and emergency services department have pressed 10 fire tenders into service for the work. Till April 24, the NMC has used 15,000 litres of sodium hypochlorite and around 15 lakh litres filtered water for the drive, as per the data available from the civic body. According to a department official, the NMC began disinfection drive on March 27 as advised by a section of public health experts after the initial Covid-19 cases were reported. Initially, NMC’s one fire tender loaded with treated water mixed with sodium hypochlorite (the disinfectant agent) carried out the drive in Khamla when a businessman and his two family members were found Covid-19 positive. Demand for disinfection grew after local media highlighted how residents of the locality applauded the drive where it had been carried out. This compelled NMC to not only continue the drive but also extend it to the entire city. But there is demand for more. “We are flooded with requests from corporators and few MLAs cutting across party lines to disinfect their localities. We are also getting calls from housing complexes,” the civic official said. “At many places, corporators allegedly intercepted the disinfection drive and ‘hijacked’ the vehicles to their respective constituency. Most corporators are trying to use the drive to woo their voters,” said a field officer requesting anonymity. Sources said that instead of using disinfectants across the city, the NMC should concentrate only on specific localities from where positive cases have been reported. It makes sense to actually carry out the drive in containment areas like Takiya slum and Satranjipura where positive patients had been detected, the sources said. BOXES Inform netas about drives, says health panel Health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja on Monday reviewed the status of Covid-19 patients in the city. He and other members tried to compel the civic administration to inform elected members while carrying out disinfection drives in the city. Office-bearers of the health panel also expressed anguish over non-invitation to them during the start of annual river and nullah cleanliness drives. Expressing anguish over crowded temporary vegetable markets, Kukreja also directed the administration to promote door-to-door selling of vegetables and fruits across the city. Drive demanded at juvenile home The Juvenile Justice Board has urged the civic body to carry out disinfection drive at its observation home building premises, Patankar Square, on Kamptee road. “In a letter to the municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the board has demanded spraying of disinfection on its premises having 10 rooms. Around five juveniles from Nagpur and Gondia districts are staying there,” said a senior official from the juvenile home. The institute had written to Mundhe on April 4, but the civic body is yet to take any action, said the official. Mundhe claimed disinfection drive was carried out on the premises on April 20. “It is necessary to sanitize observation home building for safety and health of children,” the letter pointed out urging Mundhe to initiate the process at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-lakh-litres-treated-potable-water-used-for-civic-bodys-disinfection-drive/articleshow/75383911.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||I don’t know when I will lose all hope and break down||I repair two-wheelers for a living. Ever since I was 13, the garage has been my temple and every incoming vehicle my veritable god. My skills have been honed over 16 years of apprenticeship in Ramtek and 11 years at my own garage in Dhantoli post that, yielding a large and loyal clientele — enough to feed my family of six. The lockdown brought it all down to nought. All at once, my talent has been rendered worthless. Few motorists are hitting the roads, and fewer still getting their vehicles serviced. The 29 bookings I had in the pipeline before the lockdown have gone up in smoke too. Even if customers were to visit my garage (which is shut since the day lockdown was announced), I would not be able to function effectively as there is no supply of two-wheeler spare parts. Our entire family is now living off the earnings of my brother and his wife, who work at a nearby nursing home. That, coupled with the evening meal distributed at the Gymkhana ground, has kept us afloat till now. I don’t know how long we can go on like this. Eleven years ago, when I needed money to set up my garage in front of our home, my mother mortgaged her jewellery and handed me Rs 7,300. Guilt had engulfed me, which turned into despair when I had no clients to show in the first few months. There is a feeling of déjà vu now, as also of uncertainty. I don't know when I will lose all hope and break down. Unlike with two-wheelers, I do not know how to fix that. (As told to Bhuvan Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/i-dont-know-when-i-will-lose-all-hope-and-break-down/articleshow/75383918.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Nagpur||A ‘well’ utilized lockdown||Nagpur: The lockdown period — over 31 days now — has given most of us ample time that can be utilized in some or the other constructive activity. But a couple from Karkheda, a hamlet in Washim district, has done something unthinkable during this period. Working day and night, the couple has dug a 25-feet deep well in their front yard without taking any outside help or using drilling machines. Their hard work was rewarded as they hit water at 21 feet. Now, Pushpa and Gajanan Pakhmode are ready to share this water with their neighbours who mocked at the couple when the digging work started on Gudi Padwa, Maharashtrian New Year Day, on March 25. “Anybody would have ridiculed this idea, even me too,” said Gajanan, who owns a 2.5 acre rain-fed land in the village but also works as a construction labourer on sites around Washim and Akola districts. “When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced lockdown, work at our construction site stopped. I came back home. The idea clicked right then,” he added. But the seeds of the idea were sowed some time ago. “In our village, we start feeling water scarcity right from February and the situation worsens by May-June. My wife has to fetch water from a well 3km from here. So, having a well in the house was always our wish,” said Gajanan. When Gajanan shared his plan with Pushpa, she readily agreed. “I told my husband that we will keep digging until we hit water, come what may,” she said adding that the hard work put in digging the well was better than the daily pain of fetching water from 3km away. Gajanan, being a skilled construction worker, knew all the technicalities involved. They started on a 5ft diameter area and after digging for 7 feet, they reduced it to 4.5ft. They used to work from 8am to noon. Work would resume after lunch break, and carry on till late in the night. This continued for 20 days. “After soil cover of up to 5ft, the next 3ft was full of crumbly rock. The next 1ft was the toughest as it was just hard rock. After that, it was barren blackish soil up to 21ft where we hit water,” Gajanan said. “That was the best moment,” said Pushpa who was confident of getting good quantity water from the well. Gajanan plans to build the well properly after the lockdown ends. “It will serve not only us but our neighbours too. I will also build a small tank beside the road to make water available to stray cattle and other animals,” he said. Washim’s district collector Hrishikesh Modak said Pakhmode couple’s story is inspiring for the entire country. “It’s the greatness of hardworking people of India. We have such young and inspiring icons right here in our villages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-well-utilized-lockdown/articleshow/75383928.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Non-essential shops will not open till May 3, says UT administration||CHANDIGARH: Non-essential shops would not open till May 3 as the city falls under the containment zone, the UT administration said on Saturday. On Friday night, the ministry of home affairs had allowed opening of shops selling non-essential items, clarifying that shops in markets or market complexes must remain closed in urban areas, though all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes in non-containment zones can open. It added that e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted to sell only essential goods and that relaxation on opening of shops does not extend to liquor shops. UT adviser Manoj Parida told TOI said as Chandigarh is a containment zone, neighbourhood non-essential shops will not happen in the city till May 3. He said that no industry, factory or e-commerce delivery of non-essential items will be permitted in Chandigarh. On opening of liquor shops, Parida said that manufacturing, sale, supply and distribution of liquor will continue to be banned till further orders. In Panchkula, shops in rural areas will open from Sunday. Permissions will also be given to neighbourhood shops, those in residential areas and standalone shops. However, shops in containment zone will not open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-non-essential-shops-will-not-open-till-may-3-says-ut-administration/articleshow/75384933.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||Over 1,000 negatives from Sandip Ray home lighten Covid-19 gloom||KOLKATA: Feluda might be proud of what filmmaker Sandip Ray did during the lockdown – snoop around the attic of his Bishop Lefroy Road house in south Kolkata to discover a treasure trove of Satyajit Ray memorabilia tucked away without anyone seemingly knowing about its existence. Pls read the entire story on TOI+When Satyajit Ray 'classics' tumbled out of a lockdown clean up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/over-1000-negatives-from-ray-home-lighten-covid-gloom/articleshow/75384690.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||49 flown to EU from Kolkata||Kolkata: Some 49 European Union citizens, many of them Swiss nationals, were airlifted from here on Saturday as countries across the world continued to repatriate citizens stranded in India. Swiss Air operated an Airbus A340-313 to fly back citizens and those from nei-ghbouring countries. The flight took off at 6.30pm, fl-ew to Kochi and then depart-ed for Zurich. The Swiss embassy organised the flight. This is the second batch of EU citizens repatriated from Kolkata. On April 1, the German embassy had organised an Air India fight to repatriate 115 people. All passengers entered through departure gate 3C before the thermal scan. After clearing immigration, they were frisked by CISF personnel in full PPE gear. The Italian consul general and the Swiss honorary consul were at the airport to bid the passengers farewell. Other countries to repatriate citizens from Kolkata include the US, UK, Japan, Malaysia, Bhutan and Armenia. The Americans have airlifted their citizens twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/49-flown-to-eu-from-kolkata/articleshow/75384585.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||TMC MP hits out at NRI docs, guv responds||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra on Saturday hit out at the group of non-resident Bengali physicians, health scientists and healthcare providers — whose letter to the Bengal government had triggered a political diatribe — that it is much easier to become heroes here instead of their adopted countries that are reeling under Covid-19. Moitra’s statement prompted governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to dub it as “irrational”. Moitra, in a series of tweets, posed several questions to the NRI doctors. She wrote: “Question for NRI doctors. Your adopted home UK and US have worst statistic and worst handling of COVID despite (being a) developed economy. Poor govt communication, no PPE and supplies, health staff at risk. Why not write such letters to UK Health Secretary, President Donald Trump or the US state governors? Much easier to become heroes here, right?” In another tweet, she wrote, “11 of 14 NRI docs writing to West Bengal Chief Minister in US, two in UK and one in Germany. With due respect you choose to live practise pay taxes elsewhere. In US cases are 2679 per one million population, deaths 152 per one million population, in UK cases 2034/1 million, deaths 276/ 1 million, India cases are 17/one million, deaths 0.5/one million. Suggest you get down to work in your adopted countries!” Raj Bhavan, which had flagged off this letter to the CM earlier, responded to Moitra: “Shocked! Irrational! NRI docs had in an eye opener representation flagged worrisome issues to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to combat COVID -19 and help West Bengal.” Raj Bhavan and Nabanna have been locked in a battle of words over the Bengal’s government handling of the Covid crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-mp-hits-out-at-nri-docs-guv-responds/articleshow/75384588.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||TMC responds as central team fires letter salvo||KOLKATA: The central team sent to Bengal to assess the Covid-19 situation has asked state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha whether the BSF could act to ensure the team’s “safety and security in the absence of state police support”. The query came in one of the letters the central team sent to the chief secretary on Saturday. The team has also accused Sinha of “violating” the Union government order seeking cooperation for central teams visiting Covid hospitals, quarantine centres and containment zones. Sinha did not reply to the latest letters from the inter-ministerial central team but the Trinamool Congress responded. “What purpose has the team served? It visited districts having no hot spots. Their real aim is to spread the political virus. They are doing it shamelessly, blatantly. IMCT in Bengal stands for I Must Cause Trouble,” Trinamool senior and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien said, also calling it “India’s Most Callous Team”. Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim said the only purpose of the central teams’ visit was to serve the BJP’s interests in Bengal. Central team leader to south Bengal and union additional secretary Apurva Chandra’s letter referred to Sinha’s Friday press meet. “The chief secretary has been reported as saying that the inter-ministerial central team was free to go anywhere but senior state government officers could not waste their time accompanying the team. This is in violation of the ministry of home affairs order,” Chandra said in his letter to Sinha. Chandra’s letter mentioned the lack of any response from the state government and pointed out several inadequacies, including the ban on cellphones at state Covid isolation wards and tests happening in “cramped vans without social-distancing”. It also wanted to know from Sinha whether a Kolkata Police deputy commissioner had told BSF officers on April 21 that the central could not leave the BSF campus in Kolkata without the state government’s permission as a lockdown was in force. Central team leader to north Bengal Vineet Joshi, too, wrote to Sinha and mentioned that the team could not meet the Siliguri Police chief; it needed “some additional information on the lockdown enforcement plan”. Joshi held that a “stricter lockdown” was “absolutely necessary to avoid any further outbreak”. But the Kolkata team had some praise for the state’s stringent lockdown measures in Howrah’s Salkia. “The lockdown was strictly enforced,” Chandra’s letter said. Sinha told the media on Friday that he had sent the central teams’ first set of letters to Swasthya Bhavan and Nabanna officials would reply to the administrative issues. “They have been writing to us. I have sent the letters to Swasthya Bhavan. We have rendered all cooperation. But senior officials are busy fighting the pandemic and cannot accompany the teams. The teams are free to go anywhere they want. We are ready to take positive suggestions. We are not asking them to leave. Neither have we asked them to stay,” Sinha had said. The central teams’ letters also sought additional information from the state on a whole range of issues, including a status report on testing, quarantining and contact-tracing of people back from the Delhi Tablighi Jamaat event in March. It has also wanted to know whether hospitals have a 30-day inventory of protective equipment for healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-responds-as-central-team-fires-letter-salvo/articleshow/75384704.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||Current pattern of lockdown to continue in state till further orders: Oraon||RANCHI: While the Union government on Friday night allowed the re-opening of standalone shops throughout the country, Jharkhand will continue with the current pattern of lockdown until a review is done, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said on Saturday. “As of now, the current pattern of lockdown, with certain relaxations in rural areas and in non-coronavirus zones, will continue. Any new relaxation at the state level will only be announced following a review,” he said. He further said there will be strict enforcement of the lockdown and the social distancing norms in those districts with Covid-19 cases. “So far, the state has done well to restrict the spread of coronavirus and we will have to follow a strict discipline in the coming days as well,” he said. As the number of Covid-19 cases continue to surge daily in the state, nine out of the total 24 districts have been affected by the virus, so far. When asked about bringing back the stranded students and workers from outside the state, Oraon said, “The state government has assigned a few officials to work out modalities for the staggered return of the stranded migrants and the students, but till the Centre gives us a clear-cut guideline in this regard, it isn’t feasible to bring them back at the moment.” Meanwhile, soon after the Central notification on the re-opening of shops was issued, many districts, including Ranchi — which has been declared as a red zone owing to daily surge in the number of Covid-19 cases — have begun notifying the continuation of the current pattern of lockdown. An official communiqué from Ranchi district administration read, “Whatever arrangements made by the district administration in the containment and the non-containment zones in connection to the enforcement of lockdown will continue to remain so till further orders from the state government and the district administrations. Detailed guidelines will be issued soon.” Covid-19 hotspots like Dhanbad and Deoghar have issued similar guidelines,too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/current-pattern-of-lockdown-to-continue-in-state-till-further-orders-oraon/articleshow/75383244.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 26, 2020||Kolkata||Satyajit Ray ‘classics’ tumble out of Kolkata loft in his son’s lockdown clean-up||KOLKATA: Feluda might be proud of what filmmaker Sandip Ray did during the lockdown – snoop around the attic of his Bishop Lefroy Road house in south Kolkata to discover a treasure trove of Satyajit Ray memorabilia tucked away without anyone seemingly knowing about its existence. Pls read entire story on TOI+When Satyajit Ray 'classics' tumbled out of a lockdown clean up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/over-1000-negatives-from-ray-home-lighten-covid-gloom/articleshow/75384693.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||Pizza boy dies at PMCH, swabs sent for tests||SINDRI: A 23-year-old pizza delivery boy died on Friday night after complainoing of chest pain and breathlessness, sparking panic in the town. Doctors at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dhanbad, on Saturday sent his samples for Covid-19 tests. PMCH superintendent Dr A K Choudhary said, “The man came to PMCH on Thursday morning with complaints of chest pain and respiratory problems. A thermal screening revealed he had mild fever and ge was admitted to the high dependency unit. Around 1am, the patient insisted on going back home in Adarsh Nagar. The nurses tried to stop him, but he left the ward after giving a declaration.” Choudhary added, “On Friday evening, someone called up the hospital and informed that his condition has deteriorated and that he should be readmitted. By the time he was brought to PMCH late on Friday evening, the doctors declared him dead. The deceased had told us that he was a college student, but we got to know later that he was a food delivery boy.” Meanwhile, Dhanbad SDO Raj Maheshwaram said, “If the patient left the hospital by pressurising the staff, the latter should have taken help from the police force present at PMCH. We will investigate if we find any lapses by the PMCH authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pizza-boy-dies-at-pmch-swabs-sent-for-tests/articleshow/75383224.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||Life in Hindpiri: Watching TV, terrace cricket new normal||RANCHI: With exit and entry points sealed, calling up helpline numbers for any need and depending on volunteers for ration and medical assistance have become the new normal for residents of Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in the city. However, the residents have become restless and nervous after over three weeks of curfew-like situation without any sign of waning in the number of new Covid-19 cases in the locality. They are now on their toes on who could be infected next — themselves or their near and dear ones. A few journalists, who hailed from the area and asked by their respective employers to go on leave, are also getting restless after sitting idle for many days. Md Imran, a journalist from the area, said, “These days, I am sticking to my mobile phone and check WhatsApp groups for the latest information. I am also sending out messages and guidelines released by the district administration to people in the area to stay orders and follow the norms.” Several residents also told TOI over the phone that they are trying to adapt to the changes in their daily routine but with extreme difficulties. Office-goers and businessmen said boredom is slowly taking over as they used to be busy whole throughout the day earlier. While the older generation are either stuck to the TV or trying to learn indoor games to pass time, the youths asked how long they can play video games watch TV and said they missed their bike rides and streetfood. Senior citizens, on the other hand, are a worried lot because of the lack of medicines and delay in delivery of ration. Md Afasar, a businessman from the Ekra mosque lane, said, “I used to be very busy the whole day as I have a transport business, but with lockdown and sealing of my area, I am now totally dependent on TV to pass time. I have only four things to do — watch news, play with kids, pray and sleep. I am also incurring losses as my business is hit, but I think we are helpless and nothing can be done on that front.” Gulfam Hasan (name changed), a senior citizen and a resident of Nizam nagar area, said, “I am a diabetic and have been hearing that if I call up a helpline number, medicines will be provided, but it takes more than 24 hours for any kind of assistance. I had tried to buy medicines on a couple of occasions, but the shops are closed. I am only praying that the sealing ends soon.” For people living on the Lake Road area, which has not been affected badly, have their own share of woes. The residents complained that they are being “punished” only because their area falls under the Hindpiri police station limits and argued that the administration should ease movement in their area on a par with other parts of the city. “There is a complete sealing in our stretch even when our houses fall on the outer side of Hindpiri. As control and command centre is about 2km away from here, whenever we need assistance of any kind, it becomes very difficult in approaching the authorities,” a Lake Road resident said. Another resident, Bablu Choudhary, added, “We are following lockdown orders and understand the gravity of situation, but with more than a fortnight of sealing, the children are becoming restless and I have to play cricket with them on the terrace to keep them engaged. I do not know how long can we live like this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/life-in-hindpiri-watching-tv-terrace-cricket-new-normal/articleshow/75383252.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 26, 2020||Mumbai||BMC tells hospitals to add oxygen lines to Covid-19 beds||MUMBAI: An important decision has been taken during a high-level meeting held by the civic chief to ensure that every Covid-19 bed in the city has an oxygen line.  A review of patients showed that Covid causes a drop in oxygen levels. “If we give oxygen to patients who are moderately ill, doctors believe there is a chance the patient’s condition won’t deteriorate and he or she may not need mechanical ventilation,” said a BMC official. The number of coronapositive cases in the city may touch 75,000 by May-end, according to projections that the BMC has worked out by extrapolating current trends. The majority of these — 63,000 positive patients — will have no symptoms of fever or cough but 12,000 could have serious symptoms, including breathlessness. Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi told TOI the focus is on ensuring that adequate infrastructure is available for a five-digit patient pool. Apart from ramping up bed capacity in civic, state and private hospitals, plans are afoot to keep asymptomatic patients in hotels, lodges and mega-facilities created within marriage halls, gymkhanas and sports complexes. The jumbo facilities will include the Goregaon Exhibition Centre, where 1,240 beds with oxygen supply are being readied. “Five-hundred beds at NSCI, Worli, will also be provided with such beds,” said a civic official. Such government hospitals include St George’s Hospital, which now has 110 beds with oxygen lines, but will be ramped up to 225, and GT Hospital, which has 50 beds, that will be increased to 180 (see graphic for details). The BMC is also trying to increase the capacity of the dedicated Covid hospital SevenHills to 1,300 beds by May 10. In the private sector, institutions where beds with oxygen lines will be augmented include Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines and Fortis Hospital in Mulund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-tells-hospitals-to-add-oxygen-lines-to-covid-19-beds/articleshow/75384930.cms||Richa Pinto
April 26, 2020||Jamshedpur||Health worker among 7 new Covid cases, Palamu now on virus map||RANCHI/BOKARO: Jharkhand reported seven new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, with a frontline healthcare worker — a 46-year-old pathology lab technician in the city’s Kantatoli area — testing positive for the novel coronavirus. The total number of positive cases in Jharkhand now stands at 66. Of these, 51 are active cases, while 13 have recovered and two died during treatment. Notably, Palamu became the 10th of the 24 districts in the state to be affected by Covid-19 with three cases diagnosed in Leslieganj block on Saturday. In some respite, four of the 10 patients in Bokaro have recovered and were discharged on Saturday. State health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We detected seven more Covid-19 cases in the state on Saturday. Four are from Ranchi — three from Hindpiri locality and one from Kantatoli. The remaining three are from Palamu.” The trio from Hindpiri, including two women aged 37 and 49 and a 12-year-old boy, were lodged at the Rims isolation centre and were tested during the on-going contact tracing exercise on Thursday. Two of them, including the boy, are residents of Hydri apartment. The 49-year-old woman is a family member of a patient detected positive after giving birth to a child on Monday, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra told TOI. The lab technician, the first case in the city’s Kantatoli area, had visited Rims on April 21 and has given his swab samples after he developed symptoms of Covid-19. “We have started a contact-tracing drive in the area and will be screening people and collecting samples,” Mishra said Meanwhile, four of the nine patients who have recovered were discharged from Bokaro General Hospital on Saturday. The district administration and health department officials gave the four a warm send-off with gifts and bouquets. All the four patients are Muslim and said they were happy to return home on the first day of the holy month of Ramzan. Doctors, however, advised them to remain in home quarantine for 14 days, avoid fasting and eat healthy food and drink enough water to prevent dehydration. Bokaro deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “These four are the first lot to be discharged in the district after making a full recovery. I also thank our real superheroes, the doctors who treated them.” Dr Gautam, one of the doctors, who treated them said, “The patients were asymptomatic and they were provided healthy vegetarian diet, a good amount of water and vitamins. A couple of them with cough were administered antibiotics.” One of the patients said, “I am thankful to the doctors and the other hospital staff for taking such good care of us. The love and care we got was more than what we get in our sasural (in-laws house).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/health-worker-among-7-new-covid-cases-palamu-now-on-virus-map/articleshow/75388940.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 26, 2020||Ranchi||Health worker among 7 new Covid cases, Palamu now on virus map||RANCHI/BOKARO: Jharkhand reported seven new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, with a frontline healthcare worker — a 46-year-old pathology lab technician in the city’s Kantatoli area — testing positive for the novel coronavirus. The total number of positive cases in Jharkhand now stands at 66. Of these, 51 are active cases, while 13 have recovered and two died during treatment. Notably, Palamu became the 10th of the 24 districts in the state to be affected by Covid-19 with three cases diagnosed in Leslieganj block on Saturday. In some respite, four of the 10 patients in Bokaro have recovered and were discharged on Saturday. State health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We detected seven more Covid-19 cases in the state on Saturday. Four are from Ranchi — three from Hindpiri locality and one from Kantatoli. The remaining three are from Palamu.” The trio from Hindpiri, including two women aged 37 and 49 and a 12-year-old boy, were lodged at the Rims isolation centre and were tested during the on-going contact tracing exercise on Thursday. Two of them, including the boy, are residents of Hydri apartment. The 49-year-old woman is a family member of a patient detected positive after giving birth to a child on Monday, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra told TOI. The lab technician, the first case in the city’s Kantatoli area, had visited Rims on April 21 and has given his swab samples after he developed symptoms of Covid-19. “We have started a contact-tracing drive in the area and will be screening people and collecting samples,” Mishra said Meanwhile, four of the nine patients who have recovered were discharged from Bokaro General Hospital on Saturday. The district administration and health department officials gave the four a warm send-off with gifts and bouquets. All the four patients are Muslim and said they were happy to return home on the first day of the holy month of Ramzan. Doctors, however, advised them to remain in home quarantine for 14 days, avoid fasting and eat healthy food and drink enough water to prevent dehydration. Bokaro deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “These four are the first lot to be discharged in the district after making a full recovery. I also thank our real superheroes, the doctors who treated them.” Dr Gautam, one of the doctors, who treated them said, “The patients were asymptomatic and they were provided healthy vegetarian diet, a good amount of water and vitamins. A couple of them with cough were administered antibiotics.” One of the patients said, “I am thankful to the doctors and the other hospital staff for taking such good care of us. The love and care we got was more than what we get in our sasural (in-laws house).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/health-worker-among-7-new-covid-cases-palamu-now-on-virus-map/articleshow/75383320.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 26, 2020||India||Use of rapid antibody testing kits put on hold for now||NEW DELHI: The government is weighing the utility of the newly acquired rapid antibody testing kits received from China amid concerns about variations in its results even as the Indian Council of Medical Research is in the process of finalising its report on the tests. Official sources said there are concerns over a wide range of results even though some states found the kits useful. As the government awaits ICMR's report, officials said there is a wariness of the quality of the Chinese-supplied kits, given the problems products from that country have reported elsewhere. They stressed that the payments had not been made and ICMR's views are being awaited. While the rapid tests are seen as a useful and important addition to the options in surveillance and trend spotting in hotspots, the core testing strategy remains focused on RT-PCR – considered the ‘gold-standard’ test for Covid-19, official sources said. The high level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, headed by health minister Harsh Vardhan, on Saturday reviewed the testing strategy and availability of testing kits across the country along with the strategy for hotspots and cluster management. “The understanding so far is that there is no uniformity in results received through these tests. Even ICMR has found certain discrepancies. However, there is also uncertainty about extent to which testing protocols are being followed in field in states,” a senior official said. “In this context, the consensus is to defer a decision on rapid antibody tests,” he added. Another official said ICMR is also in discussion with the two Chinese companies that supplied the five lakh rapid antibody kits earlier this month. “The companies maintain that the test and operation procedure must be conducted in strict accordance with the specifications. Besides, the kits need to be stored according to its storage and stability guidelines,” he said. The government is also of the view that rapid antibody testing may be started once supply of locally manufactured kits starts. Earlier this week, ICMR’s head epidemiologist Dr RR Gangakhedkar had said that states have been asked to put a halt to the usage of serology kits after some complaints were received about its results and that ICMR will investigate the matter. However, the next day, ICMR issued a letter to states asking them to follow its testing protocol on rapid antibody testing. On Friday, health minister Harsh Vardhan said the faulty kits will be returned to the manufacturers. The government maintains there is adequate capacity and RT-PCR kits to conduct more tests. So far, 579957 tests have been conducted through RT-PCR. The GoM was informed that all districts have been asked to follow and further strengthen their contingency plans to combat Covid-19—state-wise details of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals along with adequacy of isolation beds/wards, PPEs, N-95 masks, drugs, ventilators, oxygen cylinders etc. According to the health ministry, currently more than 1 lakh PPEs and N-95 masks are being manufactured every day in the country. There are at present 104 domestic manufactures of PPE and three making N-95 masks. In addition, production of ventilators by domestic manufacturers has also started and orders have been placed for more than 59,000 units through nine manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/use-of-rapid-antibody-testing-kits-put-on-hold-for-now/articleshow/75384948.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 52 boxes of liquor stolen from vendor in Sector 45||CHANDIGARH: Miscreants broke into a liquor vend in Sector 45 between April 22 and 24 and stole liquor boxes Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Sector 33, alleged that some unknown persons stole 52 boxes (624 bottles) of Royal Challenge whisky from his wine shop at Ekta market, Burail. Sector 34 police have registered a theft case against unidentified persons. The police are scrutinizing CCTV footage of the area. In the meantime, the operation cell of the Chandigarh police arrested Raj Kumar of Rupnagar district and Rajesh Kumar alias Raju, a resident of Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, and recovered 25 boxes of IMFL of different brand from Manimajra on Friday night. The police have registered a case against the accused for violating the curfew orders and under relevant Sections of the Excise Act. Later, both the accused were released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-52-boxes-of-liquor-stolen-from-vendor-in-sector-45/articleshow/75384949.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Neighbourhood shops to open as Delhi adheres to MHA order||NEW DELHI: All standalone shops in your neighbourhood and those in residential complexes in Delhi can now remain open with the Delhi government late on Saturday evening agreeing to implement the order of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to this effect. The decision came after day-long confusion over an MHA order late on Friday night which led to many shopkeepers and traders opening their shops, leaving the police with the difficult task of dissuading them from doing so since the Delhi government was yet to decide. The MHA has made it clear that such shops can function with only 50% strength of workers and must ensure wearing of masks and social distancing. These establishments should be registered. However, shops located in markets or complexes and shopping malls will not be allowed to open. This has paved the way for the opening of thousands of shops dealing in hardware, stationery, mobiles, electronic goods and garments; bakeries and sweet shops; and small tailoring units besides others located in the neighbourhood and residential complexes. No relief for restaurantsIt is not uncommon to find shops for water coolers and even furniture running from these places. Delhi government took the decision at a high-level meeting on Saturday. The MHA order had prompted traders to open their shops in the morning amidst confusion as news spread that the state government was yet to take a view on the order. “The decision to implement the MHA order was taken because it had led to huge confusion among the traders all over the city. At some places, it appeared to be developing into a law and order situation because shop owners produced the MHA order when asked to close their shops. So, the government decided to go along with the said order,” said a source. Restaurants and barber shops and salons will, however, remain closed because these shops sell services and not goods. E-commerce companies will only be allowed to sell essential goods. The government also made it clear that liquor shops will remain closed as sale of liquor and tobacco products are banned during the lockdown. Implementation of the MHA order in Delhi may lead to a situation where social distancing would be extremely difficult and may negate the lockdown measures. A majority of the shops in unauthorised colonies are located in narrow lanes where social distancing norms will be difficult to enforce. These are also unlikely to provide hand sanitisers to customers, who are unlikely to take precautions in an informal setting. The city’s traders are questioning the decision on standalone shops and are asking how the local administration would ensure these do not violate norms. “We will appeal to all shop owners to maintain social distancing, wear masks and use hand sanitisers,” said AAP trade wing chief Brijesh Goyal. Ruchin Garg, a resident of Karol Bagh and a trader from Khari Baoli, said there are all kinds of shops, including repair shops, functioning in the narrow lanes of Regarpura in Karol Bagh. “Most of the repair shops have workers coming from border areas. How are workers supposed to reach the place when public transport is not operational,” he said. Objecting to this concession to shops in residential areas, the president of Chandni Chowk Sarva Vyapar Mandal, Sanjay Bhargava, asked why shops in market areas had been left out. “How will you distinguish between commercial and residential areas? In Delhi, there are commercial shops in all residential areas. For example, in Mayur Vihar’s Acharya Niketan Market, so many shops are running from residential complexes. If all these are allowed to open, then what is the point of the lockdown?” he questioned. B S Vohra of an east Delhi RWA said, “Till two days back, Delhi government was arguing if it gives any relaxation, cases will go up and the city will fall short of ICUs and ventilators. What changed all of a sudden?” Watch Restaurants, hair salons, liquor shops to remain closed: MHA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/neighbourhood-shops-to-open-as-delhi-adheres-to-mha-order/articleshow/75384944.cms||Vibha Sharma
April 26, 2020||India||‘Kill switch makes Aarogya app safe’||NEW DELHI: NITI Aayog program director Arnab Kumar, while allaying privacy concerns related to Aarogya Setu, said that the contact tracing app comes with a “kill switch” which allows authorities to store data only for a limited period of time. Digital rights activists and lawyers, however, said that the app has left some questions unanswered, especially in areas of accountability and transparency. “Privacy first is not something we say lightly. We have a kill switch. The data that we will collect will be stored on our servers for only 45 days for people who test negative. For people who are tested positive, we will retain the data for 60 days from the moment they test negative,” Kumar said at a webinar on Saturday. He emphasised three “sacrosanct” principles when it came to the app: privacy, availability and inclusivity. “We have ensured that when your personal data is saved on our servers, it cannot be looked at by anyone, except people who are working with the government on containing Coronavirus,” the NITI Aayog programme director said. Experts on the panel, however, pointed out that the app does not lay down guidelines about who is authorised to look at the data. "The data collected by the app is extremely sensitive since it's related to a person's health. Any initiative that builds a database should inspire trust, but the app does not specify which arms of the government will be authorised to use the data," said legal director of the Software Freedom Law Centre (SFLC), Prasanth Sugathan. He also added that the app "evades" scrutiny as it's not open sourced and does not give permission for "reverse engineering". "When an app is open sourced, developers can borrow from the best practices from around the world and this promotes transparency. Reverse engineering, too, allows people to verify if the app is being used for the purpose it stated in the first place," said Sugathan at the webinar organised by thinktank Skoch. Sidharth Deb from digital advocacy group, Internet Freedom Foundation, also said that Aarogya Setu did not have "safety thresholds" as it does not operate within a proper legal framework. "We do not have a proper data protection bill, and our surveillance laws are archaic. So, there is a possibility of the app being converted into a system of mass surveillance,” he said. Supreme Court lawyer Pawan Duggal said that while the app represented a “quantum leap forward, it also had chinks in the armour.” “The app states that the govenrment would not be liable for unauthorised access of data," he said, adding that there is little accountability in case of misuse of data. Other panelists, which included lawyers Pratibha Jain and Tushar Sannu, argued that the app had necessary safeguards in place, and it's utility could not be questioned, especially since it is being used at an unprecedented time of medical emergency. "Rights of privacy is important, but we also need navigate our way around this pandemic," said Sannu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kill-switch-makes-aarogya-app-safe/articleshow/75384968.cms||Anam Ajmal
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation gets tough: Spit in public and be fined||CHENNAI: In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, Greater Chennai Corporation is considering imposing fines on those caught spitting in public, corporation commissioner G Prakash confirmed to TOI recently in response to a query. Since the virus spreads through droplets, spitting in public will help in the spread of the disease. Many municipal corporations in the city have planned to levy such fines. Now, Greater Chennai Corporation is considering use of its extensive CCTV camera coverage to crack down on this menace, say sources. Public health expert and former chief vector control officer of Greater Chennai Corporation B Dhanraj hailed the move. “The corporation should bring in a legislation for this,” he told TOI. City residents who visit other countries such as Malaysia or Singapore follow these rules properly, but when they return they fall back to their old habits, Dhanraj said. Social activist and convenor of NGO Arappor Iyakkam Jayaram Venkatesan said, if implemented, the corporation’s plan would be an excellent one. “It would provide great awareness to people about how spitting in public spreads infectious diseases. However,the civic body should ensure that it reaches out to people before it begins levying fines,” he said. C R Balaji of Mandaveli said the civic body could tie up with the city police to monitor spitting, especially at bus stands, via the CCTV camera network. Experts, however, added that the corporation should use this opportunity to cut down on open defecation and urination as well. Dhanraj said more toilets with clear signboards should be constructed particularly for people on-the-go. “Often people urinate on the road because they are unable to find a toilet,” he said. Balaji said maintenance of toilets is another major issue that the corporation has to address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporation-gets-tough-spit-in-public-and-be-fined/articleshow/75384976.cms||---
April 26, 2020||India||Can we use BSF for security? Central team to Bengal govt||KOLKATA: The central team sent to West Bengal to assess the Covid situation has asked state chief secretary Rajiv Sinha whether the BSF could act to ensure the team’s “safety and security in the absence of state police support”. The query came in one of the letters the central team sent to the state chief secretary on Saturday. The team has also accused the state chief secretary of “violating” the Union government order seeking cooperation for central teams visiting Covid hospitals, quarantine centres and containment zones. Though Sinha did not reply to the latest letters from the inter-ministerial central team (IMCT), Trinamool Congress responded with a salvo. “What purpose has the team served? It visited districts having no hot spots. Their real aim is to spread the political virus. They are doing it shamelessly, blatantly,” Trinamool senior and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien said. Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim said the only purpose of the central teams’ visit was to “only serve BJP’s interests in Bengal”. The letter from Union additional secretary Apurva Chandra, who led the central team leader to south Bengal, referred to Sinha’s Friday meeting with the press. “The chief secretary has been reported as saying that the IMCT was free to go anywhere but senior state government officers could not waste their time accompanying the team. This is in violation of the ministry of home affairs’ order,” Chandra said in his letter to Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/can-we-use-bsf-for-security-central-team-to-bengal-govt/articleshow/75384982.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Can’t deny treatment to non-Covid patients, Delhi government tells all hospitals||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has directed the heads of all government and private hospitals to ensure that patients without Covid-19 links going to non-Covid-19 hospitals are not denied treatment. The order was issued after the health department learned that private and government hospitals were not taking in routine and serious patients related to routine maintenance haemodialysis, cardiology, cardiothoracic, neurology, neuro-surgery, gynecology, obstetrics and several other ailments on different pretexts. Instances also came to the notice of the department that patients are being referred to Covid-dedicated hospitals without any confirmed report of infection by the novel coronavirus even though the hospitals have the facility to treat such patients. The health department has also asked the hospitals to must ensure that all safety protocols are being followed by their doctors and other health care workers without fail. Reports of government and private hospitals compelling the patients to provide Covid-19 negative reports before treatment for illness other than influenza like illness have also come to the notice of the government. The government has already asked all non- Covid hospitals to maintain their full operations for the care of patients and try to accommodate the load of the hospitals that have been declared as Covid hospitals. “If non-Covid hospitals start referring routine patients on mere suspicion of Covid-19, then in such a scenario all suspected cases will be flooded in tertiary level dedicated hospitals leading to compromise of serious coronavirus patients,” the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-deny-treatment-to-non-covid-patients-delhi-government-tells-all-hospitals/articleshow/75384983.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Online cash facility for jail inmates||CHANDIGARH: Given the difficulties faced by Burail jail inmates in buying daily use items from its canteen following suspension of meetings in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the jail administration has now come out with a solution of online money transfer. Earlier, the family members used to give cash to inmates during such meetings. Jail AIG Virat said they have tied up with a private bank and enabled online money transfer facility for inmates through its official website, chdmodeljail-.gov.in. As the jail administration is not allowing visit of relatives to jail and allowing only emulakat (meetings through video conferencing), the online money transfer was found the best solution to provide money to the inmates, he added. Under the new arrangement, the relatives of inmates are allowed to send Rs 1,500 per week and maximum Rs 6,000 a month. The money can be transferred by relatives after filing details of the inmate concerned and their own details on the jail’s official website. The same money will be transferred to the inmate by the jail administration, he added. Meanwhile, the UT administration has also decided to start special screening of prisoners for Covid-19. According to the jail data, at present, there are a total of 1,007 inmates against the sanctioned strength of 1,120 in the Burail Model Jail. Out of the 1,007 inmates, total number of convicts is 420 including 400 male and 20 females. Undertrial prisoners are 583 — 547 males and 36 females. There are four children in the prison as well. The number of foreign nationals is six, and convicted prisoners currently on parole are four. UT adviser Manoj Parida, said a special drive will be started for examining the jail inmates, so that there is no outbreak of Covid-19 in the jail premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-online-cash-facility-for-jail-inmates/articleshow/75384972.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 26, 2020||Delhi||NDMC issues notices to absentee mosquito breeding checkers||NEW DELHI: Facing issues in carrying out sanitation tasks due to shortage of staff, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued notices to mosquito breeding checkers who have not been coming for work since March 22 inspite of repeated circulars. The civic agency issued call back notices on Friday to absentee health workers to rejoin within 2 days. The absentee workers form 20-30% of the total work force and stay in NCR . The civic agency had offered to provide facilities to stay for workers living in NCR. However, DBC workers argue that civic agency is making is not making efforts to provide transportation facility and payment of regular salaries, which is dissuading many to attend work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-issues-notices-to-absentee-mosquito-breeding-checkers/articleshow/75384994.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chennai||‘Fewer Covid-19 cases in hotter regions’||CHENNAI: A team of researchers from IIT Madras has found that there is a lower incidence of Covid-19 in regions recording high temperatures. The team, which did a statistical analysis of more than 1.07 lakh cases from 85 different locations in the most affected countries, found that 90% of the total confirmed cases were recorded in regions with temperatures between 3°C and 12°C. On the surge in cases in Chennai, which records a maximum of 36°C, the researchers indicated that people’s adherence to lockdown measures and advice of medical experts also play an important role in bringing down cases. Professor Sachin S Gunthe from IIT-M’s department of civil engineering said previous studies on other influenza viruses have shown that their survival period on certain surfaces may reduce when exposed to high temperatures or high UV index. “This study for coronavirus, however, is purely based on statistical evidences. There is no physiological evidence as yet to prove this fact. Nevertheless, if what we have seen in the study is true then if people follow the lockdown rules strictly and observe the advice of medical experts, we may come out of this crisis quicker than other nations,” he said. The IIT-M study, published in Journal of Public Health, showed that an increase in the UV index, which is the strength of sunburn producing ultraviolet radiation, also correlated with a decrease in the number of cases. It led the researchers to suggest that artificial UV radiation could be one of the effective ways to sterilize builtup environments for reducing community spread. Rainfall, humidity and cloud cover have no effect on the virus, according to the statistical analysis. The researchers took into account previous studies that showed influenza-causing viruses peak during cold temperatures and gradually subside as temperatures get warmer. Since people with Covid-19 mostly exhibit flu-like symptoms, the team expected coronavirus to show similar patterns, which is physiologically to be proven. The researchers arrived at the results by preparing scatter plots or mathematical diagrams with the number of confirmed cases and the various meteorological parameters. Data on confirmed cases in cities, reported between February 2 and March 7 that contributed to 70% of the total number of cases in countries like China, South Korea, Italy, Iran, France, Germany, USA, Spain and Japan were plotted against weather parameters like maximum, minimum and average temperatures, UV index, precipitation, humidity and cloud cover. The researchers said their results are preliminary and require a detailed physiological studies involving the confirmed cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fewer-covid-19-cases-in-hotter-regions/articleshow/75384992.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Azadpur mandi to remain open||NEW DELHI: All shops in Azadpur mandi — Asia’s largest wholesale market for fruits and vegetables — will remain open on Monday. The authorities issued the clarification amid rumours that a number of shops would remain shut over the rising health concerns after the death of a trader, who had tested positive for novel coronavirus. Agricultural Produce Management Committee (APMC) chairman Adil Ahmad Khan said the wholesale market would continue to remain open and clarified that rumours of closing the market were being floated to create panic. “The supply chain will be maintained,” Khan clarified. Azadpur vegetable dealers’ association’s president and APMC member Anil Malhotra, however, said that fear had set in among many traders and they preferred to remain inside homes while their staff worked at the mandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-azadpur-mandi-to-remain-open/articleshow/75385000.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 52 drug peddlers arrested in 113 days||CHANDIGARH: Around 52 drug peddlers have been arrested while trying to smuggle heroin, charas, ganja, banned injectable vials and medicines from different parts of the city from January 1 to April 24. The data reveals that 16 police stations in the city have registered a total of 48 FIRs under the NDPS Act in the last four months. The police also arrested four peddlers in two FIRs and recovered 180 gram heroin from their possession during the lockdown period. According to the police record, maximum drug peddlers were arrested with heroin and banned injectable vials. The police have recovered 907.26 gram heroin from the peddlers, while 377 banned vials have also been seized. The police have also recovered 41.6 kg ganja and 5.850 kg charas till date. They also recovered 730 banned capsules and 15 bottles of cough syrup. According to the data, maximum 24 drug peddlers were arrested in 23 FIRs in January. In February, the police caught 14 peddlers. In March, the police arrested 10 peddlers and registered nine FIRs. Four drug peddlers have been arrested in two FIRs this month. Sector 31 police also arrested one peddler with 50 gram heroin, one pistol, five cartridges and fake currency notes valued at Rs 39,900 on February 21. Charanjit Singh Virk, DSP, PRO, UT police, said they have adopted a zero tolerance policy towards drug trafficking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-52-drug-peddlers-arrested-in-113-days/articleshow/75385001.cms||Pawan Tiwari
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Rajinikanth fan kills Vijay fan over which icon did more charity||VILLUPURAM: A 26-year old ardent fan of Rajinikanth was arrested on Friday for murdering his 22-year-old neighbor, a die-hard fan of actor Vijay, during a heated argument over whose favorite hero made higher contribution towards the COVID-19 relief work. He was remanded at Tindivanam Central Prison on Friday evening. Marakkanam police said the deceased was M Yuvaraj. The accused was identified as A Dinesh Babu. They lived in opposite houses on Sandhikappan Temple Street at Marakkanam town. The incident took place on Thursday afternoon when Yuvaraj, Dinesh Babu and Yuvaraj’s younger brother Pavithran were chitchatting about impacts of COVID-19 and the lockdown. An altercation broke out between Yuvaraj and Dinesh Babu about which of their favorite heroes had donated a higher amount to the COVID-19 relief fund. The heated argument escalated to abuses and suddenly Dinesh Babu threw a stone towards Yuvaraj. The stone hit Yuvaraj on his right eyebrow. He was rushed to Marakkanam GH by local residents, but was declared brought dead. His body was then sent to a private hospital in Kalapet for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajinikanth-fan-kills-vijay-fan-over-which-icon-did-more-charity/articleshow/75385004.cms||Karal Marx
April 26, 2020||India||Hungry, thirsty he walked; but now, his body’ll return home||BHOPAL: In a desperate attempt to reach home, a migrant worker from MP’s Sidhi walked nearly 60km, without food or water, before collapsing in a jungle in Maharashtra and dying on April 24. A few hours later, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that his government would bring back stranded labourers in different parts of the country. By then, Motilal Sahu’s impoverished kin had pooled together Rs 35,000 to bring his body back to their village, Tilai, in Sidhi’s Bahri region. The ambulance carrying Sahu crossed Bhopal on Saturday, with home still 700km away. Sahu worked as a house painter in Navi Mumbai and was stuck there in the lockdown. Out of money and food, he and about 50 other migrant workers — including nine from MP — set off on foot. SI Kamlakar Munde told TOI that the group started from Nerul in Navi Mumbai around 2.30am on April 22. “Some of them had mobile phones and were leading the group with GPS directions. At 5pm, Motilal collapsed,” said Munde. “They had not found anything to eat or drink for over 24 hours when they saw water in a jungle. Sahu drank the water and fell unconscious. It took them three hours to find a hospital. By then, he was dead,” Sahu’s cousin Sanjay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hungry-thirsty-he-walked-but-now-his-bodyll-return-home/articleshow/75385006.cms||Amarjeet Singh
April 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop booked for violating orders on isolation||NEW DELHI: A case was registered against a woman police officer for violating home quarantine orders. The head constable was supposed to be in home quarantine but when officers went to check at her residence in Paschim Vihar she was not there. Later she was found in Gurgaon and a case under Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act was registered. In his complaint, head constable Gopi Ram, beat officer at Paschim Vihar West police station, said on April 10 a woman head constable residing in Ekta Enclave was asked to remain in home quarantine by a doctor. “I went to check on April 16 and 17, but she was not present at home,” Ram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cop-booked-for-violating-orders-on-isolation/articleshow/75385012.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Three kids infected, mom stays along in hospital||HUBBALLI: For 12 days now, the mother of three children who tested positive for Covid-19 has been staying with them in hospital though she has tested negative. Doctors said they had to bring her to the isolated ward with special permission as the kids, aged three to seven, would not stop crying, demanding to see her. The children — two boys aged 3 and 5 and a seven-yearold girl — were confirmed infected on April 13 when their test reports came in. While their father also tested positive, their mother was found uninfected. Following standard protocol, district authorities took the children and father to Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). The mother was sent to a government quarantine facility. On the first day, nurses of the Covid-19 ward struggled to calm the siblings. On special permission, their mother, in a PPE suit, now sits with them, at a distance. Kids may bedischarged soonNurses had a tough time administering daily checks and feeding the children.The twoboys were particularly unmanageable, said hospital staff, as they cried continuously, demanding to see their mother. Their mother was also worried and requested doctors to allow her to stay with the children. The administration agreed, provided the 32-year-old woman wore protective equipment at all times and maintained a distance from the children. Her mere presence has calmed the children, hospital staff said, while they go aboutfeeding them and administering checks and medicine. Allthreechildren are asymptomatic anddoing well and are likely to be sent home in a week, doctors said. “The children and their mother are doing fine,” KIMS director Dr Ramlingappa Antaratani said. “We allowed her to stay on humanitarian grounds as the children were inconsolable. She is taking utmost precaution,justlikedoctorsof theCovidward.Her swabs have been sent twice for tests and have come negative.” Another sample has been sent a day ago and results are awaited, doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-three-kids-infected-mom-stays-along-in-hospital/articleshow/75384977.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
April 26, 2020||India||As govt faces hurdles, free pulses reach 15% of families||NEW DELHI: Barely 15% of families entitled for highly subsidised foodgrains under the NFSA have got one kilogram of free pulses during this month. The government had announced to provide one kilogram free pulses per family for three months — April, May and June — under PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna. In a statement, the consumer affairs ministry said about 30,000 tonnes of pulses have been distributed so far, which translates to at least three crore families who would have received a kilo of pulses free of cost. The release also said the scheme will benefit about 20 crore families covered under National Food Security Act. “While, as on date, about 30,000 tonnes of pluses have been distributed, but this would speed up in the first week of May.” the ministry said. It also listed out several challenges in distribution of pulses. It said unlike foodgrain, the pulses had be milled and supplied to states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-govt-faces-hurdles-free-pulses-reach-15-of-families/articleshow/75385025.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu’s power usage drops by 14%||CHENNAI: Covid-19 lockdown has seen 9% drop in power consumption across the country between March 2019 and 2020, whereas in Tamil Nadu, the drop is 14%. Tangedco feels the drop in consumption for the entire lockdown period, if it is lifted after May 3, could be over 11,000 million units. On an average, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption had been 10,000 million units per month before the lockdown was announced. The total power consumption in the country in March 2019 was 1,08,355 million units, but it came down to 98,404 million units in March this year, as per the data released by the Central Electricity Authority. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption in March last year was 10,925 million units, whereas in March this year, it was 9,349 million units. In April last year, the total consumption in Tamil Nadu was 10,500 million units. Looking at the drop of consumption in the last week of March, when lockdown was announced, and extrapolating it for the entire lockdown period, the total drop in power consumption between March 25 and May 3 could be around 11,000 million units, which is a little over one month’s average power consumption in the state, said a senior Tangedco official. The first phase national lockdown started on March 25. All industries and commercial establishments shut shops then to prevent spreading of the pandemic. “Our drop in consumption is more because we have large number of industrial and commercial consumers. As of January, this year, there were 36.44 lakh commercial consumers and 7.47 lakh industrial consumers in Tamil Nadu. Since the lockdown began, there is virtually no demand for power from industries and commercial establishments,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom expects the demand to increase in the coming days as the government has issued directions to restart industries in rural areas. “With delta farmers preparing for kuruvai season, the demand is expected to increase marginally next week. But a major shift can be expected only when industries and offices start functioning in Chennai and surrounding areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, the state has been harvesting wind power in the last few days. “Wind power generation normally starts in May. But this year, wind season has already begun. We get reasonably good winds during evenings and early mornings. We put some thermal units on standby mode when wind power generation picks up. We harvested 30 million units of wind power on Friday. The peak hour generation was 1,386MW,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadus-power-usage-drops-by-14/articleshow/75385039.cms||Sivakumar B
April 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu’s power usage drops by 14%||CHENNAI: Covid-19 lockdown has seen 9% drop in power consumption across the country between March 2019 and 2020, whereas in Tamil Nadu, the drop is 14%. Tangedco feels the drop in consumption for the entire lockdown period, if it is lifted after May 3, could be over 11,000 million units. On an average, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption had been 10,000 million units per month before the lockdown was announced. The total power consumption in the country in March 2019 was 1,08,355 million units, but it came down to 98,404 million units in March this year, as per the data released by the Central Electricity Authority. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption in March last year was 10,925 million units, whereas in March this year, it was 9,349 million units. In April last year, the total consumption in Tamil Nadu was 10,500 million units. Looking at the drop of consumption in the last week of March, when lockdown was announced, and extrapolating it for the entire lockdown period, the total drop in power consumption between March 25 and May 3 could be around 11,000 million units, which is a little over one month’s average power consumption in the state, said a senior Tangedco official. The first phase national lockdown started on March 25. All industries and commercial establishments shut shops then to prevent spreading of the pandemic. “Our drop in consumption is more because we have large number of industrial and commercial consumers. As of January, this year, there were 36.44 lakh commercial consumers and 7.47 lakh industrial consumers in Tamil Nadu. Since the lockdown began, there is virtually no demand for power from industries and commercial establishments,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom expects the demand to increase in the coming days as the government has issued directions to restart industries in rural areas. “With delta farmers preparing for kuruvai season, the demand is expected to increase marginally next week. But a major shift can be expected only when industries and offices start functioning in Chennai and surrounding areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, the state has been harvesting wind power in the last few days. “Wind power generation normally starts in May. But this year, wind season has already begun. We get reasonably good winds during evenings and early mornings. We put some thermal units on standby mode when wind power generation picks up. We harvested 30 million units of wind power on Friday. The peak hour generation was 1,386MW,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadus-power-usage-drops-by-14/articleshow/75385036.cms||Sivakumar B
April 26, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu’s power usage drops by 14%||CHENNAI: Covid-19 lockdown has seen 9% drop in power consumption across the country between March 2019 and 2020, whereas in Tamil Nadu, the drop is 14%. Tangedco feels the drop in consumption for the entire lockdown period, if it is lifted after May 3, could be over 11,000 million units. On an average, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption had been 10,000 million units per month before the lockdown was announced. The total power consumption in the country in March 2019 was 1,08,355 million units, but it came down to 98,404 million units in March this year, as per the data released by the Central Electricity Authority. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption in March last year was 10,925 million units, whereas in March this year, it was 9,349 million units. In April last year, the total consumption in Tamil Nadu was 10,500 million units. Looking at the drop of consumption in the last week of March, when lockdown was announced, and extrapolating it for the entire lockdown period, the total drop in power consumption between March 25 and May 3 could be around 11,000 million units, which is a little over one month’s average power consumption in the state, said a senior Tangedco official. The first phase national lockdown started on March 25. All industries and commercial establishments shut shops then to prevent spreading of the pandemic. “Our drop in consumption is more because we have large number of industrial and commercial consumers. As of January, this year, there were 36.44 lakh commercial consumers and 7.47 lakh industrial consumers in Tamil Nadu. Since the lockdown began, there is virtually no demand for power from industries and commercial establishments,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom expects the demand to increase in the coming days as the government has issued directions to restart industries in rural areas. “With delta farmers preparing for kuruvai season, the demand is expected to increase marginally next week. But a major shift can be expected only when industries and offices start functioning in Chennai and surrounding areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, the state has been harvesting wind power in the last few days. “Wind power generation normally starts in May. But this year, wind season has already begun. We get reasonably good winds during evenings and early mornings. We put some thermal units on standby mode when wind power generation picks up. We harvested 30 million units of wind power on Friday. The peak hour generation was 1,386MW,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadus-power-usage-drops-by-14/articleshow/75385040.cms||Sivakumar B
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s power usage drops by 14%||CHENNAI: Covid-19 lockdown has seen 9% drop in power consumption across the country between March 2019 and 2020, whereas in Tamil Nadu, the drop is 14%. Tangedco feels the drop in consumption for the entire lockdown period, if it is lifted after May 3, could be over 11,000 million units. On an average, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption had been 10,000 million units per month before the lockdown was announced. The total power consumption in the country in March 2019 was 1,08,355 million units, but it came down to 98,404 million units in March this year, as per the data released by the Central Electricity Authority. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption in March last year was 10,925 million units, whereas in March this year, it was 9,349 million units. In April last year, the total consumption in Tamil Nadu was 10,500 million units. Looking at the drop of consumption in the last week of March, when lockdown was announced, and extrapolating it for the entire lockdown period, the total drop in power consumption between March 25 and May 3 could be around 11,000 million units, which is a little over one month’s average power consumption in the state, said a senior Tangedco official. The first phase national lockdown started on March 25. All industries and commercial establishments shut shops then to prevent spreading of the pandemic. “Our drop in consumption is more because we have large number of industrial and commercial consumers. As of January, this year, there were 36.44 lakh commercial consumers and 7.47 lakh industrial consumers in Tamil Nadu. Since the lockdown began, there is virtually no demand for power from industries and commercial establishments,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom expects the demand to increase in the coming days as the government has issued directions to restart industries in rural areas. “With delta farmers preparing for kuruvai season, the demand is expected to increase marginally next week. But a major shift can be expected only when industries and offices start functioning in Chennai and surrounding areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, the state has been harvesting wind power in the last few days. “Wind power generation normally starts in May. But this year, wind season has already begun. We get reasonably good winds during evenings and early mornings. We put some thermal units on standby mode when wind power generation picks up. We harvested 30 million units of wind power on Friday. The peak hour generation was 1,386MW,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadus-power-usage-drops-by-14/articleshow/75385023.cms||Sivakumar B
April 26, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu’s power usage drops by 14%||CHENNAI: Covid-19 lockdown has seen 9% drop in power consumption across the country between March 2019 and 2020, whereas in Tamil Nadu, the drop is 14%. Tangedco feels the drop in consumption for the entire lockdown period, if it is lifted after May 3, could be over 11,000 million units. On an average, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption had been 10,000 million units per month before the lockdown was announced. The total power consumption in the country in March 2019 was 1,08,355 million units, but it came down to 98,404 million units in March this year, as per the data released by the Central Electricity Authority. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption in March last year was 10,925 million units, whereas in March this year, it was 9,349 million units. In April last year, the total consumption in Tamil Nadu was 10,500 million units. Looking at the drop of consumption in the last week of March, when lockdown was announced, and extrapolating it for the entire lockdown period, the total drop in power consumption between March 25 and May 3 could be around 11,000 million units, which is a little over one month’s average power consumption in the state, said a senior Tangedco official. The first phase national lockdown started on March 25. All industries and commercial establishments shut shops then to prevent spreading of the pandemic. “Our drop in consumption is more because we have large number of industrial and commercial consumers. As of January, this year, there were 36.44 lakh commercial consumers and 7.47 lakh industrial consumers in Tamil Nadu. Since the lockdown began, there is virtually no demand for power from industries and commercial establishments,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom expects the demand to increase in the coming days as the government has issued directions to restart industries in rural areas. “With delta farmers preparing for kuruvai season, the demand is expected to increase marginally next week. But a major shift can be expected only when industries and offices start functioning in Chennai and surrounding areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, the state has been harvesting wind power in the last few days. “Wind power generation normally starts in May. But this year, wind season has already begun. We get reasonably good winds during evenings and early mornings. We put some thermal units on standby mode when wind power generation picks up. We harvested 30 million units of wind power on Friday. The peak hour generation was 1,386MW,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadus-power-usage-drops-by-14/articleshow/75385041.cms||Sivakumar B
April 26, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu’s power usage drops by 14%||CHENNAI: Covid-19 lockdown has seen 9% drop in power consumption across the country between March 2019 and 2020, whereas in Tamil Nadu, the drop is 14%. Tangedco feels the drop in consumption for the entire lockdown period, if it is lifted after May 3, could be over 11,000 million units. On an average, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption had been 10,000 million units per month before the lockdown was announced. The total power consumption in the country in March 2019 was 1,08,355 million units, but it came down to 98,404 million units in March this year, as per the data released by the Central Electricity Authority. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption in March last year was 10,925 million units, whereas in March this year, it was 9,349 million units. In April last year, the total consumption in Tamil Nadu was 10,500 million units. Looking at the drop of consumption in the last week of March, when lockdown was announced, and extrapolating it for the entire lockdown period, the total drop in power consumption between March 25 and May 3 could be around 11,000 million units, which is a little over one month’s average power consumption in the state, said a senior Tangedco official. The first phase national lockdown started on March 25. All industries and commercial establishments shut shops then to prevent spreading of the pandemic. “Our drop in consumption is more because we have large number of industrial and commercial consumers. As of January, this year, there were 36.44 lakh commercial consumers and 7.47 lakh industrial consumers in Tamil Nadu. Since the lockdown began, there is virtually no demand for power from industries and commercial establishments,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom expects the demand to increase in the coming days as the government has issued directions to restart industries in rural areas. “With delta farmers preparing for kuruvai season, the demand is expected to increase marginally next week. But a major shift can be expected only when industries and offices start functioning in Chennai and surrounding areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, the state has been harvesting wind power in the last few days. “Wind power generation normally starts in May. But this year, wind season has already begun. We get reasonably good winds during evenings and early mornings. We put some thermal units on standby mode when wind power generation picks up. We harvested 30 million units of wind power on Friday. The peak hour generation was 1,386MW,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tamil-nadus-power-usage-drops-by-14/articleshow/75388375.cms||Sivakumar B
April 26, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu’s power usage drops by 14%||CHENNAI: Covid-19 lockdown has seen 9% drop in power consumption across the country between March 2019 and 2020, whereas in Tamil Nadu, the drop is 14%. Tangedco feels the drop in consumption for the entire lockdown period, if it is lifted after May 3, could be over 11,000 million units. On an average, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption had been 10,000 million units per month before the lockdown was announced. The total power consumption in the country in March 2019 was 1,08,355 million units, but it came down to 98,404 million units in March this year, as per the data released by the Central Electricity Authority. Similarly, Tamil Nadu’s power consumption in March last year was 10,925 million units, whereas in March this year, it was 9,349 million units. In April last year, the total consumption in Tamil Nadu was 10,500 million units. Looking at the drop of consumption in the last week of March, when lockdown was announced, and extrapolating it for the entire lockdown period, the total drop in power consumption between March 25 and May 3 could be around 11,000 million units, which is a little over one month’s average power consumption in the state, said a senior Tangedco official. The first phase national lockdown started on March 25. All industries and commercial establishments shut shops then to prevent spreading of the pandemic. “Our drop in consumption is more because we have large number of industrial and commercial consumers. As of January, this year, there were 36.44 lakh commercial consumers and 7.47 lakh industrial consumers in Tamil Nadu. Since the lockdown began, there is virtually no demand for power from industries and commercial establishments,” said a senior Tangedco official. The discom expects the demand to increase in the coming days as the government has issued directions to restart industries in rural areas. “With delta farmers preparing for kuruvai season, the demand is expected to increase marginally next week. But a major shift can be expected only when industries and offices start functioning in Chennai and surrounding areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, the state has been harvesting wind power in the last few days. “Wind power generation normally starts in May. But this year, wind season has already begun. We get reasonably good winds during evenings and early mornings. We put some thermal units on standby mode when wind power generation picks up. We harvested 30 million units of wind power on Friday. The peak hour generation was 1,386MW,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadus-power-usage-drops-by-14/articleshow/75385042.cms||Sivakumar B
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake cops beat up Gujarat man who went out to buy milk||AHMEDABAD: Two men, one of them dressed in police uniform beat a man in Naroda with sticks when he had come out to buy milk for his family. Later, he came to know that the assailants were not policemen. Naroda police have registered a case and are probing it. The assault victim, Khushal Parmar, filed a complaint at Naroda police station stating that on Thursday evening, when he he had gone out to buy milk, two men on a motorcycle had stopped him. “One of them wore a police uniform. They stopped him and asked why he had come out during lockdown. Parmar told them that he had come out to buy milk. After that they beat Khushal with sticks and sped away,” said a police official. According to the FIR, after going home, Parmar came to know that the people who had beaten him were not policemen. His neighbours told him that they too had been beaten by two men on a motorcycle and one had worn a police uniform. “Parmar then approached Naroda police station and lodged a complaint. We are looking for CCTV footage to identify the two persons who posed as policemen and beat up people,” said a senior official of Naroda police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-fake-cops-beat-up-naroda-man-who-went-out-to-buy-milk/articleshow/75385029.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karna​taka: How 29-year-old on ventilator beat Covid-19||BENGALURU: He was the youngest patient on a ventilator in Karna taka. After three days of a grim battle for life, healthcare professional at a private hospital Sandesh (name changed) has recovered and is now in home quarantine. The 29-year-old man said: “On March 28, a patient in my locality came to the hospital where I work. He claimed he didn’t have fever, but his body temperature was high. I moved him in a wheelchair and also held his hand while checking the medical records. He was referred to a government hospital for tests. Two days later, I developed symptoms. The test results showed I was Covid-19 positive.” Interestingly, the man who had met Sandesh tested negative. “This is a unique case. The senior citizen may have been in touch with a person with travel history,” said a senior health officer. The senior citizen was treated in a private hospital but passed away due to pneumonia. On April 1, Sandesh was rushed to the same hospital as he needed oxygen support. “As my condition didn’t improve, I was put on a ventilator for three days. On Day 1 of being admitted, I couldn’t walk more than four steps. Though I was quite fit earlier, the virus took a heavy toll,” he added. It’s the first time he was an in-patient and hospital authorities picked up the tab. As a precautionary measure, the private hospital where Sandesh worked was temporarily shut down by BBMP. The senior citizen’s death left Sandesh broken. “I have no regrets of helping him. But I’m sad he didn’t survive. His son apologised that I had to suffer too,” said Sandesh, who is still in touch with the family. While it was a pain to be in the hospital for 15 days, Sandesh kept in touch with his concerned siblings and parents via video calls. “After I got better and was off the ventilator, I started watching movies on my cellphone,” he said. His favourite film, ‘Hum Aap Ke Hai Kaun’ starring Madhuri Dixit and Salman Khan, gave him much solace. He was discharged on April 15. Sandesh’s case is a mystery for the health department, as the patient he was in touch turned out to be Covid negative. Officials are now looking for clues to explain how he contracted the disease||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-how-29-year-old-on-ventilator-beat-covid-19/articleshow/75385005.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 26, 2020||India||Experts develop a seaweed sanitiser||The Kochi-headquartered Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) has developed a seaweed-based hand sanitiser as a preventive hygiene measure in the backdrop of the battle against Covid-19, reports Sudha Nambudiri. The extract of the product is from red algae, which is commonly found in seawater and is known to possess strong anti-viral properties. “The product includes isopropyl alcohol (above 65%) and seaweed extract constituting chemical components like carrageenan, which is known for its strong anti-microbial and anti-viral properties. Also, Aloe vera gel has been used in the product as a moisturizing agent,” said Susheela Mathew, head, department of biochemistry and nutrition division, CIFT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/experts-develop-a-seaweed-sanitiser/articleshow/75385045.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Water cans run out quickly as demand soars||CHENNAI: Drinking water can dealers ran out of stock as people ordered more bubbletop cans to stock up for four days as the government did not exempt water supply from the lockdown. The home delivery boys were flooded with calls since morning. People depend on bubbletop cans as water from borewells is not potable and the Metrowater supply is either unreliable or does not cover the entire city. As delivery boys could not supply, people in many neighbourhoods rushed to buy bottles and cans before shops closed at 3pm. In some areas, traders were filling up 20litre cans to those who came with empty cans. A water wholesaler in Royapettah said he would not be open the shop for four days as its not allowed. The lack of clarity on whether water can be supplied or not lead to a scramble. Harikrishnan, of Besant Nagar, said, “My supplier was not sure whether he will be allowed to deliver. So, I bought 5litre cans. But he managed to deliver two cans later in the day. But it will not be adequate.” Similar was the scene at St Thomas Mount, Royapettah, Adyar and a few other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-water-cans-run-out-quickly-as-demand-soars/articleshow/75385058.cms||---
April 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru man beats Covid-19, set to be first plasma donor||BENGALURU: A 40-year-old man, treated for Covid-19 in Bengaluru, is likely to be the first plasma donor in Karnataka. Praveen (name changed) who hails from Kerala and lives in Bengaluru has volunteered to donate convalescent plasma to help a patient in critical condition. Clinical trials of plasma therapy, approved by the Drug Controller General of India, were launched at the Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute on Saturday. The trials are in collaboration with city-based HCG Private Ltd. About 55% of blood is plasma, the almost clear liquid part. The plasma of a person cured of an illness contains antibodies, protective proteins that fight disease and antigens like viruses. This convalescent plasma offers hope for Covid-19 patients. “I read about plasma therapy and learnt that HCG was applying to conduct clinical trials. I connected with Dr Vishal Rao, principal investigator. I’ll do anything needed to help patients,” Praveen told STOI. He’ll undergo tests on Monday to confirm if he can be a donor. This HR professional was working in Dubai and returned to India on March 20. At Kempegowda International Airport, his hand was stamped to ensure 14 days of home quarantine. Another person offers to donate plasmaOn March 28, I developed a fever which did not subside even though I took paracetamol. My mother, a homeopath, and father, a retired Army personnel, suggested I get tested at RGICD. I tested positive after two days,” he said. He was admitted to a private hospital and discharged on April 14. He is currently on home quarantine for 14 days. High fever was the only symptom. “It’s a baby step towards a big dream,” said Dr Vishal. At the project launch on Saturday, Praveen spoke to health minister B Sriramulu and medical education minister K Sudhakar via video calls. Both ministers urged all recovered, eligible patients to donate plasma to help other patients. On Saturday evening, another Covid-recovered person, Jimmy Xavier from Bengaluru, offered to donate plasma. As Xavier was recently discharged, he’ll be eligible to donate only after he completes 14 days of home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-man-beats-covid-19-set-to-be-first-plasma-donor/articleshow/75385061.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Neighbourhood shops may reopen in Karnataka from Monday||BENGALURU: Taking cue from the Centre, the BSY government is likely to allow neighbourhood standalone shops providing non-essential goods to reopen from Monday across the state, barring hotspots and containment zones. “The government will issue an order in this regard on Sunday or Monday,” chief secretary TM Vijaya Bhaskar told TOI on Saturday. CM BS Yediyurappa and the state’s and Covid-19 taskforce will discuss the matter on Sunday. Late Friday, the Centre issued guidelines allowing opening of shops in residential and market complexes outside municipal limits and all neighbourhood standalone shops. Shops within residential complexes were also allowed within municipal limits, excluding containment zones. The shops will have to function with 50% staff, wearing masks and gloves. These include garment shops, stationeries, mobile phone outlets and hardware stores. The Centre, however, said barber shops , liquor outlets and restaurants would remain closed till May 3. Congress: Ensure complete lockdownhe move comes a day after Tthe state government allowed labourers to move within the state and permitted some industries to open in safe districts. Congress warned against opening up too much too soon when cases were being added daily. “At a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise, easing lockdown is like inviting danger. The government must withdraw its decision and ensure complete lockdown till May 3,” former minister HK Patil wrote to the CM. The state opposition advised caution and said Karnataka could not make economic progress on its own in a pandemic. “How will the economy of the state or country improve when many countries around the world are still in lockdown?” Patil said. “Covid cases are increasing since the government announced relaxation on April 22. The government is patting its back for fewer cases but that is because tests are conducted only on 30,000 people out of 3 lakh people quarantined across the state,” the senior Congress leader added. Karnataka has announced some relaxations, mainly to revive economic activity and alongside, alleviate labour shortage. Following the government’s decision to deploy KSRTC buses to ferry labourers, many from North Karnataka, who were stranded in makeshift camps, embarked on their journey home. Some headed back to work as factories have begun operating in 11 safe districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/neighbourhood-shops-may-reopen-in-karnataka-from-monday/articleshow/75385072.cms||Anil Gejji
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lockdown gives a lifeline to Sabarmati, high DO levels||AHMEDABAD: For the first time in decades, the Sabarmati has begun to breathe without painful gasps. According to the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), the river can now support life because of the increased dissolved oxygen (DO) levels. For years, the Vasna-Narol sewage flow of the municipal corporation — a concoction of municipal and industrial toxic waste — had been robbing the river of its DO. That is a key component to support life. The sewage increased the chemical oxygen demand (COD) and the biological oxygen demand (BOD), both detrimental to life. Though DO levels have increased all along the Sabarmati’s course in Ahmedabad from Hansol, at the Vasna-Narol sewage outfall the DO levels dip below the desired levels. But here is the miracle. At the tail end of the Sabarmati near Vautha and Vatrak — which was the seventh most polluted river stretch in the country — the river resurrects with a fourfold DO level spike at 4.37 milligram per litre (mg/l). And at Miroli petrol pump, the DO level rises to 4.26 mg/l. These figures have been revealed in the latest Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) report. River water good enough for holy dipLegend has it that a ritualistic dip in the Sabarmati at Vautha village in Dholka taluka on Kartika Purnima can absolve one of all sins. Never have the river waters there been so inviting for devotees. BOD levels — indicating the amount of decaying organic matter — was measured up to 147 mg/l at Vautha, according to the National Green Tribunal report of 2018. The figure was 31 mg/l, as measured by the GPCB, before the lockdown. The permissible limit set by the CPCB is 3 mg/l. Today, the BOD levels at the same spot is 12 mg/l “Some industries are operating as they come under essential manufacturing, so we now know the nature of chemicals pumped in by them,” said a senior GPCBofficial. “Plus, there is municipal sewage too. But we now have a reference point for the Sabarmati and any deterioration in its health can help us nab the culprits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-lockdown-gives-a-lifeline-to-sabarmati-high-do-levels/articleshow/75385102.cms||Paul John
April 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 12 more labs to start Covid-19 tests in one week||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which has been steadily increasing the number of Covid-19 tests every day, plans add at least 12 RT-PCR diagnostic labs, taking the total number of such facilities to 30 by April 30. The move comes in the wake of apprehensions expressed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) over rapid antibody-testing kits, which were expected to boost the state’s testing capacity amid an increasing number of asymptomatic coronavirus cases. The state government is yet to use these kits, though it has placed orders. As on April 23, nearly 69% of the 445 cases reported in Karnataka were asymptomatic, up from about 60% a week before. Almost every expert recommends scaling up testing to ascertain the extent of the viral spread and to prepare corresponding containment strategies. “Right now, we have 18 testing centres in Karnataka; another 12 are in the pipeline. Two at Kidwai (institute) in Bengaluru and one in Gadag should begin testing in a couple of days. By April 30, we should have 30 labs in Karnataka,” Dr CN Manjunath, Karnataka’s nodal testing officer, told STOI. Between April 12 and 22, the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in Karnataka jumped by a staggering 374 per cent, from 691 to 3,279. Here’s how the transition happened: from 691 tests on April 12, the figure rose to 957 on April 13, 1,812 on April 17, and 2,733 on April 21 before crossing the 3,000-mark on April 22. Despite the growth, challenges remain. The state is still struggling to process all samples that are collected; there’s a backlog of at least 30%. “Our target is to test at least 5,000 samples per day and we should be able to do that with the additional 12 labs by the end of this month,” Dr Manjunath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-12-more-labs-to-start-covid-19-tests-in-one-week/articleshow/75385097.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vitamin C supplements vanish as Ahmedabad sets out to build immunity||AHMEDABAD: When life gives you lemons, make lemonade, goes the adage. And when next human threatens to give you coronavirus, tank up on vitamin C to boost your immunity. This advise doled out in medical prescriptions, social media messages and plain word-of-mouth has had such an impact that vitamin C nutri-supplements have practically vanished from the shelves of chemist shops. What's more, the humble lemon too has become pricey selling at Rs 120-150 per kg depending upon the area and awareness. Jashwant Patel, chairman of Gujarat State Chemists and Druggists Association, confirmed that stocks of the Vitamin C tablets has indeed dried up. “In the one month of lockdown, people of Gujarat must have bought Vitamin C supplements worth Rs 10-12 crore. Such is the demand that major distributors have run out of stock," Patel said. He said that companies making this humble vitamin, which is otherwise found in abundance in fruits such as lemons, kiwi, guava and orange and vegetables like cauliflower and capsicum, are few and demand has trumped supply many times over. “One man bought eight boxes of vitamin C chewable tablets. He came the next day asking for more. Such is the demand driven mainly by fear of Covid-19 where people are overdoing the supplement bit to ready their immunity to fight the virus," said a pharmacist at a major chemist store on 100 feet road. Numerous chemists barring chain-run medical stores conceded that their stockists too had run out of stock. The effect was visible in the vegetable markets where the summer staple lemon is being sold at Rs 120-150 per kg! "Price of lemons has gone up by 20% in past 10 days in wholesale market. In retail market, lemons have become dearer by 50%," said Chirag Prajapati, one of the biggest lemon whole sale dealer in city who supplies the citrus fruit to Rajasthan and Punjab as well. Sources said that currently, lemons are coming into Ahmedabad from Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. "Once the market open after lockdown, we are expecting a further spike in the demand as currently the stocks are not able to reach walled and other virus contained areas, " said Deepak Patel, secretary of Agriculture Produce Market Committee, Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vitamin-c-supplements-vanish-as-ahmedabad-sets-out-to-build-immunity/articleshow/75385140.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
