April 27, 2020||Business||Government may stand guarantee for extra funds to bail out MSMEs||NEW DELHI: The government is considering a proposal to provide guarantee to businesses, especially micro, small and medium enterprises, for accessing additional working capital at a time when cash flow is severely impacted due to the Covid-19 lockdown. While discussions have taken place at various levels in the government, a final decision is expected to be taken soon, sources told TOI. Banks are already providing 10% additional working capital to take care of regular expenses, such as salary payments and electricity bills, and a further enhancement in the limit through some sort of credit guarantee is proposed. The finance ministry is monitoring loan approvals and disbursement almost daily to ensure that fund flow for businesses is not a problem. "It may be another 15% above the existing limit, but these are only in the realm of discussion at the moment," said an official. With sales coming to a virtual halt for many businesses, meeting day-to-day expenses is proving to be a problem, prompting industry lobby groups and experts to suggest additional working capital facility, something that the government is not averse to. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe government is widely expected to announce a second stimulus with MSMEs being in focus. It is, however, unclear how the guarantee will be provided and the extent to which the cover will be available, which will encourage banks to lend without fearing losses. For micro and small enterprises, a credit guarantee fund operated by Sidbi is already in place and several businesses have benefited from it.  The scope of the coverage has been expanded to include medium enterprises and the government had also allocated more funds to it. To expand the scope to larger entities, the government and the Reserve Bank of India will have to work out the modalities. Besides, the extent of guarantee is also being debated. There are suggestions to provide a cover for the entire additional limit initially and then taper it as things normalise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-may-stand-guarantee-for-extra-funds-to-bail-out-msmes/articleshow/75396874.cms||Sidhartha
April 27, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government ropes in additional chief secretary at the helm of health department amid Covid-19 fight||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Sunday appointed Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, an additional chief secretary (ACS) rank officer at the helm of the health department and roped in 22 other senior IAS officers as observers of various districts in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Nikunja Dhal will continue to be the principal secretary of the health and family welfare department. “Appointment of an ACS rank officer was necessary in view of the massive coordination works required in the next a few days as lakhs of Odia migrant workers, students, professionals, stranded pilgrims and patients would travel back to Odisha from affected states,” said a senior government officer. In the evolving and escalating scenario, Mohapatra has been assigned to coordinate with the Centre, with various states, with departments of the state government and Covid-19 observers as well. Mohapatra, who has been currently serving as agriculture production commissioner and revenue secretary, had earlier served as health secretary for several years. He would additionally handle the revenue department now. In its fight against the pandemic, the state government had focused on the foreign returnees in the first phase while the Nizamuddin returnees were on the focus in the second phase. After nearly 40 percent positive cases mostly form Bhadrak, Balasore and Jajpur were found with recent travel history to West Bengal, the state government has steeped up efforts to identify West Bengal returnees and to isolate them. In the fourth phase, the state government plans to screen nearly 7.5 lakh Odia people, who are expected to travel back to the state after lifting of lockdown restrictions, said official sources. IAS officers appointed as observers have been assigned to review the preparedness at the district level and to coordinate various other Covid-19 related activities. The appointment was made after a review by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on the Covid-19 situation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-government-ropes-in-additional-chief-secretary-at-the-helm-of-health-depatment-amid-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75396771.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
April 27, 2020||India||Pray that we can beat virus before Eid: PM Narendra Modi||NEW DELHI: Asking people to observe Ramzan as a time of restraint, sensitivity and service, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed hope that the pandemic would have been tackled by the time of Eid, clearing the way for the festival to be celebrated with the usual enthusiasm. In his radio programme "Mann Ki Baat" on Sunday, Modi made a renewed pitch for social distancing and said, "The last time when Ramzan was celebrated, no one had imagined that we would be facing such a huge predicament this time around. But now that this trouble has come to plague the entire world, it gives us an opportunity to mark this Ramzan as an icon of restraint, goodwill, sensitivity and service." He added, "This time, we should pray more than ever before so that prior to the celebration of Eid, the world is rid of corona and we celebrate Eid with enthusiasm and gaiety like earlier times. I am confident that during these days of Ramzan, by adhering to the guidelines of the local administration, we will reinforce our fight against corona." Maintaining his focus on the need to remain indoors and suggesting that some restrictions will be needed even after the lockdown, the PM said, "It is still very important to follow the rules of physical distancing in the streets, in the markets and in mohallas or colonies. Today, I also express my gratitude to all those community leaders who are making people aware about the two-yard distancing and not going out of houses." Muslim clerics and leaders have appealed to the community to avoid gatherings during Ramzan. Modi underlined the need for people to avoid being "overconfident" even if the virus had not reached the vicinity of their neighbourhoods. "Let us not get caught in the trap of over-confidence, let us not harbour the feeling that if corona has not yet reached our city, our village, our street or our office, it is not going to reach now," he said and added, "Never make such a mistake." The PM recalled that some countries where caution was not maintained had to pay a heavy price. "Where caution has been lowered, accident has happened," Modi said and recited a Sanskrit shloka meaning fire, debt and illness, if taken lightly, assume dangerous proportions. He said the battle against the coronavirus was "people driven" and urged the youth to come forward and showcase the country’s soft powers like ayurveda to the world so that it got recognition the way yoga has been acknowledged globally as a major tool to improve immunity. Modi said the crisis had emerged as an opportunity as from metropolises to villages, a "mahayagna" was being performed in the realm of the national ethos where every individual was eager to contribute. Watch PM Narendra Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat': Full speech||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pray-that-we-can-beat-virus-before-eid-pm/articleshow/75397022.cms||Akhilesh Singh
April 27, 2020||India||​In big rejig, govt appoints secys to a dozen key depts||NEW DELHI: In a major top-deck reshuffle, the government on Sunday appointed nearly two dozen new secretaries, including those for economic affairs, petroleum, environment and school education, while giving a three-month extension to health secretary Preeti Sudan in the wake of Covid-19. Among the prominent appointments, Tarun Bajaj, currently additional secretary in the PMO, has been appointed economic affairs secretary. He will replace Atanu Chakraborty, who retires at the end of the month. Bajaj is an old finance ministry hand. Arvind Kumar Sharma, a key functionary in the PMO, has been appointed secretary for micro, small and medium enterprises. Rural development secretary Rajesh Bhushan has been designated as officer on special duty in the health ministry to take over from Sudan. The government also appointed Tarun Kapoor, currently the DDA chief, as the new petroleum secretary, while border management secretary N N Sinha has been shifted to rural development. CBSE chairperson Anita Karwal was appointed the school education secretary, a charge which was being held by Amit Khare, the higher education secretary. Khare has now been given the additional charge of information and broadcasting ministry, as Ravi Mittal, the current secretary, was transferred to youth affairs and sports. In addition to vacancies arising by the end of the month, the government also announced replacements for secretaries retiring at the end of May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-big-rejig-govt-appoints-secys-to-a-dozen-key-depts/articleshow/75397078.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||Mohan Bhagwat: Don’t blame entire community for ‘faults’ of a few||NEW DELHI: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday urged people not to blame an entire community for the “mistakes” of a few, in what was seen as a reference to the religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin locality in March that led to a major Covid-19 outbreak. “If anyone out of anger or fear does something wrong, we cannot blame the whole community and start maintaining distance from them,” Bhagwat said in an address . He said there were elements looking to exploit divides in society. He urged people to be careful about reacting to flouting of curbs. “Don’t get angry, don’t get incited. There are members of the ‘Bharat tere tukde honge’ gang who are trying to incite the public. Politics is in play too. However, we can’t harbour ill-will against the entire community for the mistakes of a few individuals,” Bhagwat said. He also slammed and raised questions about the recent killing of two sadhus and their driver. Slamming the lynching, Bhagwat said it was the responsibility of the administration to maintain law and order. He also hailed the Centre, saying India’s proactive measures had kept the spread of coronavirus in check in comparison to other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mohan-bhagwat-dont-blame-entire-community-for-faults-of-a-few/articleshow/75397129.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||Masks sign of a civilised society: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Masks are becoming a part of our lives even though we are not used to people covering their faces, PM Narendra Modi said while noting that masks will be a sign of a civilised society. He also called upon people to avoid the bad habit of spitting in public. “If you want to save yourself from illness and protect others too, then you will need to use masks. My suggestion of a gamchha is simple. The face has to be covered,” he said. “It has been a part of our bad habits that we would spit just about anywhere. It’s time now to get rid of this problem once and for all. As they say, ‘better late than never’,” he said. It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's ##MaskIndia campaignModi also hailed the ordinance providing strict punishment for violence against healthcare workers and said this was needed and frontline “Covid warriors” must not be insulted and abused in any way. Watch PM Narendra Modi's 'Mann Ki Baat': Full speech||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/masks-sign-of-a-civilised-society-pm/articleshow/75397169.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Business||Government looks at reform measures in agriculture, manufacturing sectors||NEW DELHI: The Centre is examining a “significant number” of reforms along with staggered stimulus packages aimed at various stressed sectors of the economy as part of its strategy to combat the bruising impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said the government has started the process of identifying reforms which can be pushed through to make the economy more attractive and productive and help it overcome the impact of the pandemic in the “shortest possible time.” “The process of identifying reforms in various sectors has started. We are talking of significant reforms across sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing and services. We are also looking at expenditure rationalisation measures and how funds can be better utilised,” said an official. The reform measures along with possible stimulus packages were discussed at a meeting of top officials from across key economic ministries and the government’s economic think tank Niti Aayog. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThere is a view within a section of the government that this would be the right time to push through pending reforms as was done during the 1991 balance of payments crisis. The focus is on ensuring that the country emerges a manufacturing hub and the ‘Make in India’ initiative gets accelerated. Several incentives are being discussed to attract global companies to set up base in India as the world shifts its focus away from China to de-risk its economies and help build a separate supply chain. Read AlsoGovernment may stand guarantee for extra funds to bail out MSMEsThe govt is considering a proposal to provide guarantee to businesses, especially micro, small and medium enterprises, for accessing additional working capital at a time when cash flow is severely impacted due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Banks are already providing 10% additional working capital toThe agriculture sector has been identified as another crucial segment where pending reforms will be pushed through. “From marketing reforms, access to credit to using more technology, all options are being discussed and soon a comprehensive set of reforms will be announced,” said the official. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsEarlier this month, Prime minister Narendra Modi had asked various ministries to prepare a list of 10 major decisions and 10 major priority areas to work on once the lockdown ends. Several ministries have drawn up their plans and these will be examined and measures are expected to be announced soon. Regarding stimulus packages, there is a view within the government that it should not rush in with mega announcements as it is difficult to predict the “extent and duration of the pandemic.” But focussed measures at some of the stressed sectors are expected soon, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-looks-at-reform-measures-in-agriculture-mfg-sectors/articleshow/75397210.cms||Surojit Gupta
April 27, 2020||India||Two judges driving down 4k km to take charge as chief justices||KOLKATA: In the absence of any public transport in the locked-down country, two high court judges are driving down a total of around 4000 km to take charge of their new assignments as chief justices of Bombay and Meghalaya high courts. While Justice Dipankar Datta of Calcutta High Court is on his way from Kolkata to Mumbai to take charge as Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, Justice Biswanath Somadder of Allahabad High Court is scheduled to reach Shillong late Sunday evening. He is scheduled to be sworn in as Chief Justice of Meghalaya HC at 11 am on Monday. Justice Datta is expected to reach Mumbai on Monday evening and is scheduled to be sworn in the next day. Justice Somadder was acting Chief Justice of Calcutta HC before being transferred to Allahabad HC. After receiving the order from President Ram Nath Kovind, he left Allahabad for Kolkata, which is nearly 800 km away, on Friday. A source said he reached Kolkata on Saturday afternoon and after a brief stopover left for nearly 1100-km-long journey to Shillong at 7.30 pm. He left Guwahati on Sunday evening and took turns with his chauffeur to drive down to the Meghalaya capital from Allahabad, the source said. Similarly, Justice Datta, who left Kolkata on Saturday, is taking turns with his son to drive down to Mumbai, a distance of nearly 2,200 km. “Justice Datta was one of the most senior judges of Calcutta High Court. He was elevated as permanent judge of Calcutta HC in 2006. Because of the lockdown, there’s no way to travel to Mumbai from Kolkata, which is why he decided to drive down,” said another source. As part of social distancing norms, only about 20 people, including Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma and governor Tathagata Roy, will attend Justice Somadder’s swearing-in ceremony. Justice Somadder was instrumental in setting up Calcutta HC’s circuit bench in Jalpaiguri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-judges-driving-down-4k-km-to-take-charge-as-chief-justices/articleshow/75397246.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Community workers keep Ramzan spirit alive by feeding the jobless at Zakaria Street||Md Kalam is one of the thousands of migrant workers in Kolkata who have been rendered jobless ever since the lockdown was announced. A daily wage-earner at a local tannery here, he couldn’t make it to his home in Darbhanga, Bihar. He is left with no job, no money and little hope. But after weeks of hardship, he finally got some reason to cheer when the local community workers started providing food to him and his counterparts with the onset of Ramzan on Saturday. A group of people in and around Zakaria Street is feeding migrant workers and local daily-wage earners in the area as part of an initiative to keep the spirit of Ramzan alive despite the struggles caused by the ongoing lockdown. While the otherwise bustling Zakaria Street wears a deserted look this holy month, it sees some movement in the afternoon and evening as about 200 such workers visit local kiosks to get freshly cooked food, wearing masks and following social distancing norms. “This is the area where most of the city’s migrant workers stay. Not just from Bihar, workers from Malda, Murshidabad, Coochbehar and other areas too got stuck here. This year, with the usual fanfare on Zakaria Street missing, we’ve decided to feed these people who are perhaps the worst affected by the lockdown,” said SA Faisal, the treasurer of Calcutta Khilafat Committee. These volunteers’ service is not just limited to those keeping a fast, they are also feeding migrant workers and locals from other communities. “Religion is no bar here. Hindu, Muslim or whoever is in need, is welcome. We serve lunch to them. Later in the evening, when it is time to break the fast, we are offering iftar meal,” said Md Kawsar, an in-charge of the initiative. Food is being distributed from several kiosks set up at Phears Lane, Tiretta Bazar, Zakaria Street, Bowbazar area and other nearby areas. “There is a staple meal, like vegetable biryani or khichdi. Along with that, there are fruits, fritters, dalpuri, sprouts and other stuff. We are mindful of the health and safety guidelines. Not more than 10 people are allowed to enter at one point of time. Once they leave with their food, the next lot comes in. We started with 200 beneficiaries, but the number has already started going up. We plan to continue doing this for as long as people need it,” Faisal added. No wonder, this act of kindness is also paving way for communal harmony. Shankar, a specially challenged daily-wage earner residing in the area, told us, “The lockdown has made life even more difficult for the likes of me. After every meal I wondered if I’d be able to survive till the next. But thanks to this initiative, I no longer have to worry about getting killed by hunger. It is heartwearming to be served lunch by those who are on a month-long fast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/community-workers-keep-ramzan-spirit-alive-by-feeding-the-jobless-at-zakaria-street/articleshow/75397257.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
April 27, 2020||India||Coronavirus claims Kolkata govt doctor, Mumbai cop||KOLKATA/MUMBAI: A 60-year-old government doctor, who had tested positive for coronavirus, died in Kolkata on Sunday, marking the first Covid-death of a health official in West Bengal while a 53-year-old head constable died from the deadly viral disease at a Navi Mumbai hospital. This is the second Covid-positive policeman’s death in Maharashtra within 24 hours—a 57-year-old constable from Vakola police station had succumbed to the virus on Saturday. In Kolkata, the demise of Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, however, has not yet been officially confirmed by the state as a ‘Covid death’. The cause of the fatality will be determined by the state’s Covid death audit committee, which is following an “international protocol” in these cases. Dasgupta was initially admitted to the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beliaghata, where his swab samples tested positive for Covid-19. On April 18, he was shifted to AMRI Hospital in Salt Lake. He was put on ventilator support after suffering a “respiratory distress” but passed away at 1.20am on Sunday, an AMRI source said. The doctor’s last Facebook post (on April 9) — ‘Trust God even if the answer is WAIT’ — has turned especially poignant in the wake of his death. Dasgupta was in charge of the Central Medical Store, Sealdah, which supplies medicine, medical equipment and PPE to government-run health facilities across the state. His co-morbidities included diabetes and hypertension, according to sources. His wife, who is also Covid-positive, is currently undergoing treatment. Another doctor, at whose private chamber Dasgupta had got himself checked before testing positive, has also been infected with the virus, the sources added. Meanwhile, the condition of the other Covid-positive doctor — a 65-year-old orthopaedic surgeon — remains critical. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, expressing her condolences, tweeted, “His sacrifice for the cause of ailing humanity will ever be in our hearts and will make our Covid warriors fight the deadly virus with even greater determination. My heartfelt condolence to Dr Dasgupta’s bereaved family members and colleagues.” In Maharashtra, state home minister Anil Deshmukh announced Rs 50 lakh compensation for the kin of the two deceased cops and a government job for one family member. CM Uddhav Thackeray said: “Both cops have sacrificed their lives in the fight against coronavirus. The state government will help their families as per the schemes announced.” Sources said the head constable, who was diagnosed with cancer in 2017, would travel from his Kamothe residence to the protection branch’s headquarters in south Mumbai in bus during lockdown. “He was assigned desk work,” said an officer. After the head constable tested positive for Covid-19 on April 23, he was admitted to the MGM Hospital and his wife and two children were quarantined. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation has asked the Advanced Centre for Training, Research and Education in Cancer, Kharghar, to step up its Covid-19 preparation after the death of two cancer patients, including the head constable. Of the 50,000-strong police force, nearly 50 have tested positive so far, and most of them are recovering, said an official. Sources said around 1,000 cops on lockdown duty have not gone home for days. “I have not gone home for the last five days. I have been sleeping in a makeshift arrangement at Malad police station,” said a police constable attached to the local arms division who has been assigned bandobast duty at a containment zone. Another constable said: “I prefer to go home once in a week as my wife is pregnant. As I am posted outside KEM Hospital, they have made arrangements for me in a BMC school in Dadar.” In addition to the anti-malarial pills—hydroycholorquine sulphate (HCQS)—officials from the BMC health department and Mumbai Police have also been advised to take multivitamin tablets, especially vitamin D12 and protein. HCQS is being given as a prophylaxis to frontline healthcare workers and the police. (Inputs from S Ahmed Ali & Sujit Mahamulkar) Watch Covid-19: Mumbai Police's 52-year-old head constable dies of coronavirus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-claims-kolkata-govt-doctor-mumbai-cop/articleshow/75397267.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||Scattered migrant evacuation plans turn into organised effort||Scattered initiatives to evacuate migrant workers, students and pilgrims stranded across the country on Sunday coalesced into a more coordinated action plan initiated by states like Odisha, Maharashtra and Gujarat even as Karnataka signalled its reluctance to jump right in, flagging the “risk” of immediately bringing back people stuck in Covid-endemic states as a “national issue”. Read AlsoMigrant workers don't need to go home during lockdown, their needs being addressed, Centre tells SCThe Centre has told the Supreme Court that migrant workers don't need to travel to their native places during the lockdown as the government is taking care of their and their family members' daily needs wherever they are. The government filed a second status report in the SC in response to a plea byWhile Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik engaged with counterparts Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra and Vijay Rupani in Gujarat to work out a “safe and dignified exit plan” for migrant workers from his state, Karnataka said it would temporarily restrict itself to evacuating a batch of 272 students stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota. “We are trying to ascertain the whereabouts of migrant labourers stranded across the nation. Considering the high number of Covid-19 cases in our bordering states, whether to ferry them back or not is a big concern. We continue to deliberate on the matter and will discuss this tomorrow with the chief minister. It is a national issue,” Karnataka labour minister Shivram Hebbar told TOI even as pressure mounted from the opposition to start evacuating the state’s stranded two lakh-strong migrant workforce like several states have already done. Odisha’s strategy for evacuation of migrant workers from various states includes compulsory registration of each potential returnee through a web portal. The dates for their return will be decided after the completion of the registration process. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan was part of both video conferences that CM Patnaik had with his Maharashtra and Gujarat counterparts. The state government might next hold discussions with Delhi, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to pave the way for the return of migrant workers stuck in those states, sources said. Nearly 9,800 migrant workers returned to UP by bus from Haryana on Sunday, taking the number of stranded people ferried back over the past 24 hours to nearly 12,000. UP CM Yogi Adityanath asked officials to focus on generating employment for an estimated 15 lakh migrant workers who could return over the next few weeks. “The government is committed to ensuring that no labourer is left jobless because of the lockdown. We are keeping a close watch and acting accordingly,” he said after a meeting with 11 senior bureaucrats at his official residence. In Mumbai, CM Thackeray said all migrant workers stuck in Maharashtra would be sent to their respective states soon. “We are in touch with the chief ministers of other states such as UP and Bihar, besides the Centre. We will sort out this issue and send these workers back to their states as early as possible.” Wary of the Bandra station fiasco being repeated, Thackeray clarified that there would be no train ride back home for migrant workers. “One thing is clear. There is no scope for running trains to take you home as it will create chaos. Everyone will be informed when and how the shifting will happen. Migrants from Maharashtra working in other states will be brought back, too,” he said. Rajasthan has set up a helpline – 18001806127 – for its migrant workers in other states to register their location and other details so that the government can arrange for their safe return. Apart from the helpline that will open on Monday, people wanting to return home can register their details on the “rajcovidinfo” app. Officials said that once they have verified data on migrant workers at each location, buses can be arranged to get them back. All returnees will be medically screened before the journey and quarantined for 14 days on arrival in their home districts. The Jaisalmer administration is scheduled to send 12,000 farm labourers from MP and Punjab stranded in the district back to their states by bus on Monday morning, officials said. Around 300 buses are lined up to take them home. A batch of 376 students from J&K will set off from Kota around the same time. “All arrangements finalised. This follows the recent return of students and others who were in Jaisalmer and other places. Appeal: Please be patient. Govt is working hard to facilitate all,” principal secretary Rohit Kansal said in a tweet on Sunday. Around 12 students from Jharkhand who had been stuck in Kota for a month returned to their hometown Jamshedpur late on Saturday. The students had booked three taxis after Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Rai helped them procure transit passes. In Maharashtra, 3,500-odd Sikh pilgrims stranded at Nanded after visiting the Gurdwara Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib will board 80 buses sent by the Punjab government along with police escort. The fleet reached Nanded late on Sunday. Ravinder Singh Modi, a senior gurdwara functionary, said the return journey would take four days. Some pilgrims from places like Kurukshetra in Haryana are being sent back by car. The first group of pilgrims has already reached their destinations in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scattered-migrant-evacuation-plans-turn-into-organised-effort/articleshow/75397309.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Business||Franklin Templeton marks down six FoFs||MUMBAI: Franklin Templeton MF, the troubled fund house that was forced to close six of its debt funds due to extreme liquidity in the market, has marked down six fund of funds (FoFs) managed by it with total assets of about Rs 933 crore. Since these FoFs had investments in two of the six funds which were closed on Friday, it was difficult for these FoFs to generate any income in the current situation and hence have been re-valued. Due to the markdown of these FoFs, the NAVs of these schemes fell by as much as 22.4%. A fund of fund is a mutual fund scheme that invests in one or more mutual fund schemes, from the same fund house, from another fund house or both. Franklin Templeton MF was running seven domestic FoFs and two international FoFs. All the remaining schemes of the fund house, including all its equity funds will continue as usual. Franklin Templeton MF’s multi-asset solution and dynamic asset allocation FoFs had invested in short term income fund, one of the six suspended earlier. The fund house’s four Life Stage FoFs had invested in Dynamic Accrual Fund, which was also suspended on Friday. Read AlsoFranklin Templeton to shut 6 debt funds in a 1st for mutual fundsFranklin Templeton Mutual Fund, one of the top fund houses in India, has decided to close down six of its debt funds, which currently manage nearly Rs 25,900 crore in all. The move is due to liquidity troubles in the bond market triggered by Covid-related issues. This is the first time such anA spokesperson for Franklin Templeton MF confirmed the development. “Pursuant to the decision to wind up Franklin India’s short term income plan and dynamic accrual fund, the investments by the (six) fund of fund schemes in the two underlying schemes that are wound up were illiquid effective April 24, 2020. Hence, considering the immediate illiquidity of the investment, these funds were fair valued. We are re-working the underlying asset allocation of the fund of fund schemes and will intimate the changes to investors shortly,” the spokesperson said. is the first time such an incident has happened in India. On Friday, while announcing the closure of the six debt schemes, the fund house said that due to the Coronavirus pandemic volatility in the financial market, as inflows into these schemes dried substantially, outflows jumped as investors who needed money in an uncertain market condition redeemed. Unable to meet the heightened redemptions even after borrowing from banks, the fund house finally decided to wound down the schemes. Read AlsoFranklin Templeton shutting six schemes matter of 'grave concern': ChidambaramFranklin Templeton Mutual Fund's decision to wind up six debt schemes is a matter of "grave concern" to investors, mutual fund industry and financial markets, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Saturday, urging the government to act promptly to resolve the issue.On Friday, to office bearers at AMFI, the fund industry traded body, assured investors that there was no reason to panic and Franklin Templeton’s closure of six schemes was ‘an isolated incident’. However, fund industry said that despite the endeavor by all the fund houses to mitigate investors’ concerns, between Rs 2,000 crore and Rs 2,500 crore was withdrawn from the industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/now-franklin-mf-suspends-6-more-schemes/articleshow/75397328.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||Need to set up industries along new economic corridors, expressways: Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday appealed to industrialists and investors to actively consider setting up of manufacturing units outside the thickly populated urban centres, rather establish them along the upcoming economic corridors and new greenfield expressways. “Everyone has been interested in setting up units in Gurgaon, Noida, Chennai, Bengaluru and in all other big cities. We need to diversify from making investment only in urban areas to rural areas for sustainability. Industrial clusters can come up along economic corridors. We will coordinate with states to see how all necessary approvals can be obtained quickly,” Gadkari said during a web-based interaction with overseas Indian students studying in 45 foreign universities. Gadkari said after winning the war against Corona, India will need to tide over the economic crisis. “We need to attract maximum foreign direct investment (FDI) and pave way for foreign investment. The whole world is criticizing China. That’s a blessing in disguise for us,” the minister said. He added that his MSME ministry will soon designate a joint secretary to deal with tasks to facilitate foreign investment and coordinate with states. “Our focus will be to see that the process of foreign investment does not take more than three months,” Gadkari said. The minister has been interacting with officials of his departments, industry leaders, investors and students since the lockdown was announced. An official statement from his Nagpur office claimed that he has interacted with at least one crore people from various walks of life via video conferencing and other online platforms till now. Backing the government decision for lockdown to put a check on the spread of coronavirus, Gadkari said even while fighting against the pandemic, the government is taking necessary measures to allow industrial and economic activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-to-set-up-industries-along-new-economic-corridors-expressways-gadkari/articleshow/75397335.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 27, 2020||Patna||Akshaya Tritiya remains a low-key affair in Patna||PATNA: Akshaya Tritiya was celebrated on Sunday without much fanfare as people remained indoors due to nationwide lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic. Devotees offered prayers, observed fast and did some charity work at their homes on the pious occasion. The devotees usually buy gold and silver ornament, coins or small statues of gods and goddesses and utensils on this occasion. It is believed that the donations and charities made on this day remain imperishable. But this time they could not buy gold or precious items because the jewellery shops remained closed amid the lockdown. Reena Sinha of Boring Canal Road said she prayed to Lord Vishnu and recited Ganesha mantra at 11am. “After the prayer, we broke our fast. This time, we did not offer flowers to the Lord and kept the celebration a low-key affair. We provided food and helped the needy people as charity,” she said. Mohini Jayswal of Lohanipur said, “It is a tradition in my family to buy gold or something valuable on this day. But due to lockdown, all the jewellery shops remain closed. So, we have booked a gold chain through an online portal. We offered prayers, observed daylong fast and donated foodgrain to the underprivileged.” City-based priest Gyan Prakash Pandey said Akshaya Tritiya holds great prominence in the Hindu culture. “It is a very significant day for married and unmarried women as it is believed that praying to the almighty on this day can bring good luck to their husbands and even to their would-be husbands. After performing rituals at the temple, they distribute “daan dakshina” to the priests. The day is also considered to be auspicious for making big investments in gold or property,” he said. Further deliberating about the importance of ‘Vaishakh Arghya’, he said it is the fifth and last ‘arghya’. “People observe fast and offer water and fruits to the Sun God. Praying to the Lord can bring good luck and fortune,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/akshaya-tritiya-remains-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/75395029.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 27, 2020||Patna||Enjoy virtual tour of city zoo amid lockdown||PATNA: Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, popularly known as Patna zoo, is now bringing its animals to our homes as it has opened up its virtual gates. It will live-stream footage of the activities of animals straight to various social media platforms. The zoo authorities have uploaded 13 virtual zoo tour videos in the last 24 hours on its YouTube channel —DEFCC Official— which was launched on Saturday. The videos include, ‘Bears playing and fighting in water’, ‘Exercising cubs’ and ‘one-horned rhino taking bath’ among others. Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary, department of environment, forest and climate change said, “Sitting at home residents can catch a glimpse the zoo. It will take online visitors on a virtual tour of the animal paradise. It is a unique initiative and kids can watch their favourite animals from homes.” He added, “The department will post a 10-15 minutes videos of virtual tour of the zoo on its YouTube channel, which will be available on different social media platforms also.” On different days, different sections of the zoo will be shown on online portals for entertainment of kids. Besides, the zoo authorities has also started a quiz competition for schoolchildren to identify the animals and birds from the pictures on social media platforms. Zoo director Amit Kumar said on Sunday that they will upload videos of one enclosure each day. “Today, we have uploaded videos of activities of giraffe. It will also offer a panoramic view of the zoo,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/enjoy-virtual-tour-of-city-zoo-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75394974.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 27, 2020||Surat||Two more succumb from the infection||Surat: Two more persons succumbed to coronavirus infection in the city, taking the death toll to 17 on Sunday. Makbulbi Shaikh, 50, a woman from Umarwada area was admitted in NCH’ ward on Saturday morning in a critical condition and tested positive. Her health deteriorated and she died on Saturday night. Another patient, Abdul Gaffar Kadar, 70, a resident of Rustompura Tekra, was admitted in NCH on April 21, died on Sunday. He was having co-morbid conditions. Meanwhile, 33 more tested positive during the community sampling in different parts of the city on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 513. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-succumb-from-the-infection/articleshow/75395961.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Surat||Covid hotspot cold shoulders rules||Surat: A video of a crowded market in Limbayat area of the city went viral on social media on Sunday. Hundreds of people can be seen in the video, probably of Saturday, making purchases near Madina mosque for Ramzan. No action was taken by police against people for violation of social distancing norms in the market during lockdown. However, after the video went viral on social media, police registered an offence and arrested seven people. Limbayat zone of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has reported a large number of positive cases of Covid-19. In another offence, police arrested four persons from near Madina mosque on Sunday for gathering there without any valid reason. Police sources said some local leaders were told by government officers that the market near Madina mosque has been permitted to remain open during Ramzan from 5pm to 7pm. However, no permission was officially given by any government officer. "A senior government officer had allowed 10 to 15 vegetable and fruit vendors to do business in the market for two hours daily in the evening. Unfortunately, over 400 vendors reached the market on Saturday due to which there was chaos and the gathering was disallowed," said a community leader of Limbayat. On Sunday, the market functioned in a narrow lane near Madina mosque. Huge crowd gathered in the area which was chock-a-block with about 50 vendors of vegetables, fruits and other products. "People are coming out to shop for food items for Ramzan. There is no prohibitory order on vegetables and fruit shops, but the issue is social distancing is not being maintained,” said M V Makwana, police inspector, Limbayat police station. "We have registered two offences for crowding around Madina mosque and arrested 11 people. Police will take strict action to ensure that social distancing is maintained," Makwana added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-hotspot-cold-shoulders-rules/articleshow/75395933.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||Additional forces deployed in Bihar containment zones||PATNA: At least 21 companies of Bihar Military Police (BMP) and DG (reserve) have been mobilized by the state police headquarters for deployment in the containment zone in several districts after recent spurt of Covid cases in state. The DG (reserve) are separate and additional forces for the director general of police to deploy in field as per the requirements. Not only forces, the headquarters has also deployed at least two SP-rank officers in Siwan and Munger to monitor the deployment of forces in addition to the regular SPs in both the districts. Police headquarters sources said the most recent mobilization of forces had been made for Bhagalpur, Buxar and Munger districts. They said the forces had been rushed to Buxar and Munger on Saturday after latest Covid cases surfaced in these districts. “On Friday, additional forces were rushed to Bhagalpur. All these three districts were already provided forces in the past for tackling Covid-19 situation,” a senior officer said. When contacted, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said around 21 companies of BMP and DG (reserve) had been deployed till now in those places which had been turned into containment zones across the state. “Two SP-rank officers, one each in Siwan and Munger, have also been deployed for monitoring of containment zones. Both these officers are from outside the district. Earlier, two SP-rank officers were deployed in Begusarai but they were replaced with DSP-rank officers after the situation improved,” he said. Meanwhile, another senior IPS officer at police headquarters, preferring anonymity, said the mobilization of the 21 companies are in addition to 32 companies which were earlier deployed for enforcement of the lockdown across the state. “Those mobilized for lockdown enforcement are in addition to around 100 companies of forces which always remain deployed in the field across the 40 police districts in state,” he said. Meanwhile, in reply to another query, ADG Kumar said more than one lakh masks had been procured by the police headquarters and provided to policemen at district level for their safety and precaution while moving in the field. “In addition, 70,000 pairs of gloves and more than 8,000 litres of sanitisers had already been provided to policemen across districts for their personal hygiene and cleanliness,” the ADG added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/additional-forces-deployed-in-containment-zones-across-state/articleshow/75395148.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: This 20-year-old has launched helpline number to help poor||PATNA: At a time when most youngsters are staying indoors to protect themselves from coronavirus, this second-year undergraduate student is reaching out to the needy and feeding stray dogs. The 20-year-old claims to have distributed free meals and medicines among 100 families so far. Abhijeet Siddhartha, who has also launched helpline number 6205544178 for the poor people, claims to have provided relief to more than 100 families during the lockdown so far. From distributing free meals and ration to donating medicines, Abhijeet and his two-member team have been helping the destitute and needy across the city. “The situation was so bad in the beginning that it was difficult for me to even sleep. Even though I was determined to do something for the helpless people, I knew it won’t be easy as we are restricted from going out owing to the lockdown. Hence, I decided to issue a helpline number and circulate it everywhere in a bid to reach out to maximum number of people with the help of senior authorities. Several prominent personalities in Delhi and other states have also appreciated my efforts by sharing the helpline number on their social media handles,” he said. Abhijeet said he started it with just three people, but several others from outside the state have also extended their hands for the noble cause and he was getting 35-40 calls daily. The Rajiv Nagar resident recently helped 100 poor families in Samastipur. “When I got to know about their situation, I contacted the senior authorities in the district to help the families,” he said. Talking about stray dogs, Abhijeet said he manages to feed most of the stray dogs in his locality. “After the lockdown, it has become very difficult for stray dogs to survive. I myself make chapatis at home and feed them every day. I step out of my home with full protection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/this-20-year-old-has-launched-helpline-number-to-help-poor/articleshow/75395010.cms||Archi Rani
April 27, 2020||Surat||Three watering holes of Gujarat stave off Covid-19||SURAT: Despite sharing borders with worst-hit Covid-19 states of Gujarat and Maharashtra, the Union territories (UTs) of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), Daman and Diu, have successfully kept the global pandemic at bay. Daman and Diu, the favourite watering holes for Gujarat, are still Covid free as 2,000 samples that have been collected in three UTs till date have all tested negative. On an average about 400 samples are collected daily and random testing of five samples are done at the Covid-19 laboratory set up at DNH, said Praful Patel, administrator, DNH, Daman and Diu. The administration acted at lightning speed to seal its borders with Gujarat districts and Maharashtra immediately after the outbreak, much before the Centre imposed nationwide lockdown on March 25 While the administration ensured that the eight lakh population gets essential items, food packets and ration kits during the lockdown, movement of 4,000 traders from the Daman and DNH to Vapi was strictly restricted. Magistrates were appointed in seven zones of the Union territories to list out the requirements. About 25 trucks were hired to get the supplies from Vapi and distributed as per requirement of the shop owners and traders. Daman gets its supplies of vegetables, fruits, poultry, medicines and other things from Vapi. Even the people involved in bringing supplies from Vapi were provided free shelter and food in the Union Territory, he said.. Rakesh Minhas, Daman collector said, “As migrant workers have been paid wages till April 3, they can hand to buy essentials and don’t need to return to their natives.” Minhas said that the calls they get from migrants for ration and food have reduced from 5,000 per day during early days of lockdown to just 200 a day now. “We are distributing about 10,000 ration kits to the migrants and needy people,” he added. The lone case was reported on April 4 from DNH when a person named Vijay Rathod from Naroli village in Silvassa was referred to a Mumbai hospital where he tested positive. Sandip Kumar Singh, collector, DNH told TOI, “After one positive case, we are doing intensive screening of all residents of DNH. Except for essentials, all other shops are shut.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-watering-holes-of-guj-stave-off-covid-19/articleshow/75396089.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Business||Franklin marks down 6 fund of funds||Mumbai: Franklin Templeton MF, the troubled fund house that was forced to close six of its debt funds due to extreme liquidity in the market, has marked down six fund of funds (FoFs) managed by it with total assets of about Rs 933 crore. Since these FoFs had investments in two of the six funds that were closed on Friday, it was difficult for these FoFs to generate any income in the current situation and hence have been re-valued. Due to the markdown of these FoFs, the NAVs of these schemes fell by as much as 22.4%. A fund of fund is a mutual fund scheme that invests in one or more mutual fund schemes, from the same fund house, from another fund house or both. Franklin Templeton MF was running seven domestic FoFs and two international FoFs. All the remaining schemes of the fund house, including all its equity funds will continue as usual. Franklin Templeton MF’s Multi-Asset Solution and Dynamic Asset Allocation FoFs had invested in Short Term Income Fund, one of the six suspended earlier. The fund house’s four Life Stage FoFs had invested in Dynamic Accrual Fund, which was also suspended on Friday. A spokesperson for Franklin Templeton MF confirmed the development. “Pursuant to the decision to wind up Franklin India’s Short Term Income Plan and Dynamic Accrual Fund, the investments by the (six) fund of fund schemes in the two underlying schemes that are wound up were illiquid effective April 24, 2020. Hence, considering the immediate illiquidity of the investment, these funds were fair valued. We are re-working the underlying asset allocation of the fund of fund schemes and will intimate the changes to investors shortly,” the spokesperson said. This the first time such an incident has happened in India. On Friday, while announcing the closure of the six debt schemes, the fund house said that due to the Coronavirus pandemic volatility in the financial market, as inflows into these schemes dried substantially, outflows jumped as investors who needed money in an uncertain market condition redeemed. Unable to meet the heightened redemptions even after borrowing from banks, the fund house finally decided to wound down the schemes. On Friday, office bearers at AMFI, the fund industry traded body, assured investors that there was no reason to panic and Franklin Templeton’s closure of six schemes was ‘an isolated incident’. However, fund industry said that despite the endeavour by all the fund houses to mitigate investors’ concerns, between Rs 2,000 crore and Rs 2,500 crore was withdrawn from the industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/franklin-marks-down-6-fund-of-funds/articleshow/75396648.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Migrant labourers from Badami stranded in Dakshina Kannada return home||Mangaluru: For more than a month, labourers from Badami taluk in Bagalkot district, along with members of their respective families, have had to live out of a tent that they pitched on the banks of the River Nethravathi. The labourers trooped into Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada district 45 days ago, but the lockdown left them marooned in Panemangaluru, where daily life had become a struggle. Fortunately, intervention by the Dakshina Kannada district administration ensured that the labourers, along with their families, returned home on Sunday. As many as nine labourers, and a girl from Hosur village in Badami had come to Bantwal in search of a better life, but the circumstances pushed them into despair. On Sunday, it was with palpable relief that they boarded the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses bound for Badami. Bantwal Town Municipal Council and a few citizens’ outfits had been providing them food and other essential commodities such as water and medicines, which helped alleviate their plight to a considerable extent. However, the plastic tents proved woefully inadequate to keep them warm when it rained heavily on Friday evening. “We are all farmers in Badami, and we came here looking for jobs. We did not bring our children with us, and though we are being fed, we need to return home to see our kids. We did get some work for two weeks in Kakkepadavu village but the lockdown was announced and we were left with nowhere to go,” said Mallappa, one of the senior members among the labourers. Although their intended objective of coming to Dakshina Kannada – hope of more money – is unfulfilled, the migrants have no option but to go home, albeit empty handed. “It has started raining heavily and we cannot live in tents anymore. We will find work on the farms in our villages when we return,” added Mallappa, before he took the bus home. In all, KSRTC Mangaluru division arranged for the transport 624 labourers from various districts of North Karnataka, who found themselves stranded in Bantwal taluk after the enforcement of the lockdown, to their respective home districts. KSRTC Managluru division controller SN Aruna said that they had managed to arrange 42 buses for the transport of the migrant labourers, while the Puttur division had sent 45 more. “We received directions from the district administration to ferry all the labourers back to their home free of cost. We have taken all necessary precautions before shifting them to the buses. All the labourers and their families were subjected to a medical examination, and it was only after we confirmed that they were not infected that we took them on board,” he added. Plans afoot to send 4,500 labourers back home Dakshina Kannada district in-charge minister Kota Srinivas Poojari said that as many as 1,500 migrant labourers stranded across the coastal district had returned home, with the assistance of the government machinery. “We are making plans to ensure that the remaining 4,500 labourers and their families return home soon,” Poojari told TOI. Poojari said that, while a majority of the stranded labourers had offered to pay for their tickets, local MLAs and philanthropists had borne the cost for those unable to do so. “We have received pleas from a few labourers, who want to hire taxis to return home since KSRTC buses do not operate in such interior areas. We have approached the chief secretary, and are waiting for his word on the best course of action to proceed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/migrant-labourers-from-badami-stranded-in-dakshina-kannada-return-home/articleshow/75394189.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Restrictions cast shadow on beedi workers’ hopes||Mangaluru: The extension of lockdown till May 3 has dashed the hopes of over two lakh beedi workers in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district. District minister Kota Shrinivasa Poojari had announced that the beedi industry in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts will start functioning on Monday. There are 1.9 lakh people who are dependent mainly on beedi industry for their livelihood in Dakshina Kannada, and over 21,000 in Udupi. The minister, after meeting the managements of various beedi manufacturing units in the district on April 18, had said all labourers will get 50% of the work till the lockdown is over. Accordingly, beedi manufacturers started obtaining passes for their workers. However, a revised cabinet decision not to relax the lockdown has dealt a severe blow to the workers. Balakrishna Shetty, general secretary of South Canara Beedi Workers’ Federation, told TOI that the beedi industry in the undivided Dakshina Kannada was ready to commence production. “The manufacturers have been submitting online the details of their workers for passes. Though the process is on, we cannot commence the work as the lockdown will continue without relaxation till May 3. Workers are ready to collect materials and start rolling beedis if the government allows them,” he said, adding: “Most of them are in distress due to poverty. They will have to wait till the lockdown eases or ends.” Meanwhile, the minister has requested all manufacturers to pay their bonus on time during Ashtami or Ganesh Chaturthi. Manufacturers supply raw materials to beedi workers and pay Rs 180 for rolling 1,000 beedis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/restrictions-cast-shadow-on-beedi-workers-hopes/articleshow/75394514.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||21.14 lakh people surveyed in Patna: DM Kumar Ravi||PATNA: More than 21.14 lakh people and 4.36 lakh households in Patna district have been surveyed till Sunday for suspected Covid-19 cases, DM Kumar Ravi said. “In terms of population, information from altogether 21,14,213 people has been collected on several points in the survey,” he said. The district administration surveyed only those pockets in rural areas where people had returned from outside the state. The DM said altogether 1090 teams were involved in the survey work. “Of them, 375 teams of two persons each are doing survey in urban areas,” he said and added that it would take few more days to complete the survey in the district. Meanwhile, the DM said 1464 samples had been collected so far for testing in Patna district and only 33 had been found Covid positive. “Results of 39 samples are awaited,” he said. Ravi said 22 positive cases, including a senior manager of a bank at Dak Bungalow roundabout, have links with the employee of a private firm dealing in currency remittance for banks. He said test results of several persons from that chain are awaited. “In the case of Beur residents, all four who had reached Patna in an ambulance, had directly gone to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on April 24 to get themselves tested for Covid-19. Three of them, including a cancer patient, who returned from Tata Cancer Hospital in Mumbai, tested positive on Saturday night,” the DM said. He said the district administration was alerting the Mumbai cancer hospital authorities about them. Meanwhile, state surveillance officer cum Covid-19 nodal officer Ragini Mishra praised the cancer patient and his relatives for reaching PMCH instead of going somewhere else. “It reflects the increased level of awareness among the common people for Covid-19,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21-14l-people-surveyed-in-distrist-dm/articleshow/75394943.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 27, 2020||Patna||Araria agri officer shifted to Patna||PATNA: Araria district agriculture officer (DAO) Manoj Kumar has been transferred to Patna. According to a notification issued by the agriculture department on Saturday, Kumar has been posted as deputy director, training, at the department headquarters. Kumar hogged the limelight when he asked a chowkidar to do sit-ups and apologize in full public view for asking the former to show his travel pass during the lockdown last week. State agriculture minister Prem Kumar refuted the reports which appeared in a section of media (not TOI), that the DAO had been promoted and made deputy director in the department.“He (DAO) has been transferred to Patna from Araria so that he couldn’t influence the ongoing police investigation. An FIR was lodged with Araria town police station against him. Besides, departmental investigation will continue against him,” the minister told reporters in Gaya soon after reports of the DAO’s alleged promotion appeared on social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/araria-agri-officer-shifted-to-patna/articleshow/75394832.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Two test positive for novel coronavirus in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi : Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi on Sunday evening. Kalaburagi has witnessed a total 38 Covid-19 cases, with the addition of these two cases. A 65-year-old woman, designated P-502, who is a resident of Sharan Nagar in Aland taluk, was a primary contact of P-422 from the same locality, and contracted the disease. A seven-year-old boy, designated P-503, a resident of Qamar colony in Kalaburagi city, was a secondary contact of P-425, and got infected. They have both been shifted to the isolation ward at ESIC hospital. There were no Covid-19 cases reported on Friday and Saturday. On Saturday, a 57-year-old patient designated P-175, a resident of Qamar colony in the city, was discharged from the hospital, after he recovered. He was admitted to the district hospital due to breathing problems, but later tested positive for Covid-19. He did not have any travel history. A total seven Covid-19 patients have recovered in Kalaburagi, and have been discharged from hospital. Out of the total 38 Covid-19 cases here, seven recovered, four died and 27 cases are active here, said Kalaburagi deputy commissioner B Sharat on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-test-positive-for-novel-coronavirus-in-kalaburagi/articleshow/75395588.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||CDPO alleges misbehaviour, Lakhisarai DM orders probe||PATNA: The Lakhisarai district administration on Sunday ordered an inquiry into alleged misbehaviour with the child development project officer (CDPO) Puja Rani by two police officers during vehicle checking on Saturday. When contacted, Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar said the district magistrate (DM) on Sunday ordered an ADM-rank officer and Sadar SDPO Ranjan Kumar to jointly conduct an inquiry into the incident. “They would submit a report within two days,” he said. The Sadar CDPO, in her verbal complaint to the DM, said she was on duty when the police officers stopped her vehicle for checking and misbehaved with her and the driver. “The incident took place around 10.15am. I told them that I am Sadar CDPO of Lakhisarai district. A police officer started misbehaving with me and my driver soon after I asked about their identity cards and why they were not in uniform,” she said. She said her officially allotted vehicle was seized and taken to the police station. “I informed the DM about the incident after which my official vehicle was released. My driver was also thrashed. The place is hardly 200 metres from my office and I move out four to five times every day,” she said. The CDPO said even the label of ‘Bihar government’ and ‘On duty Covid-19’ was also fixed on the windscreen of her vehicle. “I later came to know that one of the officers who misbehaved with me was a sub-inspector while another was the Town police station SHO,” she said. The SP said an altercation took place after the SI asked CDPO to show identity card while she replied that who he was to ask for that. “He had asked so because the DM had ordered to check ID cards of people travelling in a vehicle at every checkpost to stop anyone coming from Munger, which is a corona hotspot,” he said. The SP also said as officers were constantly coming in touch with several persons, they had to change uniform due to which the two policemen were in civil dress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cdpo-alleges-misbehaviour-lakhisarai-dm-orders-probe/articleshow/75394972.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 27, 2020||Surat||Two cousins tricked into hospital fight back Covid||Surat: “I will not talk to my papa as he lied to me that day,” – asserts a grumpy four-year-old Jeet Rana, while coming out of New Civil Hospital (NCH) after defeating the dreaded virus on Sunday. Jeet, a resident of Maan Darwaja tenement, was discharged from the hospital along with his five-year-old cousin Vadik Rana after they recovered fully from the virus. Earlier, the duo tested positive on April 18 and had to be taken to the hospital on the sly. Jeet was told that the doctors are taking him to his aunt’s house but he was miffed as landed at the hospital instead. “I did not like the hospital as doctors were giving me bitter medicines all the time,” the little fighter said, unhappy with the hospital jaunt. Jeet and Vadik tested positive during a community sampling drive by SMC at Maan Darwaja tenement - a hotspot of coronavirus infection with more than 140 cases detected in the last few days. Interestingly, parents of both the children tested negative during the community sampling. Doctors allowed the mothers of both the children to accompany them in NCH’s separate paediatric ward for Covid positive children. “How is it possible that both our sons tested positive and we were negative?” asked Yogesh Rana, father of Jeet, a diamond polisher in Mahidhapura. Rana said that he had been very tense after his son stopped talking to him over phone in all these days. “My son doesn’t want to talk to me as I had to lie to take him to the hospital. What could I have done?” the hapless father rued. Jeet’s mother Ranjana said, “Our children had no symptoms of the infection and were playing in the ward as if they were at home. We are lucky that our sons have tested negative and got discharged from the hospital.” Vadik’s mother Jigisha said, “Corona came and went in just one week. I am happy that both our sons are healthy and have recovered very fast. We faced lot of problems like proper food, water and space to sleep at the hospital, but we compromised for the well-being of our sons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-cousins-tricked-into-hospital-fight-back-covid/articleshow/75395903.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mysuru||Kumaraswamy condemns party MLC’s actions in Mandya||Mysuru: Former chief minister and senior JD(S) member HD Kumaraswamy on Sunday condemned the actions of his party colleague and MLC KT Srikantegowda, who was allegedly among those who attacked journalists from whom swab samples were being collected at a community hall on Saturday. Kumaraswamy, in KR Nagar on Sunday, said that he would not defend his party legislator but questioned the Mandya district administration’s decision to collect samples at Ambedkar Bhavan – a community hall – and not at the district hospital. “The incident was a highly unfortunate one. But had the procedure been conducted at the district hospital, it could have been avoided,” the former CM said. Mandya district in-charge minister KC Narayana Gowda came down heavily on Srikantegowda, stating that the latter was out of place dictating officials about the choice of venue for collection of samples. “The samples were not being collected from people at Srikantegowda’s home. It was a community hall, which is public property,” said Narayana Gowda. The minister said that the government was hugely appreciative of the efforts of the role being played by journalists in the fight against Covid-19, and had stepped forward to offer its support to those in the profession. “The MLC’s actions are an indication of his arrogance,” Narayana Gowda added. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha joined Narayana Gowda in criticising Srikantegowda, stating that MLAs, MLCs or MPs were not empowered to interfere during collection of samples and similar procedures. “The venue is decided by the officials and not elected representatives,” Simha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kumaraswamy-condemns-party-mlcs-actions-in-mandya/articleshow/75395873.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Surat||Seven sneak into Dang villages from Maharashtra, booked||Surat: Seven people were booked in Dang district’s Saputara police station after they were found to have entered into their native village from Maharashtra surreptitiously early on Sunday morning. Saputara police have lodged complaint against Shailesh Pawar (32), Reshma Pawar (30), Ganesh Barde (30), Kamlesh Varde, Geeta Varde (22), Ravindra Pawar (25) and Kalpna Pavar (22), all residents of Motamalunga village in Vaghai taluka of Dang district. They were booked under various sections of Disaster Management Act. Police said that all these seven labourers had gone to Mahrashtra’s Pingalwada village two months ago in search of agricultural work but could not get any due to the lockdown and so returned to their village in Dang district via the forest routes on Maharashtra-Gujarat border. “During patrolling in the village, we received information about their illegal entry into the state and inquired about it. They told us that they entered into Gujarat border on April 25 and reached their village via forest early on April 26 morning. The health department have put them under home quarantine. Dang district has reported one Covid-19 positive case so far. As on Sunday, 353 people have been put under home quarantine in the tribal district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-sneak-into-dang-villages-from-maharashtra-booked/articleshow/75395913.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Meerut||Elderly couple bludgeoned to death, police hint at ‘insider’s role’||Meerut: An elderly shopkeeper, 72, and his wife, 65, were brutally murdered at their home in Meerut’s Jani area on Saturday night. According to witnesses, Satendra Garg was found dead, but his wife, Sarita, was still alive on Sunday morning when they were spotted by neighbours. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, but could not survive.They were most likely beaten to death using a blunt weapon, police said.Local police claimed that there was no sign of any forced entry into the house, and ruled out loot as a motive in the murders which took place in Dholdi village.“There was no sign of forced entry. Neither was any valuable item missing. The couple was involved in a property dispute and we are looking into that angle,” said Avinash Pandey, superintendent of police (rural).According to police, the couple owned a hardware store in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/elderly-couple-bludgeoned-to-death-police-hint-at-insiders-role/articleshow/75396314.cms||Piyush Rai
April 27, 2020||Surat||ASI suspended in bootlegger escape case||Surat: An assistant sub-inspector of Palsana police station was suspended by a higher-up on Saturday for negligence which had helped a bootlegger to escape from custody two days ago. However, bootlegger Vinod Varma alias Vinyo Bhaiyo was nabbed by a team of Surat range IGP from Valsad on Friday.ASI Sanjay Sharma was suspended by a top police officer of Surat rural police. "An inquiry will also be conducted how the bootlegger had escaped from the police station," said a police officer.The bootlegger was in the custody of Sharma, who is writer of H M Gohil, police sub-inspector, Palsana police station. Sharma had gone out for dinner at around 9pm and did not find the accused when he returned at 11pm on Thursday. Varma was in the office of Sharma since there is no lock-up in the police station and not handcuffed when the latter went for dinner. Varma, an accused in a 2016 bootlegging case, was remanded in police custody from April 22 to 25 by a local court.Varma had fired multiple rounds at a team of state monitoring cell (SMC) that functions under director general of police in November 2018 during a raid in Navsari. Varma has multiple bootlegging cases registered against him across different police stations in south Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/asi-suspended-in-bootlegger-escape-case/articleshow/75396042.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) MLA alleges threat to life||PATNA: JD(U) MLA from Kochadhaman Mujahid Alam has allegedly received threat messages from unidentified criminals, police said on Sunday. Alam reported the matter to Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish on Saturday after which an FIR was registered at the Kishanganj town police station. According to the police complaint, a man posing himself as Mujahid Alam posted some objectionable comments on a WhatsApp group on Saturday. The comments created uproar in the social media. Surprisingly, a photograph of the MLA with CM Nitish Kumar was also uploaded on the social media. Alam later told the investigating officer of the case, Md Irshad, that he was not aware of any WhatsApp group created by him. “I reported the matter to police after receiving abusive messages and threat to my life,” he said, adding at least 250 messages to eliminate him were sent within two hours on Saturday. The SP said the FIR was lodged under different sections of the IPC and IT Act. “Efforts are on to identify the culprit. Using somebody’s picture without his/her consent and sending objectionable comments is a punishable offence,” he added. SHO Shyam Kishore Yadav said technical help from the cybercrime cell has been sought to identify the accused. Some audio clips, which were uploaded on the fake WhatsApp group, have been sent for forensic test, he added. The MLA termed the incident as part of a larger conspiracy to defame him. “Yeh mere khilaf koi badi shajish ka hissa hai (this is part of a big conspiracy against me),” he told this newspaper over phone on Sunday. Alam had shot into limelight by raising the issue of growing unemployment in the state during the previous session of the state assembly in February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-mla-alleges-threat-to-life/articleshow/75394855.cms||Ramashankar
April 27, 2020||Patna||'App soon to reduce road accidents in Bihar'||PATNA: The state transport department is preparing a comprehensive action plan to identify more accident-prone spots at micro level in a bid to reduce road accidents and fatalities in state. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal has formed a four-member team in each district to identify the locations where ten or more road accidents and five deaths took place in a year. The district magistrate concerned would lead the team in their respective districts. District transport officer, traffic cop and road engineer would be the other members of the team. Agarwal told this newspaper on Sunday that there are 115 black spots across the state where 10 or more deaths were reported in a year. “To further reduce the road accidents, we have formed a team and asked them to identify the spots where five deaths and more than 10 accidents took place in a year,” he said. “Based on the data, we will be able to work on 4 Es of road safety — education, enforcement, engineering and emergency care. The action plan lays stress on ways to reduce fatalities. Transport officials and cops will keep a watch on accident-prone sites and prevent recurrence of mishaps in these places while engineers would analyse and rectify the road engineering faults. The violators will be penalized if they are driving recklessly. This way, we will cover all the important aspects,” Agarwal said. For the real-time data of road accidents and fatalities and quick response by the team, the department is also planning to launch a mobile application — ‘Road Safety App’. The trial run of the app would take place in the next 15 days. Elaborating the features and use of the mobile app, Agarwal said last one year accident data, reasons, spots and vehicles would be uploaded by its developers. “After the app is be launched, it would show the real-time data of accidents and deaths. Besides, it will show the black spots and its longitude. The local police station under which the accident took place would have to inform the DTO, who would upload the information to this app in 24 hours,” he said. The transport secretary further said in future, even the common people can inform the department about the road accidents through this mobile app. “They can also lodge complaints against the traffic cops or about road safety norms and their problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/action-plan-and-app-soon-to-reduce-road-accidents-in-state/articleshow/75394776.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 27, 2020||Business||Birla MF, BoI AXA go for valuation rejig||MUMBAI: Late on Sunday, Aditya Birla Sun Life MF decided to change the valuation of some of its bond holdings in its debt funds. The fund house took the decision so that the new values are in conformity with valuations suggested by two agencies, Crisil and ICRA. The name of the schemes or the securities in which the valuations were realigned could not be confirmed. Earlier on Saturday, BoI AXA MF, a joint venture between PSU-lender Bank of India and AXA, one of the world’s largest financial groups, marked down some of its investments in three of its schemes — Credit Risk Fund, Conservative Hybrid Fund and Short Term Income Fund. According to sources, Birla MF had some papers of Jharkhand government and their valuations were realigned. A Birla MF executive said “it was not a hair cut”, meaning the value of the security has not been marked down. “It was a valuation alignment to the external agency, but that asset is standard asset and awaiting for the final InvIT structure to sell... it is a servicing debt,” the executive said. The valuation change was needed due to some delay in closing the InvIT structure and, hence, the fund house aligned to the suggested valuation, the executive said. Sources also said that the decision by the fund house was aimed at mitigating some risks in the scheme after the recent winding down decision by Franklin Templeton MF arising due to the Coronavirus pandemic-induced uncertainties. The papers are expected to be soon sold to a long-term investment institution. In the case of BoI AXA MF, after the markdown, the net asset value (NAV) of the Credit Risk Fund fell by a massive 50% to Rs 3.65 as of close of business on April 24 from Rs 7.34 on April 23, data from the AMFI website showed. In comparison, the NAV of Short Term Income Fund went down by nearly 9.5% to Rs 16.17, while that of Conservative Hybrid Fund was down 1.6% to Rs 18.7. Markdown for a scheme is a process through which a part of the value of one or more of its holdings are reduced to reflect a more realistic valuation. For example, if a bond worth Rs 100 is marked down 50%, its value in the books of the scheme would become Rs 50. “Considering the severe illiquidity in the debt market, it is estimated that the securities in the portfolio may not be reflecting the realisable value that should form the basis of valuation of NAV of the funds where these securities are held. Hence, (the fund house) has revalued the illiquid and/or thinly traded securities across the portfolios,” the fund house noted. The marked-down investments within these three schemes include those in bonds of Dewan Housing Finance, Avantha Holdings, Coffee Day Natural Resources and Amantha Healthcare, an investor update from the fund house noted. According to a spokesperson of the fund house, one of the main reasons for this decision was to protect the interest of all the investors in the current volatile situation. Due to heavy redemptions in recent weeks, combined with extremely low liquidity in the bond market, it was felt that those who will exit will do so at the cost of those who will remain invested. To protect the interest of those investors who remained in the scheme, the fund house decided to mark down the investments, the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birla-mf-boi-axa-go-for-valuation-rejig/articleshow/75396666.cms||Partha Sinha
April 27, 2020||Business||Sequoia’s Surge backs 7 desi startups||BENGALURU: Even as early-stage funding gets squeezed amid the Covid-19 pandemic, top venture capital firm Sequoia’s Surge accelerator has announced a new batch with 15 companies — 7 of them from India and the remaining in Southeast Asia. These companies have together raised $39 million. Surge invests $1-2 million in each startup, and the current cohort has also got co-investments from investors like Beenext, Better Capital and Wavemaker Partners. Indian startups in the batch include online fitness app Fittr, subscription-based smart water purifier Drinkprime and data collaboration platform Atlan. The difference is the programme is being launched online this time given the Covid-19 pandemic. “Last week, we launched the programme online, using Zoom, our Surge app and other digital tools to ensure the same high-touch, personalised approach,” Surge said in a statement. The development comes as there is a 37% fall in seed funding in the first quarter of 2020 in Asia as compared to last quarter of 2019, according to CB Insights. While the first batch of Surge had 17 startups while the second had 20 startups. Startups in both these batches have collectively raised $250 million in funding, including ledger app Khatabook, social commerce app Bulbul, ed-tech startup Scaler Academy, ed-tech startup Doubtnut and agri-tech startup Bijak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sequoias-surge-backs-7-desi-startups/articleshow/75396582.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||Fight coronavirus with patience: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: As 11 more Covid-19 patients were discharged from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Sunday after they won the battle against the deadly virus, CM Nitish Kumar called upon people to have patience, be alert and continue to maintain social distancing norms. “Covid-19 patients are being cured. They are returning home from hospitals on a regular basis. There is no need to get panicky. One should show patience and remain alert,” Nitish said while holding a meeting with senior officials to review Covid-19 situation in the state. He asked people to maintain social distancing if they want to stay healthy. “In initial days, we observed a trend that people returning from abroad were getting infected. Later, many of their contacts also got infected. Chain of such patients has almost been broken in the state. Now, we are finding a new trend. Infection is now found in migrant workers and others who have returned from different parts of the country. The infection is spreading at a faster pace through their contacts,” Nitish said. He stressed the need for intensive door-to-door screening of people to check the new trend. The CM asked the health department officials to ensure intensive health check-up of all those people who have returned from the other states to break the new chain of Covid-19 in the state. Nitish called upon the people who have returned from other states not to conceal their travel history and turn up at the nearest hospital if they develop coronavirus symptoms like fever, cough and cold. He asked the health officials to expedite contact tracing, sample collection and testing so that the chain of Covid-19 could be broken. Nitish further asked the health and animal and fisheries resources department officials to keep strict vigil on other diseases like AES, Japanese encephalitis, bird flu and swine fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fight-virus-with-patience-nitish/articleshow/75394919.cms||Madan Kumar
April 27, 2020||Business||Top rated companies want to defer loan repayments||MUMBAI: In an indicator of the cash flow problems faced by industry, a host of blue chips, a couple of triple-A-rated companies and those belonging to top business groups have sought relief on loan repayment. The fact that these companies have availed an RBI-permitted moratorium, where borrowers have to repay all dues in June 2020, is seen as an indication that they are not generating enough cash during the lockdown. Ratings agency ICRA has published a list of 328 companies that have availed or sought a payment relief from lenders or investors and where approval was received either after the due date or is pending to be received. The companies that have sought to defer repayment include triple-A-rated companies like ONGC’s subsidiaries MRPL and ONGC Petro Additions. Others include Tata Group companies like Tata Power and Tata Power Renewable Energy, and a joint venture Tata GVK Hotels. JSW Steel, Vedanta’s Bharat Aluminium Company, Hindustan Copper, Piramal Enterprises and Hadia Petrochemicals are other double-A-rated companies. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updates“Missed payments by these entities, even in the case of pending formal approval from the lending institutions before the original due date, is not considered an instance of default. Non-recognition of default in these cases is as per the guidance provided by the aforesaid Sebi circular. However, it may be noted that for the entities that are yet to receive approval for the moratorium from their lending institutions, if the same is not received in due course, ICRA would review its stance on default recognition,” ICRA said. Most of the companies are rated between A and BBB. Future Corporate Resources, Oswal Overseas, Jain Farm Fresh Foods and Urban Edge Hotels are the four ‘C’ (sub-investment) rated companies. Bankers say that in many companies, the top line has vanished for April 2020 because of the extended lockdown. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsIn some businesses like airlines and hotels, adequate cash flows to meet repayment obligations are not seen forthcoming. This would mean that if there is no loan-restructuring scheme in place by June 2020, many companies will find it difficult to meet their repayment obligations. If RBI permits restructuring, without having to classify the loan as default, banks would be able to bring down the cost of funds for existing borrowers. “Given the extension of the lockdown in India, we expect asset-quality risks to rise further, especially in select sectors and for SMEs. Based partly on UBS’ non-performing loan (NPL) analysis of credit-rating downgrades, we believe banks’ BBB-rated portfolios could also face NPL headwinds. In our downside scenario, we expect significant de-rating risks due to increased credit quality risks,” said UBS in a report on Indian banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/top-rated-cos-want-to-defer-loan-repayments/articleshow/75396547.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Special team asks locals about facilities in Rythu Bazar||HYDERABAD: The inter ministerial central team (IMCT), which is on a three-day visit to the state to study the conditions in the state with regard to the Covid-19 pandemic, on Sunday visited Nature Cure Hospital (quarantine centre), Rythu Bazar in Mehdipatnam and Old Malakpet containment cluster. “The team lauded the measures taken by the government,” said Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar. At Rythu Bazar, the team asked shopkeepers about sale of essential commodities. “The team members saw the mobile Rythu Bazar rate chart and expressed satisfaction,” reads a statement issued by GHMC. In the containment zone, they spoke to people and enquired about facilities being provided including delivery of essentials. GHMC officials informed the team - headed by Arun Baroka, additional secretary, ministry of Jal Shakti - that fever survey in containment zones was also being done regularly. At Nature Cure Hospital, the team interacted with doctors and medical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-team-asks-locals-about-facilities/articleshow/75396828.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Immunity booster ‘suraksha kit’ developed by pvt varsity||Vadodara: In line with the recommendation made by Ministry of Ayush, faculties of Homeopathy and Ayurveda of city-based Parul University (PU) have developed a ‘suraksha kit’ that contains medicines to boost immunity.The kit contains medicines such as ‘samshamani vati’, ‘sudarshan ghana vati’, ‘khadiradi vati’, ‘murchhita tila taila taila’ (for nasal instillation) and ‘arsenic album 30’.“People who are old, suffering from diseases of lungs or heart and those who have weak immunity are more prone to developing complications or dying of Covid-19 infection. Hence, development of immunity is very important for combating this infection,” said Dr Komal Patel, medical and paramedical director of PU.‘Samshamani vati’ is extract of guduchi, a herb known for developing immunity. It is helpful in reducing fever.“Research has shown that guduchi helps in improving function of white blood cells (macrophages) which are important in combating infection. It also protects liver,” she said.While ‘sudarshan ghana vati’ plays important role in reducing infection and improving health, ‘khadiradi vati’, a chewable tablet, is used for treatment of throat pain.“The nasal oil drops improve health and strength of nose and throat region while arsenic album is a Homeopathic medicine that is very useful in fever,” she said, adding that the university has made the kit available at some pharmacies of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/immunity-booster-suraksha-kit-developed-by-pvt-varsity/articleshow/75394766.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Varanasi||One more cop tests +ve, 5 in quarantine, Kashi tally 37||Varanasi: Three more Covid-19 positive cases, including a policeman, were detected in the district on Sunday. The police constable is from the same Varanasi Municipal Corporation outpost of Sigra police station, where seven cops had already been confirmed as positive, said District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma adding that two men from Arjunpur village in Sevapuri block also tested positive following which the village has been declared 8th hotspot of the district. On Saturday night, eight persons, including seven policemen of Sigra police station were confirmed Covid-19 positive following which the officials quarantined six policemen who were in their contact and started screening of all personnel of the police station. The reports of these six cops arrived on Sunday confirming one of them positive. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said the new cases were detected after the arrival of test reports of 117 samples from BHU laboratory. Now, number of total policemen infected has gone up to eight. A 50-year-old and a 37-year-old man of Arjunpur village worked in wood market of Neemtalla Bhootnath in Kolkata as loading labourers. They had left Kolkata on April 17 and reached their village on April 22 hiding in trucks. Their family had denied them entry after which the village head took the duo to Shivpur sample collection centre on April 23, said the DM adding that they were quarantined by the villagers. They have been admitted to DDU district hospital’s isolation ward. The abrupt leap in novel coronavirus cases over last two days and seven police personnel being detected as infected had already left senior officials of district administration and police busy in finalising strategies for contract tracing on Sunday. Besides, the areas from where people turned up at Varanasi Municipal Corporation outpost to collect food packets also came on the radar. On Saturday night, 95 test reports arrived from BHU laboratory and confirmed eight were infected, increasing the total number of cases in district to 34, including the eight who have been discharged and one died. The 25 active cases are being treated at DDU district and BHU hospitals. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “A sub-inspector, three head constables and three constables posted at VMC outpost of Sigra police station have tested positive. Initially, the SI had developed symptoms. His subordinates staying in the outpost barrack were infected by him. They had been quarantined at a guest house in Dashashwamedh two days ago and their samples have been sent for test.” In addition to the seven policemen, a 39-year-old trader of Lallapura also tested positive and was sent to DDU district hospital. On Sunday morning, DM Sharma and SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary started tracing contacts of all infected police personnel. They visited DDU district hospital’s isolation ward to inquire about the condition of the seven policemen. The officers also visited the quarantine centre where five policemen are staying. Later, they supervised the screening of all policemen deployed at the Sigra and Dashashwamedh police stations. All police personnel were given zinc and vitamin C pills for boosting immunity.  The areas from where people used to come to VMC outpost to collect food packets are also being identified to start screening, the DM said. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has now reached to 37. A total of 19 cases were detected till April 21 since the first was reported on March 21.  Eight persons including three women had been discharged from the hospital after getting cured while one had died on April 3. Now total active cases in the district are 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-more-cop-tests-ve-5-in-quarantine-kashi-tally-37/articleshow/75395166.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Business||Bira raises $20m from Sequoia, Sofina||Bengaluru: B9 Beverages, which owns the Bira beer brand, has raised $20 million in bridge financing from two of its existing investors Sequoia Capital and Sofina, a Belgian investor. This is part of the company’s pre-series-C equity financing round which began last year, as part of which it raised $4.3 million from Sixth Sense Ventures, a domestic venture capital fund focused on consumer investments. Proceeds from the funding would be used to expand its business in India. “Our market shares in several markets are now higher than 5% of overall beer, and more than 20% share of premium beer,” said Ankur Jain, CEO of B9 Beverages. Bira has raised $130 million since it started five years ago. Bira recently entered the mass market segment with the launch of Boom which will compete against United Breweries’ Kingfisher Strong. Its other competitors include Carlsberg and AB Inbev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bira-raises-20m-from-sequoia-sofina/articleshow/75396609.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Used masks pose as threat if not disposed in a scientific manner||HYDERABAD: Even though the municipal administration and urban development department instructed municipalities to ensure the disposal of masks and safety gear in a scientific manner, GHMC and the surrounding municipalities have turned a blind eye to this order. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) had advised the state governments to treat safety gear like masks and gloves even from non-quarantined households as domestic hazardous waste. Unlike regular waste, masks and safety gear should be treated in incinerators. However, after careful verification it was revealed that adequate measures are not being taken to dispose this waste as per the requisite norms. According to guidelines, ULBs should provide specially marked yellow garbage bags to residents under quarantine to dispose wet and dry waste. But the residents of some these containment clusters told TOI that they did not receive any such bags. Sirisha K from Chandanagar containment cluster, R Inder from Khairtabad containment cluster, Abdul Azeem from Shaikpet cluster and Abdul Kashaf from Old Malakpet containment cluster said that they did not receive any bags to dispose the waste. But a GHMC official said, “We have distributed covers and the waste from containment zones is not being treated along with regular waste. The masks are also being disposed as per norms. We have also equipped the sanitation workers with safety gear.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/-if-not-disposed-in-a-scientific-manner/articleshow/75396861.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 27, 2020||Business||Our companies have cash for 2 years, says SoftBank||BENGALURU: Japan’s technology investment major SoftBank said that all portfolio companies in India, including troubled hospitality major Oyo, have money for the next two years to ride through the economic slump brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. SoftBank Vision Fund CEO Rajeev Misra also sees potential consolidation and bargain deals in the Indian internet space, adding that the fund is looking at investments in new areas like education technology, online pharmacy, and software services. Vision Fund 1 right now has $15-billion capital in reserves for follow-on deals, while Vision Fund 2 is investing from a $5-billion corpus. “The only thing I will say about India is there are multiple players in too many sectors and it is a good opportunity for consolidation and cost discipline. Most of our tech entrepreneurs are in their 20s and 30s. This is their first crisis and they have been in a growth mode for 4-5 years,” said Misra in an interview with TOI. He added that Vision Fund had started telling portfolio companies to become profitable in September before the Covid-19 crisis. The statement comes as SoftBank warned earlier this month that its Vision Fund is expected to lose nearly $17 billion for the fiscal year ending March 31 due to a “deteriorating market environment”. Part of the losses for the Masayoshi Son-led firm are expected from Oyo, said sources briefed on the matter, with a significant markdown in its $8-10 billion valuation. “If investors want to come in, of course, it will be at a lower valuation than six months ago,” said a source briefed on the matter. While SoftBank owns about 50% stake in Oyo, around 30% is held by founder Ritesh Agarwal who took a loan personally backed by Son to increase shareholding. Misra said he is confident about Oyo, which had started cutting jobs before the shutdown in global travel that accelerated the crisis. “Oyo doesn’t need capital for a few years. They expanded quite aggressively outside India, even though their value proposition in their core markets such as India is very strong given their penetration and resonance with the consumer,” said Misra. While several SoftBank-backed companies in the US, like OneWeb and Brandless have faced operational shutdowns and bankruptcies, it says portfolio companies like China’s ByteDance (owns TikTok), food delivery cos like China’s Ele.me and US-based DoorDash, and South Korea’s Coupang have done well during the lockdown. In India, it says grocery delivery startup Grofers is also getting closer to profitability, and it will further back the company as it has seen a surge in orders. Besides Covid-19, several other challenges have also come up for India’s startup ecosystem. Recently, the Indian government said that investments from China will require approval, which many expect may slow down capital from the likes of Alibaba and Tencent, who have together backed about a dozen Unicorns in India. This may also make the situation more favourable for SoftBank Vision Fund. “Domestic capital in India is limited and late-stage venture capital ecosystem is small. It is either cash-rich companies from the US like Google and Facebook, or the Vision Fund,” said Misra. Alibaba Group and affiliate Ant Financial hold a 40% stake in mobile payments major Paytm, while Tencent is a shareholder in PolicyBazaar and Ola — all portfolio companies of Vision Fund. Another development has been the commercial partnership between messaging application WhatsApp and India’s largest retailer Reliance Retail for e-commerce and, potentially, payments. This, many reckon, could have an impact on Paytm where SoftBank has invested over $1.5 billion till date. “Paytm is the market leader in overall payments, including in peer-to-merchant payments. Now Jio-Facebook is a formidable competitor, but Paytm has always had to face it with Google, Walmart-owned PhonePe, and Amazon,” said SoftBank managing partner Munish Varma, who sits on the Paytm board. SoftBank Vision Fund expects consolidation in sectors like online auto classifieds and online pharmacy, where it doesn’t have investments in India yet, besides backing its portfolio companies to acquire assets in a down-market. “Companies that emerge with enough cash, new business model and stronger, reduced cost discipline will take a larger market share and will be successful over the next 4-5 years as competitors will either lose market share or cease to exist,” said Misra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/our-cos-have-cash-for-2-years-says-softbank/articleshow/75396704.cms||Madhav Chanchani
April 27, 2020||Business||JioMart starts orders on WhatsApp in Mumbai suburbs||BENGALURU: Days after announcing the WhatsApp-Jio deal, JioMart has started taking orders through WhatsApp in Mumbai suburbs of Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, and Thane. Currently, one can place orders through WhatsApp by first sending a message to a number being promoted by JioMart and then put the required items in the chat window. Once the kirana store confirms the order through an SMS, a customer can go pick it up and pay at the store. Read AlsoJio accepts FB friend request, sells 10% stake for record Rs 43,574 croreSocial media giant Facebook has agreed to invest $5.7 billion or Rs 43,574 cr for a 9.99% stake in Jio Platforms, a unit of Reliance Industries (RIL). Mark Zuckerberg said they plan on projects which will open up commerce opportunities across India. The transaction, which is among the largest FDIThis facility is live with about 1,200 stores for now. As TOI reported on Thursday, the work on WhatsApp and Jio’s collaboration had already started as the $5.7-billion-deal was being announced by Facebook and Jio Platforms. This is now expected to be scaled up as local kirana stores have started re-opening across India. The partnership between Jio and WhatsApp is touted as a potential game-changer of how commerce could work in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jiomart-starts-orders-on-whatsapp-in-mumbai-suburbs/articleshow/75396585.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||FIR against 155 for violating lockdown in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF: Nalanda police on Sunday lodged FIRs against five known and 150 unknown persons who allegedly violated the lockdown and pelted stones on policemen at Sakunat, a containment zone, late on Friday night. Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar said, “When a police team reached Sakunat on Friday night to take some suspects of Covid-19 for quarantine, hundreds of residents came out of their houses to protest and pelted stones on policemen in which a cop sustained injuries.” “On Friday, a 55-year-old woman and her 38-year-old daughter were tested positive for Covid-19 from Sakunat locality. The woman’s 24-year-old son, who is a tailor by profession, was earlier tested positive. No arrests have been made so far,” the SP added. However, while some residents of the locality accused police of picking up Covid suspects late night and misbehaving with them, some said that many residents have unnecessarily been quarantined and they were not being provided proper food. They also rejected the police claim of pelting stones. Sakunat locality was sealed and declared containment zone to prevent further spread of the virus where 22 persons were found positive. As drones and 24 member NDRF team have been engaged in sanitization work at containment zones— Sakunat and Sheikhana—no fresh case was reported from Nalanda since Saturday. Of the 34 cases reported from the district so far, three have been tested negative and two reports of the Biharsharif doctor have also tested negative. A health department official said the doctor will be released from hospital after 14 days. Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh said that sanitization work was being carried in the containment zones, which have been completely sealed. He said that workers engaged by the Biharsharif Municipal Corporation were supplying essential commodities to the residents of those localities after receiving orders on WhatsApp numbers. He said all the doctors at Asthawan PHC and Asthawan referral hospital and 14 relatives of the ambulance driver have been quarantined. His village Onda under the Asthawan block was also sealed and sanitization work was being carried out there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fir-against-155-for-violating-lockdown-in-nalanda/articleshow/75394889.cms||Farrukh Nadim
April 27, 2020||Meerut||Meerut reports 3 new +ve cases, tally soars to 93; Saharanpur, Hapur also see rise||Meerut: With three more people testing positive for novel coronavirus in Meerut on Sunday, the total number of cases soared to 93. Also, a positive case in Meerut died, taking the death toll to five.Moreover, six people from Saharanpur and seven from Hapur also tested positive, taking the total cases to 178 (including 12 admitted in Lucknow) and 26, respectively.Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer, said, “As many as three new cases were tested positive in Meerut. These include a 66-year-old man from Kesarganj, a kirana store owner, who tested positive on Sunday—a day after he died of a brain haemorrhage—and two of his family members.”Gross negligence was reported from LLRM Medical College after the deceased’s family alleged that the patient was denied admission despite him approaching the district hospital and LLRM Medical College.An inquiry has been set up in the matter and a written clarification has been sought from the doctor on duty who returned him after prescribing medicines to him.Giving details of Saharanpur cases, chief medical officer Dr BS Sodhi said, “As many as six people have tested positive out of the total 35 samples – the reports of which arrived on Sunday. All of them are already in quarantine in Deoband and are being shifted to a hospital for further treatment.”Aditi Singh, district magistrate of Hapur, said, “Seven new asymptomatic cases tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. While one each belong to Garh Gate, Buxar and Gondi, two each are from Salai and Kurana villages. Patients are being shifted to CHC Hapur for treatment and direct contacts are being put in hospital quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-reports-3-new-ve-cases-tally-soars-to-93-saharanpur-hapur-also-see-rise/articleshow/75396322.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 27, 2020||Varanasi||Boy, father thrashed for alleged theft; accused bailed||Varanasi: A man thrashed a minor boy and his father with sticks and made them rub their nose on ground in front of other villagers on the pretext of alleged theft of 25 kg gram by the duo from his farm in Amda village under Kandava police station in Chandauli district. He was arrested on Saturday but was soon released on bail on health grounds. The accused is identified as Shashikant Rai. The matter came to light when the video of the same went viral on social media, where Rai is seen holding a meeting of villagers and in front of them, thrashing the father-son duo with sticks and making them rub their nose on ground. Chandauli SP Hemant Kutiyal on Sunday said, “After taking note of the viral video, Kandava cops investigated the matter and lodged an FIR against Rai under sections 323, 504, 188, 269 and 270 of IPC, sections of Epidemic Diseases Act. He was arrested on Saturday but released on bail on the same day on health grounds.” After learning that a man and his son of Amda village had stolen around 25 kg of gram from his farm, Rai sent his goons to catch them. Later, he held a panchayat of villagers and brutalised the duo in front of them. A few locals made a video of the incident and posted it on social media which went viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/boy-father-thrashed-for-alleged-theft-accused-bailed/articleshow/75395192.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||18 new coronavirus cases in Machavaram||VIJAYAWADA: Machavaram continued to remain on high alert after 18 new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday morning. With a total of 40 cases registered till Sunday, Karmika Nagar in Machavaram has become a hotspot for Covid-19. A 29-year-old foreign returnee has been identified as the primary contact for all cases reported in the area. Health and revenue officials who were baffled at 40 positive cases in the small hill-top colony in Machavaram carried out a detailed investigation on the source of the infection. The foreign returnee, it was found, had flouted guidelines on home quarantine and self-isolation, and roamed on the streets. The foreign returnee had also travelled to Chennai. He spent a lot of time at an eatery run by his parents outside their house. As he did not exhibit any symptoms for over 20 days, the issue came to light only after his father fell ill. After all three persons in the family tested positive, officials declared Machavaram a red zone. Locals who came into contact with the foreign returnee and his family were also shifted to quarantine centres. A family of six in the same neighbourhood also later tested positive. City police lodged a criminal case against the foreign returnee who ignored home quarantine guidelines. “Everyone should be cautious about the spread of novel coronavirus. A small negligence can cause huge damage. The situation would be different if the foreign returnee stayed back home. We took the issue seriously and filed a case against him,” said police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao. Meanwhile, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) authorities and city police blocked all roads in Machavaram and intensified sanitation activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/18-new-ncov-cases-in-machavaram/articleshow/75395542.cms||Venu Lanka
April 27, 2020||Varanasi||Pool testing effective in clearing backlog of samples at BHU lab||Varanasi: Pool testing has emerged as an effective solution for the problem of delay in conducting tests and increasing backlog of samples of Covid-19 suspected cases at the Banaras Hindu University’s microbiology department laboratory. Now, the lab is all set to test even 400 samples per day. The lab is the nodal centre for testing samples being collected from 13 districts of east UP region. Talking to TOI, BHU laboratory authorities said, “In order to start the pool testing of Covid-19 samples we had started process for sterilisation from April 22. Finally the pool testing process was started in the laboratory from Saturday. For each batch, samples of five persons are being pooled for testing. It saves both, the testing material and time. Due to the same reasons by Saturday night we had cleared all the backlog.” However, the officials in the district, where numbers of Covid-19 positive cases witnessed an alarming rise in past two days, are still waiting for reports of many samples. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that reports of 295 cases are still awaited. The lab officials said that district administration has the figures of samples sent to lab till April 24, when the process of sterilising the samples was in process. Till Saturday evening most of the samples had been tested while pool test of remaining samples was in progress, they added. The lab officials mentioned that till last week, the lab was conducting test of around 350 samples per day against the capacity of testing 300 samples in a day. A large number of samples started accumulating in the lab following random sampling by the officials in all 13 districts leading to a huge backlog of samples to be tested. The random collection of samples was topped after the officials realised the capacity of the laboratory, they added. Due to the same reasons, even after clearing tests of over 350 samples per day the samples to be tested remained above 400, they said. To clear this backlog, the man power in the lab was enhanced massively and on April 24 about 600 samples were tested in a day. Around 2,408 samples were tested between April 20 and 25. Since the beginning of Covid-19 test at BHU lab in March first week till April 19 as many as 3,251 samples had been tested. While on Sunday afternoon this figure had reached to 5,659, said the lab officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pool-testing-effective-in-clearing-backlog-of-samples-at-bhu-lab/articleshow/75395212.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Shops sealed for defying meat ban||VIJAYAWADA: As the number of Covid-19 positive cases rises in the city, Krishna district administration is strictly implementing a ban on the sale of meat, chicken, fish and other non-veg foods. All municipal meat markets and Sunday markets in the city remained closed with the directions of the district collector, on this Sunday . Special teams led by the veterinary wing of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) implemented the meat ban in the city. Officials raided a few chicken shops which continued the sale ignoring orders given by the district collector. Officials seized around two metric tonnes of fish ready for sale. “The meat ban is to prevent people from gathering in huge numbers at Sunday markets. We have raided the shops which are continuing sales secretly and have also destroyed the rotten meat,” said VMC Veterinary wing chief Dr Ravichand. “Two mutton shops and two chicken shops were sealed for ignoring the orders. We have lodged a criminal case at the police station against SS Naidu Chicken shop for selling stale meat,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shops-sealed-for-defying-meat-ban/articleshow/75395548.cms||Venu Lanka
April 27, 2020||Goa||State again misses coastal plan submission deadline||Panaji: The ongoing lockdown has resulted in Goa missing the March 31 deadline set by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to submit its final draft of the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) to the Centre. The NGT had directed the Chennai-based National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), which is entrusted with drawing up the plan, to submit the final draft after a public hearing to the Union environment ministry by March 31, 2020. It had also said that the final notification would have to be issued before April 30, 2020. The NCSCM has now informed the state government that the revised draft of the CZMP would be readied after the lockdown is lifted. “I am directed to inform you that we are working on the revision of the draft CZMP for Goa, but at present, we are not able to access this CZMP data at the NCSCM data centre due to strict lockdown restrictions imposed in Chennai. We will be in a position to inform you about the status immediately after the curfew is lifted and will also submit the revised draft CZMP soon thereafter,” senior scientific consultant at the NCSCM, M Dharma Raj, said in an email to the state government. A senior official at the state department of science, technology and environment said once the NCSCM submits the draft CZMP, a month’s notice has to be issued calling for a public hearing. Once the hearing is conducted, the department would have to again accept or reject the objections and suggestions given by members of the general public at the meeting and incorporate these into the final draft of the CZMP that has to be submitted to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-again-misses-coastal-plan-submission-deadline/articleshow/75396860.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Corporations to use infrared scanners to check safai workers at 500 sites in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After the first death and multiple positive cases among sanitation staff, the three corporations have instituted a new screening mechanism to control the situation. North Delhi Municipal Corporation plans to procure 520 infrared scanners and will be screening all its safai karamcharis before daily shifts. An official of the sanitation department said 499 sites have been created across six administrative zones. “The number of staff varies from area to area. To avoid crowding, we have asked the staff to reach their working stations, while the officers marking attendance have been asked to reach the field site,” the official added. The supervisors have been tasked to monitor the sanitation level among the workers. “The supervisor will be held responsible for any violations. The staff will have to wash hands and wear gloves. After the shift, the in-charge will have to ensure that used gloves and masks are properly disposed of. As per the new guidelines, the temperature of the staff will be recorded. If any anomaly is found, the worker will be sent to a healthcare facility,” he added. The civic body will be procuring 5,000 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits for the workers deployed at containment zones. The tender for scanners has been issued and the process is expected to be over by Thursday. “The tender will open on Monday and the supply deadline is of three days. As soon as we get the supply, the scanners will be sent to the central store of DEMS. Besides 499 stations, one extra IR scanner will be sent to the sanitary supervisors,” said the official. Two days ago, an assistant wsanitary inspector (ASI) working in Rohini zone had tested Covid-positive, following which 39 workers were home quarantined. On Saturday, a South Delhi Municipal Corporation sanitation worker died of the virus. He was 56 years old and worked in Bhogal. Mayor Sunita Kangra has started distributing ayurvedic medicines among the workers to boost their immunity. An official said temperature monitoring might soon be instituted in SDMC areas too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-to-use-infrared-scanners-to-check-safai-workers-at-500-sites/articleshow/75396340.cms||Paras Singh
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||TMC, BJP spar over central team visit||KOLKATA/SILIGURI: Trinamool Congress on Sunday questioned the rationale behind the central team’s visit to seven districts of Bengal — a state which reported the least number of Covid cases in comparison to the states where Delhi has sent such teams. The BJP responded by accusing the Bengal government of “hiding facts”. On Sunday, an inter-ministerial central team visited Alipore, Kidderpore, Metiabruz, Behala and Howrah’s Golabari, while another team went to New Chumta tea estate and Bidhan Market in SIliguri. Trinamool MP Dinesh Trivedi tweeted: “Central teams are always welcome. The states will cooperate. But is there a method... Teams visit most districts in States with least active cases.” Trivedi argued that Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, MP, Tamil Nadu and Telengana — each reported more cases than Bengal, but the central teams in those states visited one to three districts. BJP MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo alleged, “Mamata Banerjee is trying to hide actual situation of Bengal under Corona attack... . Though the Mamata Banerjee government wants help from the Centre and had been pleading for funds along with PPE kits to combat coronavirus, the Bengal government is lying on the situation.” BJP national secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, too, alleged that the Bengal government was hiding Covid-19 facts. The central team in Kolkata started their journey from the BSF premises on Gurusaday Road at 10.25am and moved around different parts of the city. From Gariahat, it went to Alipore and then to Kidderpore and Metiabruz. Then it went to Behala and later to Howrah’s Golabari. There was no police escort for the team as BSF men escorted them, but police cars were spotted at some places around the team’s convoy. Similarly, in north Bengal, a team visited New Chumta tea estate and Bidhan Market without any police escort and could not meet any state government official on Sunday. Team leader Vineet Joshi said: “The state government is not co-operating. We are asking them to give information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-bjp-spar-over-central-team-visit/articleshow/75396342.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||24 more contact cases of truck driver identified||VIJAYAWADA: A day after a Covid-19 positive truck driver, who played rummy and tambola with his neighbours, infected 24 people in Krishna Lanka area of Vijayawada city, health and revenue wing officials swung into action and began identifying his other primary contacts. They identified another 24 more people till Sunday evening, taking the tally to 48 positive cases. It is believed his primary contacts met around 300 members from Ranadhir Nagar colony. Krishna Lanka has been declared a Covid hotspot and all streets to the colony have been closed. Officials are conducting door-to-door survey and making announcements on mikes requesting his contacts to voluntarily come forward. VMC authorities used drones to disinfect the area and police personnel were deputed to prevent people from stepping out of their homes. “Early identification of cases will help reduce the risk of mass transmission. One should come forward for tests and be quarantined if he or she came in contact with Covid-19 positive patients,” said endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas. “We have tested around 7,000 patients in Krishna district so far and only 170 have tested positive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/24-more-contact-cases-of-truck-driver-identified/articleshow/75395559.cms||Venu Lanka
April 27, 2020||Meerut||M’nagar SSP starts ‘stay home, stay fit push-up’ challenge, netizens respond||Muzaffarnagar: Days after Muzzafarnagar SSP shared his video of doing push-ups and challenged people to do the same on social media platforms, many netizens not only applauded the cop for the “inspiring video” but also heeded his call and uploaded their clip of doing exercise.On Saturday, SSP Abhishek Yadav, who is considers himself a health junkie, had initiated a ‘stay home, stay fit push-up’ challenge on social media and invited people to upload their videos on social media.In his video, he had said, “Exercise is the best way to mitigate boredom during the lockdown and hence, this challenge…If you have never done this before, we are with you. Send us your first-ever video. One or five, 10 or 50. The numbers don’t matter. Your effort to stay home and stay fit does. Stay at home during this lockdown and send us your video. Let’s stay fit together.”Accepting the challenge of the top cop of the district, scores of people shared their videos on Facebook.Binesh Panwar, a gymmer, said, “The clip inspired me. After watching his video, I also uploaded a clip of my exercise on Facebook, which received hundreds of likes, including that of SSP’s.”Responding to the wide appreciation from people, Yadav said, “I am a gymmer, too, and can understand the problem the people who can't go gym nowadays. To encourage people to exercise at home, I uploaded this video.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-ssp-starts-stay-home-stay-fit-push-up-challenge-netizens-respond/articleshow/75396341.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Doctors are dying for you, be respectful’||Nagpur: Dr Lokendra Singh, a leading practitioner, is the consultant neurosurgeon and director of Dr GM Taori Central India Institute of Medical Sciences in Nagpur. Dr Singh, who is the current president of the Neurological Society of India, spoke to TOI about the Covid pandemic, its implications and related issues. The Neurological Society of India is upset with what happened to Dr Simon Hercules in Chennai last week. Dr Hercules was a good neurosurgeon, a good human being, did charity work and also provided employment to others. He operated upon a Covid patient, got infected and succumbed. When his body was taken to the cemetery, people around started pelting stones. It had to be brought back to hospital and then with police help buried after a close friend himself dug the grave. There was no dignity in death. The Centre was quick to take action and stricter laws are coming. Doctors need some kind of protection. This hatred, especially when something goes wrong, has always been there. Is Covid going to worsen the situation? Definitely. There is more danger once the restrictions are off. 80% of the population is asymptomatic. How will doctors evaluate Covid carriers? Doctors need to take quick decision. If somebody sues, it will be difficult for us. No doctor will do anything to kill a patient. Recently, many citizens came out and clapped for healthcare workers. Are there some double standards here? Clapping is OK. But when one sees the danger close by, one is scared and reacts differently. Standards change when it is for oneself. Unfortunately, this is how society functions. How can you make people respect the work being done by doctors, nurses, paramedics, health workers.. even cops? When they need you, the respect is automatic. When something goes wrong even those whom you have treated can behave differently. There is lack of knowledge, scare and confusion, even among the medical fraternity and scientists. This virus is intelligent and is changing fast. Nobody knows how it is going to behave. People will have to trust doctors, there is no other choice. Doctors are dying for you, be respectful. Should the lockdown be extended? The pandemic is going to last for at least 18 months and then another six months to restore normalcy. The government has to carefully study the situation and relax the rules where there is a need. Though we are flattening the curve, the lockdown will not eradicate corona, it will only give us breathing time. God willing, a vaccine will be invented, some miracle may happen. Living with less money is better than dying and the lockdown has showed how little we need to survive. What has India done right to keep the number of positive cases and casualties down? Difficult to say. Asian countries are exposed to various infestations, viruses and endemics. We have more resistance than our western friends. The coronavirus is heat sensitive and India being a warm country is another reason. Also, Indians have been more disciplined than those in developed countries. What about Nagpur and Vidarbha? There is a sudden recent spike. Is it a cause for worry? More and more people are being tested. Though the source was one particular event, the virus can hit every community. People were not forthcoming with information. It did create some rift in society. But it is good that the naming, because of which there was shaming, has stopped. When will this pandemic end? It will remain in our psyche for a long time. Our behaviour, how we interact, shake hands, hug each other will change. More than PPE (personal protection equipment), PPB (personal protection behaviour) will come into play. (Watch the interview on facebook.com/toinagpur and twitter.com/TOI_Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-are-dying-for-you-be-respectful/articleshow/75396346.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown intensified in Krishna Lanka||VIJAYAWADA: With some areas in Vijayawada city now becoming the hotspots of Covid-19 spread, the district administration intensified surveillance and enforcement operations in the areas identified as red zones. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz and city police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao conducted a vehicle march on Sunday at Krishna Lanka area one of the worst affected areas in the city. The police, revenue and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) officials have marched through the area cautioning people to remain in their homes to stop further spread of the virus. The collector and the police commissioner explained the consequences of being negligent as all the newly emerged cases have been identified to have originated from two persons. Speaking to reporters, Imtiaz said that despite the government taking several measures to contain the spread of virus, positive cases have been reported from Krishna Lanka, Khuddus Nagar and Karmika Nagar areas. This is because the people in these areas did not observed the lockdown, he said. He observed that one infected person from these areas spread the virus at least to 20 others. “We appeal that even now people should take the virus seriously and remain in their homes. If people do not observe the lockdown properly all the measures taken by the government would go in vain,” he said. Thirumala Rao said one negligent lorry driver and another foreign returnee who hid his travel details are responsible for the new wave of cases that have been reported in the last couple of days. Their irresponsible behaviour has put the lives of many others at risk. Cases have been booked against those persons for violating lockdown norms and for not revealing their travel details. Pointing out to the criticism on police for being tough, the city police commissioner said people’s lives are paramount to the police and they will continue to be tough in enforcing the law. “There will be increased surveillance through drone cameras and CCTV cameras across the city and stringent action will be taken against lockdown violators,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-intensified-in-krishna-lanka/articleshow/75395562.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Tech boosts sales of small-time farmers and fish vendors||Panaji: Neela Naik, a young mother based in Kuwait called on an online fish delivery service in Goa requesting urgent delivery of fish to her residence in Goa as her four-year-old son refused to eat food as there was no fish available during the lockdown. In Panaji, a family reached out to the farmers of St Estevam via WhatsApp to supply them with locally grown brown rice instead of venturing into a superstore located minutes away from their home. With the lockdown in force, there may not be right logistics to supply fresh harvest to the markets, but that hasn't stopped farmers and fishermen from reinventing their business model to solve the food problem during the pandemic. Thanks to social media, they can form the right relationships with their potential consumers to sell their food starting a new wave of farm-to-fork service. John Desa procures fish from trawlers owned by family members and friends and sells it directly to the consumers through the app La Socorina which is available both on IOS and Android. In addition, the fish availability is advertised through WhatsApp and their Facebook page in the same name. He also manages the La Socorina fish store at Cortalim where people start making a beeline maintaining social distance outside the shop from 6am onwards even though the shop opens at 8 am. “Demand is so high these days due to the lockdown that we get calls from all over India and abroad by family members of people living in Goa requesting delivery of fish to their loved ones in the state,” Desa said. In one of the many lanes of Campal, Avertino Miranda parked his car loaded with sealed packets of rice and sweet potatoes. His message went around through WhatsApp asking people to look for a green coloured car selling the produce. Nestor Rangel Ribeiro, who is planning to sell hundreds of mangoes in the coming weeks, said that the civic forces have been very cooperative during the lockdown. “We get stopped sometimes by the police or questioned by the municipal officials while en route but when we show them the car full of rice, they allow us to go ahead and sell it.” he said, adding that he has also procured a travel permit for the vehicle as per the government rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tech-boosts-sales-of-small-time-farmers-and-fish-vendors/articleshow/75396875.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Pune||Health freaks trick police to avoid being booked||Pune: Despite restrictions and police action, morning walkers continue to step out of their homes. In fact, the so-called health conscious citizens have even started using different tricks to escape police action. The Kothrud police on Sunday morning registered offences against as many as 40 people from DP road near Mahatma Society, Right Bhusari Colony and Paud road. Senior inspector of the Kothrud police station Pratibha Joshi told TOI that teams have started taking action since early morning. “Since 5am on Sunday, these teams have caught 40 morning walkers,” Joshi said. She added that many people head out for a walk keeping medical prescriptions or a single tablet handy. “When we caught them, they pretended that they were going to the medical store or even coming from the shop after buying a single tablet that early in the morning,” Joshi said. She said people also carry along empty shopping bags. “They know that shops open at 10am. Yet, they come out on the road. We have booked these people too,” Joshi said. Escape route no good A police officer said people have started walking along buildings so that they can immediately enter any building on seeing the police. “For a few days, they succeeded in avoiding the police but on Sunday the residents literally threw them out of their premises. We have taken action against them,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-freaks-trick-police-to-avoid-being-booked/articleshow/75396865.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Med equipment flown in to Kol from China||Kolkata: A SpiceJet freighter flew to Kolkata with 10 tonnes of Covid-19 medical supplies, including mask-making equipment from Shanghai in China, on Saturday. The airline will operate the B737 cargo freighter service to cities in China, Singapore and Sri Lanka. “SpiceJet freighters have begun ferrying crucial medical supplies from China. In addition to Shanghai, regular SpiceJet cargo flights are also being operated to Hong Kong, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, Ho Chi Minh City and other places while our domestic cargo operations have been significantly boosted by our passenger aircraft fleet where both B737 and Q400 have been deployed to operate cargo-on-seat flights. We have put our resources to maximum use transporting over 2,700 tonnes of cargo through more than 300 flights since the nation-wide lockdown began,” said SpiceJet chairman and managing director, Ajay Singh. Since the lockdown, SpiceJet has operated nearly 430 cargo flights carrying over 3,300 tonnes of materials. Of the 430 cargo flights, 130 were international ones. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep S Puri tweeted: “Domestic Cargo Operators SpiceJet, Blue Dart & Indigo are operating cargo flights on a commercial basis while they also carry Lifeline Udan cargo”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-equipment-flown-in-to-kol-from-china/articleshow/75396361.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Baby of Covid positive mom tests negative in Chittoor||TIRUPATI: A one-year-old baby boy at the Chittoor district Covid-19 hospital tested negative for the virus even after being breasfed by his mother, a Covid-19 patient. Both mother and son were discharged from the hospital on Saturday after testing negative twice. Two women, aged 30 and 32 years, from Nagari municipality wered admitted to the Covid hospital in Chittoor after testing positive on April 8. Both were primary contacts of a Tablighi Jamaat returnee. One of the two infected women was the returnee’s brother’s wife, who has a one-year-old baby. The returnee said, “Before the two women were shifted to the isolation ward for treatment, none of our relatives came forward to take care of the baby boy. But on request, the doctors agreed to allow the infant into the isolation ward along with his mother, amid stringent medical protocols.” He added, “While doctors started administering treatment to the mother, she breastfed her son in the isolation ward. Though she tested positive several times during the treatment, the baby boy tested negative all the time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/baby-of-covid-positive-mom-tests-negative/articleshow/75395568.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 27, 2020||Varanasi||‘Impact of Covid-19 will outlast pandemic’||Varanasi: Agricultural scientist, former director general, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, former vice chancellor of Banaras Hindu University, Prof. Panjab Singh appreciated government’s concession to allow farmers to harvest their rabi crop amid lockdown, but expressed concern over the dependency on migrant labour in high producing states like Punjab and Haryana. In an exclusive interaction, he told TOI, “The corona pandemic may last about six months, but its adverse impact on global economy will be for long.” Economic experts have estimated the impact of Covid-19 on Indian economy resulting in a dip of 7-33 % of its GDP, depending on the number of working days lost (17-67 days respectively). The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) also estimates a 20% loss in GDP for India. “In agriculture, we are faced with a unique situation when both demand and supply have taken a hit. Consumption has been impacted as many establishments are shut and the pace and nature of life has changed. And markets are receiving half the supply, especially of perishables like fruits and vegetables, due to logistical and lockdown hiccups. Less demand also implies a dip in prices of these products, resulting in lower income for the already strained farmer,” he said. The impact of this would be more visible in coming months during sowing of the kharif crops. “In India, 82% farmers have very poor shock absorbing capacity, and 54% of total labour force is dependent on agriculture and agriculture-related activities. Prompt procurement of farmers’ produce at MSP and cash payment will help them in present crisis. Governments should ensure timely provision of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, machinery and credit on easy terms to help the small and marginal farmers sow next crop,” Prof. Singh added. Covid-19 has impacted all but the most severely hit are the daily wagers, labourers and migrant workers who are about 45% of the workforce. Now, that these people are back in their native places, providing nutrition and livelihood to them should be the top priority short term measure by governments. They require free or highly subsidised foodgrain, pulses and cooking oil besides cash for their daily essential needs. “Governments are trying, but reports from the ground tell us that delivery is not quite satisfactory in all states,” he said. Employment schemes like MNREGS and food for work should be given higher allocation, and activated as soon as the pandemic subsides. State governments have a crucial role in implementing these schemes. A second relief package higher in quantum and of wider coverage is critical for meeting the challenge, Prof. Singh added. Similarly, more than 4 crore small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in country contribute nearly 30% of GDP, but unlike large corporates have poor shock absorbing capacity and also need some financial package. This may call for revisiting financial, and production policies on case-to-case basis, he opined. “In order to counter the socio-economic impact of pandemic, we immediately need to assist farmer in harvesting rabi and sowing kharif crops, provide food and cash relief to the landless and migrant labourers besides employment assurance financial and other support to SMEs,” he said. “Our food grain reserve of nearly 55-60 mn tonnes is helping us in this hour. How can we provide relief on regular basis in a more decentralised way that its benefits reach all households even in the farthest corners of our country is paramount,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/impact-of-covid-19-will-outlast-pandemic/articleshow/75395227.cms||Binay Singh
April 27, 2020||Varanasi||Man kills relative to avenge insult, held||Varanasi: Chandauli police, on Sunday arrested one Ramshray Yadav while he was trying to escape after killing his relative Ramdular Yadav (55) in Jigna village under Ilia police station on Saturday late night. SP Chandauli Hemant Kutiyal said that Ramashray was arrested with the stick used in killing Ramdular. Ramashray confessed his crime divulging that he killed his relative to avenge his insult and misbehaviour with other family members. As per his daily routine Ramdular left for his outhouse to sleep after dinner on Saturday. However, when he did not return home till late on Sunday morning his family members reached the outhouse and found his body lying in a pool of blood. On getting information police reached there and sent the body for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-kills-relative-to-avenge-insult-held/articleshow/75395248.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops get spunky to rein in people violating restrictions||PUNE: People found driving their vehicles during the lockdown without providing a valid reason will soon be made to man police check points for at least six hours as a ‘punishment’. The city police has taken the drastic decision as many citizens are still venturing out of their homes for non-essential purpose despite repeated police warnings. The idea is to engage such people with duty that evokes a sense of social service like manning police checkpoints or patrolling the red zone areas of the city, police said. The city police on Saturday evening ‘challenged’ citizens, who want to violate lockdown orders, through its Twitter account. Speaking to TOI, police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “We are considering this form of punishment, which is generally considered as a social service in many developed countries. We are working on the nitty-gritty and we will soon implement it.” A senior police officer said, “Any person venturing out of his or her house without any permission or for a valid reason using their private vehicle, s/he will be asked to perform six hours of duty along with the police stationed in the red zones of the city. They will be deployed on checkpoints or on bandobast duty”. In the initial days of the lockdown, the city police barricaded roads and junction and used some force to deter people from going out of their homes. Later, at some locations, the police would punish people by asking them to do sit-ups. Similarly, police took photographs of people violating the lockdown holding placards stating: ‘I am an enemy of the society’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-get-spunky-to-rein-in-people-violating-restrictions/articleshow/75396863.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Nine new cases in R’seema districts||TIRUPATI: Kurnool reported four new cases on Sunday, a first in over a week of reporting cases in double digit. Meanwhile, state Covid-19 special officer Ajay Jain and Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian held a task force review meet on Sunday. The latter directed officials to focus on enforcing the lockdown in all red zones besides preventing the outbreak of the virus in green zones. “Seal off red zones and protect the green zones should be our new mantra. There should be no scope for laxity at any level. After a positive case is reported in the district, the primary and secondary contacts of the patient should be immediately isolated and screened. The whole process should be sped up to contain the further outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the district”, said district collector Veerapandian. Kadapa on Sunday reported three new cases taking the tally to 58 and two fresh cases were reported in Anantapur district. A 39-year-old woman who came in contact with Covid patient number 17 in the district, tested positive and a 24 year- old-patient, who came into contact with patient number 46, also tested positive on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/9-new-cases-in-rseema-dists/articleshow/75395577.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Lockdown revives hunting instincts of Vishwamitri crocs||Vadodara: Before lockdown closed all restaurants in the city, they used to get sufficient food for survival. It used to be a feast for crocodiles residing in Vishwamitri River as many eateries and mutton shops disposed their waste in or near the river. The reptiles, though, aren’t getting the feed since over a month as all the eateries have been closed. But, interestingly, that hasn’t affected the reptiles much. The reptiles living in densely urban areas have neither migrated to some other parts of the river or ventured out of the water body in search of food.“The reptiles, it seems, are now living on the food available in the river. They might be hunting on fishes. Also, human movement is almost negligible in urban areas due to lockdown and hence small animals including wild boars too are venturing near the river,” said Arvind Pawar who runs Wildlife Rescue Trust.“Crocodiles in Vishwamitri River are also probably hunting small animals. The reptiles are known to adapt to the situation quickly. So they are now learning to feed themselves,” Pawar told TOI. According to the last census done by the forest department in 2016, Vishwamitri River is home to over 260 crocodiles and many of them live in the densely populated areas between Fatehgunj and Sayajigunj. A forest official said, “The reptiles are now probably living on small animals and fishes in the river. And, a crocodile can live for a long time without food. So the reptiles in Vishwamitri River aren’t much affected due to lockdown yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lockdown-revives-hunting-instincts-of-vishwamitri-crocs/articleshow/75394791.cms||Tushar Tere
April 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vegetable stalls open, Salunke Vihar and NIBM roads look like marketplace||PUNE: The desperation to stock up a few days’ ration within a two-hour window from 10am to noon is triggering a mad rush and overcrowding at groceries and vegetable outlets on the sealed streets of Kondhwa, leaving the residents a fuming lot. Around 9am on Sunday, quite a few residents were seen queuing up in front of the grocers along Salunke Vihar Road. Within another 30 minutes, crowding began and vehicles were seen coming in from various area. And the moment the shutters went up at 10am, the mad rush to grab whatever essentials one can for the next few days started. By 12pm, the entire area looked like a busy market place. “Very few vegetable stalls opened for almost a week now. Now suddenly all of them are here. But the two-hour window is too less to meet the requirements of so many people. Some housing societies have arranged sale of vegetables and fruits on their premises. But there are societies where such a facility is not,” said Dinesh Akhetkar, a resident of Salunke Vihar Road. A couple was spotted trying to cross over a barricaded portion of a street to reach Salunke Vihar Road. “The administration should understand that the two-hour relief, without adequate arrangements or planning, is only creating the chaos. Vehicles are being parked near these barricades and social distancing norms are going for a toss. You can see how hundreds of people are getting into panic buying mode,” the man told TOI. The situation was similar on NIBM Road as well. “I know what social distancing means and its importance. But the administration should also remember that the shops will close sharp at noon. One cannot live on rice and pulses day after day. People are rushing to the shops to buy the essentials fearing that by the time their turn comes, the shops will down the shutters,” said Arun Sharma, a resident. Arun’s wife, who was carrying bag full of vegetables and other essentials, said, “The vegetable stalls were closed for days. By now the administration should have come up with a mechanism that the stalls function in accordance with the social distancing norms to avoid overcrowding. We heard about the administration’s plan to deliver vegetables at the gates of housing societies. But I did not see anything like that happening.” Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police said, “As far as Salunke Vihar Road is concerned, some parts of it come under the Wanowrie police station and some parts are under our control. This is causing some concerns. But both the police stations are now coordinating with the planning. The situation becomes normal after noon.” It’s noon and the grocers start shutting shops, the vegetable vendors leave their spots and the shoppers too start for their homes. What stays behind is a traffic mess, which gets cleared in another 30 odd minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veggie-stalls-open-salunke-vihar-nibm-roads-look-like-marketplace/articleshow/75396877.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 27, 2020||Kanpur||45 contacts of Covid patient from Shivkuti test negative for infection||Prayagraj: Health department officials heaved a sigh of relief as 45 persons who had come in contact with a 37-year-old novel coronavirus (Covid-19) patient from Shivkuti tested negative for the infection on Sunday. The youth tested positive for novel coronavirus and had travelled in a train coach along with another Covid-19 patient in March first week. The youth’s seven family members including his wife and two children had tested negative for the virus on Saturday night. The seven family members have been quarantined in a guest house in Kalindipuram area as a precaution. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The Shivkuti-based man had come in contact with 45 persons over the the last one-and-a-half month before he was diagnosed with the infection and was later admitted to Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa for treatment.” Apart from the Shivkuti-based youth, two other men had tested positive for novel coronavirus in the city on Friday. The two are cousins who work as daily wage labourers in Mumbai and had come to Prayagraj to attend a family member’s funeral. They had set out for the city on April 19 and reached three days later. They were native to Kapari village in Shankargarh. They had been issued e-passes for travelling. Talking about the two other Covid-19 patients from Shankargarh, Sahai said that the duo came in contact with 191 persons after coming back from Mumbai. The group of 191 persons has been quarantined at four guest houses in Kareli. Their swab samples will be collected either on Monday or Tuesday for testing. The two youths had visited several places in Kapari village after returning from Mumbai along with a friend. On Saturday, around 50 cops and administrative staff posted at Kaundhiyara police station were quarantined as the youths’ friend had also visited the thana. All patients are undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/45-contacts-of-covid-patient-from-shivkuti-test-negative-for-infection/articleshow/75395363.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD stops free food distribution in Tirupati||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has stopped distribution of free food packets in and around Tirupati, with the government announcing some relaxation of the lockdown. The TTD had been providing food to those in need after the Prime Minister announced the lockdown. Since March 28, TTD has been distributing nearly 1.4 lakh free food packets to the homeless and poor daily. The TTD spent nearly Rs 10 crore for this. However, following the decision of the government of India to relax lockdown from April 20 in a phased manner in some areas, TTD suspended the distribution of free food from Saturday. Interestingly, the municipal corporation of Tirupati has made it clear that there will not be any relaxation in the lockdown in the temple city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-stops-free-food-distribution-in-temple-city/articleshow/75395584.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Scientists bust myths about bats and Covid-19||JAIPUR: The recent pandemic which has gripped the world has given a bad rap to bats with most people believing the hypothesis that this mammal is to be blamed for the fast spreading of coronavirus. Demands to exterminate the mammal have risen across the globe, including in Rajasthan where its two types - Rousettus and Pteropus are commonly found. After a recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) found bat coronaviruses (BtCoV) in two species of Indian bats, the layman has been convinced that the mammal is the one which is the Corona Vector. This has raised concern among the environmentalists and scientists who fear that the flying mammal, which is essential for the ecological system, might be facing near extinction as locals are out for its blood. The theory of the virus to have originated from bats at a market in Wuhan, China, has made its presence felt in India following which conservationists from South Asian countries (68 bat biologists from six countries) have stepped forth to defend these bats. “We debunk the myth that bats are vectors of the novel coronavirus, (SARS-CoV-2),” said biologist Dr Sumit Dookia, from the research group. The group of biologists claimed that there is no cause for panic as these BtCoVs are not the same as SARS-CoV-2 and cannot cause Covid-19. “Collectively, the group has decided to appeal to the governments of our countries to strengthen the laws on bat conservation,” he added. Over 110 species of bats in India are unprotected in India, including the critically-endangered Kolar leaf-nosed Bat. In Rajasthan, bats have generally been looked as a nuisance, especially by fruit growers who claim that the mammal destroys their crops. However, according to researchers, bats play a crucial role in pollination of flowers and protect farms from other pests, but have been excessively demonised in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Instances of citizens demanding the killing and removal of bats, smoking out colonies or sealing crevices where small bats and their pups roost are all on the rise all over the world. This will gradually damage the ecosystem service of bats, claimed experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/scientists-bust-myths-about-bats-and-covid-19/articleshow/75396882.cms||Ajay Singh
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Punjab govt sends 60 buses to ferry 3k||Jaisalmer: The process to send back labourers who came here from other states in January for harvesting in canal areas will start from Monday. The Punjab government has sent 60 buses to ferry 3,000 labourers while Jaisalmer administration is arranging buses to send back 15,000 labourers to Madhya Pradesh. According to sources, more than 20,000 labourers of various states are stuck in 96 shelter homes across the district, who are being provided food and other facilities by the administration. Sources added that around 3,000-4,000 labourers recently left on foot for Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. The labourers who were stranded here had been demanding to be sent back for some time following which chief minister Ashok Gehlot spoke to CMs and home ministers of other states after which a decision was taken for sending them back. District collector Namit Mehta confirmed the decision to send back the labourers and said preparations have started. The district administration is collecting information about labourers of Punjab and a few points have been identified from where they will be picked up. He said that maximum labourers were from Madhya Pradesh and they will be sent back by 200 buses. Apart from this, preparations are also underway to send labourers from Haryana, Bihar, Maharashtra and other states. The collector said around 12,000 labourers of 16 districts were sent back home in the last five days in more than 200 buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/punjab-govt-sends-60-buses-to-ferry-3k/articleshow/75396947.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t follow Italy, have separate Covid hospitals: Docs||Nagpur: After the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) issued directives to around 13 private hospitals in city to be ready for Covid-19 treatment, the medical fraternity in Nagpur has warned that the decision could be disastrous for public health. Hospital managements under Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) have already opposed the plan. On Sunday, TOI spoke to experts of viral diseases and public health issues. According to them, involving more hospitals in Covid-19 treatment is like creating more hotspots and putting the entire city at risk. “It’s like following the Italy model of Covid-19 treatment,” said Dr Milind Bhrushundi, a prominent name for HIV treatment in the city. “While China preferred to build a separate hospital with thousands of beds exclusively to treat Covid-19 patients, Italy allowed treatment in all available hospitals. What happened in Italy is very well known to us,” he said.An expert of community medicine, Dr Sanjay Deshpande said that risk of infection is more if Covid-19 patients are shifted to 13 hospitals instead of the existing two. “Many of the hospitals are in residential areas. They are situated in small buildings, and don’t even have facilities needed for Covid-19 hospitals,” he said. It is worth noting that not a single private hospital in the city meets the World Health Organization’s (WHO) criteria of isolation hospital. Most hospitals have centralized air conditioning, which is not allowed in Covid-19 treatment. They don’t have separate entry and exit gates. It is necessary to keep a 5-foot distance between two beds. If this rule is followed, the bed capacity of most hospitals will reduce to less than half. “This decision will affect the entire city in terms of Covid spread. How will the NMC manage so many different hospitals at different places? Citizens will suffer as there will be no good hospital left for any other emergency,” said Dr Anand Sancheti, former president of the Indian association of cardiothoracic surgeons.Doctors suggested that the government should take over one or two big hospitals exclusively for Covid-19 treatment. “It’s not possible for us to build a hospital in ten days like China, but we can assemble a Covid-19 treatment facility at establishments like Mankapur indoor stadium. Private hospitals can be ordered to provide ventilators, machines, staff and doctors there,” said physician Dr Zaid Sheikh. Infamous Italy modelItaly did not set up separate hospitals for Covid-19 Patients were treated in hospitals with non-Covid patients in nearby wardsDue to this, infection spread rapidly and many deaths were reported Medical professionals got infected with coronavirus, hundreds of them diedChina, Russia created separate singular and major facilities for Covid-19Only Covid-19 patients were treated in isolation PPE kits, sanitizers, mask-related rules were stricter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-follow-italy-have-separate-covid-hospitals-docs/articleshow/75396387.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 27, 2020||Allahabad||Fatehpur boat capsize: Bodies of SI & constable recovered||Prayagraj: The body of a sub-inspector, a constable and a boatman were fished out of Yamuna on Sunday, over 12 hours after the boat they were sitting in capsized in the river in Fatehpur on Saturday evening. According to police, the two cops were checking the movement of policemen through boats between two districts Banda and Fatehpur during the lockdown. The sub-inspector and constable were identified as Ramjeet Yadav and Shashikant respectively. Both of them were posted at Kishanpur police station. While Yadav was a resident of Jaunpur, Shashikant was native to Ghazipur. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “The boatman was identified as Ravi and was a resident of Sangolipur. The two policemen were on duty when the boat capsized due to the strong winds and rain.” A joint team of National Disaster Response Force, Faterhpur police and a unit of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) recovered the three bodies. Though the incident occurred on Saturday evening, but police teams and divers could not recover the bodies till late night. The bodies were recovered on Sunday after the joint team used nets. Police said the boat capsized as the boatman could not maintain his balance due to the strong winds and rain reported at Sangolipur Yamuna ghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/fatehpur-boat-capsize-bodies-of-si-constable-recovered/articleshow/75396482.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Pune||Man travels without permission||Pune: The Pune rural police booked a 41-year-old man from Byculla in Mumbai on Saturday for reaching his native place in Junnar taluka by a vegetable truck without obtaining permission from the authorities. The police also booked the truck driver for ferrying the man in his vehicle. An officer from the Ale Phata police station said they got information that one person had reached Pimpalwadi village in Junnar taluka from Mumbai on April 21. “We reached the man’s residence and found out he worked in Mumbai and had returned to his house during the lockdown. He hadn’t obtained permission from the authorities for the same,” the officer said. He said the man had reached his village by hiding in a vegetable transport vehicle. “The driver of the vehicle is also from the same village,” the officer said. The police have booked the duo under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-travels-without-permission/articleshow/75396879.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Poor response shuts down eleven civic flu centres||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has closed 11 of the 74 flu clinics in the city after the coronavirus outbreak. They were started with the intention of treating patients with normal flu symptoms, but due to a poor response, 11 of these will be shut down and the staff will be shifted to other clinics. Around 80 people associated with the closed hospitals will be transferred to other facilities. It includes frontline staff as well as paramedics. “The staff members include doctors, pharmacists and nurses. They will be shifted to other quarantine facilities,” Sanjeev Wavare, a senior official of PMC’s health department, said. According to civic officials, these clinics are located across the city. The increasing number of positive patients and the need for manpower for providing them care is also a reason behind closing these flu clinics. Around 50 more facilities are still open in different areas where citizens can avail treatment so the closure will not affect adversely any patients. Civic officials said these clinics were started as per the Centre’s guidelines. Any patients with likely symptoms were checked in the flu clinic before being shifted to a Covid-19 hospital. “We have started big quarantine facilities in Balewadi and on Sinhagad Road. They have been started as a containment plan. Limited help from private hospitals and private medical practitioners has put the pressure on the civic health staff. So, we have to manage with the staff available with us,” a PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poor-response-shuts-down-eleven-civic-flu-centres/articleshow/75396886.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Varanasi||Mum by side, 3-month-old infant wins Covid battle||Gorakhpur: A three-month-old baby who had tested positive for coronavirus around two weeks ago, was cured and discharged along with her mother who had been looking after him, on Sunday from BRD Medical College. The baby happens to be a relative of Basti’s first Covid death case. The mother-son duo received a standing ovation from Gorakhpur DM Vijyendra Pandiyan, commissioner Jayant Narlirkar, BRD college principal Ganesh Kumar and other officials for winning the fight against the virus. On April 12, the mother (30) had arrived with her son to BRD Medical College and both were tested twice. The mother was found to be negative but the baby was positive. “The major challenge for the doctors was to save mother from the infection. The infant was shifted to the isolation ward, where his mother took care of him with all precautions,” said the BRD college principal. “The baby had no serious complications except fever for which he was initially given paracetamol. He recovered without any medication due to self-immunity boosted by the intake of mother’s milk,” the principal added. The tests conducted on Saturday and Sunday of both mother and baby were negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mum-by-side-3-month-old-infant-wins-covid-battle/articleshow/75395288.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||4 more positive cases take Covid-19 count to 53||Aurangabad: Four women, aged between 35 and 65, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday taking the total Covid-19 tally in Aurangabad to 53. They are all undergoing treatement. On Sunday morning, two women, aged 35 and 65, from Asifiya Colony and Samata Nagar, respectively, tested positive. They are being treated at the district civil hospital. In the evening, 2 more women tested positive. A 53-year-old woman from Daulatabad became the first case from Aurangabad’s rural area. The administration has started the contact-tracing process to find the source of her infection. Meanwhile, a 39-year-old woman, resident of Asifiya Colony, also tested positive. She was a close contact of a confirmed case from the same locality. Both are admitted to GMCH’s dedicated Covid centre. According to Pradeep Kulkarni, the medical officer at the district civil hospital, three of the new patients are contacts of previously confirmed Covid-19 patients. Currently, 24 Covid-19 positive patients are under treatment at the district civil hospital and six are at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). On Sunday, 75 patients were screened at the district civil hospital. The hospital collected and sent the throat swab samples of 68 individuals to the GMCH. Of them, 11 tested negative and they have been sent home with instructions to quarantine themselves. Results of the remaining 57 are awaited. At the GMCH, 13 people were screened and swabs of seven were sent for testing in the last 24 hours. The test reports are awaited. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said one person, who had tested negative for coronavirus, has died in the hospital in the past 24 hours and six non-covid patients have been sent home after recovery. Meanwhile, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is carrying out door-to-door surveys in 11 localities marked as containment zones — Aref Colony, Kiradpura, Yadav Nagar, Baijipura, Bismillah Colony, Asifiya Colony, Hilal Colony, Samata Nagar, Deolai, Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura and Pundalik Nagar. On Sunday, 32 teams surveyed 2,670 houses and screened 11,927 persons. So far, 22 persons have been treated of Covid-19 in Aurangabad and five people have died. As a preventive measure, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey has given 226 sanitation employees aged 55 years or more a 10-day leave from Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-more-positive-cases-take-covid-19-count-to-53/articleshow/75395598.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||State wants 75,801 hosp beds in Vid to handle Covid-19 projected peak||Nagpur: The state government has directed local authorities to make arrangement of 75,801 beds in 11 districts of Vidarbha for the projected peak of Covid-19. Acting swiftly, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district administration have already identified facilities with more than this capacity in the city. The state’s public works department has converted Trauma Care Centre at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) into Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) within 150 hours.The office of commissioner of health services, Mumbai, in a letter dated April 13 sent to all collectors and commissioners of municipal corporations in the state projected number of cases in a day and 10 days during peak of Covid-19. The letter clearly mentioned the number of cases is projected only for purpose of preparations, to ensure treatment to all patients. “Number mentioned is an expected one. Perfect number of mild, moderate and severe cases cannot be estimated in present situation,” the letter said.The letter said the projected average number of cases in 10 days during peak of Covid-19 can be 75,801 in 11 districts of Vidarbha, including 18,902 from Nagpur district, of which 11,114 in city and remaining 7,788 from rural parts of the district.As of Sunday, number of positive cases from Vidarbha is 246, including 127 from Nagpur district. The number from this region and particularly Nagpur district is very less as compared to some other districts in the state.The letter has not mentioned when the projected peak period will be. NMC sources told TOI, “Government mentioned projected peak period between mid and end of May in an another letter. Therefore, everything will be prepared on or before May 10.”Also as per the letter, projection is that 60% of total corona positive will be asymptomatic while 20% can be with moderate symptoms and remaining 20% with severe symptoms. “Central government has prepared a three-layer system considering chances of spike in cases in future. State has adopted it. Accordingly, Covid Care Centres (CCC) for 60% asymptomatic patients, Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) for 20% moderate patients, and DCH for 20% severe patients should be developed. In these, 40% of projected capacity in each of the three layers should be ready in the first phase. In case 75% of the first 40% is occupied, next 30% should be prepared. Remaining 30% should be ready if 75% of second phase is occupied,” the letter said.Since March 11, NMC has been quarantining persons testing negative for 14 days in institutional quarantine. During peak, persons with negative results will be discharged after giving treatment immediately.At present, capacity at GMCH and IGGMCH is around 211 beds.As per orders of Nagpur collector Ravindra Thakre, a team of state’s Public Works Department (PWD) led by chief engineer Ulhas Debadwar, superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh and executive engineer Rajkumar Jaiswal converted G+3 storeyed Trauma Care Centre of GMCH into DCH within 150 hours. After receiving directives on April 17, the PWD started works on April 18 and finished it with 50-bedded ICU and 212 high dependency units (HDU).With funds approved by Thakre, PWD is likely to complete works on total 1,250 beds, of which 400 ICU and remaining HDU, at GMCH and IGGMCH (including completed works of Trauma Centre) on or before May 10.Thakre has also identified three more private medical colleges with capacity of 1,320 beds.The NMC and district administration have identified 21 centres for CCC with capacity of 15,000, including existing institutional quarantine centres.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had identified 12 private hospitals with capacity of 1,900 for DCH and 29 private hospitals for DCHC. Thus, capacity of 3,270 beds for DCHC and 3,150 for DCH have been identified in the city.Mundhe told TOI, “Private hospitals are under requisition and will brought into use whenever required. We will intimate them 48 hours before moving in. We have identified more than the projected requirements in the city. Also, proper planning has been done to ensure availability of all types of resources,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-wants-75801-hosp-beds-in-vid-to-handle-covid-19-projected-peak/articleshow/75396378.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Ration centre shut after official’s kin dies in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A primary school in Teliwada which was acting as a ration distribution centre was closed on Sunday after the mother-in-law of the school in charge passed away due to the novel coronavirus infection. East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) spokesperson Arun Kumar confirmed this while talking to TOI. More than 950 families received ration through 280 e-coupons at this centre. Now, the school is at the centre of a large-scale contact-tracing exercise. In her letter to the food and supply department of Delhi government, the in-charge had recently stated that ‘EDMC primary school, Teliwada-1’ was being used as a dry ration distribution point since April 8. “My mother-in-law was suffering from fever since April 15 and after her condition worsened, she was admitted to a hospital where she expired on April 23. Her Covid-19 report later come out to be positive and now our entire family is to be tested,” the letter stated. The school in-charge explained she had been visiting the school regularly till April 20 where she came in contact with a large number of people. “This included my entire staff, evening shift staff and food supply officials from Circle 62 of Shahadra,” the letter read. Nagar Nigam Shikshak Nyay Manch has, meanwhile, urged the chief minister to get all the school teachers tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ration-centre-shut-after-officials-kin-dies/articleshow/75396390.cms||Paras Singh
April 27, 2020||Pune||ZP to test patients with co-morbidities for nCoV||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad has asked its taluka-level authorities to test all the patients with co-morbid conditions in their respective areas for the contagion. The ZP’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad recently wrote to the 13 taluka block development officers and taluka health officers in this regard. Haveli taluka has the maximum number of Covid-19 patients, as it also covers parts of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad areas. “We have adequate ambulances at our primary health centres for ferrying patients with co-morbidities from remote areas of the taluka to the recognized testing centres,” Prasad said. Prasad said the order has been issued after carrying out death analysis of 72 patients in the urban and rural areas. “The patients were suffering from co-morbid conditions including diabetes, chronic kidney problems, hypertension or heart ailments. These health conditions made them more susceptible to infection. Eventually, we figured out that co-morbidity conditions accounted for the increased mortality among the Covid-19 patients. Therefore, it has now become extremely important to check the health of such patients on priority and test them incase they show any flu-like symptoms,” Prasad added. The rural areas of the district has recorded three deaths so far. “All three patients had co-morbidity conditions. One patient was suffering from a liver disease, another had kidney problems and the third patient was suffering from a paralytic condition. Keeping the trend in mind, we have asked the doctors to keep an eye on anyone with such co-morbidities. If they notice any drastic change in their health condition, the patients should be immediately tested for coronavirus,” Prasad added. Another senior medical official from the ZP said that even if the patient is young but is suffering from any other ailment — like diabetes or blood pressure — they need to take all the precautions. “Now many patients below the age of 40 years are suffering from lifestyle diseases like blood pressure, diabetes, etc in the district. Our dedicated centres, with the help of their staffers, have been asked to check their health condition across 13 tehsils in the district,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-to-test-patients-with-co-morbidities-for-ncov/articleshow/75396901.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur discom to borrow Rs 500 crore to pay to power companies||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (Jaipur discom) is gearing up to borrow Rs 500 crore from banks to purchase electricity from private companies. As the department recovered only Rs 799 crore against a total amount of Rs 1,421 crore from collection of bills, a situation of crisis situation prevailed. The decision was taken after receiving no relaxation from the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) in this regard. According to the sources, the borrowed amount will be used by the department to clear the dues of private companies, so that there is no disruption in power supply. “As per the record, payment of Rs 954 crore will be made to Adani Power-Raj West. The department also has to clear the dues of other companies including Maru Transmission, Aravali Transmission, Thar Power, Haduti Powers and Barmer Powers,” said sources. Sources further said that there is a financial crisis in discoms which has resulted in delayed payment to the generation utilities. A payment of Rs 1,561 crore to 16 companies is also to be cleared. To ensure timely payments to electricity generation utilities, the Centre had last year made it mandatory for state distribution companies (discoms) to offer letters of credit (LC) as part of the payment security mechanisms in power purchase agreements (PPAs) starting August 1. Till 30 June 2020, the payment security mechanism to be maintained by discoms with the generating companies for dispatch of power shall be reduced by 50%, said source||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-discom-to-borrow-rs-500cr-to-pay-to-power-cos/articleshow/75396899.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Migrant workers coming from other states to be quarantined for 14 days||Jaipur: Additional chief secretary (Home) Rajeeva Swarup on Sunday issued directions to the collectors on the entry of natives of Rajasthan from other states and instructed that those who are returning must be quarantined in their houses or outside facilities for 14 days and their registrations be done. He said checkposts will be set up at the border districts, where the visitors will be screened and their registration will be done during which their names, addresses and mobile numbers will be recorded. “There is also a possibility that some people may use personal vehicles to reach their homes and the administration will not know about it. Therefore, the collector will have to create a strong information system in localities and villages so that if any new person arrives, the local administration should be informed about it immediately. This will help in ensuring that the person stays in home quarantine for 14 days," it states. The order states, “Each Patwari will be responsible for its patwar area. If he gets information about a person's return to the village, then he will inform about this to the tehsildar/sub-divisional officer. The BLOs (booth level officer) will assist patwaris in this work. The same arrangement will also be done for urban areas.” “Public awareness must be created at the community level that for their benefits. It must be ensured if any outsider arrives, the villagers should inform the local administration about it. The person should be home quarantined for 14 days. If anybody violates it, the same should be immediately reported to the local administration. The person will be shifted to the administration's isolation centre,” it added. It also said, “If villagers object to their entry to the villages, in such a situation a quarantine centre will be set up in a school or any other building. People coming from outside will be lodged in those centres. Local people will be responsible for their food and other needs.” Transport commissioner Ravi Jain said, “We have got adequate number of buses and staff for facilitating movement of workers to their districts. We are waiting for the government’s nod.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/migrant-workers-coming-from-other-states-to-be-quarantined-for-14-days/articleshow/75396917.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 man sent to hosp from dist border||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has decided not to mark the Nagala Park area as a containment zone though a resident of the locality has tested positive for coronavirus. This is because the man had not been home and had been sent directly to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital from the district border upon his return from Rajasthan. On Saturday, a 38-year-old resident of Nagala Park — who had gone to Iran and then taken to Rajasthan — tested positive for Covid-19. According to his relatives, he had gone to Iran and after the flights were cancelled, he, along with several others, were taken to Rajasthan on a defence plane. There he had tested positive and was put under treatment. After the treatment, his samples tested negative for the virus and he was allowed to return home, along with three others from the city. All four were issued special travel passes. However, before they could enter the city, the 38-year-old man and his three companions were sent to the CPR hospital directly from the district border at Kini toll booth. Throat swabs samples of all four were sent for testing again. While his companions tested negative, this man tested positive for the virus. Kolhapur municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “The person is now at the isolation centre. The three individuals who travelled with him have been put under institutional quarantine. Since all of them were taken directly to the hospital, and they had not gone to their homes, no containment zone has been marked at Nagala Park.” Once a containment zone is marked, the locality is completely sealed and people are not allowed to come out of their homes. Disinfection is carried out and a health survey is done. The locals at Nagala Park are thus relieved that the administration decided to take these persons directly to the hospital. “I have written to all the mandals and residential societies to let us know of the persons who have arrived from other places. Already, we have traced a large number of such people and they have been home-quarantined. We don’t want a single person with travel history to stay at home as Covid-19 can often be asymptomatic and people may continue to infect others unknowingly,” said Kalshetti. The doctors at CPR hospital said the Covid-19 patient develop pneumonia when brought late for treatment. Dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye said pneumonia can be cured, however, it still exists in a small amount. As a result, a person can test positive for Covid-19. She said that the person will get recover soon and the test results for another swab sample sent to the Miraj laboratory are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-man-sent-to-hosp-from-dist-border/articleshow/75396887.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||GPSC to hold promotion meetings on April 30||Panaji: The Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) will conduct department-wise promotion committee meetings through circulation on April 30. The GPSC has convened 15 departmental promotion committee meetings through circulation due to the Covid-19 as all regular meetings are held in abeyance due to the spread of Covid-19. Circulation meetings do not involve multiple individuals and only the necessary paperwork is passed on to the heads concerned. GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha said these meetings will be held on April 30 through circulation for Food and Drugs Administration , Goa Medical College , Goa police service , water resource department, forensic science laboratory, administrative reforms department , animal husbandry department and the law department . “Meetings will be held for promotions of officers as well as lifting of probation period,” Noronha said. The last departmental promotion meeting was held in the first week of March and thereafter due to the lockdown no meetings were held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gpsc-to-hold-promotion-meetings-on-april-30/articleshow/75396907.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||67 labourers trying to go to native in UP held||Palanpur: The Banaskantha police on Saturday apprehended 67 jobless labourers who were trying to return to their native in Uttar Pradesh from Surat. The labourers were travelling in a truck and were nabbed during checking a Amirgadh check post, said deputy superintendent of police D B Vakil. “All have been shifted to shelter home in Ambaji,” he said.The truck driver was arrested and booked under sections 269,188,and 114 of IPC. According to police, the labourers belonging to different districts of UP, were working in different factories in Surat and were rendered jobless due to lockdown.Eight test positive in BanaskanthaPalanpur: Eight new Covid-19 cases were reported in Banaskantha district on Saturday. Those testing positive included three women and a 3-years-old child, said epidemic medical officer NK Garg. All are residents of Gathaman village and live in same neighbourhood. “They have been shifted to Banaskantha civil hospital. With this the total coronavirous tally has gone up top 29 in Banaskantha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/67-labourers-trying-to-go-to-native-in-up-held/articleshow/75383359.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe’s War Room is the nerve centre driving city’s corona response||Nagpur: It is 10.30am and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, and additional medical officer health Dr Praveen Gantawar enter Corona War Room. Immediate task is to begin screening of pregnant women at two Covid-19 containment zones—Satranjipura and Mominpura. It is difficult to convince them for antenatal care (ANCs). Already there is lack of support in these areas.The medical teams are ready at two zones. They call back informing they were able to convince a few pregnant women but the team of IGGMCH had not reached the place for taking swab samples.Mundhe calls up dean of IGGMCH and lines up the teams. Information is received about resistance among family members to giving their samples. Some medical staff, especially those from the community that lives here, are sent to make people understand it is for the safety of not only women but also of the babies. Some more issues are sorted as they arise until functioning of camps at two zones is normalized by 1.30pm. By the end of the day, NMC could collect samples of 64 pregnant women in the area.This is a typical day in Corona War Room set up by Mundhe to contain sread of Covid-19 in the city. He converted state-of-the-art conference hall adjacent to his cabin into War Room in March end. It is probably first among civic bodies in the country. Not only are glitches sorted out here, but it also functions like a think tank.In fact, idea of screening pregnant women emerged from the War Room. "We launched door-to-door survey of high-risk persons from March 25. We collected data of tuberculosis (TB) patients, ANCs, cancer patients, senior citizens etc. Then, it was decided to examine all high-risk categories in a phased manner," Mundhe said.Corona War Room sees up to three meetings in a day with the last one being at 8pm that sometimes goes up to midnight. This is the nerve centre of city’s response to coronavirus.In case of any major health-related drive or issue, a posse of officials including zonal medical officers gather in the Corona War Room. It is a major part of the battle against Covid-19 in the city and has generated over 15 drives so far.The War Room is linked with entire set up of NMC health department. A big screen is available for presentations apart from other facilities.Mundhe has set up an Incident Response System with two different wings—health and civil supplies. He is at the head, Dr Savai is joint head for health and additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi is joint head for civil supplies. If any issues arises, entire team and required data are at hand to take decisions.A control room with six helpline numbers of which three are for Covid-19, fourth for senior citizens, persons with disabilities, fifth for water, sanitation and sixth for other services has been set up on the ground floor. Medical officer (health) Dr Vijay Joshi and team takes care of Covid-19 helplines.Half of 5th floor in NMC New Administrative Building has been converted into health department. There is another control room here where all information about negative and positive persons from laboratories and collector office is received. This control room passes information to one on the ground floor from where a team leaves for institutional quarantine centres to take positive persons for admission in government isolation wards.Part of Smart City office on 7th floor has been developed as a data analysis centre where all data is compiled, statistics prepared and passed on to Corona War Room and control rooms.Part of 7th floor also houses Smart City Command and Control Centre that has a huge video wall with footages from all CCTVs installed across the city streaming in. It is also utilized for containing Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhes-war-room-is-the-nerve-centre-driving-citys-corona-response/articleshow/75396416.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 infra: Ahmedadad Municipal Corporation adds hotel, private hospital||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedadad Municipal Corporation is all set to increase the Covid bed capacity. The AMC has taken over a private hospital in Naroda and has set up another Covid care centre at a five-star hotel on the Iskcon-Ambli road. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that the new private hospital in Naroda, which was under construction, was taken over by the AMC after the idea was proposed by MLA Vallabhbhai Kakadia. The hospital is now ready for use. “We have sought manpower from the government and once personnel are available, the hospital will be operational,” Nehra said. It can handle 200 patients. As for the five-star hotel that has been added as a Covid care centre, it has 175 rooms and will charge Rs 3,500 per night and will offer meals. Earlier, another five-star hotel on SG Highway was turned into a Covid care centre. Nehra said that the AMC will now focus on active cases to manage beds and other facilities in the city. Of the 1,989 cases, 1712 are active, 84 deaths have been reported, and 193 persons have been discharged. Of the 1,712 active cases in Ahmedabad, 1,682 are stable and 20 are on ventilators. He said that 605 patients are at SVP Hospital, 557 at Samras hostel, 491 at Civil Hospital, and 13 each at HCG and Sterling hospitals. Nineteen cases are at the Covid care centre at the hotel on SG Highway and 14 are undergoing treatment at Haj house. About deaths, Nehra said that earlier the recovery rate was on the lower side but now the rate is more than 10%. About the Samras hostel videos critical of drinking water supply, he said that there is an RO system attached to a cooler on each floor. He said that 5,000 water bottles are available as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-infra-amc-adds-hotel-private-hospital/articleshow/75396930.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kanpur||Thunderstorm, heavy rain leaves city in dark for hours||Kanpur: Thunderstorm and rain engulfed Kanpur on Sunday evening, leaving parts of city pitch dark for hours. A severe dust storm struck the city around 6 in the evening, and was soon followed by heavy rain and lightning. While electricity was restored after a snap of few minutes in few parts of the city, many areas remained dark till 9 pm. One such locality was Keshav Nagar W Block connected to Naubasta substation. The downpour continued for hours and led to a dip in temperature. The Met department of Chadrashekhar Azad University (CSA), however, had predicted light showers on April 28 and 29. The sudden weather change was not a welcome signal for farmers as the rain and storm could damage crops in no time. The gusty winds might have uprooted crops,” said professor Naushad Khan, an agro-meteorologist at CSA. The weather is expected to undergo another turbulence on 28 and 29 of this month, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/thunderstorm-heavy-rain-leaves-city-in-dark-for-hours/articleshow/75396898.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Meerut||Turned away by government hospital, Covid-19 patient dies in Meerut; DM sets up inquiry||Meerut: A grocery shop owner, 66, who was turned away by a government hospital four days ago despite clear Covid-19 symptoms, died after his condition deteriorated on Saturday night in Meerut. Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College (LLRM) had eventually admitted the patient on Friday night after he was brought there and got a seizure while being sent back again. He passed away on Saturday evening, prompting protests by his family members who claimed that he could have been saved. Meerut’s district magistrate Anil Dhingra has ordered a probe into the death and sought a report from the hospital.“My father didn’t return home. I pray that such negligence is not repeated and no one else goes through what we faced,” his son said. A probe has been ordered.Dr RC Gupta, principal of LLRM Medical College, said, “A written clarification has been sought from the on-duty doctor who returned the patient after prescribing him with medicines. The patient tested positive for Covid-19 a day after he died of brain stroke.”According to the family, the elderly man first went to the government hospital late on Tuesday.“My maternal uncle lived in Kesarganj’s Dal Mandi area. For the last few days, he had symptoms of coronavirus, like fever and breathlessness. He was first taken to a private hospital, where he was given medicines and asked to rest at home.“This is when I contacted the Meerut chief medical officer (CMO) and told him that our patient was symptomatic and was not being admitted to the hospital. He (the CMO) assured action. I also contacted the Meerut DM, who also assured action. On Tuesday night, around 11pm, an ambulance took him to LLRM Medical College where he was given medicines and asked to return home. With no ambulance in place, he returned home on foot around 1:30am,” his nephew said.When contacted, CMO Dr Raj Kumar said, “I got a call from the patient’s family on Tuesday night, and I sent an ambulance to their house for to collect samples. However, the further investigation was meant to be done by the LLRM staff. I am asking for a written report in the matter.”His health deteriorated on Friday evening and he was again taken to the hospital.While the elderly man was again being sent back home, he got a seizure. It prompted the staff to admit him this time. But he died the next evening. His test report, which came on Sunday, confirmed that he was infected with the contagious disease. With the death, the toll in Meerut mounted to five. Dr Gupta further said, “There was no delay in providing the test reports. His sample was first taken on Wednesday, which tested negative. His sample was again tested on Saturday, whose report came positive on Sunday.”However, his family maintains that the sample was taken just once, on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/turned-away-by-government-hospital-covid-19-patient-dies-in-meerut-dm-sets-up-inquiry/articleshow/75396402.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Co-morbidities in 40 of 229 who recovered’||Ahmedabad: While the death rate for those having co-morbidities is higher in Gujarat, there is a glimmer of hope. State health department officials said that 17% of the recovered patients had one or more co-morbidities.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), said that an analysis of the 229 patients discharged has revealed that 40 of them had co-morbidities. “It included high blood pressure, kidney diseases, diabetes, heart issues and so on,” she said.She added that the department thus insists on quicker identification of Covid-19 infection and hospitalization for better chances of recovery.The principal secretary mentioned that after successful experiments in India and abroad, Gujarat will also initiate the process where Covid-19 patients will be encouraged to sleep on their stomachs to ease their breathing.Ravi compared Gujarat to European countries having a population of about 5 to 6.5 crore — Gujarat has 6.5 crore — to argue that the state and India at large have fared much better due to steps such as the lockdown.“We completed 35 days since the detection of the first Covid-19 patient in the state,” she said. “Today, we have 3,071 cases. If we compare the figure to those of a few of European nations of the same size: Spain had 94,410 cases, Italy 80,536, and France 56,972.” She said that several factors ranging from BCG vaccine given to Indian population and warmer climate to stringent measures initiated by the government could be responsible for the number in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/co-morbidities-in-40-of-229-who-recovered/articleshow/75396932.cms||Parth Shastri
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||19-year-old dies in Hyderabad as heavy rain leads to wall collapse||HYDERABAD: After heavy rainfall in parts of the city on Sunday evening, a 19-year-old private employee died, while his mother sustained an injury when a boulder fell on his tin shed house in Mangalhat. The deceased, Inder Singh, a private employee in Begum Bazar, stayed with his mother and three brothers in the house. On Sunday, after heavy rainfall, a boulder from the third floor of a building next to their house fell on the house at around 5.30 pm. The building was constructed almost 10 years ago, said police. “The boulder directly fell on the victim, while he was sleeping inside the room. He died on the spot of a head injury. Their shed also crumbled, due to which his mother, Dayabai (50) also sustained injuries on her legs,” said Mangalhat inspector, G Ranaveer Reddy. The other three brothers, who were in other room, escaped with no injures, said police. The deceased’s body was shifted to the mortuary. “We have admitted the man’s mother to Osmania Hospital after she injured her legs. Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia has been given to the family,” Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan said, following the incident. Following this, a case was registered against the building owner, Ganesh, under sections 304-A, 337 and 427 of IPC. Meanwhile, two wall collapse incidents took place in Hussaini Alam, Old City. In the first incident, an under-constructed wall collapsed on the tin shed house on the other side of the wall. Three persons, including a 15-day-old baby boy, sustained minor injuries. The victim, Sadik (43), his daughter Zainab (23) and Zainab’s 15-day-old baby boy were inside the house when the incident occurred at around 6.20 pm. “An under-constructed wall from the top floor of a four-storey building fell on the tin shed house next to the building. The family escaped with minor injuries. Sadik and Zainab sustained a minor head injury, while the baby boy escaped with minor injuries on his face,” said Hussaini Alam inspector, Ramesh Kotwa. In another incident, a 25-year-old woman, Fatima sustained a head injury after a wall collapsed her tin-shed house. Both the building owners were booked under Section 337 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-yr-old-dies-as-heavy-rain-leads-to-wall-collapse/articleshow/75396956.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Police warn landlords against forcing tenants to pay rent amid lockdown||Kolhapur: The state government has asked owners who have rented out their properties not to force their tenants to pay the rent as long as the lockdown is not lifted. The Maharashtra Housing department has already asked the landlords to postpone collecting rent from tenants for at least three months as everyone is going through financial straits amid the lockdown that has been imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. According to the circular issued by the department, no financial transactions were happening across the market and factories due to lockdown and many employees were not getting their full salaries. In such a situation, most people may not be in a position to pay the rent hence, landlords should not force their tenants for the rent. Superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Deshmukh has already issued a statement appealing to tenants to dial 100 or come forward and lodge a complaint if they are forced to pay rent. “The landlords have been asked not to collect the rent from tenants. If anyone is being forced to pay the rent, the tenants should dial 100 or convey the message to the nearest police station. Appropriate action will be taken against the landlords,” read the statement issued by the SP. A large section of the population live in rented accommodations and a significant amount of their salary—in some cases upto 40% of the total income—is set aside as the monthly rent. A number of students stay in rented apartments in the city, especially in the vicinity of Shivaji University and Rajarampuri area. Most of the students are stuck in the city due to the lockdown and can afford to pay the rent only after their parents send them money. “We have not received salaries for last two months and are barely sustaining on all that we have saved in the last one year. We do not have enough money to pay the landlord, who is very particular about getting the rent within the first week of every month. With the government’s directions and the assurance of police, we are hoping that the landlord will not harass us for rent,” said an employee attached with a local goods transport company who resides in the the Rajarampuri area of the city. “We are unable to go home due to the lockdown and are left with little cash to meet our daily needs. We are in no position to pay the rent unless we get money fromour parents,” said a student preparing for competitive examinations residing in a rented room near Shivaji University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-warn-landlords-against-forcing-tenants-to-pay-rent-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75396904.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Industries in municipal limits allowed to restart operations||JAIPUR: The state government has given permission to all 43 industrial areas in Jaipur and 323 in the state to start operations. The collectors of only five districts such as Ajmer, Bharatpur, Jaisalmer Jhunjhunu and Nagaur have withheld the permission keeping in view curfew and containment zones there. Besides, the working hours of employees have also been increased to 12 hours from the existing eight. The extended hours were only applicable to factories or units producing essential goods which now covers all other units. “Industries falling within the municipal limits of these districts can now open their factories. These companies have to follow lockdown guidelines and take precautionary measures like social distancing, maintaining hygiene at the premises and work places, making it mandatory for workers to use masks, etc,” said Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, department of industries. He also reiterated that owners and the CEOs of the factories will not be subjected to any penal legal action if by chance any worker gets infected with coronavirus. Strict legal action was one of the reasons many factory owners had expressed apprehensions earlier, forcing the ministry of home affairs to give clarification. Now, factories and establishments like Sitapura, Vishwakarma Industrial Area (VKI), Bais Godam, Sudarshanpura, Mansarovar, Sarana Dungri, Jaitpura, Bagru, Heerawala among the 43 industrial areas are allowed to operate. Jodhpur collector has also allowed all 13 industrial areas in the district for operation. The special economic zones are covered under the permitted category now. Industries commissioner Muktanand Agarwal said looking at the demand of the factory owners, e-passes window has been extended to May 3. The facility was to expire on April 26. “We have extended the date as we have come across many industyrial units forthcoming to restart their factories,” added Agarwal. Similarly, in a bid to increase productivity, the government has increased the working hours from eight to 10 for all these industries. Earlier, the labour department had permitted extended working hours only to the workers of the essential goods manufacturers. An investigative team has also been formed having officers from departments of industries, labour and RIICO to ensure the compliance of advisory for running of industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industries-in-municipal-limits-allowed-to-restart-ops/articleshow/75396913.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Badruddin Shaikh succumbs to Covid-19||Ahmedabad: Senior Congress leader Badruddin Shaikh (67), corporator from Behrampura in Danilimda area of Ahmedabad, succumbed to Covid-19 late on Sunday evening. Danilimda is one of the Covid-19 hotspots in Ahmedabad. Shaikh, the former leader of opposition in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), had tested Covid-19 positive on April 15 and was admitted to SVP Hospital. SVP Hospital director Ramya Bhatt confirmed that Shaikh had succumbed to Covid-19 related complications. Sources said that Shaikh was suffering from multiple co-morbidities namely diabetes, hypertension and had even undergone open heart bypass surgery. As fate would have it, Shaikh’s death took place on the day when Imran Khedawala, Congress MLA from Jamalpur-Khadia, reportedly tested negative twice for the virus and was set to be discharged on Monday. Shaikh had tested positive a day after Khedawala tested positive and two were hospitalized for treatment.Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda mourned the loss. “Our senior corporator Badrudin Sheikh has passed away at the hospital due to coronavirus. He died while doing his duty as a corporator, going from one area to another, encouraging people to stay at home and take measures to prevent the spread of Covd-19. He did his duty till his last breath,” Chavda said. Sources in the AMC said that Shaikh had been critical since the past five days, battling for life on the ventilator. “Around 10:35 pm, the hospital authorities made desperate attempts to revive Sheikh who was already sinking because of multiple organ failure. He was highly diabetic and had heart complications,” said a senior official.“The medical team tried for more half an hour, but could not revive Sheikh,” said a senior medical official at SVP hospital. Sheikh was previously the standing committee chairman. He headed the town planning committee, legal committee and was member of the VS Hospital management board. Sheikh was also appointed by ministry of minority affairs as the vice-president of Khawaja Saheb Dargah Committee — Ajmer Sharif.Locals said that Shaikh would always be remembered as a political leader who was available 24x7 for the people. He is reported to have widely moved in his area, helping people test for coronavirus and getting those testing positive hospitalized. “Such leaders who care and work for the community day and night are rare,” said a local resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/badruddin-shaikh-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/75396935.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Udaipur||Medical teams deployed to screen migrants at Dungarpur border||UDAIPUR: Dungarpur administration on Sunday deployed medical teams to screen hundreds of migrant workers who are likely to arrive from Gujarat and Maharashtra. Security has been beefed up in the region as an additional company of Mewar Bhil Corp along with police from Bicchiwada station took charge of the area a day ahead of the opening of the Gujarat border to permit entry of migrant workers. On Sunday, the border was opened for some time as a few labourers walked their way to Ratanpur checkpost where they were screened thoroughly. Collector Kanaram said medical teams had been stationed to screen every single person arriving from various cities of Gujarat and Maharashtra. The administration has acquired hotels and buildings in the periphery to accommodate these people who would be stationed here and later on sent to their respective villages by buses arranged by the government. Dungarpur SP Jai Yadav said police have been given safety gears, masks and sanitisers to keep themselves safe. “They have been clearly briefed about the guidelines issued by the government on the protocol to receive the workers, screen them and then send them to their villages,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/med-teams-deployed-to-screen-migrants-at-dungarpur-border/articleshow/75396942.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hospitals become hotspots as Covid care exacts heavy price||NEW DELHI: The number of healthcare workers affected by Covid-19 in Delhi crossed 200 on Monday with Max Healthcare confirming that 33 staff members at its Patparganj hospital had been found positive for novel coronavirus. “Of these 33 healthcare workers, 32 are currently admitted at Max hospital Saket and one patient has been discharged,” the hospital chain said. A hospital spokesperson said 581 healthcare workers at Max Patparganj were tested over the past two weeks as per the mandatory policy announced by the group on April 14, days after two patients admitted for non-Covid-19 procedure tested positive at the Saket facility. However, healthcare personnel at Max aren’t the only ones affected by Covid-19. As per rough estimates, six other private hospitals, including Apollo, Sir Ganga Ram and Maharaja Agrasen, have been affected by the crisis. Among the public hospitals, Babu Jagjivan Ram, Ambedkar hospital, Delhi State Cancer Institute, AIIMS and Safdarjung are the worst affected. Data suggests that most healthcare workers affected in Delhi were involved in non-Covid-19 operations. “Those working at facilities designated for Covid-19 are well-prepared and protected. They wear Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) at all times. But at non-Covid-19 facilities, the level of readiness is not the same. This exposes healthcare workers to the risk of infection,” said a senior doctor at a private hospital. The doctor said screening of all patients visiting the hospital is the most important measure to prevent the spread of infection. However, till recently few hospitals, including those where cases have been found, had standalone flu clinics. “The segregation of suspected patients with others isn’t foolproof either. The fact that most hospitals have centralised air-conditioning adds to the vulnerabilities,” he added. All healthcare workers at hospital not designated for Covid-19 are supposed to wear N-95 masks at all times. Dr SK Sarin, the chairman of the task force constituted by Delhi government to manage the Covid-19 crisis in the state, told TOI that even patients visiting for OPD services were required to wear masks. “Those with no visible symptoms for Covid-19 can do with ordinary surgical masks also,” he added. However, paramedics, nursing orderlies and other staff members at non-Covid-19 hospitals, including both private and government ones, complained that the supply of N-95 masks was limited and they often had to use ordinary masks. “Right now, all patients coming to hospitals have to be treated as suspected Covid-19 cases. They have to be managed with precautions, unless tests confirm they don’t have the disease. But due to shortcomings, such as lack of PPEs, clear-cut guidelines and sometimes the fault of patients who hide their travel history or diseases, healthcare workers get affected,” said Leeladhar Ramchandani, general secretary of Delhi Nurses Federation. According to a recent article published in The Lancet, healthcare workers deployed at Covid-19 facilities also suffer from physical and mental exhaustion, the torment of difficult triage decisions, and the pain of losing patients and colleagues, all in addition to the infection risk. “It is vital that governments see workers not simply as pawns to be deployed, but as human beings. In the global response, the safety of healthcare workers must be ensured. Adequate provision of PPE is just the first step. Other practical measures must be considered, including cancelling non-essential events to prioritise resources, provision of food, rest, family support and psychological support,” stated the article.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hospitals-become-hotspots-as-covid-care-exacts-heavy-price/articleshow/75417029.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 27, 2020||Goa||‘CCP, mayor’s interference not needed’||Panaji: AAP’s Panaji unit has criticised mayor Uday Madkaikar for asking shopkeepers to take CCP permission to reopen their premises. AAP’s Valmiki Naik reminded him that as per the MHA order, “in urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops & shops in residential complexes are allowed to open”, and said that CCP’s interference is not required at all.  It is clear that any shop having Shops and Establishment registration with CCP are allowed to open , he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-mayors-interference-not-needed/articleshow/75396958.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt launches helpline for safe homecoming of labourers||JAIPUR: After playing an instrumental role in the evacuation of coaching students from Kota, the state government has issued a helpline number for its migrant workers in other states to collect data on their location, numbers and age in order to initiate talks with respective states of their safe return. The helpline number (18001806127) will start functioning from Monday. The migrant workers can also register their details on rajcovidinfo app and on emitra.rajasthan.gov.in. The state is among the first in the country to take concrete measures for bringing back migrant workers. CM Ashok Gehlot has already appointed a battery of officials to help stranded Rajasthani workers. The case studies collected by the officials will help them in pitching for permission from other states. Officials said once they collect data, migrant workers will be evacuated state-wise either in state transport buses or would request the host state to provide buses. Migrant workers from other states stranded in Rajasthan can also use this service which will eventually be used in their evacuation. “Those who would like to come by their own car or vehicle have to mention the officer over the helpline or inform at emitra.rajasthan.gov.in,” said a government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/helpline-launched-for-safe-homecoming-of-labourers/articleshow/75396940.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Allahabad||32 allowed to go home after testing corona negative||Kanpur: The health authorities quarantined 16 suspected outsiders on Sunday. As many as 7824 suspected outsiders have been quarantined so far. According to the health bulletin, 32 persons, who had tested negative, were allowed to go to their homes with certain conditions to be followed by them. The bulletin claimed that so far 6847 quarantined persons had been cured and 977 were still in quarantine at different centres. As many as 22 suspected corona positive cases were being treated in the Sarsaul community health centre and 184 corona cases are being treated at Covid-19 and Kanshiram hospitals, the bulletin stated. To control further spread of Covid-19 cases, district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari at a meeting held here on Sunday directed the officials to identify the areas with more patients and enforce complete lockdown and take strict action against those found roaming on roads without any reason. He told the officials to create awareness in the hotspot areas, tell people to follow social distancing norms, conduct door-to-door survey and send rapid response teams with mobile van clinic. He directed the officials to quarantine people who had been in close contact with the corona positive persons. He asked the officials of the health department to collect samples as per the government guidellnes and provide PPE kit to magistrates, health and police officials . The district magistrate also directed to constitute a joint team of police and health department for contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/32-allowed-to-go-home-after-testing-corona-negative/articleshow/75396909.cms||Anant Chandak
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||10 new cases, 1 death in Solapur||Kolhapur: As many as 10 fresh confirmed Covid-19 positive cases and one death were reported from Solapur on Sunday. The addition of the new cases on Sunday took the tally of positive cases in Solapur to 61. While five people have succumbed to the infection, 56 cases are still active in the district. District collector Milind Shambharkar said that a patient of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) who died in Solapur civil hospital on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The 57-year-old woman was admitted to the civil hospital for SARI on Friday. After she passed away, her throat swab samples were collected which tested positive for the contagion on Sunday. Shambharkar said, “Of the fresh cases which emerged on Sunday, five are SARI patients while six are close contacts of positive patients identified earlier. A second case has emerged from the rural parts of Solapur district, the first identified on Saturday.” He added that the Pachha Peth area, which already was a major hotspot of positive cases, reported one more case on Sunday. All the other cases were reported from different areas of Solapur city. Meanwhile, superintendent of rural police, Solapur, Manoj Patil appealed to citizens on Sunday to inform about migrants coming travelling from Mumbai, Pune or any other part of the state to their native places in the district. He said there was a possibility that the travellers were unintentionally carrying the contagion. “If anyone comes across any person who has travelled recently, he should inform the police or the police patil or any other competent authority in their respective villages,” said Patil||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-new-cases-1-death-in-solapur/articleshow/75396915.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 27, 2020||Kanpur||Two new areas in hotspot list, count rises to 25||Kanpur: The corona positive cases in the city have increased in the last four days of this month. After seven new cases were reported by the health a department, the total number of hotspot areas in the city are now 25 while till Wednesday they were 19 hotspot areas. The two new areas which have been declared as hotspots on Saturday are Maswanpur and Talaq Mahal. Now, the question is being asked if Kanpur is heading towards community spread ? But no one is willing to answer the question. This reporter when tried to contact the officials who are authorised to brief the press, did not reply. Among the 26 hotspots, Quli Bazar has emerged as the most sensitive area of corona positive cases as maximum cases in the city are from this area. Corona infection among the cops also began from this area. According to SSP/DIG Anant Deo, nine policemen of the city have been found infected. As per reports, the area has recorded as many as 82 Covid-19 patients. The topography of the area indicates that there are three religious places-- Haji Inayat Masjid, Sheikh Lallan Masjid and Hatey Wali Masjid que and a madrassa. As many as 42 students of the madrassa were found corona positive. Police authorities have expressed grave concern over infection in the police force. SP (East) Raj KumarAgarwal while talking to media here on Sunday said “The department is taking preventive measures to save the police force from the deadly infection. As the policemen got infected during their deployment in the Quli Bazar area, therefore, it has been decided to withdraw the force from inside the hot spot areas and depute them at the entry or exit points. The cops would supervise the area though CCTV camera surveillance. He said around 86 policemen deployed in the Quli Bazar area and being withdrawn from inside and posted at entry or exit points, said Anant Deo. ”In case a need arises for the cops to go inside the hotspot areas then they will be equipped with PPE kits and the areas would be supervised through drones”, he added. The corona positive cases in the in the last four days are: Thursday- 24, Friday – 37, Saturday- 21 and Sunday 20 cases till 2 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-new-areas-in-hotspot-list-count-rises-to-25/articleshow/75396936.cms||Anant Chandak
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Actor gets 2500 PPE kits for Aurangabad through Shahrukh Khan’s NGO||Aurangabad: As many as 2,500 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits were arranged for Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health workers through actor Shahrukh Khan’s NGO Meer Foundation on Sunday. Municipal health officer Nita Padalkar had written to activist and actor Rajshri Deshpande seeking disposable and reusable PPE kits for AMC staff as a social help. Subsequently, Deshpande had made an appeal on Twitter for the same need. On Sunday evening, the arrangement was done through Khan’s NGO Meer Foundation for the said staff. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey thanked Khan and Deshpande for timely arrangement of the crucial protective gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/actor-gets-2500-ppe-kits-for-aurangabad-through-shahrukh-khans-ngo/articleshow/75395644.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP gearing up for early Kharif seed distribution||VISAKHAPATNAM: Keeping in view the uncertainties and challenges posed by the coronavirus (Covid-19), the state government has decided to go for early distribution of Kharif seeds to help the farming community in distress. Kharif is the main crop season for AP and the government wants to ensure that there is no shortage of seeds or any difficulties in supply, hence the decision to take up distribution early. Sources in the agriculture department said that the government is taking all measures to ensure that the farmers are ready to begin Kharif activity as when required, for which the pre-requisite was early supply of seeds. The commissioner of agriculture department H Arun Kumar said, “We are taking all steps to ensure that seed supply for Kharif is maintained. With paddy being the main crop, the focus is on supply. Furthermore, rainfall has been healthy so far and we are hoping for a good monsoon to aid the farmers.” Sources in the agriculture department said that the Kharif was the key to kick-start the primary agriculture sector and other associated and dependent sectors in the state to help revive the rural economy, which had been in distress due to the Covid-19 threat. Regarding the availability of various types of seeds, the Arun Kumar said, “We have 12 varieties of seeds available. In fact the stock available is far more than the stock required. While the requirement is 2,28,732 quintals of seeds, the actual stock available is around 2,62,500.” Regarding supply, sources said that they will be supplied to farmers through the Rythu Bharosa Centres that will open across the state by June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-gearing-up-for-early-kharif-seed-distribution/articleshow/75394678.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 27, 2020||Ajmer||11 more test positive in Ajmer, 10 from Mochi Mohalla||AJMER: Eleven new coronavirus positive cases were detected here on Sunday with 10 being found at the hotspot area of Mochi Mohalla and one at Nalah Bazar. With this, the total number of cases in the city went up to 123. Medical and health department had quarantined 20 people from Mochi Mohalla at Khwaja Model School at Civil Lines recently out of which 10 tested positive. The report of these patients had come negative in previous tests. Four yoths who came in contact with the Nallah Bazaar positive case have been quarantined. Out of the 123 cases, 100 are from the Mochi Mohalla. In the last seven days, Ajmer saw 100 cases and like Ramganj of Jaipur, Mochi Mohalla has become the city’s hotspot. Sources said it was a challenge for the administration to control the infection as the mohalla is congested. “The important factor is that they are asymptomatic and the reports are positive. It is dangerous because no one coming for survey or screening,” added the official source. Official added that three PCR machines have arrived in Ajmer and therefore administration is planning on a Bhilwara model to take sample of every person who came in contact of infected persons. A map has been prepared of Mochi Mohalla marking dangerous and moderate regions. The department is waiting for the test reports of 250 samples that were sent for tests. The administration claimed in the curfew region, arrangements of grocery, milk and other things have been made and police have been deployed so that no one can come out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/11-more-test-positive-in-ajmer-10-from-mochi-mohalla/articleshow/75396934.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||Mumbai to Prayagraj: Man uses onion passport to cross lockown barriers||PRAYAGRAJ: Stranded in Mumbai’s Dharavi slum due to lockdown, a Prayagraj native found a unique way to get past travel restrictions and reach his hometown — carrying a truckload of onion. He got the permit to travel as onion is an essential commodity and its shipment is not banned. Prem Murti Pandey, 56, works at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport and had been stranded in the city ever since the lockdown was announced in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic on March 23. Pandey lives in Dharavi, touted as Asia’s biggest slum, and now a hot spot of coronavirus. “When I noticed that Covid-19 cases were rising at an alarming rate in Dharavi, it became difficult for me to stay there any longer. Hence, I decided to go back to my native town in Prayagraj,” said Pandey. “I wouldn’t have been able to go back because of the travel restrictions. However, I realised that I would be allowed to enter the city if I was a vegetable or fruit trader,” he added. The Union government has not imposed any curbs on transportation of vegetables and fruits, as they come under essential commodities category. On April 16, Pandey went to Pimpalgaon in Nashik and purchased watermelons worth Rs 10,000. He came back and sold them in Mumbai the next day just to test waters. Setting his plan into motion, next he he bought 25.2 tonne of onion worth Rs 2.3 lakh from Nashik and hired a truck for Rs 77,500 the following day. He set out for Prayagraj with truckload of onions the same day. "I thought, I would sell it off in Prayagraj and would get my investment of approximately 3 lakh back," he says. Pandey reached Prayagraj on the Thursday night and went straight to Mundera Mandi to sell the onions. However, when he failed to strike a deal for the consignment, he went back to his home in Kotwa Mubarakpur area of the city. Pandey said that he was planning to sell it to smaller traders. Sub-inspector and in charge of TP Nagar police outpost Arvind Singh said, “When police received information that a man had arrived from Mumbai, a health department team went to his house and conducted thermal screening on Thursday. He was asked to quarantine himself at home and his swab sample was collected on Saturday. He was later shifted to a quarantine centre in Kareli on Saturday.” Pandey is unapologetic and says he didn’t do anything wrong. “My entire family including aged parents are here, while I work in Mumbai. I have responsibilities towards my family and I believe that I chose a perfectly lawful way to return.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-to-prayagraj-man-uses-onion-passport-to-cross-lockown-barriers/articleshow/75397348.cms||Kapil Dixit
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to give 778 hectares of reserve forest land for Kumbh Mela||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand forest department has decided to give a total of 778 hectares of reserve forest land from Rajaji National Park and forest divisions of Haridwar, Narendra Nagar, and Dehradun for a period of nine months to Kumbh Mela Committee. The land will be given for temporary construction works to accommodate scores of pilgrims and seers that are expected to come for Maha Kumbh 2021. Data accessed by TOI reveals that Kumbh Mela authorities had sought 113.329 hectares of forest land of Rajaji National Park but transfer of only 0.39 hectares of that land got approval. This 0.39 hectare land includes 0.3 hectare land of Raiwala (Gularpadaw East) for police camp and .09 hectare land at Mansa Devi (Mayapur East Beat) for police and health camps. Further, around 20 hectares of land from Narendra Nagar forest division and 15 hectares of land from Rishikesh range of Dehradun forest division will be earmarked for Kumbh works. Additionally, 500 hectares of reserve forest land from Haridwar forest division will be given away for Maha Kumbh. Notably, the forest department has sought an approximate amount of Rs 13.635 crore from the Kumbh Mela Committee for the land. The amount will be used to ensure that the land remains usable for flora and fauna and is well protected. The land which would be given away for Kumbh Mela includes that of Shivalik forests, which has a rich biodiversity and has a significant population of elephants, leopards, and tigers. The proposal states that the temporary land transfer would begin from September this year so that construction activities can be undertaken on time for the mega festival that is expected to draw crores of pilgrims. However, the decision violates the advisory (dated January 10, 2020) of ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF) which states that “for non-forest activities, forest land can be given only for a duration of 15 days and it doesn’t include protected forest land”. The state government though has sought exemption from this clause saying that the Kumbh Mela is a significant festival and this may be considered an exceptional case. A copy of a letter (dated April 21, 2020) from Subhash Chandra, additional secretary of Uttarakhand government to MoEF, reads, “From Rajaji National Park and other forest divisions, around 778 hectares of forest land for non-forest activities from September 1, 2020 to 31st May, 2021 has been sought by Kumbh Mela Committee for around nine months.” The letter, which seeks clearance to give approval for the same under Forest (Conservation) Act of 1980, further reads, “Kumbh Mela is a significant festival as per Hindu tradition and therefore, it may be considered as an exceptional case and be given approval.” Meanwhile, the forest officials are uncertain regarding the Maha Kumbh as the “state’s financial condition is not good”. Also, congregations across the world are being cancelled to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. TOI had earlier reported that the heads of all akhadas in Haridwar have stopped preparations of Maha Kumbh amid the coronavirus scare. “Will the Uttarakhand government be in a capacity to take responsibility of the medical cost of negligence and risk which will come along with the Kumbh?” asked a senior IFS officer while questioning the preparations which are underway for the Maha Kumbh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-give-778-hectares-of-reserve-forest-land-for-kumbh-mela/articleshow/75395666.cms||Shivani Azad
April 27, 2020||Kanpur||13 women, 2 cops test +ve, Kanpur tally climbs to 185||Kanpur: Thirty-three more persons, including 13 women and two policemen, tested positive for Covid-19 in Kanpur district in last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 185 till now. “The latest cases were detected from Bhannana Purwa area where 10 members of a family contracted the virus, while 10 cases were reported from Colonelganj area,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. “There are 13 women who have coronavirus. We have prepared a contact list of those who came in contact with them and now their tests would be conducted,” the CMO added. A senior health official, preferring anonymity, expressed concern while pointing out that till now more men had been testing positive to the deadly virus, but the reports health department received from GSVM Covid-19 lab on Sunday reflects a disturbing trend. “It declared 13 women of the total 20 samples as corona positive. This suggests that we are heading towards community transmission stage,” the official claimed. “It only suggests that men are acting as carriers and transferring the infection. The men had been exposing themselves to people who had already contracted the virus. We request people to stay indoors if they are worried about the well-being of their near and dear ones. Every house and every person in the containment areas will be checked,” he said. The people living in containment areas will be provided essentials as and when they require, he added. The first case in Kanpur city had been reported on March 23 when a 70-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus few days after his arrival from the US. Health officials said nine patients have been cured and discharged while three others have died, leaving the number of active cases at 173. On Saturday, the health authorities had heaved a sigh of relief when 20 patients undergoing treatment at Sarsaul Community Health Centre had tested negative signalling that Covid-19 spread may show a downturn in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/13-women-2-cops-test-ve-kanpur-tally-climbs-to-185/articleshow/75396922.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Gram panchayat meets in Satara to be held with measures||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said that the monthly meetings of gram panchayat will be allowed only if the social distancing norm is followed. In the meetings, only the sarpanch, the deputy sarpanch and the members can remain present. Those failing to comply with the guidelines will face criminal action, he said.According to the reports, due to the outbreak of the pandemic, curfew has been imposed under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code 1973 and the mandatory gram panchayat meetings are affected. The gram panchayat officials in the district had requested to provide relief from the curfew to convene such meetings.Singh said that since conducting the monthly meeting is compulsory, necessary precautions such as the use of sanitiser, wearing mask and maintaining social distancing norm have to be followed in order to conduct meetings.He said that the gram panchayat are being granted relief from the curfew provided they follow all the required measures. For the meetings only sarpnach, deputy sarpanch and the member will be allowed. No other person will be allowed to attend the meeting or be present at the respective venue.The gram panchayat members have been asked to conduct the meetings at open spaces and have to use the sanitiser and wear masks along with maintaining social distancing norm. According to Singh, those who will not comply with the norms, will be face action under section 511 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, among several others. The police department will initiate the action if found guilty, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gram-panchayat-meets-in-satara-to-be-held-with-measures/articleshow/75396931.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Buy veggies in a bucket, Vadodara cops advise people||VADODARA: “When you go to buy vegetables, don’t take a bag. Carry a bucket instead.” — A video of an in-charge inspector of Warasia police station, S S Anand, is doing the rounds on social media platofrms wherein he is advising people on how to buy vegetables in a bucket and then how they should wash it after they reach home. In the fight against coronavirus, Vadodara cops are not only providing food and kits to needy people, but are also ensuring all-round safety of the citizens during lockdown. In a first of its kind advice, Anand was seen talking to the citizens in Meera Flats locality of Warasia on the public announcement system, which somebody recorded and uploaded the video on social media. Cops are trying to sensitize people on how to buy vegetables from vendors particularly after Ahmedabad and Surat vegetable vendors were tested Covid-19 positive. In the video, Anand is heard telling people: “Carry buckets when you go out to buy vegetables and ask the vendor to drop these directly in the bucket. Don’t touch anything and after you reach home, fill the bucket with water mixed with two spoons of baking soda and salt. Soak the vegetables in it for 10 minutes at least before washing or else there is a possibility of the virus entering your home!” After Anand’s video became viral, Vadodara city police created a poster for awareness with similar instructions and shared it on its Facebook page on Wednesday. “One day, my wife and I were deliberating about how to deal with this situation. She suddenly hit upon the bucket idea. My sister who is a doctor in Ahmedabad advised us to wash the vegetables with baking soda and salt,” said Anand, while talking to TOI. A couple of days ago while patrolling, Anand saw many citizens crowding vegetable vendors in the locality. He dispersed them then, but later made the announcement for their awareness. In the video, Anand is heard saying that people criticize police for controlling the vegetable vendors. “We are only doing it for you. There is nothing wrong if for a few days you do not eat vegetables and survive on pulses only,” he was heard appealing to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/buy-veggies-in-a-bucket-vadodara-cops-advise-people/articleshow/75394817.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram ups surveillance, gets Covid control room||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram district authorities have established a Covid-19 command control room under the coordination of assistant collector, Ketan Garg. Sources in the administration said the command control room would collect and analyse data to enable micro and macro-management of the situation in the district. District collector M Hari Jawahar Lal said, “The main function of this control room is to ensure surveillance, call centre monitoring, data analysis, coordinating activity with police department, supervision and surveillance of activity in district Covid hospitals and monitoring the PDS (public distribution system).” On other measures being taken up, the district administration said there was a requirement of 13.5 lakh masks in the district municipalities, of which district headquarters required 7.5 lakh masks. District authorities have urged the speeding up of manufacture of masks under Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (Mepma). One-and-a-half lakh masks have been manufactured till date. The administration added there is a requirement of 1.66 lakh masks in Parvathipuram municipality, 1.53 lakhs in Salur municipality, 1.56 lakhs in Bobbili and 73,000 in Nellimarla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizianagaram-ups-surveillance-gets-covid-control-room/articleshow/75394697.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||FDCA seizes drugs used by addicts from Patan||Ahmedabad: A team of Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) seized drugs worth Rs 3 lakh from Patan on Sunday. The drugs seized are misused by addicts and are not to be issued without prescription, said FDCA officials. Working on information, a joint team from Patan and Mehsana offices of FDCA carried out search at the security cabin of Sai Kutir in Patan. The teams found codeine-containing cough syrups, tramadol tablets and alprazolam tablets. Dr H G Koshia, commissioner, FDCA, said that these medicines are widely misused by addicts. “The marketing firm for the stock is also found not to have any permission for the same,” he said. Sources said that during lockdown, many addicts are finding it difficult to source their drugs and thus it’s possible that the drugs might have been stocked. Further probe about the end-users is being made and the person who had sourced the drugs is being questioned .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fdca-seizes-drugs-used-by-addicts-from-patan/articleshow/75397081.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur administration prepares state-wise workers’ list||JODHPUR: The district administration has geared up to enlist migrant workers from other states to send them back home. About 1,100 such workers have been staying in different camps in the district. Besides, some others are staying at their own accommodations or in factories where they were working. According to ADM (II) Mahipal Bhardwaj, the process has already started to prepare a state-wise list of these migrants based on their expression of interest to go to their native places. “Those, who wanted to go to their homes, would be screened and segregated with regard to their respective states and their details will be shared with the corresponding states, so that the adequate arrangements could be done by that state’s administration,” said Bhardwaj. Similarly, an eye is also being kept on the migrant workers, belonging to Jodhpur, who have been coming to their homes from other states. “Strict directions have been issued with regard to keeping an eye on every such arrival and ensure home quarantine for them after screening,” said the officer. Likewise, Jalore, which shares its border with Gujarat and has a large number of people working in southern states, has also firmed up steps to receive them once their start coming to the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-admn-prepares-state-wise-workers-list/articleshow/75396938.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Over 700 calls received at toll-free helpline number for senior citizens||Edited - 330 Jaipur: So far, over 700 calls have been received at the toll-free helpline number for senior citizens, most of which were to seek medical services, home delivery of medicines, food and other essential items. The ‘Sharing Caring’ - 7428518030 - helpline service was launched by the district administration and JK Lakshmipat University on April 18 to redress the grievances of the senior citizens at the time of Covid-19 crisis. The helpline is manned by over 40 volunteers, including the faculty members of the university, staff, senior students from 9am to 7pm. “The primary objective of the helpline is to fulfil the needs pertaining to medical help and services, food and essential items, including groceries,” said collector Joga Ram. "We have contacted Metro Mas Hospital in Mansarovar for home delivery of medicines from their stores. We have sought help from the doctors as well for free and paid medical services,” said Umesh Gupta, nodal officer for the helpline number and associate professor for mathematics at the university. “For free medical schemes, they can buy the medicines from private stores through home delivery services and later the money would be reimbursed by the goverment,” he added. “We received medical emergency calls as well. In one such case, an 84-year-old patient suffered a stroke. We immediately made necessary arrangements for the patient, including pathology tests and providing medicines. In another case, the patient was under depression. So, we got the patient in touch with a counselling agency. Second, we facilitate them in booking online food items and other essential commodities. We also train them in booking these items online on their own,” Gupta said. He also said they will be organising a technical session for senior citizens on the use of technology and how to operate it for their benefit. “For free ration and cooked food packets, we have contacted various NGOs for making arrangements for these. Another woman, who was starving for two days, was provided food within 30 minutes,” Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-700-calls-received-at-toll-free-helpline-number-for-senior-citizens/articleshow/75396961.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two booked for taking family to Sikar||JAIPUR: Sikar police registered a case against a man who took his wife and child from Ramganj to Sikar with the help of a van driver who has also been booked. The woman later tested positive for Covid-19 and was referred to Jaipur. The accused’s family members reached Sikar on April 15 and when the neighbors became aware of this, they informed the authorities following which the family tested positive. According to the officials, the 50-year-old man got a van driver to ferry his 26-year-old wife and 4-year-old daughter from Ramganj to Sikar. Kotwali Sikar SHO Kanheyalal said, “On April 15, the van driver drove the accused’s family to Sikar. They came from Ramganj, which is currently one of the Covid-19 hotspots in Jaipur, without taking any kind of permission or informing anyone”. The accused kept the journey a secret, but when the neighbours realised that his wife had travelled from Jaipur, they informed the health authorities who immediately swung into action and tested the family as well as the van driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-booked-for-taking-family-to-sikar/articleshow/75396939.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Strict vigil during Ramzan to maintain lockdown rules||NEW DELHI: To prevent people from stepping out to shop during the holy month of Ramzan, police will patrol the streets in specially-designed cars with public address systems and conduct flag marches inside the colonies in central, northeast and southeast Delhi. The cops have also asked local mosques to use their public address systems to urge people to stick to the lockdown rules. The imams of Jama Masjid and the Fatehpuri mosque have been requested to advise people to stay inside and pray. In central Delhi, a flag march was conducted in areas around Hauz Qazi after a group of people stepped out to shop for Ramzan goods on Friday. In south Delhi, a van has been modified with stickers all over it informing the public about the rules. Drones will also be used to monitor the roads around the mosques after the iftar in all these areas and the terraces and the congested markets in Old Delhi where people usually gather to break the fast or offer prayers. The residents outside containment zones can step out during the iftar for a stipulated period and collect food from police vehicles or permitted shops. To distribute food in containment zones, police will take help of NGOs. On Sunday, 83 FIRs were registered for violation of the lockdown rules under IPC 188 and 2,422 people were detained. Police booked 35 people for stepping out without a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/strict-vigil-during-ramzan-to-maintain-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75396418.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur salons start taking advance bookings for post-lockdown haircuts||Kolhapur: Anticipating a rush of people in salons after the lockdown is lifted, hairdressers and salon owners have started taking advance booking for haircuts.Since the lockdown started, the salons have remained closed.Dutta Zende, a salon owner from Line Bazaar area, said, “Currently, we get requests to visit houses and give haircuts. However, we refrain from doing so as health is the most important thing. I do not want to get infected nor do I want to put somebody at risk.”“Instead I have started taking appointments on call for days after May 3. Slots are full for the four days after the lockdown is lifted, considering, one haircut will take one hour. Also, we do not know the guidelines to be followed while cutting the hair or shaving as we have to be in close contact with the other person,” said Zende.Many salon shops are small and cannot accommodate more than four people, especially at a time when social distancing has to be followed. In such cases, the salon operators have to ensure that limited people are in the salon at one time. They also have to make sure that the shops are disinfected along with the equipments they use.The central government has allowed the opening of shops, the state government is yet to issue the notification to implement it. However, shops like liquor shops and salons will remain closed, as per the central government directive.In some secluded places like distant farms in rural areas, hairdressers are providing their service. One such hairdresser said, “We have to do it for our survival. It is our bread and butter. The men can get their shave done at home, but usually does not take a chance with a haircut by themselves. Some people have tried giving themselves a haircut. Vishal Patil from Kasba Bawda said, "I watched it on how to get a haircut done on youtube and my younger brother helped me. However, the haircut had gone wrong and then I decided to go bald.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-salons-start-taking-advance-bookings-for-post-lockdown-haircuts/articleshow/75396945.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Burglars decamp with alcohol worth over Rs 35,000||Kolhapur: Two alcohol shops were recently targeted by burglars where India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth over Rs 35,000 were stolen. A case in this regard has been registered at Jaysingpur and Hatkanangle police stations. In the first case, reported under the jurisdiction of Jaysingpur police station, the burglars managed to break the sealed locks on the shutter of the shop located in Chipari village in Shirol taluka. After gaining access to the shop, they got away with 240 bottles of 180ml IMFL worth Rs 35,000. "The CCTV footage has been recovered from the area and according to it two people were involved in the crime that took place in the wee hours of Saturday," a police officer said. "We have registered a case against the suspects under sections 457 (lurking house trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and have launched a search operation to nab them," he added. In the second incident, the burglars got into the shop located near Hatkanangle bus stand and decamped with them 5 bottles of IMFL worth Rs 400. "A case has been registered against unidentified people under sections 454 (Lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 457 and 380 of the IPC," an officer attached with Hatkanangle police station said. According to an official from the excise department, they have sealed all the liquor shops and permit rooms after getting details about the stock available with the shop owners concerned. "The suspects broke the sealed locks and committed the crime," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/burglars-decamp-with-alcohol-worth-over-rs-35000/articleshow/75396953.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Chandanotsavam observed as per norms but sans devotees||VISAKHAPATNAM: This year’s Chandanotsavam at Simhachalam temple was quite a low-key affair. With no devotees being allowed to enter the temple, priests, temple authorities and the hereditary trustee were the only ones present during the morning puja. Devasthanam sources said that the temple administration stuck to all the rituals performed according to tradition. Simhachalam temple executive officer (EO), M Venkateswara Rao said, “We ensured that there was no crowding within temple premises. Except for hereditary trustee Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju, priests, Vedic scholars and skeletal staff, no one else was present inside the sanctum sanctorum.” The EO said that none of the rituals were given a miss and that the ‘abhishekam’ was performed as usual. The temple administration said that around 2,550 people have applied to receive prasadam and chandanam. With regard to security arrangements, the EO said, “We had 90 security personnel. Of them, 50 were the temple’s own security staff and there were 40 police personnel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chandanotsavam-observed-as-per-norms-but-sans-devotees/articleshow/75394723.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||ICAI Aurangabad donates Rs6.7 lakh||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad chapter of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has donated Rs 6.7 lakh to the PM CARES Fund. ICAI Aurangabad chapter president Ganesh Shilawant on Sunday said the community of Charted Accountants (CAs) from the city was committed to the fight against Covid-19. "The local chapter of ICAI has already started the supply of sanitiser and face masks among different sections of the society. Taking our efforts to the next level, our chapter has donated money towards PM CARES Fund," he said. "We have also initiated measures for distribution of food among the needy," he added. At the national level, ICAI has donated Rs 21crore to PM CARES Fund. The ICAI has already postponed Chartered Accountant examinations in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.The examinations were initially scheduled from May 2 to May 18, but now will be held from June 19 to July 4. The details and further updates are available on the official website of ICAI. The Western India Regional Council of ICAI, with its office in Mumbai, is the largest regional council amongst the five regional councils with a membership of around 1,16,000 chartered accountants and about 2,25,000 students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/icai-aurangabad-donates-rs6-7-lakh/articleshow/75395682.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Undertrials to be screened in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: To save the inmates lodged at Jodhpur Central Jail from coronavirus infection, directions have been issued to screen all the fresh accused for Covid-19 before bringing them to the jail. The presiding officers of all the special courts under Jodhpur Metropolitan jurisdiction and subordinate courts will be marking the judicial custody warrants in red ink from Monday onwards. District and sessions judge Narsingh Das gave this direction to all the presiding officers on the prayer of the superintendent of Jodhpur Central Jail, which will remain in force till further directions. Superintendent of Jodhpur Central Jail Kailash Trivedi said that there has been a steady arrival of accused in the jail during the lockdown period. “A separate facility has been readied where the new inmates are being kept isolated from other inmates for 15 days before sending them to the main building,” Trivedi said. “Currently, there are 55 inmates in this facility and they are being regularly monitored,” said Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/undertrials-to-be-screened-in-jodhpur/articleshow/75396950.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Fund crunch hits Kochi’s canal works||KOCHI: Though monsoon is just one month away, canals and drains in the city are yet to be desilted. Work under Operation Breakthrough, which envisaged desilting and widening of canals in the city, had to be stopped following Covid-19 outbreak. Kochi corporation’s annual cleaning of canals and drains too have not been started. According to sources associated with Operation Breakthrough, shortage of funds will be a major hindrance. “As district administration is busy engaged in the Covid-19 control measures, it will be difficult for them to resume the work immediately. Moreover, additional funds will be required for carrying out the works,” sources said. According to the estimates, it may require around Rs 75 crore while the allotment so far is very less. District administration could only carryout widening and desilting works of some of the canals. Meanwhile, corporation authorities are yet to complete the tender procedures. “Unavailability of workers seems to be a major difficulty for the contractors to undertake cleaning and desilting works. Still, we are trying to start the work and complete it on time,” said P M Harris, chairman, standing committee for works, Kochi Corporation. Another major issue which is to be solved is the cleaning of drains along metro alignment. According to the corporation , the drains along the alignment has not been cleaned in past four years. “Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) which renovated the drains has covered it with thick concrete slabs. Moreover, tiles have been paved over it. So, we are unable to remove the slabs,” Harris said. “In the past four years, we couldn’t clean the drains along metro stretch even for a single time. If we remove the slabs, tiles will be broken,” he said. During the construction of metro, many canals and drains across the roads was closed. “On Friday, the Kochi corporation and officials with Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) conducted a joint inspection at Edappally junction, Changampuzha Park area and Jawaharlal Nehru stadium area. KMRL has agreed to take mitigating measures,” Harris said. The drains from St George Church area which flows into Edappally canal were closed at Edappally junction. The segment of a canal which goes across the main road near Changampuzha Park metro station was closed. The portion of Changadampokku Thodu which goes across the main road near Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium metro station had also been closed. Cleaning of Thevara-Perandoor canal, one of the arterial canals in the city, is also an issue. The work for widening and beautification of canals under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme also failed to make much progress. Though the Rs.18-crore work was supposed to be completed six months ago, its progress is less than 20%. As fund had been allotted for cleaning the canals under Amrut, Kochi corporation authorities are unable to allot funds for desilting the canal as part of pre-monsoon cleaning process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fund-crunch-hits-citys-canal-works/articleshow/75394746.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Jamaat attendee discharged after testing negative twice||Kolhapur: A 30-year-old Covid-19 patient was discharged from Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya — the civil hospital in Kolhapur — after his throat swab samples taken after the completion of the 14-day isolation period tested negative twice for the contagion.During his discharge, staff members at the civil hospital greeted the man with flowers. Right from the doctors and hospital staff, everyone clapped and cheered for him without forgetting to maintain social distancing from each other. The man too thanked the hospital staff for their continuous care during his time at the isolation ward.Dean of CPR hospital and Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College Minakshi Gajbhiye said that the man was discharged after he successfully completed the 14-day isolation course. Gajbhiye added that the man’s mother had cleared the first test conducted post isolation but had tested positive in the second test. She would be kept at CPR hospital for another week. “A fresh test will be conducted after a week. The woman will be discharged only after she tests negative for the second test,” she said. The man had attended the Tabligh Jamaat programme at Nizammuddin in Delhi last month. He had left Delhi on March 14 and reached Kolhapur on March 16 by train. He took a private vehicle to Malkapur on March 16 and stayed at a religious place there. He returned to his hometown in Uchat village on March 18. After getting to know about his travel history, the district administration placed him in institutional quarantine at Panhala on April 1 along with several others who attended the Tabligh Jamaat programme. The man tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. The district administration started finding out all those who had come in contact with the man and identified 144 people during the contact-tracing exercise. Fortunately, of the 144 high-risk contacts, only two people tested positive, including his mother. Gajbhiye said that a woman from the Kasba Bawda area, who had contracted Covid-19, had tested negative for the two tests conducted after the isolation period. However, she was showing symptoms of pneumonia and was currently undergoing treatment for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/jamaat-attendee-discharged-after-testing-negative-twice/articleshow/75396963.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||100-member WhatsApp group reaching out to frontline workers with essentials||VISAKHAPATNAM: For 100-odd strangers who forged a friendship on social media over three years ago, charity begins at home. A WhatsApp group ‘Manam’ (Matter of Attitude, Novelty, Affection and Magnificence), consisting of members aged between 19 and 90 from various walks of life and belonging to AP, Telangana and other states, is reaching out to the needy in a unique way. Each member has encouraged neighbours to help sanitation workers with essential rations and uncooked food items and felicitated frontline workers keeping cities clean. Even before the pandemic, members of the group would regularly participate in charitable and relief work every month in different districts and states by preparing meals for the needy, abandoned animals, undertaking plantation drives. distributing relief material during Cyclone Titli, donating to the Kerala flood relief, sponsoring medical treatment or stationery for poorer students by pooling together funds. Administrator of the group, a 90-year-old businessman from Chittoor, NC Ramachandra Reddy said, “The members are like a big family from varied socio-cultural-economic backgrounds, including agriculturalists, engineers, doctors, students, advocates, poets, classical dancers and homemakers not just from AP, but even different states and countries. We do not allow forwards or viral posts, unnecessary debates in the group but are inclined towards discussing and carrying out cultural and service-oriented activities.” “We started a monthly ‘annadanam’ (feeding) programme for orphans on August 25 last year. We cook ourselves and have fed nearly 1,000 persons so far in Vizag, Tirupati and Hyderabad. During lockdown, we have been giving free rations to sanitary workers, food to the needy,” said S Murali Mohan, a Steel Plant employee . “As a mark of respect towards traditional art and artists, we had also financially helped India’s only Kinnera (a stringed instrument) player Darshanam Mogilaiah, who was neglected and forgotten,” said K Sumana, a poet and classical dancer from Tirupati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/100-member-whatsapp-group-reaching-out-to-frontline-workers-with-essentials/articleshow/75394750.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Cops to check passes, IDs from a safe distance||NEW DELHI: To maintain a safe distance while checking passes and identity cards of commuters on the roads, Delhi Police has procured a few document-checking devices on a trial basis. The device, which looks like a selfie stick and has a zoom mirror towards the end, shows an enlarged image of the documents allowing the cops to check the papers from a safe distance. Over two dozen cops have tested positive for novel coronavirus in the capital so far. South Delhi police are using two such zoom devices which have been made in collaboration with an IIT-Delhi start-up, Invoxel Technologies. “The device allows the cops to be at a safe distance from people while delivering their Covid-19 duties. Documents when placed near the magnifying glass of a good focal length are shown as enlarged. This allows the cops to stand at least 1.5 metres away,” said a senior police officer. Currently, it is being used at two picket points on Aurobindo Marg. Soon, such devices will be used at more places and they will also be equipped with LED lights so that they can be used at night as well. Instead of a selfie stick, the cops are even planning to use PVC pipes which can bear more weight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-to-check-passes-ids-from-a-safe-distance/articleshow/75396431.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||‘CM misleading state, Karnika crew not tested’||Panaji: A day after chief minister Pramod Sawant said that Goan seafarers stranded in Mumbai had tested negative for coronavirus, Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai said that the crew aboard Karnika had not been tested. Suggesting that Sawant was misleading the state, Sardesai said that Goa has a “doctor at the helm who wants to doctor the data”. Sawant on Saturday had said that the 66 Goan seafarers, who disembarked from Marella Discovery, have tested negative for Covid-19. He also said that reports of seafarers from Karnika and Angriya are awaited. “We have doctor at the helm who wants to doctor the data perhaps! Otherwise how would someone test negative without being tested at all? No Goan seafarer tested as yet on Karnika,” Sardesai said. He further said that he had spoken to “reliable sources” and the Goa Seafarers Association of India to confirm if the crew aboard Karnika had been tested. “Seafarers from 10 states excluding Goa were told to standby on Saturday noon on Karnika as port health officer (PHO) would board to take samples. PHO boarded post lunch but as management told to abort, (PHO) left vessel completing only 42 samples. No Goan seafarers’ sample was taken,” the GFP president said. The former deputy chief minister said the testing of the crew of Karnika, which is in Mumbai Port limits, will resume on Monday. “None of those hitherto tested are Goans. So it’s clear who is talking what,” he added. There are 93 Goans on board Karnika and 23 Goans on Angriya. All the crew members are scheduled to travel to Goa by road. The state government will collect swab samples at the Keri and Patradevi checkposts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-misleading-state-karnika-crew-not-tested/articleshow/75396978.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Airport facilitates chartered flights for emergency needs||JAIPUR: With no regular flights, many people in case of emergencies have opted for the chartered flight services to reach Jaipur and to fly to other cities from here. Apart from smooth operations of the cargo flights, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and its air traffic control also worked to ensure smooth landings and take-off of these chartered flights. At least a dozen people opted for chartered flights to attend to medical emergencies and in other cases. After prior permissions from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), Jaipur airport since lockdown has facilitated 12 flights so far. On Sunday, the Chief Justice of Orissa high court Mohammad Rafiq, who is former acting chief justice of Rajasthan high court, took a chartered flight and flew to Odisha. “People who are in emergency and need to travel from one city to another need to apply before the DGCA and operators providing chartered planes, too, are doing so. DGCA has been considerate in cases such as medical emergency or in cases where a person’s travel is inevitable,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur Airport, on Sunday. He said earlier a non-resident Indian woman from Switzerland, who came prior to lockdown and got stuck in Jaipur, too, was permitted to fly back to Switzerland. “We also received Assam police personnel who came to Jaipur while they had to visit Kota to see the arrangements of the students of their state who were to be taken back to Assam,” said a senior officer of air traffic control. Similarly, on a few occasions, chartered flights were also used to transport and bring ill-patents to Jaipur. “In such cases, DGCA verifies the authenticity and if the reason is found valid, the applicant is allowed to travel,” the officer added. Apart from this, an international aircraft which was merely passing through India had a halt at Jaipur airport for re-fuelling during the lockdown. “After prior permission from air traffic control, the aircraft landed at Jaipur a few days ago for re-fuelling,” the officer added. However, authorities are also working to ensure proper social distancing for the future when flight operations would be resumed. “Various things would be introduced, starting from when a passenger comes at the check-in gate to his security check. We are working on these things,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-airport-facilitates-chartered-flights-for-emergency-needs-dgca-permits-movement/articleshow/75396972.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala government to begin Covid-19 testing with results in 45 minutes||KOCHI: The government is soon starting Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 test, the fastest diagnostic tests available in the state, at Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode medical colleges. While the existing RT-PCR testing facilities in the state take at least four hours to get results, Xpert-Sars-Cov2 test can yield results within 45 minutes. According to experts, the Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 test, is more accurate and the fastest available in the state. “It is a nucleic acid test (NAT) which can deliver results in 45 minutes. It is a sophisticated machine, but the cost for testing is high,” a scientist with Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology (SCTIMST) said. “Maybe the high cost for testing is the factor which stops the government from using the test in a widespread manner,” he said. Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has allotted cartridges required for conducting Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 tests for three medical colleges in the state. In an order issued on Friday, the state government has given strict instructions to the medical college authorities that only emergency cases should be tested using the method. As per government order, some of the specific emergency cases where Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 test should be used are: if a healthcare worker with possibility of high exposure to Covid-19, patients with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) for whom an early test result will have a role in clinical management and any Covid-suspected death which requires tests for further actions. Only nasopharyngeal swabs should be used for testing. Swabs should be placed in a 3 ml viral transport medium and stored as per WHO standards. The machines, the same as ones used for TB diagnostic tests, are required for Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 test and are already available with the medical colleges. Government provided the sophisticated machine costing Rs 40 lakh at Government medical college, Ernakulam, in 2019 for TB diagnostic tests. “We should use the cartridges of Covid-19 instead of TB cartridges. The results can be yielded within 45 minutes. At the RT-PCR facility, we require around four hours, including sample collection and processing time, to generate results. We started Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 tests from Sunday,” an official with the medical college said. “We have 360 cartridges but we can conduct tests of only four samples at a time. A maximum of 20 Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 tests can conducted in a day,” the official added. According to officials with Thiruvananthapuram medical college, they will start Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 test from Monday. It is learnt that the government is planning to give Xpert-Sars-Cov-2 test cartridges to hospitals like regional cancer centre (RCC) where patients are awaiting urgent surgeries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-to-begin-covid-testing-with-results-in-45-minutes/articleshow/75394807.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Protect kids of migrant labourers and tribals, rights activists urge AP government||VISAKHAPATNAM: Child rights activists and civil society organisations (CSOs) from the city have appealed to the state government to take measures for the safety of vulnerable children, especially those of migrant labourers and tribals and protect them from infections as well as other threats. Child rights activist and member of RTE Forum Narava Prakasa Rao said, “The pandemic threatens children’s rights and disrupts their healthcare, protection, education and overall well-being, including social interaction with friends, peers, family members, teachers and adult caregivers. In AP too, children are facing multi-dimensional risks due to Covid -19.” The NGOs and CSOs state that vulnerable and marginalised children stand at the greatest risk. They include children without family care, street children, children on the move, homeless children, migrant and internally displaced children, children in child care institutions and children with disabilities. The activists have appealed to the government for allocation and distribution of additional fund to the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) with guidelines on utilisation of the fund for ensuring well-being of children that should include food, shelter, health services, learning while working within the guidelines of lockdown. Secondly, children whose parents are identified as Covid-19 positive, should be given appropriate care and be sent to a safe place with relatives, friends and parents or in government institutions in the absence of the friends and relatives. Thirdly, places where schools or ICDS centres are being utilised as isolation or quarantine centres should be disinfected and sanitised at least 15 days before opening of schools to avoid any risk of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/protect-kids-of-migrant-labourers-tribals-rights-activists-urge-govt/articleshow/75394774.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: Quepem’s famous blind singers groping in the dark||QUEPEM: There seems to be no light at the end of the tunnel for the Shetkar family from Sirvoi in Quepem taluka. Four Shetkar siblings have been visually impaired since birth, but they made a living by putting their musical talent to good use with shows across the state. Other members of the family procured household utensils from Belagavi and sold them here to make ends meet. The coronavirus pandemic has made life tough for everyone. For the Shetkars, it just got tougher. “We have been blessed with an artistic talent. People have helped us, but we have never begged. Now, we face a tough challenge,” said Dattaram, 55, the second of the four siblings. Along with Khapru (62), Namdeo (48) and their sister Sushila (50), all of them live together in Kumbharwada with their 80-year-old mother Shevanti. Famous all over Goa as Shetkar brothers or Shetkar Bandu, and even blind brothers, there are now no shows to perform. After imposition of lockdown, their main source of income in recent months was also snuffed out. “Our problems became worse as my wife could not procure the mud utensil supplies from Belagavi due to sealing of borders and bazaars have also been stopped,” said Dattaram. Dattaram’s father was a potter and made household utensils of mud for a living. After his death in 1997, Shevanti took up the challenge and kept the home fires burning. As she grew old and manufacturing pottery items at home became difficult, Dattaram’s wife, Devayani, started procuring household utensils from Belagavi and selling them at the Sunday bazaar at Quepem and zatras and festival elsewhere. “This helped the family generate some income,” a Shetkar sibling lamented. In difficult times, the Shetkars cannot even count upon their musical skills. Dattaram is a harmonium player, Namdeo plays the table, while Khapru and Sushila are gifted singers. They have staged numerous shows, vowing audiences with their music, providing them a repertoire of bhajans, natya sangeet and sugam sangeet. They’ve even performed in Udaipur. Their last show together was in January 2020 when Dattaram’s 18-year-old daughter, Ankita, joined them as singer. “Our cultural activities and stage shows took a backseat after our father’s death in 1997. We couldn’t earn much as there was nobody to take us around. Our instruments are now gathering dust,” said Namdeo. Even if they pick up the instruments now, there may not be an audience. Nobody really knows when gatherings will be allowed, and even when that happens, finding someone to drive the Shetkars around always remains a big task. “These are tough days. We don’t know what the future is in store for us,” said Dattaram. The Shetkars believe their problems can be eased to a large extent if Dattaram’s elder daughter, who has just completed her graduation, finds decent employment. The other three children in the Shetkar family are still studying. Any financial help from the government is also welcome. Initially, a monthly honorarium of Rs 1,250 from the art and culture department and Rs 1,000 from DSS provided some solace to the family. But in 2008, the government withdrew the Rs 1,250 honorarium, stating that only one person per family can avail that scheme. The amount has now been increased after they produced documents stating that they are 100% blind. Each of them receive Rs 3,500 per month under the Dayanand Suraksha Scheme (DSS) from the government.  “I am requesting the chief minister to restart our art and culture scheme. It is difficult to run the family with what we receive at the moment,” said Dattaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepems-famous-blind-singers-groping-in-the-dark/articleshow/75396971.cms||Johnny M
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Health officials nab man who entered district from Tamil Nadu||KOCHI: The health enforcement squad in Ernakulam nabbed man a who managed to come to the district on a vehicle carrying vegetables from Theni in Tamil Nadu.  The person, in his late 30s, was picked up from his rented house in Vytilla on Saturday following a tip off by the ward councillor, sources said. According to health officials, the man went to his native place in Theni to meet relatives and got stranded there following the lockdown. He managed to board the vehicle carrying vegetables from Theni and alighted at Vytilla around 3am on Saturday. Sources said the houseowner had initially refused to admit that the Theni native reached his house. Following strenuous efforts by health officials, he admitted to the man being there. Officials then took the Theni native to Aluva district hospital for swab collection and later shifted to him to the isolation facility in Puthiyakavu. Four family members and house owner have been placed under home quarantine, sources said. Meanwhile, the Rural police on Saturday arrested two gangs of goons who violated lockdown and took to the streets. Eight people were arrested for attacking members of the rival gangs. Police said the case pertains to a clash between the gangs of one Anil Pazhukkamuttom and that of a gang of one Subash. Anil along with two others attacked five of the accused including, Subhash, Prashant, Alvin, Rajan, Eldhose. In retaliation, Subash and gang attacked Anil’s house on Friday night. In the retaliatory attack, Anil’s mother, Kunjumol sustained injuries. Anil and friends had attacked the others at Kannyatnirap and had injured a few. Police arrested all the accused and presented them before a magistrate who remanded them in judicial custody. Meanwhile, the Rural police on Sunday registered 138 cases for lockdown violation, arrested 114 people and seized 68 vehicles. As many as 57 people were booked for venturing out without wearing masks, police said. Meanwhile, the Angamaly excise seized and destroyed 200 litres of wash. Sleuths said the wash was stored in a barrel at a deserted compound at Thekke Attara in Mookkannoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-officials-nab-man-who-entered-dist-from-tn/articleshow/75394794.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha admin, Rotary set up ideal vegetable market||Wardha: In the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic, can a vegetable market be a safe place where all norms of social distancing are adhered to? Well, yes. Wardha district administration and Rotary Club Gandhi City has set up such an ideal vegetable market. So much so, even the Prime Minister Office (PMO) has taken note of the ideal market and posted a video of it on its Facebook page urging the people of the metropolitan cities to follow the example set by Wardha market. To avoid the crowd , the main vegetable market of Bajaj Square was shifted to 15 different places. Still the rush could not be controlled. Municipal council and sub-divisional officers then put forward an idea before Rotary Club members that they want to make a safe vegetable market where they could control the crowd and follow social distancing norms. District administration provided Kesarimal Kanya School ground for the purpose. Rotary Club made the plan to build the market, provided manpower and gave material. Municipal council took the responsibility of allotment of stalls and cleanliness. Rotary Club set up all the stalls and kept sanitisers and chairs in front of every shop for the customer to sit in the shade. Police controlled the crowd and ensured everyone adopted a disciplined approach. In all, there are 80 vegetable and fruit shops at the venue. The Facebook post by PMO has boosted the confidence of district administration. Speaking to TOI, collector Vivek Bhimanwar said, “By posting the video, PMO praised our efforts to make Wardha district free from Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-admin-rotary-set-up-ideal-vegetable-market/articleshow/75396430.cms||Balwant Dhage
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Donors do ‘Gupt Daan’, offer rations to 400 families||Aurangabad: A group of 20 people have come ahead to offer ration kits to over 400 poor families with a condition of keeping their identity a secret. In times when publicity has become an integral part of the charity, the government were surprised by the kind gesture of the good samaritans, who believed in the ancient practice of ‘Gupt Daan’. “The group members said the age-old practice keeps dignity of beneficiary intact and offers the satisfaction of helping others at the same time,” said Parmeshwar Bulbule from the disaster management department on Sunday. The group which is led by a practicing medical professional has conveyed that they want to donate more rations. The kit includes wheat flour (10 kg), sugar (2 kg), groundnuts (1 kg), oil (2 litre), Cummin (100 gm), Custard (100 gm), mixed masala powder (200 gm), chilly powder (100 gm), turmeric powder (100 gm), salt (2 kg), rice (3 kg) and jaggery (1 kg). The entire kit has more number of items as compared to any other kits that the civic body has received so far. The beneficiary families, which have expectant mothers and children, are supplied with additional items in the form of crushed groundnut mixed with jaggery. "Such a mixture can avoid any deficiency of hemoglobin to a certain extent. Each kit is expected to last for a small to medium-sized family for up to one month,” authorities said. The target beneficiaries are identified with the help of people living in nearby areas. “So far, over 400 families belonging to different caste and creed have been benefited from the ration kits supplied by the group of anonymous donors," authorities added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/donors-do-gupt-daan-offer-rations-to-400-families/articleshow/75395729.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala cops, fire department deliver medicines to over 3,000 people||KOCHI: ADGP Tomin J Thachankary on Sunday urged people to make use of Prashanti, the exclusive helpline to assist the elderly. Thachankary, who is the nodal officer for coordinating the medicine distribution system, said the state police and fire force are jointly able to deliver essential medicines to over 3,000 persons during the lockdown. Speaking at a press meet, he said that the Prashanti numbers 9497900035 and 9497900045 can be dialled by anyone who wishes to provide any kinds of assistance to those above the age of 60. The number launched on Saturday has received around 30 calls till Sunday noon. “The elderly can approach us for any sort of assistance they need. For instance, we got a call from Vellayambalam where a man wanted to get rid of a snake. We made arrangements for that. A man from Kannur called requesting to get some Marma Thailam. That was also arranged. In another case, the son of an elderly lady who stays alone called us from Qatar seeking help as she was distressed over being alone. We sent a few lady officers to keep her company for a while. Likewise, any request can be forwarded to these numbers,” said Thachankary. He added that the police and fire force are making all efforts to ensure that people get necessary medicines. “We are undertaking the transportation of medicines within districts, district to district and even that of essential medicines that require inter-state transportation. Fire force can be contacted at 101 for arranging medicine. Toll-free number 112 can also be contacted,” said Thachankary. He added that police are transporting medicine purchased and given to them, and are also making use of digital payment apps to receive money for purchasing medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-fire-dept-deliver-meds-to-over-3k-people/articleshow/75394781.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||500 RTC drivers roped in for ambulance services in Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: With unavailability of private drivers due to the lockdown, the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has engaged around 500 drivers in its Vizianagaram zone for ambulance services. The move came after additional ambulances were made available to help transport patients to hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. The Vizianagaram zone consists of four districts – Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari. “In Visakhapatnam district, around 150 RTC drivers have been helping in operating ambulances for the last few weeks to transport patients during lockdown,” said MY Danam, regional manager of APSRTC, Visakhapatnam. Danam further said that the government suggested the corporation to rope in their drivers due to their experience in driving large vehicles and safety measures they usually take in ferrying passengers. APSRTC Vizianagaram zone executive director C Ravi Kumar said that over 3,500 RTC employees like drivers and conductors have been engaged in Covid-19 services as well as staff in their depot goods transport vehicles, which are similar to railway parcel vans. “Recently, we use our depot goods transport vehicles to transport Anakapalli’s jaggery to Rajahmundry, Battili, and Eluru. The corporation is ready to extend such services to anyone requiring them for a reasonable service charge,” Ravi Kumar said. Meanwhile, RTA Visakhapatnam deputy transport commissioner GC Raja Ratnam said that every vehicle staff must carry hypochlorite disinfectant solution and frequently clean the interiors as a precautionary measure. “The vehicle management must also check the drivers, conductors, and cleaners for Covid-19 symptoms before allowing them to run the vehicle,” Raja Ratnam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/500-rtc-drivers-roped-in-for-ambulance-services/articleshow/75394786.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Schools shut, use them as quarantine centres: HMs||Nagpur: The Headmasters’ Association plans to approach authorities and offer school premises as quarantine centres to accommodate in view of the coronavirus outbreak. The association is a body of principals from private-aided schools who feel thus the vacant buildings can be put to use. Madhusudhan Mude, president of the association, said, “We receive our salaries from the government and in a way this can be considered our duty to offer not only our services but also the infrastructure in the hour of crisis. We will be writing to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in which it will be clearly mentioned that school principals are ready to contribute in whichever way possible.”These aided schools are those which are run by private management but receive financial grants from the state government. These grants are for both salary and non-salary purpose. In return, the schools are obligated to not charge fee from students for the sections which come under aided category. Mude said, “The lockdown started in the third week of March and since then our school buildings are lying vacant and we are aware schools will be the last thing to open even after the lockdown exit plan is put into action. Even the earliest that schools would start is July, though that seems unrealistic. Hence, it is best if government makes use of our school buildings as quarantine centres.” Mude said the association has hundreds of members spread over the district. “Easiest way to go about this would be for authorities to tell us which area and what capacity they require in the centre. Since not every school will have the same type of infrastructure, we can then match the requirements from among our members and offer them the choice,” said Mude.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-shut-use-them-as-quarantine-centres-hms/articleshow/75396427.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||9 community kitchens in dist feed over 1k||Kolhapur: As many as nine community kitchens in the district are providing meals four times a day to over 1,032 people. Prabhu Rao, a worker who was on his way to Rajasthan from Chennai, was stopped on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border near Kagal. “I was told not to travel further and advised to stay at the shelter home set up Shrimant Jaysingrao Ghatge High School in Kagal,” said Rao. A community kitchen has been set up to provide food to the inmates of the shelter home. Shilabai Rathod, another inmate, is quite satisfied with the quality of the food and other facilities provided at the shelter home. She was travelling from Kolhapur district to her native village in Karnataka when she was asked to stay at the shelter home. Anuja Herwade, who monitors the facilities in the shelter home and community kitchen, said that apart from the inmates, they also ensured proper facilities were provided to women and people with disabilities living in the nearby areas. District collector Daulat Desai said that the shelter homes set up at 16 different locations were providing accommodation to over 800 people, of which 165 were from Maharashtra and 665 from other states. All the people have been put under institutional quarantine in the shelter homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/9-community-kitchens-in-dist-feed-over-1k/articleshow/75396967.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||No relief likely for shopkeepers in Telangana despite Central government order||HYDERABAD: There is no relief in sight for shopkeepers, especially for those who have taken shops on rent to run small businesses in the city, as the state government is unlikely to allow them to open up despite the Central government’s order. On April 24, the Central government had allowed opening of all shops, including neighbourhood shops, standalone shops, shops in residential complexes within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities registered under the Shops and Establishment Act. Except shops in market complexes and multi-brand and single-brand malls, all other shops are allowed to run with 50% strength of workers with wearing of masks and mandatory social distancing. There are close to four lakh commercial properties in the city of which almost 90% are shops running small businesses. During the lockdown, most affected are those who have rented properties. Shopkeepers lament that without running their business for the last one-and-a-half months, how will they pay the rent? The state government has given some relief to tenants on residential properties and shopkeepers too are seeking a similar relief, for those who have rented shops. “We are facing problems in paying salaries to employees who work in our shop. Since the shop is closed, we don’t have any income source. The shop owner is also seeking rent which is impossible for us to pay at this moment,” said Akshay G, a shopkeeper who runs a bangles store at Ameerpet.  “I am maintaining a fabrication workshop at Jeedimetla village with the rent of Rs 60,000 per month. In this lockdown period, I am unable to pay total rent. Please issue a government order to take 50 per cent,” tweeted Bala Raju. When TOI contacted Lokesh Kumar, GHMC commissioner, he responded, “The government will take a decision on this. Usually after the cabinet meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-relief-likely-for-shopkeepers-in-state-despite-central-govt-order/articleshow/75396970.cms||Preeti Biswas
April 27, 2020||India||Indore variant may be deadlier, feel doctors||INDORE: The coronavirus rampaging through Indore may be of a more virulent strain than in the rest of Madhya Pradesh, which might be a reason for the high fatality rate in the city, feel authorities of MGM Medical College, which is at the forefront of battling the epidemic. The authorities have decided to send samples of the strain to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for comparison of its virulence. “Our doctors have been observing patients of Covid-19 infections and feel the strain is more virulent in Indore belt. So, more deaths have been reported here,” MGM College dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said. “So, we wanted a comparative study of the virus genome with other parts of the state. We have talked with NIV Pune officials and they are ready for this genome comparison,” she said. MGM College dean Dr Jyoti Bindal said other factors were also responsible for the high fatality rate in Indore, like low oxygen content in blood at the time of admission, patients turning up late at hospitals, and irreversible damage to lungs. “Viruses mutate very easily and can be more virulent than other forms. As Covid-19 is claiming more lives in Indore belt, we suspect the strain is deadly,” said MGM pulmonary medicine department’s HoD Dr Salil Bhargava, adding that it needs to be investigated. tnn The death of a Covid-19 infected person was also dependent on other factors, like comorbidities, he pointed out.In Indore, people with hypertension, diabetes, pneumonia, renal impairment and other co-morbidities figure among the mortalities. The district has so far reported 1,176 Covid-19 cases and 57 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indore-variant-may-be-deadlier-feel-doctors/articleshow/75397351.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||People using fake passes to face music||Kolhapur: City police have warned of strict action against vehicles that are found using fake passes provided by different government agencies for transport of essential commodities like grains and vegetables. In a recent incident, officials from Agriculture Procude Market Committee (APMC) found that some trucks were using photocopies of the passes allotted to other truck drivers for plying on the road. The drivers were warned by the officials against using the fake passes. Following the incident, police said those found using fake passes will be booked for violating the lockdown. "We have issued instructions to all police personnel to conduct surprise checks of vehicles that are plying on the road in the district and carrying essential commodities, including grains and vegetables, and ensure that they have original pass provided by the authorities concerned. If they come across any vehicle in the city without a valid pass, the vehicle will be seized and the driver will be booked," an officer attached with police headquarters said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/people-using-fake-passes-to-face-music/articleshow/75396979.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man tests positive, his father dead; but his wife, kids not tested||Ahmedabad: A railway employee, Naresh Patni, has claimed that despite the death of his father due to Covid-19 and with his mother battling for life after testing positive, the tests for the rest of his family members have not been performed. The Western Railway Employee's Union has once again sought intervention of the divisional railway manager (DRM) to help a railway employee. Naresh Patni said his residence in Patan ki chawl in Saraspur area was cluster-quarantined, and on April 22 his father tested positive and was referred to Civil Hospital. “My father Shankerbhai was on ventilator and on Saturday night he died. My mother Sakriben also tested positive is on ventilator in Civil Hospital.” Patni said, “Despite this, other members of my family including my wife and three kids have not been tested. Fearing that I can be positive, I went to Civil Hospital on my own and got my test done,” he said. Later on Sunday night he got a call from the hospital informing that he too had tested positive. Patni said that no corporation officials have come and taken samples of my family or even neighbours. He fears that his entire family will test positive as his parents and he have already tested positive. Sanjay Suryabali, divisional organizing secretary of WREU has again written to the DRM stating that the railways should do something for Patni and shift his mother to another Covid hospital. He said that the railways should also talk to the AMC officials and ensure that due care is taken for railway employees. He demanded that since the railways has tied up with Narayana Hospital Patni’s mother should be transferred there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-tests-positive-his-father-dead-but-his-wife-kids-not-tested/articleshow/75397073.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 27, 2020||Kochi||CBSE extends deadline for schools to apply for affiliation||KOCHI: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has extended the date for submission of application by schools for renewing affiliation for a second time in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The new deadline up to which the schools can apply for affiliation without late fee is June 30. The decision has been taken considering the prevailing coronavirus situation. This is a relief for CBSE schools in the state which are facing financial hurdles due to lockdown. The Kerala CBSE School Management Association and Council for CBSE Schools Kerala have been pushing CBSE for an extension in the deadline as it was impossible for the educational institutions to attend the office and resume the works with regard to the affiliation. Earlier, CBSE had fixed the deadline for applying as March 30, 2020, but after the Covid-19 pandemic hit India, the date was extended to April 30. But then the national lockdown was extended to May 3 and school offices were not allowed to function in most states. Considering this and the uncertainty of further extension of lockdown, CBSE rescheduled the date to June 30. CBSE made this announcement through a notice released on the official website cbse.nic.in. The notice said, “keeping in view the current Covid-19 situation, the competent authority of the Board, after due consideration, has accorded approval for extension of online submission of application for all categories further till 30.06.2020.” The notice stated that the schools whose application for affiliation / upgradation / extension are under process, are required to submit online clarification / compliance / documents to the Board within 30 days of communication. “The competent authority of the Board has also accorded approval for allowing the schools for online submission of compliances for affiliation under various categories till 30.06.2020,” the notice said. Meanwhile, CBSE is yet to announce the new dates of board exams which were postponed due to the pandemic. Also, it has not issued any direction whether schools should be allowed to collect the fees from students or start admission processes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbse-sets-june-30-as-new-deadline-for-schools-to-apply-for-affiliation/articleshow/75394799.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Traders in Laxmipuri told to keep orders for essentials ready in advance||Kolhapur: With the civic administration adopting a host of measures to prevent congestion in the Laxmipuri market area and with citizens paying no heed to social distancing norms, the KMC has now asked the traders in the market to make their contact numbers public and keep the ordesr for essentials ready in advance. A large number of citizens and owners of small shops in the rural areas flock to the Laxmipuri market located at the heart of the city. The market has many grain, sugar and spice shops. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We had asked the traders to decide on which odd or even date they want to keep their shops open. It has helped prevent congestion to some extent but that is not enough.” “I have asked the traders to make their contact numbers public and receive the orders on phone. Keeping the orders ready in advance and handing it over to the customers immediately when they come to the shop will help prevent congestion to a large extent. People move from one shop to another which makes it difficult for them to maintain social distancing,” said Kalshetti. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has warned to seize the goods of the shops which fail to abide by the odd-even formula. The traders claimed that the formula had compounded the problem of congestion as a large number of customers flocked to the shops which opened on any given day. The traders have demanded that the odd-even formula be called off and let all shops remain open.The traders claimed that allowing the vendors to sell vegetables on the main road aggravated the congestion problem. The KMC is finding an alternate space to shift the vendors. Kalshetti said that the vendors have been asked to maintain a distance of 30m from their counterparts to avoid congestion. However, hardly any vendor follows the rule. Kalshetti warned that the goods of the vendors too would be seized. “The traders know their regular customers to whom they can deliver the goods at their doorstep. Customers can register their contacts with the mobile application we have developed through which they can place their orders,” said the civic chief. To enable the customers or shop operators in the rural areas to get essentials, the civic body is planning to shift some of the traders to the entry points of the city. However, the onus is on the traders whether they want to accept such a proposal. The vendors, traders as well as shop operators have been asked to use reusable gloves and masks or else they will be fined.Meanwhile, Kalshetti has asked the sanitation staff to thoroughly clean and disinfect the main market centres in the city. The markets have remained closed ever since the lockdown was introduced to avoid congestion and prevent the chances of Covid-19 from spreading further. The markets will open only after the lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traders-in-laxmipuri-told-to-keep-orders-for-essentials-ready-in-advance/articleshow/75396973.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Builders worried about cement becoming unusable||KOCHI: As cement has been kept idle for more than a month contractors and home builders are worried their stocks would become unusable. Small scale contractors and people who are building their houses and properties say the cement they have stocked have already started to cake. Even cement vendors are concerned about the stock that has already become useless. "These bags were brought to the godown before the lockdown. It has turned into hard lumps. We will suffer huge loss if the manufactures do not take it back. There is also an issue of disposing damaged cement," said VD George, a Kochi-based contractor. He said the manufactures have not responded to requests for taking back damaged stock and providing compensation for vendors. In places where large quantities of cement have been stocked, the vendors seek government assistance to dispose it. Cement is not expected to last for more than three months without getting damaged. Kerala Government Contractor’s Association (KGCA) president Varghese Kannampilly said that the strength of cement starts to deteriorate by 20% within three months of its manufacturing, by six months 40% of the cement’s strength will be lost, by one year 40% of the strength is lost and by two years about 50% of its strength is lost. “Most cement vendors have opened shop on Saturday. We can undoubtedly say that the current stock at most places is more than three-months old. Moreover, the manufacturers have hiked the price. There is a hike of Rs 30 to Rs 50 per packet of cement. This price is applicable to the cement that is already stocked. The strength of this product has definitely deteriorated,” he said. The government has allowed to open cement shops on Monday, Wednesday and Saturday. With construction activities in private sector coming to a complete halt, the demand for cement has also come down. In the absence of trucks and labourers, there is hardly any work going on. Even when the construction of major infrastructure projects resumed, the non-availability of cement and steel have been pointed. Government officials associated with construction of Vyttila and Kundanoor flyovers have hinted at the shortage of raw materials. Meanwhile, industry experts pointed out that it will not be viable to reduce cement price below pre-lockdown levels as running factories at lower utilisation will also impact viability. Even though there has been considerable decline in demand, cement prices at certain pockets in the country have gone up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/builders-worried-about-cement-becoming-unusable/articleshow/75394813.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pet owners struggle to find food, vets amid lockdown in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Voona Kartikeya, owner of an eight-year-old dog with a medical condition, has been running from pillar to post to get vet-prescribed food. For many pet owners like Kartikeya in Visakhapatnam, the lockdown has posed a different set of problems. They are unable to take them out for walks, find dog and cat food or veterinarian service. This despite the central and state governements including pet food in essential commodities. Usha Rani, owner of a pug, is worried about her dog’s survival. “My dog hasn’t eaten for the past few days as his wet food used to be delivered everyday and it is not available now,” she said. “All pet stores in my area are closed and deliveries have been suspended,” she added. A few other owners, such as Renuka of MVP Colony, are having problems with walking their dogs. While the government has not announced anything particular about walking dogs outside, it is not encouraged given the lockdown. So while some have started to take their dogs out at dawn, others have limited themselves to terrace or car parks. But a few vets and pet shop owners, who are available, are braving the lockdown and helping pet owners. Speaking to TOI, Nihar Tripathi, owner of Om Sai Pet Nest shop in Muralinagar, said “Usually we used to visit four to five houses, in urgent cases, to supply food and medicine. Now the number has shot up to 15-18. We are also offering home services for grooming during the lockdown”. “I attend to four to five cases, strictly on appointment basis, regularly. Especially if they are related to tick-borne fevers, diarrhoea, skin allergies, ear and eye infections through I/V fluids, antibiotics, allergies and emergency surgeries,” said Dr N Sridhar, owner of Paws N Tails pet clinic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pet-owners-struggle-to-find-food-vets-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75394801.cms||Reshma Jain
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||AKTU colleges seek loan to pay salaries||LUCKNOW: Around 150 private engineering and management colleges affiliated to APJ Kalam Technical University on Sunday demanded loan from the varsity to pay salaries to teaching and non-teaching employees. Representatives of private colleges told AKTU officials at a meeting they are running out of funds with students not paying fees due to the lockdown. Also, the social welfare department hasn’t paid scholarship money. “We paid March and April salaries to employees. However, we will not be in a position to pay salaries in coming months as students cannot be forced to pay fee during the lockdown. Also, the admission process cannot be started unless lockdown is lifted nationwide as candidates from across India appear for the entrance test,” said a representative of a private college. “Seeking loan either from the government or the university is the only option,” he added. AKTU spokesman Ashish Mishra said, “Since AKTU cannot give loans, we have asked affiliated colleges to give a representation and pursue government for funds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aktu-colleges-seek-loan-to-pay-salaries/articleshow/75396982.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 cases rise but still no pvt lab okayed in Vid for tests||Nagpur: Even after 230-plus Covid-19 cases have been detected in the region, testing in private labs is still not allowed in Vidarbha.Total 19 private laboratories in Maharashtra are allowed to conduct the Covid-19 tests and all of them are in Pune and Mumbai. Even franchisees of Mumbai-Pune based labs in Vidarbha are not allowed to collect samples directly. Due to this, many people in Vidarbha who are ready to pay for the Covid-19 tests cannot get themselves screened.“If the patient is hospitalized in private hospital for non-Covid illness, but treating doctors suspect the patient is showing coronavirus symptoms, they may refer such cases for tests. We are allowed to collect samples of such patients only,” said Vikrant Pawar, regional manager of Metropolis Health Services India Ltd. Metropolis has collection centres in Nagpur, but tests are conducted in Mumbai. “Many residents approach us and ask whether they can get themselves tested, but we are helpless. As per rules, we can collect samples of only hospitalized patients,” Pawar added. Due to this, hundreds of asymptomatic carriers are not getting tested. Metropolis lab has written to district health officer proposing to conduct 5,000 tests of BPL patients for free and charge only government price of Rs4,500 from other patients in case they are given permission in Nagpur. Collection centres have to deport swab samples to Mumbai by freight trains. Result takes 48 hours. If the result comes positive, authorities immediately shift the patient from private hospital to government Covid-19 facility. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) vacates and sanitizes entire hospital where patient was admitted. Due to this threat, many private hospitals don’t refer patients for Covid-19 test. Chances are that a considerable number of patients must be getting unreported due to this. Clinicare Speciality Lab in Jasleen Hospital in Dhantoli also has permission to collect swab samples, but they are also facing same issues. “I request people not to visit Jasleen Hospital because we can’t collect your swab samples here. We are allowed to collect samples of patients referred by doctors only. We also need Aadhaar card and other documents of the patient,” said Dr Rajkumar Rathi, director of this lab.Health department officials claimed there are many government labs available in the region and people eager to get themselves tested can visit there. “At this point of time, we are following ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines for tests. Apart from close and high risk contacts of existing positive patients, we are testing only those who have pneumonia, respiratory and lung disorders. Anyone having mere cough and cold cannot be tested. We have limited resources,” said a senior official.In Mumbai and Pune, private labs are allowed to conduct tests of all those who approach them with doctor’s prescription. Swabs can be collected from their homes too. There is no need for people to wait in hospital or lab until result arrives. Due to this, many asymptomatic carriers have been traced in these cities. Blatant DiscriminationIn Maharashtra, 19 private labs can conduct Covid-19 tests. All these are in Pune and Mumbai only Many city labs have applied for testing facility, but still awaiting approvalsWith increasing number of Covid-19 cases, many Nagpurians want to get themselves checkedMany of them are ready to pay for it, but lab facility is not availableLocal collection centres of some of the 19 approved labs are in NagpurBut, residents are not allowed to visit these centres directly and submit samplesThese centres have to collect samples of patients hospitalized in private facilities in city Not a single pvt lab approved in Vidarbha; many restrictions even on swab collectionNagpur Even after 230-plus covid-19 cases, testing in private labs is still not allowed in Vidarbha. Total 19 private laboratories in Maharashtra are allowed to conduct covid-19 tests and all of them are in Pune and Mumbai. Even franchisees of Mumbai-Pune based labs in Vidarbha are not allowed to collect samples directly. Due to this, many people ready to pay for Covid-19 tests in Vidarbha cannot test themselves.“If the patient is hospitalized in private hospital for non-covid illness but treating doctors feel that the patient is showing symptoms of Covid-19, they may refer such patients for tests. We are allowed to collect samples of such patients only,” said Vikrant Pawar, regional manager of Metropolis Health Services India Ltd. They have collection centers in Nagpur and tests are conducted in Mumbai. “Many residents approach us and ask whether they can get themselves tested, but we are helpless. We can collect samples of only hospitalized patients as per rules,” Pawar added. Due to this, hundreds of asymptomatic carriers are not getting tested. Metropolis lab has written District Health Officer that they will conduct 5,000 tests of BPL patients for free and charge only government price of Rs 4500 from other patients in case they are given permission in Nagpur. Collection centers have to deport swab samples to Mumbai by freight trains. Result takes 48 hours. If the result comes positive, authorities immediately shift the patient from private hospital to government covid-19 facility. NMC vacates and sanitizes entire hospital where patient was admitted. Due to this threat, many private hospitals don’t refer patients for Covid-19 test. Chances are that a considerable number of patients must be getting unreported due to this. Clinicare Specialty Lab in Jasleen Hospital (Dhantoli) also has permission to collect swab samples, but they are also facing same issues. “I request people not to visit Jasleen hospital because we can’t collect your swab samples here. We are allowed to collect samples of patients referred by doctors only. We also need Aadhaar card and other documents of the patient,” said Dr Rajkumar Rathi, director of this lab. Health Department officials claimed that there are many government labs available in region and people are eager to get themselves tested can visit there. “At this point of time, we are following ICMR guidelines for tests. Apart from close and high risk contacts of existing positive patients, we are testing only those who have pneumonia, respiratory disorders and lung disorders. Anyone having mere cough and cold cannot be tested. We have limited resources,” said a senior official.In Mumbai and Pune, private labs are allowed to conduct tests of all those who approach them with doctors’ prescription. Swabs can be collected from their homes too. There is no need for people to wait in hospital or lab until result arrives. Due to this, many asymptomatic carriers have been traced in these cities. No tests in pvt labIn Maharashtra, 19 private labs can conduct Covid-19 tests All these labs are in Pune and Mumbai only Many city labs have applied for testing facility but still waiting for approvals With increasing number of covid-19 cases, many Nagpurians want to get themselves checked Many of them are ready to pay for it, but lab facility is not available Local collection centers of some of the 19 approved labs are there in NagpurBut, residents are not allowed to visit these centers directly and submit samples These centers have to collect samples of patients hospitalized in private facilities in city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-rise-but-still-no-pvt-lab-okayed-in-vid-for-tests/articleshow/75396443.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 27, 2020||Agra||4th JNMC health worker tests positive among five in Aligarh||Agra: A health worker of AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) was among the five people who tested positive for novel coronavirus in Aligarh on Sunday. He was the fourth health worker to test positive on the fourth consecutive day. Earlier, three doctors had tested positive.Confirming this, chief development officer (CDO) Anunaya Jha, who is also the nodal officer of the health infrastructure and development, said five people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally in the district to 16, including one death. Giving details about the patients, Jha told TOI that a couple -- a 40-year-old woman and her husband, 42, who tested positive, are relatives of a person who died due to Covid infection. The other three comprise a 34-year-old lab technician of JNMC, his 40-year-old brother and a 34-year-old man. He said their contacts are being traced and all of them will be quarantined. However, AMU administration denied that any worker of JNMC had tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. AMU’s spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said that this information was incorrect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4th-jnmc-health-worker-tests-positive-among-five-in-aligarh/articleshow/75395743.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Tech helps students of Chhota Udepur village to continue studies during lockdown||Vadodara: Ajay Rathwa, a student of Class V at Potiya village in Chhota Udepur, spends his day helping his mother or playing around due to lockdown. But as clock strikes 5 every evening, Ajay takes his father’s phone and talks to his school principal for his daily lesson.Even as the state government has mass promoted students up to Class IX and of Class XI, around 40 students of Potiya village’s primary school are enthusiastic to churn their brains in lockdown.School principal Mukesh Upadhyay took up the task of conducting online classes through WhatsApp video calls so that students do not forget their lessons. “A week into the lockdown, I thought of conducting classes and by then the government too appealed to conduct online classes,” said Upadhyay. He added that there was a parents’ group and once it gave its consent for online classes, they were immediately started.“There is an attachment with students as well as their parents because I have been teaching in this village for last 25 years. Before I started the classes, they used to contact me asking me about my well-being and I used to pass on the dos and don’ts about the lockdown,” Upadhyay said. “I have only been revising what the students have learned in past one year and even conducting their oral tests. Some time I ask parents to write a few questions for the students and send me a video of it,” he added. So far, Upadhyay has covered subjects like mathematics, English and Gujarati.“The lockdown will end next month, but there is still time for schools to reopen so until then children will continue learning and remain busy,” Upadhyay told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tech-helps-students-of-chhota-udepur-village-to-continue-studies-during-lockdown/articleshow/75394834.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Traders fume as CM gives no order on opening of shops||Kolhapur: Shops selling non-essential goods will continue to remain closed as the state government has not issued any notification with regard to implementing the Centre’s order of reopening shops.On Friday night, the Centre had issued an order stating that shops could reopen and some state governments had started implementing that order. However, later the Centre had to issue many clarifications one of which was that the decision to reopen shops rested with the state governments depending on the status of Covid-19 cases. The traders were expecting that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would make some announcement during his special address to the state on Sunday afternoon. However, Thackeray did not give any such order and hinted that he would speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conference on Monday. it is likely that the decision to allow shops to reopen will be taken thereafter. Ajit Kothari, director of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries and president of Electricals Association of Kolhapur said, “The notifications and orders issued earlier are vague. For instance, the governments has allowed shops selling fans to reopen. You can hardly find a shop exclusively selling fans. Other electrical appliances are also sold in the electrical shops.”“We have decided to remain united. No one will open the shop until and unless clear directions are issued by the government and the district administration. We are ready to make all possible arrangements to ensure social distancing,” said Kothari. The traders are demanding that the shops be re-opend as the closure of shops was affecting people in other professions, like tea-sellers and autorickshaw drivers, who do not have enough money to sustain. They further claimed that even the industries which have been given permission for production would need electrical equipment to start operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traders-fume-as-cm-gives-no-order-on-opening-of-shops/articleshow/75396985.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Festive occasions bring no cheer to automobile dealers||Panaji: Ever since the lockdown has been imposed, vehicle sales have taken a downturn. Automobile dealers hope for a revival in their sagging business during the Chaturthi season as two of the festive occasions -- Gudi Padwa and Akshay Trithiya – failed to garner expected sales in view of Covid-19. Normally, people buy vehicles during such festive occasions. “We lost two good holidays this year,” said president of Goa automobile dealers association, Prashant Joshi. “Every business will have to turn things around. But, things may start looking up only in August, may be during Chaturthi,” he said. In the face of the pandemic, people in Goa have been largely dependent on their personal vehicles to move around. With the new guidelines stipulating limitations on the number of people travelling in a car, dealerships expect a surge in sales. “They may purchase smaller cars or two-wheelers because people may find it safer in their own vehicles instead of public transport,” Joshi said. But some orders are still trickling in. The registration of new vehicles during this time has been minimal. None of the ordered vehicles have been delivered yet owing to the lockdown restrictions. “There are some orders online but the numbers are very limited. From getting ten orders a day, it’s come down to just one order every two days,” Joshi said. Some automobile dealers are concerned over their stock of BS-IV vehicles which have remained largely unsold due to the lockdown. Some are even contemplating restructuring their marketing strategy to attract customers once the lockdown is lifted. “Our priority is to win the confidence of customers again,” said managing director of Counto Motors, Aakash Khaunte. RTO officials said that with fewer registrations taking place during Gudi Padwa and Akshay Trithiya, there would be a major drop in revenue. The staff strength at the RTO is minimal during the lockdown with only skeletal staff attending duties. The exact figures of the total number of registrations done during this period and the revenue can only be ascertained once lockdown is lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/festive-occasions-bring-no-cheer-to-automobile-dealers/articleshow/75397002.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Delhi||10-month-old undergoes liver transplant at Delhi's hospital||New Delhi: A 10-month-old baby suffering from rare liver disease called biliary atresia recently underwent a successful transplant at Delhi’s Apollo hospital. Baby Noor, from Malaysia, developed jaundice a few days after birth, which progressively increased and led to liver failure. When she reached India, a doctor said, the baby had a bloated belly and growth failure, and liver transplant was the only option to save her. She reached Delhi on March 12 and the transplant was to take place immediately. However, due to the Covid-19 crisis, Noor had to be put under quarantine for 14 days as Malaysia was put on the restriction list by the Centre a day after she reached India. Dr Neerav Goyal, senior consultant and head of the Apollo liver transplant, hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery unit, said, “It was an ethical dilemma for the doctors and nurses as we were not hopeful that Baby Noor could survive so long without immediate treatment. But the family was put in quarantine after which the liver transplant was planned.” During this period, Noor developed a rhythm disturbance with a very slow heart rate, which necessitated implanting a temporary pacemaker. Once her condition stabilised, the transplant was carried out on March 31. “Baby Noor’s tests confirmed she did not suffer from Covid-19. But we took all necessary precautions, including wearing PPE, while operating on her. The child’s mother donated part of her liver for the transplant,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director of Apollo Hospitals. What made the transplant more complicated was the fact that the liver lied in the middle of the abdomen rather than the right side of the body, he pointed out. “We had to be very careful in terms of placing the new liver to ensure that proper blood supply is maintained,” said Dr Sibal, a paediatric gastroenterologist. “Noor then had a bilirubin level of about 45mg/dl as against a normal of less than one. Her weight was only 6.5kg at the age of nine months,” said Dr Smita Malhotra, a consultant paediatric gastroenterologist. “Baby Noor is doing well now and her vital stats are under control. She has been discharged and awaits her return to Malaysia,” a doctor said. Starting with the first successful liver transplantation in India in 1998, the Apollo liver transplant programme has now performed more than 3,500 liver transplants, including 361 on children. “Our extensive experience in liver transplantation helped us conduct an uneventful liver transplant in a very complicated situation,” Dr Sibal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-month-old-undergoes-liver-transplant/articleshow/75417104.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala to allow return of Kodagu farmers||KOZHIKODE: The state government has decided to allow Keralites stranded in ginger and plantain farms of Kodagu, Karnataka, to return to Wayanad on a case-by-case basis.Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdulla said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, during a video conference on Sunday, directed to allow the stranded farmers in. On return, they would be quarantined in Wayanad’s Covid Care Centres. Those wishing to return should mail their details to coronapasswayanad@gmail.com Wayanad district police chief R Ilango said others stranded in Chamrajanagar, Gundlupet and Mysuru farms, too, would be considered on a case-by-case basis. Hundreds of ginger farmers, who took up farming on leased land in Karnataka, have been in distress following the Covid-19 lockdown. Farmers said even staying in makeshift tents has become difficult and a section of local people have been asking them to leave. Ginger growers’ association appealed to the chief minister to intervene and ensure their safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-to-allow-return-of-kodagu-farmers/articleshow/75394824.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Kochi cops, actors come up with ‘Ten Commandments’||KOCHI: City police have started a Facebook campaign titled ‘Ten Commandments for Kochi’ to create awareness among the public about a change in lifestyle they need to adopt in the coming days. The campaign features video message from actors through the social media pages of city commissionerate. DCP G Poonguzhali said the campaign is for everyone. "We will be revealing what the commandments are through videos which will be released subsequently. A new celebrity will convey a message in each video," she said. The first video, released on Friday, featured actor Tovino Thomas and DIG S Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar. ‘Follow the instructions’ was the commandment shared by Tovino. "The clever, learn lessons from the mistakes committed by others instead of waiting to make their own. We now see many countries suffer because they failed to take Covid19 seriously in the beginning. So, to fight this, we should follow the instructions given by the government and police," he said in the message. DIG (Ernakulam) Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar thanked the public for supporting the police. "Our next mission is ensuring that the district is fully in the safe zone. You are the ones who are supposed to lead this battle from the front," he said in the video. Actors Jayasurya, Kunchacko Boban, Mamta Mohandas, Anu Sithara, Murali Gopy, Suraj Venjaramoodu, Prayaga Martin, Sijoy Varghese, and Mia George too are part of the video campaign. The videos end with a narration by actor Mohanlal. Videos by Gopy, Martin and Sithara were released by the police over the weekend. Gopy explained the commandment: Wear Masks when you are going out. The idea – ‘Don’t be a guest or host,’ – was explained by Sithara in her police campaign video. Apart from DIG Kaliraj, DCP Poonguzhali also appeared in the videos. The campaign by the city police was fulfilled in association with Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited, Pepper Awards Trust and Indian AdFilm Makers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-actors-come-up-with-ten-commandments/articleshow/75394852.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Pipeline damaged, A, C and D wards to face water cuts||Kolhapur: Residents of A,C & D wards will face water cuts on Tuesday as the valve of the main pipeline at the Balinga pumping station was damaged, resulting in huge loss of water. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said that it will shut the operations of the pumping station on Tuesday owing to the repair work, due to which some parts of the city may face water cuts. The water supply will be resumed at low pressure on Wednesday. A public notice issued for water cuts stated, “The valve of rising main pipeline attached to one of the pumps of the Balinga pumping station is reported to be damaged. The repair work will be undertaken on Tuesday. The pumping station needs to be shut for a day. The work will be complete din a day, however, the supply will be at low pressure on Wednesday." It is for the first time since the lockdown was imposed that the residents will face water shortage. The localities from A,C and D wards and some areas from the suburbs will not receive water for a day. The areas which will face water cut include Lakshatirth Vasahat, Kanerkar Nagar, Phulewadi ring road, Sane Guruji Vasahat, Shivaji University from A ward and Mahalaxmi temple, Mangalwar Peth, Bindu Chowk, Mirajkar Tikti from C and D wards. A senior official of hydraulics department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Considering the lockdown, we have ensured regular water supply for the last one month. However, this leakage to the valve is a major one. We have to stop the supply to carry out the repair work. To ensure that residents do not face water shortage, tankers will be deployed on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. We appeal to the citizens of A, C and D wards to save and store enough water for two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pipeline-damaged-a-c-and-d-wards-to-face-water-cuts/articleshow/75396989.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||IMA doctors offer free consultation over phone||Aurangabad: A group of 12 city-based doctors have come together under the banner of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and started providing free consultation over phone for an hour every day. These doctors are also offering their services at the fever clinics being run by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) at 6 locations across the city. Due to the ongoing lockdown people have been requested to remain indoors and step out only if it is necessary. Subsequently, the non-emergency patients with different ailments have also been appealed to avoid coming to the hospital. The AMC had made an appeal to the private medical practitioners in the city to offer telephonic consultation to people during the lockdown. IMA Aurangabad president Santosh Ranjalkar said responding to the call made by the civic body, 12 doctors have volunteered to help. Earlier, the AMC had tried to take help of a software to offer telephonic assistance but Ranjalkar said after going through the presentation of the representative of the software provider it came to fore that only selected people can benefit from it. "Due to this the IMA is sticking to providing assistance over the phone for now," he said. The doctors, who are available for consultation from 11 am to 12 pm every day, are physician Anant Kulkarni (9422205705), general surgeon Kedar Sane (9518531151), heart specialist Ashish Deshpande (9850065964), gynaecologist Aparna Raul (9422212011), brain specialist Anand Dank (7028118747), diabetes specialist Ajay Rotte (9890173623), heart surgeon Yogesh Belapurkar (9371137725), paediatrician Kedar Sawaleshwarkar (9372007090), dermatologist Asawari Takalkar (9503393599), orthopaedic surgeon Maroti Lingayat (9422186315), dentist Chapalgaonkar (9822435513) and kidney specialist Sharad Somani (8390236100). "These doctors are also providing their services free of cost at fever clinics to screen patients for Covid-19 at Kanchanwadi, Garkheda, Cidco N-2 Community Hall, TV Centre-M-2, IMA Hall near Shani Mandir and Badhkal Gate," Ranjalkar said. The doctors providing services free at these fever clinics were provided with 1,500 face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ima-doctors-offer-free-consultation-over-phone/articleshow/75395792.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown within lockdown: The day the city stood still||Coimbatore: The four-day long total lockdown that kicked in on Sunday in major cities of the state left people indoors with a mixed feeling of uncertainty and hope.The lockdown within lockdown was complete in Coimbatore corporation limits with no vehicles visible on any arterial roads for hours together. Police had intensified patrolling and put in place 34 checkpoints, apart from deploying personnel across the city to enforce the lockdown.All arterial stretches such as Avinashi Road, Trichy Road, Mettupalayam road, Pollachi and Sathymanangalam highway were empty. Cases were booked against 30 people for violating the curfew. “By and large there was total adherence to the lockdown,” police commissioner Sumit Sharan said.Volunteers and members of NGOs were, however, allowed to go around distributing food to the needy and destitute. “The curfew and curbs are worrying. I hope all this helps in eradicating the disease,” said 75-year-old Palaniammal, who was seen walking all the way from Poochiyur to NGGO colony to her daughter’s house on Sunday, a distance of 5km. In Tirupur too, the only vehicles plying on roads were those of police, health workers and volunteers. About 50 two-wheelers were seized in the city. Besides keeping vigil from 40 odd checkpoints, the police administration had deployed drones to keep an eye on people.In Salem, where the lockdown kickstarted from Saturday morning, several residents rued that they could not stock essentials. “The lockdown for Salem started from Saturday morning. By the time it was announced, all shops were closed. So we couldn’t stock essentials,’’ said Nirmala Selvam, from Ammapet. In many areas, supply of milk or vegetables was found inadequate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-within-lockdown-the-day-the-city-stood-still/articleshow/75396451.cms||Mayilvaganan
April 27, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru no longer in the danger zone: DC||Mysuru: After weeks of tension due to the Covid-19 cluster case from here, the worst from the Nanjangud pharmaceutical plant episode could well be over. DC Abhiram G Sankar said that Mysuru is no longer in the danger zone as the rate of the spread of the virus has come down. Though Mysuru could still report some more Covid-19 cases, they won’t be in large numbers. This is primarily because the cluster case in Nanjangud has been contained and the number of patients have come down, he said. While all the samples of employees of the pharmaceutical plant have been tested, samples of primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases have also been collected, and majority of the results have tested negative for the novel coronavirus, which has helped the authorities to conclude that the worst could be over for Mysuru. Mysuru had 89 Covid-19 patients, but there are only 51 active cases now, and 38 patients have been discharged. As a precautionary measure, the district administration has kept 100 beds ready at ESI Hospital, which is located close to the covid hospital on KRS Road, where low-risk Covid-19 cases will be treated. The district administration is also planning to ramp up the testing infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-no-longer-in-the-danger-zone-dc/articleshow/75394044.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||Cyber crooks play on corona pandemic panic||LUCKNOW: Exploiting pandemic-triggered insecurities among citizens and cashing in on surge in online transactions in time of lockdown, cyber crooks in the city are making merry and laughing all the way to the bank. It was double trouble for Alok Kumar, an event manager and Indiranagar resident, after he was duped of Rs 10,000 by a fly-by-night website. Kumar booked N95 masks and sanitisers for his troupe early this month from a snazzy website, offering covid-19 solutions. However, after two days of transaction, the website was withdrawn by conmen after making fast buck. Similarly, a teacher residing in Gomtinagar, was defrauded of Rs 15,000 by a caller, who introduced himself as World Health Organisation (WHO) official and promised to deliver PPE kits and medical check-up at the doorstep. The teacher had suffered a panic attack after an area in close proximity was declared a hotspot. She fell to sweet-talking of the caller and placed an order for 10 PPE kits extra and later realised she had been scammed. ‘Corona-conning’ cases account for 65% cyber frauds reported in one month since the lockdown was clamped, with total cases at cyber cell of Lucknow Police pegged at 66. While other kinds of cybercrime, including phuishing and vishing has dipped, scamsters are now making the most of covid-19 scare by duping gullible. A cyber cell senior officer said, people are being scammed not only on the pretext of selling protective gears like masks, PPE kits and sanitisers at cheap rates on fake websites, but also in the name of covid-19 medicine. In most cases, scamsters pose as WHO or hospital officials, besides floating fake websites, he said. Another category of fraud, he said, was circulation of fake messages seeking donations to battle coronavirus with a tax-saving rider. “At least 13 people were duped in the name of selling masks and PPE kits, 13 others were scammed by claims of covid-19 medicines,” said Vivek Ranjan Rai, assistant commissioner of police, cyber cell. Rai said, preliminary investigations suggest of 66 cases, 40 conmen had links with the infamous Jamtara district of Jharkhand, while 12 had links to NCR region and remaining 14 from other parts of India, including Surat, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. “After the lockdown ends, a team will be dispatched to bust the Jamtara gang,” he said. “We had issued fraud prevention advisory against coronavirus-related scams, but more awareness needs to be created,” said the ACP. He also said few days ago, the cyber cell took note of fake websites offering key positions with an aim to con those who lost jobs after the onset of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cyber-crooks-play-on-corona-pandemic-panic/articleshow/75397012.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Agra||BJP mayor appeals to UP CM to ‘save Agra from becoming Wuhan’, Priyanka tweets support||AGRA: Days after the Centre hailed the “Agra model” of containment of Covid-19 spread, Agra’s BJP mayor Naveen Jain has appealed to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to “save” the city of Taj from “becoming a Wuhan” even as the cases neared the 400-mark. In a letter written to the CM on April 21, Jain lashed at the district administration for its failure to check the rising number of cases. On Sunday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted support for Jain and cited his letter. She emphasised that transparency and testing were important to contain coronavirus. Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, "The situation in Agra city is bad and the number of coronavirus patients is going up every day. The mayor of Agra says that if the right arrangements are not made, the matter can go out of hand.” In his letter, the mayor had said, “Testing of people at quarantine centres does not take place for days together. Patients suffering from renal problems and other diseases have been dying as there is no arrangement for their treatment. The situation is very serious.” “Nursing homes are not ready to admit expectant mothers. Family members of Covid-19 patients are forced to wait for many days to get tested. People of Agra are in a state of panic,” Jain told TOI. Jain alleged the Agra chief medical officer has not been able to manage affairs at the district hospital. “Senior officials are not coming out of their houses. They come out for only 15-20 minutes to get their photographs clicked so that records can be maintained,” he wrote. “Due to the inefficiency of the officials, people are cursing the BJP government and public representatives. There is a lot of anger among the common people,” he added. When asked, Agra’s BJP MP SP Singh Baghel said, "To better manage the situation, the state government has to send a nodal officer in Agra. The efforts of the district administration to serve the citizens under the lockdown have improved in the last 2-3 days. I am regularly pursuing public issues with the local authorities.” However, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that it was due to efforts of the district administration to implement the lockdown with a firm hand that a disastrous situation was averted. “A scientific analysis of data by the district health department suggests that we have managed to significantly reduce the spread of coronavirus. In case there was no lockdown, there would have been at least 5,120 Covid-19 cases in the district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-mayor-appeals-to-up-cm-to-save-agra-from-becoming-wuhan-priyanka-tweets-support/articleshow/75395791.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||29 days into lockdown. Community kitchens starved of resources & support, seek subsidized grains from govt||Nagpur: The extended lockdown has raised serious challenges for authorities as well as NGOs providing food and other services to the needy. Several NGOs and trusts operating community kitchens and providing food to over 30,000 needy persons, including migrant labourers, have stopped the service because of lack of cooperation from authorities, and their own resources drying up after 29 days of service. Many others will follow as they can hardly sustain for 3 or 4 more days. Jasmeet Singh Bhatia, president of Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar, said, “Our gurdwara was feeding around 22,000 people with an expense of Rs1.25 lakh daily. We began providing nutritious food to poor and homeless from second day of lockdown. All the expenses were taken care of by donations from all communities. Now, we are short of resources. Neither government is acknowledging us nor are we getting any grant or support from them. Forget support, even after several requests, they didn’t even send a team to sanitize the place where around 200 sevadaars were working.” Honey Bhandari, member of the darbar, said, “Last week, many organizations had a meeting with district collector Ravindra Thakare regarding the problems community kitchens, individuals and trusts were facing. He was very positive and assured us all possible help, but no efforts have been taken yet.” Ram Joshi, additional municipal commissioner, clarified the issues to TOI. He said, “The collector has made ration available to such organizations through FCI and fair price shops as they are entitled for the benefit. These trusts can apply and procure food grains on subsidized rates. As far as sanitization issue is concerned, we have sufficient stock of sanitizers and public places are being disinfected every day. Had they informed, due arrangements definitely would’ve been made.” “Under the guidance of our president Dilip Singh Dhillon, we were providing food from our kitchen to almost 5,000 people every day, but now we are able to feed only 600-700 people. Wherever we were asked to provide assistance, we religiously delivered food twice a day till April 14. We got unprecedented support through donations from all communities, but we can’t continue asking for more,” said Balwinder Singh Jaggi, member of Gurdwara Guru Tej Bahadur Ji, Baba Budhaji Nagar. Anu Kale Chhabrani, a social activist, said, “There are around 1,800 families in Pardi and Bhandewadi who aren’t getting benefits of government scheme. We are providing them food and ration kits through our organization. If NGOs and individuals can work effectively, then why government bodies are lagging behind? It is only because of NGOs that these civic bodies are able to function efficiently. Even NMC kitchens are being run by NGOs and grains used to come through donations.” TOGETHER WE CAN, a group of over 100 organizations, sent a list of suggestions to Maharashtra CMO, raising concerns about the closing of community kitchens due to lack of funds. According to the list received from NMC, almost eight lakh people require food daily and to cater to such a big population, all government/NGOs require money and foodgrain support from the state. “We started distributing ration kits and cooked food from March 23. Initially, it was smooth but as time progressed we realized our resources would not last. So, we stopped distributing ration kits and continued distributing food boxes. We all would appreciate it if we could get ration at subsidized rates in coming days, or else it is going to be difficult to continue,” said Arshad Dalla, who is individually providing help to the needy. Joshi added, “I am not denying the fact that many organizations providing cooked food are running short of resources, and finances. A common appeal should be made to people, industries and offices for donations, be it financial or raw material. I urge people to come forward and help these NGOs. Recently, MOIL extended financial support to ISKCON for their operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/29-days-into-lockdown-community-kitchens-starved-of-resources-support-seek-subsidized-grains-from-govt/articleshow/75306504.cms||Vinay Pande
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||25 more SHGs roped in to produce face masks||COIMBATORE: The district administration has roped in another 25 Self Help Groups (SHGs) with technical expertise in stitching clothes to produce reusable cloth masks. Apart from catering to a high demand for such masks, the move also aims to provide employment opportunity to women during the lockdown period. A senior official from Tamil Nadu corporation for development of women said, “due to the absence of employment opportunities during the lockdown period, SHG members have been showing willingness to stitch cloth masks. Almost all blocks, except Sulur, have at least four such groups within their boundaries.” Mask requirement in a particular area can be fulfilled by SHGs in that region itself, he said.  In total, over 50 SHGs have produced over 3.5 lakh masks till date in the district, the official said, pointing out that only three to four groups are involved in producing non-woven masks. Depending upon the variety and quality of the masks, a piece is sold for Rs 10 to Rs 15. “All work under MGNREGA is expected to resume if the lockdown is lifted after May 3. Panchayat officials have placed bulk orders so as to distribute two masks per person. Similarly, we have also been planning to hold talks with the pharmacies association, traders’ association and shops to get orders from them,” he added. Pointing out that over 50% of the masks were sold to government departments including co-operative stores, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and local bodies, the official said that they have also been receiving bulk orders from companies and volunteers who want to distribute masks to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/25-more-shgs-roped-in-to-produce-face-masks/articleshow/75396459.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Agra||Agra: Covid-19 patient delivers healthy baby, third case in a week||AGRA: A 28-year-old Covid-19 patient gave birth to a healthy baby. Born out of lower (utrine) segment caesarean section (LSCS) operation on Sunday at Covid-19 facility of SN Medical College (SNMC), the child was handed over to the family members. This is the third case within a week. A resident of Bodla locality, the pregnant women was admitted to SN Medical College on Sunday morning. A team comprising junior resident doctor Yogita Gautam, Sana Ismail under the supervision of Dr Sangeeta Sahu conducted the operation and a baby girl was born. Earlier on April 20, a 24-year-old woman infected with Covid-19 had delivered a healthy baby. On April 25 also, a 25-year-old infected woman from Firozabad gave birth to a baby boy. Assistant nodal officer of the Covid-19 facility at SNMC Dr Akhil Pratap Singh said, “From April 20 to 26, we have successfully operated three pregnant Covid-19 patients. The babies born are healthy and have been separated from the mother to ensure they do not get infected. Families have been suitably directed to take care of the newborn.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-patient-delivers-healthy-baby-third-case-in-a-week/articleshow/75395797.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 28, 2020||Delhi||Masks, PPE kits must for cops on Covid duty in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the rise in number of cases of first responders getting infected by Covid-19, police commissioner S N Shrivastava interacted with all the 200 station house officers (SHOs) of Delhi through videoconferencing and asked them to take precautions while entering hospitals and containment zones. The commissioner has asked the frontline soldiers to mandatorily wear PPE kits and full face masks while on Covid-19 duty. They have also been asked to take precautions to ensure that they do not pass on the infection to their family members. “The SHOs will ensure that police stations where the frontline staff members return after their duty are kept clean. Each police station should have a wash basin and sanitisers kept outside the gates so that the cops can wash their hands before entering the station. A temperature gun should be there at every station to monitor the health of the personnel returning from the active duty,” Shrivastava said. Policemen who are on self-quarantine have been advised to increase their immunity through yoga and by using turmeric, garlic and tulsi. Now, the cops deployed at hospitals and containment zones will not return to the police station after finishing their Covid-19 duties, but stay at a separate facility. The top cop has suggested optimal resource deployment at the pickets. Keep an eye on Tablighi patients admitted in hospitals from a safe distance, he told the officers. The police officers have also been asked to come up with innovative ideas that can ensure safety of the frontline staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/masks-ppe-kits-must-for-cops-on-covid-duty/articleshow/75417144.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Green body conducts session on environmental issues||Coimbatore: Kovai Kulangal Pathukappu Amaippu, an environmental organization working to conserve water bodies in the district, organized a virtual knowledge sharing session on Sunday. The move is not just to keep the volunteers engaged during the lockdown period but also to enrich their knowledge about the environment, said the members. R Manikandan, KKPA organiser, said that during each session, an expert is invited to speak on environmental issues. There are over 40 participants per session, including people from Dindugal, Vellore and Salem, apart from Qatar and the US. N Sivaram, KKPA executive member said, “we had been carrying out weekly activities to preserve lakes, but since the lockdown, we have decided to conduct virtual sessions.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/green-body-conducts-session-on-environmental-issues/articleshow/75396457.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Private bus operators seek special aid package||KOCHI: Private bus operators in city wants the state government to provide them a special financial package to help them resume operations when the restrictions imposed as part of the lockdown gets lifted. Bus owners want the government to compensate the loss when the resume operations. Kochi Metro Transport Co-operative Society (KMTC) president T J Raju said as it is difficult for the government to provide tax exemptions due to severe financial crisis, steps must be initiated to hike bus fares. He said even when the lockdown gets lifted, we do not think the government will allow standee passengers or allow services to operators to fill all seats. That means bus owners will have to operate services with minimum occupancy and also meet all expenses related to operations and maintenance. Bus owners say that a bus which services 250km a day have to meet diesel expenses worth Rs 5,000. The owners have to pay a three-member crew Rs 2,500 per day. "The owners, who are also depended on these services for a living, do not even get Rs 8,000 per day. It is difficult for the operators to manage without making a profit of minimum Rs 1,000 per day" said Raju. Bus operators pointed out that out of 10,000 private buses operating in the state, more than 5,000 buses have filed Form G stating that these are stopping operations. Filing of Form G will save the operators from paying taxes and welfare fund during the period when these vehicles stop operations. "More and more bus operators are filing Form G. Unless an assistance is provided in the form a financial package we will not be able to resume operations. Government is also losing tax revenue," he added. Private Bus Operators Association (PBOA) Ernakulam district general secretary P B Suneer said if they have to operate services with limited number of passengers, then the government must step in to ensure supply of diesel at half the price and provide relaxations in road tax. Without the support of the government it will not be possible for the sector to restart bus operations. According to PBOA, the private bus operators said they stopped entire operations when the state government announced lockdown. "When reports of Covid-19 emerged and reporting of more number of cases began, the travelling public started to keep away from mass transport systems. By fag end of February, we have been experiencing considerable decrease in the number of passengers," added Suneer. He also pointed out that many operators were forced to stop services even before the government announced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/private-bus-operators-seek-special-aid-package/articleshow/75394868.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||No move to reduce retirement age of govt employees: Minister||NEW DELHI: Minister of state for personnel Jitendra Singh on Sunday refuted reports in a section of the media that the Centre was considering reducing the age of retirement of government employees to 50 years, saying that neither was there such a move nor had any discussion been undertaken at any level in the government on the issue. Singh sought to blame “certain motivated elements“ for planting such disinformation in a section of the media over the past few days and wrongly attributing it to government sources or department of personnel and training (DoPT). He said each time, a prompt rebuttal was made to clear the confusion in the minds of stakeholders. He said it was unfortunate that at a time when the country was going through a crisis on account of Covid-19, certain elements and vested interests were seeking to underplay all the good work done by the government by planting false stories. Last week, Singh pointed out, a fake news started doing the rounds that the government had decided to impose a 30% cut in pension and discontinue pension for those above the age of 80 years. However, on the contrary, he said the truth was that on March 31, there was not a single pensioner whose pension did not get deposited in his/her account. Not only this, services of the postal department were sought to deliver the pension amount at the residence of pensioners, whenever required, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-move-to-reduce-retirement-age-of-govt-employees-minister/articleshow/75397354.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Goa favours closure of borders even after May 3||Panaji: The state government has decided to recommend to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to keep Goa’s borders shut beyond May 3 as Maharashtra and Karnataka have a large number of Covid-19 cases. The state also doesn’t want its air and rail links restored. “We may not extend the lockdown, but we will strongly recommend that Goa’s borders should continue to be sealed beyond May 3,” chief minister Pramod Sawant told TOI. Modi will interact with the chief ministers of all states on Monday in view of Covid-19. Sawant said he will recommend to the Prime Minister that no interstate travel of any kind, through rail, road or air should be permitted. During the last meeting with the Prime Minister on April 11, Sawant had suggested that the lockdown should continue in the state till April 30. He had also recommended that all flight and rail services should remain suspended and that state borders should be closed, while only permitting interstate movement of vehicles carrying essential items. With strict implementation of the lockdown, even before the national curfew could be announced, the state has managed to restrict the positive cases to seven, all of whom have recovered. The last positive case in Goa was found on April 3. Goa had sealed its borders before Modi announced Janata Curfew in the country on March 22. The state had also extended the Janata Curfew before Modi announced the first 21-day lockdown on March 24. On Saturday, Sawant said in rural and urban areas all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complex will be allowed to open. He said that shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open. He said e-commerce companies will continue to supply essential goods only and that liquor shops will remain closed. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said there should be under partial lockdown after May 3 since there are positive cases in the neighbouring states. But he also said the government should ensure that people don’t face difficulties in carrying out house repairs. “The government should bring home Goans, who are stranded outside the state and country,” Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-favours-closure-of-borders-even-after-may-3/articleshow/75397017.cms||Murari Shetye
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Open and shut case of non-essential shops in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat traders across four major cities began to rejoice at the reopening of their shops selling non-essential items early on Sunday, but their joy was soon shuttered. Mobile phone stores, hardware shops, stationery stores, utensil stores, and apparel stores opened in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot on Sunday morning. They were ordered to close by afternoon. The streets which were bustling with people in the morning were soon deserted. On Saturday evening, the state government allowed shops in Gujarat to reopen, following a Union home ministry order issued on Friday. “After detailed deliberation with municipal commissioners of all four major cities, it was decided that only the shops selling essential items would be allowed to remain open,” said Ashwani Kumar, the secretary to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani. “The decision was taken, given the severity of the outbreak in these cities. Shops selling non-essential items will therefore remain closed till May 3.”During his address through social media on Sunday evening, Rupani confirmed that based on the situation next week, an appropriate decision will be taken about the matter. While the government’s sudden U-turn left citizens and traders confused, the business community has welcomed and supported the decision. “We understand the concerns over increasing cases and the need for enforcing necessary social distancing,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Trader Federation (GTF). “Therefore, about 35 trade associations across Ahmedabad have supported the government decision and voluntarily agreed to keep their establishments and shops closed till May 3.”Immediately after the decision to allow dealers of non-essential items to resume business was revoked, trade associations issued letters urging membersto keep shops shut till May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/open-and-shut-case-of-non-essential-shops/articleshow/75396683.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||The art of spreading awareness in Kochi||Kochi: ‘Can I hug you? No.’ In the time of corona, this simple phrase means a lot. Prajwal Xavier, a Kochi-based artist, conveys this important message about social distancing through calligraphy. He posts his works on his Instagram handle, which has 11.7k followers. Already a sensation on the social media through his calligraphy works, Xavier is not only spreading awareness through his talent but he is using the free time available during the lockdown to impart training in calligraphy to those interested in the art. During the lockdown, Xavier even came up with a second Instagram handle, Typeandsign, to discuss about typography in daily life. Photographs of handwritten sign boards, which are usually underrated, are shared through the page. Among the art works shared through this page are a signboard from a KSRTC depot, a cut metal letter work from a gate and a signboard from Mattancherry Jew Town. Xavier said that it was the handwritten signboards itself that diverted him to calligraphy. “I used to travel a lot in buses in my childhood. There were so many handwritten texts in buses. Also, there were signboards which were not printed but written, stylishly, using hand. I was fascinated by those and I decided to explore more,” he said. Xavier learnt the art almost on his own by reading up journals and meeting up with calligraphy artists. “I started out by employing calligraphy on school projects. Then, later on, I started to look for more application level avenues for my skills. I met eminent artists like Narayana Bhattathiri. Their guidance and my own research helped me in self-learning this art form,” he said. Xavier has conducted workshops on calligraphy in many states across the country and even abroad. He says that even though he never had any formal education in the field, many students who pursue calligraphy in design schools attend his workshops. A BTech graduate, Xavier was in the field of digital marketing for a brief time before taking up design works as a profession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/the-art-of-spreading-awareness/articleshow/75394897.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Six die of coronavirus in Rajasthan, highest in single day; toll rises to 41||JAIPUR: The state reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in a single day after six persons died in different parts of Rajasthan on Sunday. Across the state, 102 persons tested positive for the virus, taking the total count of infected persons to 2,185 so far. With six more deaths, the death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 41. Two patients who died in Jaipur belonged to Ghat Gate area. They were diagnosed with Covid-19 after their death. A 50-year-old man was brought dead to SMS Hospital on Saturday and tested positive for the virus on Sunday. In a similar case, a 55-year-old woman, who was brought dead on Friday to SMS Hospital, was found to be infected after her samples were tested. In Jodhpur, a resident of Pratap Nagar died on Sunday. He was 60 years old and had diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and nephropathy. He was admitted to MG Hospital in Jodhpur, on Friday. On suspicion, the doctors took his samples and he tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/six-die-in-state-highest-insingle-day-toll-rises-to-41/articleshow/75399346.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Six die of coronavirus in Rajasthan, highest in single day; toll rises to 41||JAIPUR: The state reported the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in a single day after six persons died in different parts of Rajasthan on Sunday. Across the state, 102 persons tested positive for the virus, taking the total count of infected persons to 2,185 so far. With six more deaths, the death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 41. Two patients who died in Jaipur belonged to Ghat Gate area. They were diagnosed with Covid-19 after their death. A 50-year-old man was brought dead to SMS Hospital on Saturday and tested positive for the virus on Sunday. In a similar case, a 55-year-old woman, who was brought dead on Friday to SMS Hospital, was found to be infected after her samples were tested. In Jodhpur, a resident of Pratap Nagar died on Sunday. He was 60 years old and had diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and nephropathy. He was admitted to MG Hospital in Jodhpur, on Friday. On suspicion, the doctors took his samples and he tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/six-die-in-state-highest-insingle-day-toll-rises-to-41/articleshow/75397021.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Projects for water supply optimisation discarded, residents left with water woes||Aurangabad: The civic body has decided to discard projects like laying of pipeline and construction of elevated storage reservoir which were supposed to be undertaken by using the smart city funds of Rs 10 crore. This has left the residents with water woes. In order to optimise the existing water supply network until the water supply project of Rs 1,680 crore is implemented, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had decided to use the funds for various projects. In September 2019, the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) had issued tenders for eight projects that would enhance the water supply network in the city. The projects were selected based on the recommendations made by Rajendra Holani, the former member secretary of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran. Former municipal commissioner Nipun Vinayak had roped in Holani in 2018 to help optimise the water supply system in the city. Subsequently, Holani’s team had made a presentation suggesting to undertake certain projects to replace the outdated pipelines and elevated storage reservoirs at specific places in the city. These projects included the construction of sump & pump house and ESR at Jubilee Park pump house campus along with supply, erection, commissioning, and giving test and trial of the pump. Apart from this, there were other projects. When asked about the water projects, executive engineer Kiran Dhande said that he was unaware about the progress of the project. Mayor Nandkumar Ghodele, however, said that since the new water pipeline scheme of Rs 1,680 crore was approved the civic body decided to discard the optimization project. When asked about the inconvenience people are facing especially in summer due to irregular water supply, Ghodele said that he will look into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/projects-for-water-supply-optimisation-discarded-residents-left-with-water-woes/articleshow/75395834.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 27, 2020||Goa||Malaria, Save Frog Days go unnoticed, but rise in concern||Panaji: April 25, a day designated as World Malaria Day, went by almost unnoticed with everybody’s attention on the distressing Covid-19 scenario. However, Saturday also was ‘Save the frog’ day, and campaigners said that the coincidence couldn’t have come at a better time. “People should learn from this (Covid) experience that wild meat is not safe for consumption, and that wildlife has a role to play in the eco-system, which helps human survival,” a forest official said. The last Saturday of April is dedicated to saving the frog. The indiscriminate killing of wild animals, which provide eco-services, has reflected in the rise of vector-borne diseases and other major problems. “If there is an increase in the frog population, there will be a proportionate decrease in malaria cases,” Roland Martins of Goacan, a voluntary organisation, said.  He said that frogs eat mosquito larvae and snakes eat frogs. “But with the number of snakes entering homes and persons rescuing them going up, it shows where the problem lies,” Martins said. In recent years, the forest department, working in tandem with activists, has tried to curb frog poaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/malaria-save-frog-days-go-unnoticed-but-rise-in-concern/articleshow/75397018.cms||Paul Fernandes
April 27, 2020||Trichy||Wholesale vegetable market shifted to G Corner ground||Trichy: Following protests from the residents, the district administration on Sunday relocated the overcrowded temporary wholesale vegetable market from Palpannai to the spacious G corner ground at Ponmalai. Till the end of the lockdown, the market will function at the G corner locality ensuring social distancing.Owing to the cramped space at the Gandhi Market, the wholesale vegetable market has been functioning temporarily at Palpannai on the Trichy-Chennai NH. But, the residents had demanded the relocation of the market as the crowd, in thousands, has been flouting social distancing norms. Though the district administration proposed to shift the makeshift wholesale market from Palpannai to Samayapuram, the traders foiled the attempt. This resulted in an online movement by the residents who went on to trend #SaveTrichy and #ShiftGandhiMarket hashtags in the social media demanding the relocation of the market. Sensing trouble, the district administration convened a meeting on Sunday. After the meeting an announcement was made to shift the temporary market from Palpannai to the helipad area on G corner ground. Trichy Corporation, subsequently, levelled the space and barricaded the entrance to allow only the wholesale traders from Sunday night.Wholesale sale of vegetables will happen between 9 pm and 4 am. All the traders, loadmen and drivers were told to practice social distancing and wear facemasks. The officials said that retail sales of vegetables will not be allowed at the makeshift market at G corner. “Retail sales will continue only in the eight retail vegetable markets set up across the city. Residents should not enter the wholesale market,” official sources said. City police have issued instructions that legal actions will be taken against unauthorised entrants to the G corner makeshift wholesale market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/wholesale-vegetable-market-shifted-to-g-corner-ground/articleshow/75397016.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers show gratitude, clean up school-turned-shelter||Coimbatore: The lockdown might have taken people out of workplaces, but it has not taken away their will to work.Setting an example for others, a group of guest workers have been cleaning the campus of a corporation school in the city, where they have been put up. Over the weeks, they have cleared weeds and grass from the children’s play area and school ground, and debris and garbage near the compound wall.The guest workers from Chennai, Tirupur, Trichy, Madurai, Pudukottai, Sivaganga and Theni in the state and neighbouring Kerala were left homeless after their employers shunted them out following the lockdown. Employed at eateries and construction sites, they used to sleep on the premises of workplaces. When they were asked to leave, they camped on roadside in Sungam. There were around 53 of them.However, police asked them to vacate the spot on April 1. A group of volunteers, meanwhile, came to their help and arranged them stay in a community hall in the city. Subsequently, they were moved to the corporation school in Varadarajapuram on April 5.After settling down there in a couple of days, they started cleaning the campus, said G Vivek, a volunteer who takes care of them. “Around half of the 53 workers have been involved in the cleaning work.”The guest workers said as they have been provided proper shelter and food, they wanted to do something in return. A R Prem Kanth, 39, of Chennai, who came to the city barely a week before the lockdown to lay tiles in an upcoming building, said the kids’ play area in the school was filled with weeds. “The area had slides, swings and other implements for small kids. We wanted to clean it for them.”Prem said they divided themselves into a group of 10 and cleaned the play area, ground and a spot inside the campus where debris and garbage were dumped. “We also cleaned the toilets using phenyl and acid. We clean the campus regularly. When kids come back to school, they would be happy to see their campus clean.”Vivek said they had rescued two rat snakes from the bushes during the cleaning drive. The workers are fed daily by officials and volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-show-gratitude-clean-up-school-turned-shelter/articleshow/75396463.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Akshaya Tritiya loses sheen due to Covid-19 lockdown||Coimbatore: Akshaya Tritiya, which fell on Sunday, was a lukewarm and an online affair for city residents.Usually, people would throng jewellery shops to buy gold, due to the belief that purchasing gold on the day would bring in wealth multifold. But, with complete lockdown in force, jewellery shops shut and people unable to leave the confinement of their homes, that was not the case on Sunday.Some jewellers had opened online sales portals, where people can order jewels on Sunday and it would be delivered when the lockdown is lifted. Jewellers said while big corporate jewellers had provided customers with online purchasing option, small ones too had caught up. B Sabarinath, president of Coimbatore Jewellers Association said small jewelleries too had opened online sales on Sunday. “Some small jewelleries reached out to their customers through WhatsApp and messages, using their customer database,” he said.However, the overall exercise did not evoke the desired response, he said. “The sales were very meagre. It was just around 2%-3% of what we had in previous years,” he said.This was because of people’s mindset, said S M Kamal Hasan, president of Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association. “Our people would want to go to shops and buy gold in person. Even if they want to buy gold on an auspicious occasion, they would want to visit shops. So, the online business did not evoke much response,” he said.He said the craze over Akshaya Tritiya was just a decade-old trend. “Before that, on the day people used to buy provisions such as salt and turmeric, which symbolized prosperity. But, a decade ago, some popular astrologers campaigned for buying gold on the day and that was how the trend came to be,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/akshaya-tritiya-loses-sheen-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/75396461.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Decision to continue curbs in four cities based on feedback, says CM Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani appealed to the people of the state on Sunday to not give heed to the rumours being spread by some quarters on lockdown rules relaxation. He said that the decision to continue restriction in four cities — Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot — was taken after receiving feedback from several sections of society. “Some people claim that Gujarat is showing haste by relaxing the lockdown rules. We will also think about those facing hardship for the past one month,” said Rupani. He said controlling Covid-19 spread is of utmost importance but the government also has to take care of small and large traders and daily wage earners. “Trade is in our blood. For the past one month, all trades are at a standstill. So, we decided to relax rules a bit and allow some activities by following all necessary precaution as suggested by the central government,” said Rupani. “Since yesterday night, I have been getting calls that why rules were relaxed with only six days of the lockdown remaining. The revised guidelines of the Centre also empowers the state government to increase or decrease relaxation facilities considering the local needs. So, we decided to continue restrictions in four major cities as 80% of cases are from these four cities. The relaxation in rules will be there in other cities. For four major cities, we will wait till May 3, then we will decide.” Responding to reports of high death and low recovery rate in the state, Rupani said, “Those who get admitted in hospitals go through the 15-day protocol. Total 282 persons have recovered from 2,800 cases. In the next few days, a large number of people will get discharged. Most of the deaths are due to co-morbid conditions. We don’t hide any facts.” He said that things will be under control even after the lockdown is lifted. “I want to assure the people of Gujarat that the situation will be under control, but everyone needs to be alert and follow social distancing,” the CM said. “Many people have been spreading rumour that we gave relaxation in lockdown rules just to facilitate Muslim community during Ramzan, which is not correct. Fight against corona is an apolitical battle and such rumours are being spread to weaken the fight against corona. We care for the six crore Gujaratis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/decision-to-continue-curbs-in-4-cities-based-on-feedback-cm/articleshow/75396670.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mysuru||2 held for bootlegging||Mysuru: The vigilance squad of excise department arrested two people on charges of illegal smuggling of liquor from Vijayanagar and Outer Ring Road on Saturday night. It seized 16,800 litres of liquor and a vehicle in the two separate raids. The accused were remanded in judicial custody after cases were registered against them, said deputy commissioner of excise M S Murali. The department has conducted 885 such raids and arrested 14 people in the district after the Covid-19 lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2-held-for-bootlegging/articleshow/75394893.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Despite Covid-19, M Kamalthal’s idlis still cost Re 1 per piece||COIMBATORE: While prices of grocery items have gone up amid the lockdown, M Kamalthal, the 85-year-old ‘idli paati’, who sells idlis for Rs 1, has not hiked the price. From her house-cum-outlet in Vadivelampalayam near Alandurai here, she continues to sell idlis, mainly to people from other places, who have not option to return home or to cook themselves. Read AlsoHelp pours in for 82-year-old Coimbatore woman who sells idli for Re 1After videos and news reports of M Kamalathal, the 82-year-old woman in Coimbatore district who sells idlis for Re 1, became viral, praise and help have been pouring for her from all quarters.“It is a hard time. Prices of urad dal and roasted gram have gone up from Rs 100 to Rs 150 and that of chilli has gone up from Rs 150 to Rs 200. But I will not hike the price. I still sell idlis for Rs 1. I will manage somehow,” Kamalthal told TOI. She caters to more than 300 people per day. However, she encourages customers to have her idlis at their place to ensure social distancing. “There are people who have come from other places. What would they do for food? I have been catering to them,” said the octogenarian, who has been selling idlis for Rs 1 more than three decades. Well-wishers have also been helping the granny by giving her grocery items and vegetables to help her tide over the situation. “People have been giving vegetables, rice and dal. I’m happy that they help me in this hard time,” she said. DMK president M K Stalin spoke to her via video conferencing on Saturday evening. Though Kamalathal has not increased the price of her idlis for more than 30 years, she became widely known last September after reports of her big-heartedness went viral. Several prominent figures had extended support to her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/idli-paati-stays-grounded-as-food-prices-skyrocket/articleshow/75396465.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||State govt wants Goa border to remain closed even after May 3||PANAJI: The state government has decided to recommend to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to keep Goa’s borders shut beyond May 3 as Maharashtra and Karnataka have a large number of Covid-19 cases. The state also doesn’t want its air and rail links restored. “We may not extend the lockdown, but we will strongly recommend that Goa’s borders should continue to be sealed beyond May 3,” chief minister Pramod Sawant told TOI. Modi will interact with the chief ministers of all states on Monday in view of Covid-19. Sawant said he will recommend to the Prime Minister that no interstate travel of any kind, through rail, road or air should be permitted. During the last meeting with the Prime Minister on April 11, Sawant had suggested that the lockdown should continue in the state till April 30. He had also recommended that all flight and rail services should remain suspended and that state borders should be closed, while only permitting interstate movement of vehicles carrying essential items. Have partial lockdown after May 3: CongressWith strict implementation of the lockdown, even before the national curfew could be announced, the state has managed to restrict the positive cases to seven, all of whom have recovered. The last positive case in Goa was found on April 3. Goa had sealed its borders before Modi announced Janata Curfew in the country on March 22. The state had also extended the Janata Curfew before Modi announced the first 21-day lockdown on March 24. On Saturday, Sawant said that shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said there should be partial lockdown in the state even after May 3 since there are positive cases in the neighbouring states. But he also said the government should ensure that people don’t face difficulties in carrying out house repairs. “The government should bring home Goans stranded outside the state and country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-wants-goa-borders-to-remain-closed-even-after-may-3/articleshow/75397015.cms||Murari Shetye
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||LMC drive to clear garbage dumps on vacant plots||LUCKNOW: After TOI highlighted how public pressure made Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) clean a vacant plot in Daliganj which was being used as a garbage dumping site for eight years, the civic body on Saturday launched a drive to identify similar vacant plots used as dumping grounds across the city. Officials said that eight teams with 10 members each have been constituted to identify such dumping places in all eight zones. TimesViewThe move was long overdue. Now, LMC will have to ensure that the drive does not fizzle out after initial enthusiasm like other such moves to check peeing in public places and garbage burning in open. Residents can be asked to click photos of such dumping grounds and upload them on the Smart City app to help officers in locating the places.The teams will have to submit their reports every week along with the addresses and details of the plot owners where the garbage is being dumped. The civic body will then give a final warning to the plot owners to ensure no garbage is being dumped on their plots. If the plot owner does not take any action, he will be charged a penalty of Rs 1,000 as per the violation of environmental norms set by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). According to the rules, if garbage is being dumped in the open, it should be collected by the municipal bodies within six hours and should be disposed of at the waste treatment plant the same day. LMC environment engineer Pankaj Bhushan said, “Teams have been constituted and the drives will start from Monday. Action will be taken against owners if they are allowing garbage dumping on their vacant plots.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-drive-to-clear-garbage-dumps-on-vacant-plots/articleshow/75397020.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Trichy||Moderate showers to continue in city for next few days||Trichy: Moderate showers on Sunday gave people in the city relief from the sultry weather while the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and private weather watchers have predicted the showers to continue in the city as well in the parts of the district till April 30.Most parts of the city including Ponmalai, Thiruverumbur, Palpannai, Kallukuzhi, Cantonment and Pudukkottai road received good rainfall. Thuvakudi, Manapparai and Thuraiyur towns had also received the moderate rainfall. “The rainfall was convectional one. Such weather will prevail at least till April 30. While the forenoon will witness sultry weather conditions, there are chances of moderate rainfall after noon for the next few days in Trichy,” said N Selvakumar, Mannargudi based independent weather observer. The city’s weather is expected to be pleasant for the next four days. After May 1, sultry weather will return, the weather watcher said. Meanwhile, IMD forecast has said that thunderstorm with lightning accompanied by gusty winds is likely to occur over isolated parts of the state on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/moderate-showers-to-continue-in-city-for-next-few-days/articleshow/75397019.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy realty projects see 30% spike in NRI enquiries||Trichy: Though the lockdown has stalled real estate projects across the country, the builders in the city have a reason to smile as there is a spike in enquiries from Non-Residential Indians (NRI) to purchase ready to occupy homes in Trichy. Job uncertainty due to the impact of Covid-19 has made NRIs to turn to investing in real estate properties as a backup plan.The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) Trichy chapter has said that around 30 real estate projects, mostly apartments, were under construction in the city. Work in all the sites has been suspended since the commencement of the lockdown. Credai Trichy said it has no plan to start fresh projects in the next six months so that the ongoing projects will get buyers. Real estate developers told TOI that enquiries from NRIs in the United States of America, Singapore and South Korea have increased by 30% since the lockdown.“The NRIs who have significant savings are keen to invest in the real estate properties in Trichy. Enquiries are coming through their family members for the past month. It seems that the ongoing lockdown has made them realise the importance of having own houses at the native place,” S Anand, chairman, Credai Trichy, said.Most of the enquiries were for 3 BHK flats in Srirangam, Thillai Nagar and KK Nagar localities. “We have received around 30-40 calls and enquiries through social media platforms from NRIs in past month. The possibility of foreign countries making tough immigration policies after the Covid-19 period could have prompted the NRIs to think of investing in their native places,” Karthik Mohandoss, managing director, Whiteline Properties, said.Real estate developers said that the local buyers may not invest in the real estate sector at least for the next few months due to the prevailing panic situation. The builders have planned to target NRIs through social media platforms and digital advertisements for promoting their projects. Besides the spike in enquiries from the NRI buyers, need-based market will emerge after the lockdown, builders said. There will be demand for recreational zones within properties as people have realised the importance of amenities during such lockdowns.Realty during lockdownTemporarily stalled projects in Trichy: 30Projects in pipeline: 15Areas preferred by NRIsSrirangamKK NagarNo 1 tollgateKarumandapamThillai Nagar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-realty-projects-see-30-spike-in-nri-enquiries/articleshow/75397026.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 46 patients from hotspot Ramganj cured, discharged||JAIPUR: In the past 24 hours, 46 persons from the hotspot Ramganj area have been discharged after being cured of Covid-19. With patients returning to their homes in Jaipur, the doctors and staff at SMS Hospital are looking a relieved lot. “We are happy that patients have been cured and are returning home," said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent SMS Hospital, who is one of the five members of the core group of doctors treating virus patients. The other members of the group are SMS Medical College principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari and professors in medicine Dr Prakash Keswani, Dr S Banerjee and Dr Raman Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/46-patients-fromhotspot-ramganjcured-discharged/articleshow/75397030.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Erode||Erode: Seven-year-old boy dies after delay in treatment||COIMBATORE: A seven-year-old boy, an asthmatic, died on Sunday after a private hospital at Kollampalayam in Erode refused to admit him citing the lockdown. The boy was being taken to another hospital but died on the way. The uncle of the deceased, a journalist, has sent a complaint to the chief minister’s special cell citing medical negligence. In his letter, S Gunasekaran from K Mettur at Modakurichi in Erode, said his nephew K Vidhul, 7, was suffering from allergic asthma since childhood. He was being treated since the past 6 years at a private hospital in Kollampalayam. On Sunday around 6.30am, the boy developed breathing difficulty and was rushed to the hospital at Kollampalayam, where authorities refused to admit him citing the lockdown. “We were on our way to admit him at another hospital on Perundurai road, but he died on the way. This is medical negligence and the state government should take action against the private hospital,” When contacted, Erode district collector C Kathiravan refuted allegations of medical negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/seven-yr-old-boy-dies-after-delay-in-treatment/articleshow/75396471.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Kitchen essentials with ration from tomorrow||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will start distributing kits containing kitchen essentials from Wednesday along with the ration items for May. Each kit will have one litre refined oil, one kg each of chhole/chana, sugar and salt, turmeric, coriander and chilli powder packets weighing 200gm each, and two soap bars of 60-75gm. Around 19 lakh ration card holders under the public distribution system (PDS)benefit close to 71 lakh people. The kitchen essential kits will also be given to those who don’t have ration cards but are getting PDS items against e-cards allowed in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown. The government took the decision after it was found that the underprivileged section, mostly daily wage labourers, are finding it difficult to buy these items, which are costlier than wheat, rice and other free PDS items. Meanwhile, the ration dealers on Monday demanded release of their commission, pending for three months, during a meeting with food minister Imran Hussain. The minister has assured about the payment in a week, said Shailendra Kumar, the head of a ration dealers’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kitchen-essentials-with-ration-from-tomorrow/articleshow/75417191.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Quepem admin seals market, allows roadside stalls with spacing||Quepem: The fish and vegetable market here wore a deserted look on Sunday, after the local administration and the Quepem municipal council sealed the area and did not permit vendors in, due to violations of social distancing rules last week. Vendors selling seafood, dry fish and other dry produce shifted their stalls near Don Bosco school complex around 500m outside the town, while some dry fish vendors from Assolna,Velim and Betul sold their wares near Igramoll chapel around 1.5km from Quepem town. Talathi Sadanand Dessai monitored the activity near Don Bosco school, reminding vendors and customers to maintain social distancing. A chaotic bazaar scene on the town’s footpaths last Sunday raised concerns among some citizens, as migrant vendors selling dry chilies, vegetables and other produce drew heavy crowds and guidelines were thrown to the winds. It appeared as if the lockdown had been lifted. To avoid crowding, the civic body did not allow vegetables vendors to open their shops within the market area and instead demarcated spaces on the roadside, with more than 10m distance between each stall, for vendors to sell their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-admin-seals-market-allows-roadside-stalls-with-spacing/articleshow/75397046.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||All my contacts are negative, says Kanika Kapoor||LUCKNOW: After spending 21 days in quarantine at her home in the city, singer Kanika Kapoor on Sunday took to social media to narrate to her fans ‘facts’ about her travelling history and Covid-19 experience. Kapoor (41) said that she was at home spending time with her family and that she chose to remain silent all this while knowing full well of ‘misconceptions’ being floated around her. She said it was time to talk and let truth prevail. Her instagram post that had received over 60,000 likes and 800 comments by Sunday evening clarified that every person she had come in contact with in UK, Mumbai and Lucknow had shown no Covid-19 symptoms and they had all been tested negative. She ended the note saying that “negativity thrown at a person does not change the reality.” As per the statement, Kanika traveled from UK to Mumbai on March 10 and was duly screened at the international airport. She claimed that since there was no advisory till then (UK travel advisory was released on March 18) that asked for quarantine, she did not do so. “I also didn’t feel ill and reached Lucknow on March 11,” she writes. “There was no screening setup for domestic flights,” reads the statement with clarification that she had hosted no party and had only attended a friend’s lunch and dinner as she was healthy. Kanika says that when she started getting symptoms on March 17 and 18, she sought Covid-19 testing, following which her test came positive on March 20 and she “chose to go to hospital.” She was discharged after three negative tests. Not just Lucknow but the entire Bollywood had gone into a panic mode when Kanika tested positive leading to a number of stories floating around her. Admitting that there were several versions of these stories, Kanika said that a number of them were fuelled by her silence even though she was not wrong. Calling these misunderstandings and wrong exchanges of information, Kanika thanked doctors, nurses for the treatment and her friends, family and supporters for giving her time to talk when ready while letting truth to prevail in the meantime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-my-contacts-are-negative-says-kanika/articleshow/75397037.cms||Yusra Husain
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors diagnosing virus symptoms on WhatsApp||Nagpur: The incessantly rising number of people infected by Covid-19 is a daunting challenge for those working day and night to save lives. The unprecedented situation is taking a toll on the mental and physical health of these saviours of humanity.With an aim to ease the pressure off doctors, city-based NGO Parindey Foundation has started a digital doctor consultancy helpline for coronavirus on WhatsApp. The helpline offers patients the opportunity to get free consultancy from specialist doctors.The initiative, christened ‘Niraamayaa Bhava’ was started by Siddhartha Roy, a 21-year-old author and community developer, and chartered accountant Niranjan Jadhav, supported by Dr Aarzoo Meghrajani — who manages the operational aspect of the advisory.When patients reach out on the WhatsApp number 7020844301, the doctor in-charge sends a symptom sheet to them to know their profile and travel history. After analysing the report, the doctor provides a solution and if needed, sets an appointment for a video/telephonic call. If the symptoms are severe, the patient is advised to meet the doctor in person. After the physical check-up, the patient is prescribed medicines or necessary tests.“I have been working on various government projects for innovation and social change, but this is the time when we all should come together and do our bit,” says co-founder Siddhartha Roy.“I had this idea in my mind from a long time, but felt that executing it alone would be challenging, which is why I collaborated with Parindey Youth Foundation and several doctors. It feels good to do our bit for the society,” he adds. “We had seen the sufferings of China and knew that if Covid-19 hits India, it'll hit us really hard. So we decided to make our citizens aware about it and reduce the stress on government hospitals. It has worked well and people have given a really good response,” says co-founder Niranjan Jadhav.The initiative was launched by district collector Ravindra Thakare on March 20, and around 110 people have been helped through this platform by now.Dr Geeta Pedgaonkar, a senior doctor who is associated with the initiative, says, “More than the disease itself, it is the fear which needs to be fought. The situation is such that even if people have regular cough, they start worrying of contracting the virus. The symptoms, travel history and other sources of exposure need to be carefully analysed for us to give measured advice. We are working on removing this fear from their minds.”“I was very scared when I developed coronavirus-like symptoms. After a detailed online consultation through the platform, I was advised some tests. However, my reports were negative and I was discharged from the hospital,” says a beneficiary on the condition of anonymity. The panel of doctors associated with the initiative comprises Dr Shailendra Mundhada, Dr Aarzoo Meghrajani, Dr Satish Deopujari, Dr Geeta Pedgaonkar, Dr Devika Jadhav, Dr Madhavi Deshmukh, Dr Shreya Kate and Dr Nishi Roy. Dhruv pathology and molecular diagnostic lab is helping with the research and testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-diagnosing-virus-symptoms-on-whatsapp/articleshow/75437650.cms||Vinay Pande
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Highest single-day rise in Anand||Vadodara/Anand: Anand district on Sunday witnessed highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases as eight more from Khambhat testing positive. The total number of cases in Anand district reached 54 by Sunday evening with Khambhat alone accounting for 38.  Those who tested positive were four men and four women in the age group of 22 to 72 years. “All the patients are under treatment at Cambay general hospital,” said a health official, adding cases have been reported from area close to containment zone. Two patients, including a 27-year-old man from Petlad and a 37-year-old man from Dantar Wado area of Khambhat, were discharged. The rest of the patients are being treated at Anand Civil Hospital; Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad; S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad and N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/highest-single-day-rise-in-anand/articleshow/75394859.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mysuru||MLA: Pharma company must compensate govt||Mysuru: Even as senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta has started a probe into how the Covid-19 cluster developed at the Jubilant Generics plant at Nanjangud, MLA B Harshavardhan said the government should ask the pharmaceutical unit to compensate the government for expenditure to contain the virus in the temple town. He said at Nanjangud on Sunday that he will not allow the plant to reopen until it compensates the government. This comes on a day when district minister S T Somashekar said he had asked chief minister B S Yediyurappa to probe the Nanjangud case. Following the request, Gupta was appointed to get to the bottom of the matter. He said the growth rate of the virus has been curbed. Both Mysuru and Nanjangud will come back to normal owing to decrease in the number of cases, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mla-pharma-company-must-compensate-govt/articleshow/75394120.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||113 stranded Lankans flown back home in special flight||COIMBATORE: At least 113 Sri Lankan nationals, who were stranded in Tamil Nadu and Kerala following lockdown, were sent to their native places on a special flight on Sunday. They, mostly college students, were brought to the city airport from places such as Chennai, Chidambaram and Theni in Tamil Nadu and Thrissur and Ernakulam in Kerala in special buses. The arrangements for their repatriation were made following a request from the Lankan government. All of them were first brought to the Fairfield by Marriott hotel, where arrangements were made for them to get refreshed, near the airport. It was the Sri Lanka deputy high commission in Chennai who arranged the transportation and other logistics for them. Coimbatore Catering Owners Association provided them complimentary breakfast at the airport. Food was also served to the airport staff. SriLankan Airlines (Airbus 321), meanwhile, arrived at the airport from Colombo around 10 am with seven crew members to take them home. Before entering the airport premises, the 113 were screened by a team of six doctors, who declared them all fit to fly. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel verified their details and after the customary security check, they were taken to the parking bay of the airport. The flight departed from the airport around 11.05am on Sunday. SriLankan Airlines authorities later confirmed that all the passengers had safely reached Colombo in the afternoon. City airport director R Mahalingam said they have been functioning to facilitate operations by cargo flights. “Seven cargo flights have landed here with medical equipment in the past one month. Likewise, personal protection equipment kits were flown to various parts of the country from here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/113-stranded-lankans-flown-back-home-in-special-flight/articleshow/75396476.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Trichy||Ancient burial urn unearthed in Tiruvarur||Tiruvarur: A burial urn with human skeletal remains was unearthed near Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district on Saturday. The urn, called ‘Muthumakkal thazhi’, was found by a few farmers when they were digging an irrigation canal. Revenue department officials took control over the urn to ascertain the exact period to which it belongs. According to revenue officials, Pasupathi, 44, and Ravichandran, 46, of Naruvali Kalappal village near Mannargudi in the district were digging on the bed of a canal near their residence using a crowbar on Saturday evening when they discovered a big pot-like object. They informed village administrative officer (VAO) Ganesan as well as revenue inspector Ranjani, who in turn alerted tahsildar Karthik. Karthik rushed to the spot along with Kalappal police inspector Suganthi and inspected the pot and found that it was a burial urn. They also informed district collector T Anand. As per the instruction by the district collector, the burial urn is five-foot in height. Officials found that there was skeletal remains inside the urn and took it to the Mannargudi tahsildar office. According to revenue officials, the urn could be more than 100 years old. However, it could be exactly ascertained only after a detailed analysis by the archaeological department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ancient-burial-urn-unearthed-in-tiruvarur/articleshow/75397042.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 hurt in clash over opening gate, 6 held||Ahmedabad: Three persons suffered critical injuries when two groups fought with swords and sticks in Jamalpur area of the city on Saturday night over opening the gate of a locality during the lockdown. Gaekwad Haveli police registered two FIRs of attempt to murder and named 11 persons of Municipal Labour quarters locality in Jamalpur as accused in the case. Inspector D N Dabhi of Gaekwad Haveli police said that the incident took place when a group insisted on opening the gate which was locked by police to restrict movement of people. As members of another group resisted, the first group, led by a local resident, Sharifkhan Pathan, and his aides attacked them. According to the FIR filed by Mohammed Asif Shaikh, 32, a resident of the quarters, he allegedly told Sharifkhan and his aides not to indulge in any quarrel with others as holy month of Ramzan was going on. Shaikh also insisted on opening the gate so that people, who observe fast, can go out during Ramzan. This did not go well with Sharifkhan who called his other aides. They later attacked Shaikh and four others with swords and sticks. Shaikh managed to flee from there and went to a nearby hospital. Later, locals rescued others who were shifted to Civil Hospital in Asarwa. Another FIR filed by one Hamzakhan Pathan, who belongs to Sharifkhan group, states that Shaikh and his aides had first indulged in heated arguments with Sharifkhan after which the brawl took place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-hurt-in-clash-over-opening-gate-6-held/articleshow/75396672.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Can’t boycott all if a handful act irresponsibly: Bhagwat||Nagpur: It is not right to ostracize an entire group if a section of it has committed an irresponsible act, said RSS Sarsanghchalak (chief) Mohan Bhagwat in an online address on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya. He also spoke about the steps to be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Hinting at the Tablighi Jamaat incident and its fallout, Bhagwat said it is not right to have the same yardstick for an entire group and boycott them. There are black sheep everywhere, said Bhagwat, who stressed that such incidents should not fuel hatred or divide in the country. “There may be fears among people about being quarantined or anger for being bound to their homes, but even the RSS has cancelled all its programmes till June,” he said. “There is a segment which has the evil intention of dividing the nation. Such elements have become active these days and have also contributed to the spread of Covid-19 in the country. The common man should not react with hate or fear over any such incident. We should know that each of the 130 crore individuals living in India are our brothers,” said Bhagwat. There should be no reaction out of fear or anger from either side. Leaders of every group should be preventing their people from such acts, said Bhagwat, as he also condemned the lynching of two Sadhus in Palghar. “Much has been said about the incident, however, the question is that should it have happened at all. Should people have taken the law in their hands,” he said about the Palghar killings. “There have been calls from Hindu Dharma Acharya Sabha and Vishwa Hindu Parishad to pay homage to the sadhus on the 28th of this month, we all will be taking part in it,” said Bhagwat. The RSS chief also backed the government’s decision to allow export of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine. As it came after the US President Donald Trump’s statement that India may have to face retaliation if the ban on exports is not lifted, the government had drawn flak for the move. “Each one who is a victim of the pandemic is our own, and will not be discriminated against. India has lifted the ban on export of certain drugs even if it may lead to some losses here. India is ready to provide help to anyone who asks for it. This is because we do not discriminate between humans,” he said. Bhagwat also stressed on adopting Swadeshi as a fallout of the lockdown. “Once the lockdown ends, it must be seen that the dependence on foreign items is reduced. What is not needed should not be imported and Indian manufacturers must ensure standards of quality, he said. Bhagwat also made an oblique remark on China. He narrated an incident of an Indian monk who had been to China to spread Buddhism and decided to print a book on his teachings in the Chinese language. “When he collected funds for the first time a massive earthquake struck and the money was spent on helping the victims. The next time there was a flood, and the money meant to print the book again went to charity. Finally, the book could be published in the third attempt. It was called the third edition of Buddha’s teachings, because twice before the monk had spread the message by his deeds,” said Bhagwat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cant-boycott-all-if-a-handful-act-irresponsibly-bhagwat/articleshow/75397138.cms||Shishir Arya
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||2 fined for peeling bark of velvelam||Coimbatore: The forest department slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 each on two people on Saturday for peeling bark of a velvelam tree (distillers acacia, Acacia leucophloea) in the reserve forest at Thadagam beat here.A team of field staff from the Coimbatore forest range, who were conducting patrol at Kanuvai Karadu reserve forest at Thadagam south beat, had caught the men in the act. Illicit distillers use the bark to make their brew stronger, forest department officials said. Field staff on Sunday detained three people who were sharing meat of a female spotted deer at Thirumalur north in Periyanaickenpalayam forest range. The trio told officials that they had found the carcass of the deer, which was killed by stray dogs. The officials imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 each on K Kuppuraj, 52, K Jayakumar, 26, both hailing from Thirumavulur and R Eswaran, 60 from Ranganathapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-fined-for-peeling-bark-of-velvelam/articleshow/75396477.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Norka launches website to streamline arrival of NRKs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With lakhs of Malayalis, trapped abroad in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, eagerly awaiting the first opportunity to return home, the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (Norka) department has launched a website to enable them to register online and avail of the opportunity to return home on a priority basis. The website, www.registernorkaroots.org, carrying a message from chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on its home page christened ‘Welcome to Homeland’, and announcing that the state has made all safety arrangements for return of NRKs and is awaiting the central government’s nod, was launched late Sunday evening. Meanwhile, the CM, during a video conference with representatives of NRKs in Gulf countries, said extensive safety and screening arrangements will be made at all four airports in the state to welcome the returnees. “The state’s demand to the Centre is to arrange special flights even before the commencement of regular international flight services,” he said. Besides, an official release has advised against scurrying through the process as priority wouldn’t be on first-come, first-served basis, but based on a list already published by the government. Moreover, minorities welfare minister K T Jaleel said that there was no need to undergo a test for Covid-19 infection for registration, as their actual journey would be at a later stage depending on scheduling of special flights once restrictions on international flights to India are lifted. But a certificate proving that the passenger has been tested negative for Covid-19 is mandatory for him/her to board a flight back. According to guidelines issued earlier, the state health department has to decide on when to conduct the infection test on returnees, considering their journey date. Online registration is being facilitated only to arrange for quarantine facilities in the state and not for gaining priority while booking air tickets, the guidelines have clarified. Based on Norka’s assumptions, 3 to 5.5 lakh Malayalis, majority of them from Gulf countries, are expected to return to the state within 30 days of resumption of flight services. And even if they test negative for Covid-19, the returnees, between 9,600 and 27,600 of them, would have to be kept under observation, as per protocol. Those stranded abroad after expiry of visit visas are on top of the priority list of the government. Next will be the elderly, pregnant women, children, ailing persons, those who have completed their visa period, students who have completed courses, those freed from jails and others. The guidelines also prescribe 14-day home quarantine for asymptomatic returnees and immediate transfer of people with symptoms from the airport to quarantine centres or Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/norka-launches-website-to-streamline-arrival-of-nrks/articleshow/75394932.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mysuru||Illegal mining at Baby Betta stirs a row||Mandya: A group of men led by former minister and JD(S) MLA CS Puttaraju on Sunday barged into Chinakurali police station in Mandya, and allegedly threatened the cops, who had seized trucks laden with stone. Sources said that a team of cops had waylaid lorries carrying stones and gravel, allegedly mined illegally at Baby Betta. The trucks were seized and police promptly took them into their custody. Nearly 300 men, owners of quarries among them, barged into the station and allegedly took the cops to task for their action. A video of the owners of quarrying units threatening cops on a road has gone viral on social media portals. The video shows the men hurling expletives at the cops and threatening them to release the seized trucks. Other sources said that the trucks seized by the cops had been taken back by miscreants. Taking cognisance of the impact that mining activities had on the structural safety of the Krishnaraja Sagar dam in Mandya, chief minister BS Yediyurappa banned all quarrying activities at Baby Betta. A senior cop in Mandya said that some of the quarry owners had been exploiting the lockdown to carry out illegal mining at the hill. Repeated phone calls to Mandya superintendent of police Parashuram were met with no reponse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/illegal-mining-at-baby-betta-stirs-a-row/articleshow/75394946.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||2 Japanese evacuated from Diu||Rajkot: Two Japanese nationals stranded in Diu were evacuated through a special chartered flight on Sunday and were flown to Delhi. “We have facilitated the flight operations on Sunday. The special flight from Delhi landed at Diu airport at 10:50 am and reached Delhi airport at 12:40 pm. The two Japanese nationals – Naoki Ikoma and Takuro Fujimo – were stuck in Diu after the imposition of the lockdown. Both of them tested negative for Covid-19. We followed all protocols while facilitating their flight operations. Thermal screening was also done before they boarded the special flight,” Anwar Ahmed Ansari, airport director, Diu, told TOI.According to the officials, Japanese Embassy initiated the process to evacuate its citizen from Diu and other parts of the country and the Director General of Civil Aviation has requested respective airport authorities to facilitate special flight operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-japanese-evacuated-from-diu/articleshow/75394960.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||After long stint under Modi, A K Sharma gets new posting||Gandhinagar: Additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s office, A K Sharma, who has worked directly under Narendra Modi for 19 years – while Modi was Gujarat chief minister and then as PM – was on Sunday appointed as secretary in the Union micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) ministry. Sharma began working with Modi back in 2001, as the youngest secretary level officer when Modi was the Gujarat CM. He was among the first two or three officers from the Gujarat cadre who shifted to Delhi after Modi became Prime Minister in 2014. While he was in Gujarat and posted in the chief minister’s office (CMO), Sharma was entrusted with Modi’s key projects along with important departments of industry, urban development and other key infrastructural projects. Sharma, a 1988 batch Gujarat cadre officer, is known to be a silent and low-profile bureaucrat. During his tenure in the PMO, Sharma acted as the single-point for Gujarat to resolve the state’s issues with the Centre. Sources in the government said that Sharma’s appointment as secretary in a key Union government department was expected after he was recently empanelled as a secretary rank officer. “The MSME sector is facing serious challenges because of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. Considering Sharma’s extensive experience in the industries sector, the PM preferred to post him in the MSME ministry,” a source said. Other Gujarat cadre senior IAS officers posted in Delhi also got prominent postings in the reshuffle by the government of India. R P Gupta, special secretary, Niti Aayog, has been appointed as secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Anita Karwal, chairperson, CBSE, has been appointed as secretary, department of school education and & literacy, ministry of human resources and B B Swain, additional secretary, department of commerce & industries has been appointed special secretary, department of commerce, ministry of commerce and industry. After the promotion and good postings of the Gujarat cadre IAS officials at the Centre, there is now a strong buzz in the Gujarat bureaucracy that more Gujarat cadre IAS officers are likely to move to Delhi in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-long-stint-under-modi-a-k-sharma-gets-new-posting/articleshow/75396668.cms||Kapil Dave
April 27, 2020||Agra||Tenth Covid death in Agra, total cases 372||Agra: Agra reported its tenth Covid-19 death on Sunday. One new case was also reported, taking the tally to 372. In neighbouring Firozabad, eight new cases were reported, with tally now 90. Health department said a 65-year-old man of Chhipitola locality succumbed due to respiratory failure. He had tested Covid positive on April 23. So far, eight people infected with Covid-19 died in S N medical College, while two died in NH-2-based private hospital, which has reported over 90 corona cases. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “The man was suffering Pneumonitis with respiratory distress and fever. He was admitted at SNMC on April 22. He was tested Covid-19 positive on April 23. His condition deteriorated on Sunday afternoon. Doctors tried their best but could not save him. He died due to respiratory failure." In Firozabad, out of 11 new cases, six were from one family of a computer operator, who is posted at camp office of Firozabad mayor Nutan Rathore. Earlier, the computer operator tested positive. The operator’s family lives in Indra Nagar. Another three positive cases are also from one family, whose member was earlier found positive. Firozabad district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh said, “Eleven new cases have surfaced on Sunday, taking the district tally to 90. Five Covid patients were also discharged. Till date, a total of eight patients are left in isolation facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tenth-covid-death-in-agra-total-cases-372/articleshow/75395888.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Agra||Suspects post video, pics to claim lack of facilities at quarantine centres||Agra: A large number of people, who have been quarantined for suspected Covid-19 infections at various centres in Agra are experiencing a harrowing time due to poor facilities, including inadequate food and lack of hygiene. Majority of them have not been tested for Covid-19, for which they have been shut behind closed doors. A video, which has gone viral, shows food and water bottles being kept outside the quarantine centre and inmates collecting them from inside the locked gate. Some of them claimed that they are not getting adequate quantity of food packets and are forced to sleep on an empty stomach. According to the Agra administration, there are 21 active quarantine centres in the district, housing about 800 inmates. “Some 30 more quarantine centres have been proposed by the administration, if needed,” said additional district magistrate Pushpraj Singh, adding that they were presently using 50% of the capacity in order to effectively maintain social distancing among patients and to “provide them all facilities”. However, a young woman, who purportedly shot the video at a quarantine centre in Sikandra, said that no social distancing was being maintained and all persons, including her, were brought there for a medical checkup. She claimed that the suspects were not getting proper food and water and their tests had not been conducted yet. The video and pictures circulating on the social media show empty food packets littered around the facility, leaking water taps, stained and dirty washbasins, etc. The ADM, however, refuted these claims, saying that people are reacting like this due to “psychological trauma and panic”. “Medical tests are being conducted on the first-come-first-served basis and adequate facilities are being provided at these facilities,” the ADM claimed, adding that the inmates are also being provided rations for one week to 15 days at the time of discharge. “The administration has also tied up with hotels for paid quarantine centres, and if someone wants to shift there, they can do so by paying a Rs 800-1,000 per day,” he added. A 20-year-old woman, who was quarantined along with nine members of her family on Saturday, told TOI over phone that she doesn’t know if her mother, who died on Saturday, was Covid-positive or not. She said that her mother had expired after a few hours of her admission at SN Medical College. “We are at the quarantine centre and don’t know the reasons for it,” she said, adding that they are not being informed about anything. She added that none of her family members were tested at the centre and they were later shifted to their home and quarantined there. When contacted, SNMC principal GK Aneja said, “The deceased was Covid positive and her body would be cremated at the electronic crematorium with due procedure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/suspects-post-video-pics-to-claim-lack-of-facilities-at-quarantine-centres/articleshow/75395880.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||Nurse tests positive, KGMU unit sealed||LUCKNOW: The entire critical care unit (CCU) of KGMU trauma centre, where 14 patients are admitted, was sealed and all its 25 member staff, including doctors, were quarantined after a 51-year-old nurse tested positive to coronavirus on Sunday. A resident of Nakhas, the nurse is the fourth medical professional in the city and second from KGMU, to test Covid-19 positive. Three other positive cases were also reported in the city on Sunday, all of them being natives of other districts — a 62-year-old government doctor and his 57-year-old wife from Orai, parents of a KGMU MBBS student, and 35-year-old man from Shravasti. The 35-year-old is the son of the elderly patient who died of Covid-19 during treatment at SGPGI on Sunday afternoon. All the eight family members of the KGMU nurse and three other people with whom she was in contact have been asked to self isolate themselves at home. Besides orders were issued to barricade the entry and exit points of the lane where her home is situated. “The nurse was on duty when she developed symtoms of fever and cough on Saturday. We immediately admitted her to the isolation ward and sent her swab samples for test. The report on Sunday confirmed the infection,” said KGMU chief sporkesperson Dr Sandeep Tiwari. Dr Tiwari said the CCU has been sealed and fresh admissions have been stopped. “The 25-member team, including doctors, nurses, paramedics and sanitary workers, has been quarantined and a new team has taken charge of patients. Swab samples of the staff and patients have been sent for tests,” he added. This is the third time that since Covid-19 outbreak that KGMU had to seal one of its departments because of threat of exposure to infection. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said authorities are tracing from where the nurse caught infection. Lucknow’s tally of positive cases has touched 204.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nurse-tests-ve-kgmu-unit-sealed/articleshow/75397054.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||One lakh litres of craft beer in Maharashtra to go down the drain||MUMBAI: Chaitanya Khanapure, a computer engineer, was having a decade-long run in Mumbai’s swelling realm of tech innovation but an idea for a switchover kept gnawing at him. When he quit everything to study and brew beer for a living two years ago, it was about concocting his own unique flavours of ale and the sweet spot that locally brewed craft beer had hit in 2018 — a far cry from 2009, when he was a student and tasted the first kick of hops, malt and wheat at Doolally, India’s first microbrewery in Pune. From one craft brewery about ten years ago, Maharashtra is now home to 20. Yet, the sense of uncertainty is overwhelming for Khanapure as he stares at barrels of the first batch of beer to come out of his newly minted brewery in Navi Mumbai, that he will soon have to pour down the drain. It had taken him a year to set it up, handle bureaucracy and licensing permissions before he could fire up the fermenters and keg an impressive breadth of German, Belgian and American craft brews in February. Then came the virus, and the restaurant that the brewery was depending on was closed, indefinitely. At a moment when the state’s craft beer industry was poised for increased growth and a steady trickle of neighbourhood taprooms had become the lifeblood of the modern bar, they were forced to turn off their handles, shut down their brewhouses and abandon the beer in kegs and tanks for the foreseeable future. Unlike larger brands that bottle their froth and sell through retail shops, these production—only craft breweries by law are allowed to sell only through restaurants and bars and rely on either their own taprooms or keg sales via distributors, which is an impossible model now in the pandemic. As the industry heads for a rocky spell and the workforce of 1,400 fear for their livelihood, what would horrify both brewers and beer connoisseurs is the massive one lakh litre of beer that will have to be thrown away. “There is almost 1 lakh litres of craft beer — roughly three lakh pints — that all the breweries are sitting on cumulatively with no way to sell,” informs Nakul Bhonsle, president of Maharashtra Craft Brewers Association of India (mCBAI) and co-founder of Great State Ale Works, in Pune. Unlike whisky, wine and other aged alcohols that become more refined as they spend years resting in a barrel, craft beer loses its brightness and flavour in about a month. “It’s tragic because this will amount to a loss of around Rs 90 lakh spent in production and excise duty, but we don’t have a choice,” explains Vipul Hirani, secretary of mCBAI. Maharashtra’s craft brew industry had enjoyed a growth of 25% over the past three years, driven by millennials and their fascination with this new breed of locally handcrafted artisanal brews. “The sector saw an overall investment of close to Rs 120 crores and contribution of over Rs 10 crore in excise revenue, annually. Fifteen new microbreweries were under planning and in recent years young graduates from catering colleges had moved into the craft beer industry either as brewers or in sales and marketing roles,” recounted Hirani. A poll conducted by the mCBAI in early April as coronavirus snowballed and wheels of business grinded to a pause, took a sobering look at how Covid had battered the state’s craft beer wave. If a whopping 92% of breweries responded that they might not be able to survive for more than two months, the remaining 8% feared that they may not be able to make it through for even a month, if social distancing measures stay where they are. The curveball flung at them has also pushed brewers to pivot their distilling equipment to produce hand sanitizers. Effingut, a six-year-old craft brewery in Pune has already repurposed its production line to make and distribute hand sanitizers while Khanapure’s Igloo Brew Works is awaiting permission after officials from the FDA inspected their microbrewery last week. “Both central and state governments have fast-tracked the process of approvals for sanitisers. The state government is also allowing them to sell directly to the consumer,” explained Hirani. “But I’m not looking at it as a commercial venture,” insists Khanapure. “It’s a socially conscious move during the pandemic that will help us pay our employees and keep business afloat for a few months,” says Khanapure. To tide over the pandemic, that Hirani feels, could sound the death knell for microbreweries in the state, the Association has written to the state excise commissioner last week proposing the introduction of growlers (an air-tight refillable jug made of glass, ceramic or stainless steel used to transport or store beer) and standalone growler-filling stations that was introduced to Bangalore last year. “Beyond lockdown, if the government does not allow us to sell to consumers directly via growlers, the microbrewery industry will be wiped off completely,” he says. “We’re not asking for tax cuts. Just a few tweaks in policy. Nearly 100 percent of our revenues have crashed and things aren’t looking good in the immediate future. Parceled beer could be the easiest way to save the industry,” stresses Suketu Talekar, co-founder of Doolally taprooms and posterboy of the country’s craft beer story who also helped shape the state’s microbrewery policy. While Maharashtra was the first Indian state to grant a microbrewery license in 2009, subsequently it also became the only state in the country to let microbreweries fill beers in kegs and ship to other locations. “We understand that the excise department is wary about the sale of alcohol at this time but for an average craft beer drinker it isn’t about how much they can drink but something experiential,” says Talekar who likes to call craft-brewed beer a cerebral beverage — driven by varied flavours, local produce and innovations today — which gives beer lovers much to talk about. Enthusiasm for craft beer had pushed microbreweries in Maharashtra to experiment with local produce and open up new possibilities to popularise the use of fruits and grains ranging from karvanda berries, kokum and alphonso mangoes to home-brewed jaggery, strawberries from Mahabaleshwar and staples like bajra and ragi in beer recipes. If the rise of craft brewers led to a growing partnership with local farmers, a manufacturing plant was set up in Ambernath in 2017 to foster domestic production of kegs previously imported from Germany, China and the US. The craft beer market in the country is less than 1% of the total size of the beer market in the country but its volume in Maharashtra had outpaced commercial beer in the past five years. “As the saying goes, never waste a good crisis. We’ve come a long way with positive ramifications for the local economy. This pandemic is forcing us to rethink and expedite new ways of doing things to break the mould,” says an optimistic Talekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-lakh-litres-of-craft-beer-in-state-to-go-down-the-drain/articleshow/75397360.cms||Mohua Das
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||SVP doctors take to social media||Ahmedabad: Not just the common public but even SVP doctors and AMC staff are taking to social media to seek the attention of authorities. Recently, a few doctors of SVP hospital had posted a note on social media stating that the authorities should quarantine doctors who came in contact with a Covid positive colleague.“Many of us residents came in contact with our colleague who tested positive for Covid-19,” the post on social media read. “We request that urgent contact tracing be done of all primary contacts and high-risk secondary contacts within the time period of 14 days and to test all contacts and isolate all primary and high-risk secondary contacts.”On Saturday, a doctor serving with SVP hospital’s emergency section at Covid-19 ward tested positive. “Since then other doctors were waiting to get isolated and even get themselves tested,” a senior official said. “But since Saturday, there was no move by authorities to start contact tracing and hence the doctors posted a social media message.” The official suspected that there are about 20 doctors who were in direct contact with the doctor who tested positive.In another case, a woman AMC employee called several reporters and complained that facilities at SVP were not up to the mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svp-doctors-take-to-social-media/articleshow/75397070.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||1 lakh litres of craft beer in state to go down the drain||Mumbai: Chaitanya Khanapure, a computer engineer, was having a decade-long run in Mumbai’s swelling realm of tech innovation but an idea for a switchover kept gnawing at him. When he quit everything to study and brew beer for a living two years ago, it was about concocting his own unique flavours of ale and the sweet spot that locally brewed craft beer had hit in 2018 — a far cry from 2009, when he was a student and tasted the first kick of hops, malt and wheat at Doolally, India’s first microbrewery in Pune. From one craft brewery about ten years ago, Maharashtra is now home to 20. Yet, the sense of uncertainty is overwhelming for Khanapure as he stares at barrels of the first batch of beer to come out of his newly minted brewery in Navi Mumbai, that he will soon have to pour down the drain. It had taken him a year to set it up, handle bureaucracy and licensing permissions before he could fire up the fermenters and keg an impressive breadth of German, Belgian and American craft brews in February. Then came the virus, and the restaurant that the brewery was depending on was closed, indefinitely. At a moment when the state’s craft beer industry was poised for increased growth and a steady trickle of neighbourhood taprooms had become the lifeblood of the modern bar, they were forced to turn off their handles, shut down their brewhouses and abandon the beer in kegs and tanks for the foreseeable future. Unlike larger brands that bottle their froth and sell through retail shops, these production—only craft breweries by law are allowed to sell only through restaurants and bars and rely on either their own taprooms or keg sales via distributors, which is an impossible model now in the pandemic. As the industry heads for a rocky spell and the workforce of 1,400 fear for their livelihood, what would horrify both brewers and beer connoisseurs is the massive one lakh litre of beer that will have to be thrown away. “There is almost 1 lakh litres of craft beer — roughly three lakh pints — that all the breweries are sitting on cumulatively with no way to sell,” informs Nakul Bhonsle, president of Maharashtra Craft Brewers Association of India (mCBAI) and co-founder of Great State Ale Works, in Pune. Unlike whisky, wine and other aged alcohols that become more refined as they spend years resting in a barrel, craft beer loses its brightness and flavour in about a month. “It’s tragic because this will amount to a loss of around Rs 90 lakh spent in production and excise duty, but we don’t have a choice,” explains Vipul Hirani, secretary of mCBAI. Maharashtra’s craft brew industry had enjoyed a growth of 25% over the past three years, driven by millennials and their fascination with this new breed of locally handcrafted artisanal brews. “The sector saw an overall investment of close to Rs 120 crores and contribution of over Rs 10 crore in excise revenue, annually. Fifteen new microbreweries were under planning and in recent years young graduates from catering colleges had moved into the craft beer industry either as brewers or in sales and marketing roles,” recounted Hirani. A poll conducted by the mCBAI in early April as coronavirus snowballed and wheels of business grinded to a pause, took a sobering look at how Covid had battered the state’s craft beer wave. If a whopping 92% of breweries responded that they might not be able to survive for more than two months, the remaining 8% feared that they may not be able to make it through for even a month, if social distancing measures stay where they are. The curveball flung at them has also pushed brewers to pivot their distilling equipment to produce hand sanitizers. Effingut, a six-year-old craft brewery in Pune has already repurposed its production line to make and distribute hand sanitizers while Khanapure’s Igloo Brew Works is awaiting permission after officials from the FDA inspected their microbrewery last week. “Both central and state governments have fast-tracked the process of approvals for sanitisers. The state government is also allowing them to sell directly to the consumer,” explained Hirani. “But I’m not looking at it as a commercial venture,” insists Khanapure. “It’s a socially conscious move during the pandemic that will help us pay our employees and keep business afloat for a few months,” says Khanapure. To tide over the pandemic, that Hirani feels, could sound the death knell for microbreweries in the state, the Association has written to the state excise commissioner last week proposing the introduction of growlers (an air-tight refillable jug made of glass, ceramic or stainless steel used to transport or store beer) and standalone growler-filling stations that was introduced to Bangalore last year. “Beyond lockdown, if the government does not allow us to sell to consumers directly via growlers, the microbrewery industry will be wiped off completely,” he says. “We’re not asking for tax cuts. Just a few tweaks in policy. Nearly 100 percent of our revenues have crashed and things aren’t looking good in the immediate future. Parceled beer could be the easiest way to save the industry,” stresses Suketu Talekar, co-founder of Doolally taprooms and posterboy of the country’s craft beer story who also helped shape the state’s microbrewery policy. While Maharashtra was the first Indian state to grant a microbrewery license in 2009, subsequently it also became the only state in the country to let microbreweries fill beers in kegs and ship to other locations. “We understand that the excise department is wary about the sale of alcohol at this time but for an average craft beer drinker it isn’t about how much they can drink but something experiential,” says Talekar who likes to call craft-brewed beer a cerebral beverage — driven by varied flavours, local produce and innovations today — which gives beer lovers much to talk about. Enthusiasm for craft beer had pushed microbreweries in Maharashtra to experiment with local produce and open up new possibilities to popularise the use of fruits and grains ranging from karvanda berries, kokum and alphonso mangoes to home-brewed jaggery, strawberries from Mahabaleshwar and staples like bajra and ragi in beer recipes. If the rise of craft brewers led to a growing partnership with local farmers, a manufacturing plant was set up in Ambernath in 2017 to foster domestic production of kegs previously imported from Germany, China and the US. The craft beer market in the country is less than 1% of the total size of the beer market in the country but its volume in Maharashtra had outpaced commercial beer in the past five years. “As the saying goes, never waste a good crisis. We’ve come a long way with positive ramifications for the local economy. This pandemic is forcing us to rethink and expedite new ways of doing things to break the mould,” says an optimistic Talekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-lakh-litres-of-craft-beer-in-state-to-go-down-the-drain/articleshow/75397364.cms||Mohua Das
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Do Covid-19 test before arrest, says police commissioner||AHMEDABAD: Nearly a month after the Gujarat high court (HC) directed to conduct Covid-19 test on an accused before sending him into judicial custody while acting over a suo motu PIL, the city police commissioner has issued a circular directing cops to ensure that the novel coronavirus test is conducted before any arrest. The circular issued by city police chief Ashish Bhatia cites the HC order dated March 27 . Following the HC order, principal district judge of Ahmedabad rural court has also directed to conduct the Covid-19 test of accused before producing them. Superintendent of Sabarmati Central Jail has also directed to conduct test of all accused before they enter the jail, states the circular. A discussion was held with public prosecutor Mitesh Amin and a procedure has been issued for police on conducting test of accused before arresting them, states the circular. “The Covid-19 test procedure will be followed before arresting a person, who is accused in such a case in which bail cannot be granted from the police station. If an accused is caught then medical officer will be immediately approached for the accused’s test before making his official arrest,” states the circular. The circular also states that relatives or nominees of the accused will be intimated before the accused is sent to undergo the Covid-19 test. “Till the pendency of the test report, the accused will remain quarantined and under observation by cops. If the test report comes positive, then the accused will be sent to hospital and if the report comes negative, then only the accused will be arrested,” states the circular. At the time of producing accused before a concerned court, the police will have to produce test reports .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/do-covid-19-test-before-arrest-cp/articleshow/75397076.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||Strict lockdown curbs for festivals till May 30 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A 21-point advisory was issued by Lucknow police on Sunday for strictly implementing lockdown during upcoming festivals Buddha Poornima, Eid-ul Fitr and Bada Mangal. The advisory will remain in force till May 30 or till any other order is issued by police. The advisory was issued by joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora and said those not following the guidelines will face strict action. The communique said all ceremonies, programmes relating to social, political, cultural, sport, rallies, will remain suspended. In event of any festival, no one will be allowed to put up a tent, distribute food and use loudspeaker. It stated that five or more persons would not gather in a group without permission. Funeral and marriage processions will have to strictly follow social distancing as specified by central and state governments. All the religious sites, public places, and those holding rallies using loudspeakers will have to adhere to decibel norms of noise pollution act 2000. There would be complete ban on use of loud speakers from 10 pm to 6am and that too as per permitted level, but in case of any urgency permission will have to be taken from commissioner or joint commissioner. No one will be allowed to carry sticks, knife, sharp-edged weapons like swords in any rally or event, whereas there will be a complete ban on selling meat, liquor on festivals. Nobody is allowed to put up a flag, banner or poster outside religious place. Announcing a strict vigil on social media, Arora said people should not vitiate communal atmosphere by writing against a particular religion on social media. Group admins will be held responsible for objectionable messages or videos on WhatsApp. Nobody is allowed to print, publish anything which causes disharmony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/strict-lockdown-curbs-for-festivals-till-may-30/articleshow/75397064.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Law-abiding societies to be felicitated||Rajkot: A group of city police may come calling at your doorsteps, albeit not to take any legal action, but to entertain you!In a unique way of honouring housing societies that have strictly followed the lockdown rules, the police department has decided to honour their cooperation by entertaining them with the music of police band. These housing societies, whose residents have been law-abiding, will also be given a certificate of appreciation signed by the city police commissioner. The move is aimed at encouraging people to follow lockdown rules and not venture out on the roads without any plausible reason. Officials said that they have chalked out a list of criteria for societies to be given this recognition. The societies will have to start register on a cell phone number of Durga Shakti, a dedicated team of women cops. Talking to TOI, police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said, “We have already received applications from nearly 30 societies after the competition was declared open. A police inspector under the supervision of assistant commissioner of police will visit the societies registered and verify their claims.” Agarwal said, “After checking the parameters followed by the society, which will take few days, we will give all the eligible ones due recognition. We will hand over a certificate and our police band will entertain the society members for 20-30 minutes. People can join the music from balconies and windows.” Mansukh Thummar, president of Surbhi Society in Kothariya said, "We don't allow anybody to go outside of our society and only two two residents have been deputed to bring essentials . One vegetable vendor comes every day and women turns to purchase by maintaining social distancing."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/law-abiding-societies-to-be-felicitated/articleshow/75395006.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Won’t seal premises, govt tells hospitals||Ahmedabad: The state government has agreed to allow functioning of hospitals and nursing homes even after finding Covid-19 positive patients – given that the hospitals have taken all necessary care and regularly disinfect their premises thoroughly. The move comes on the heels of a high-level representation made by various state-based associations to the state government. While no official notification to this effect has been issued, top sources in the state government said that the associations have been given nod for the move. “It’s of utmost importance that the clinics, nursing homes and hospitals function at their optimal capacity in the times of Covid-19 so that patients of other ailments don’t suffer and cases with symptoms such as influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) are identified quickly,” said the administrator of a city-based hospital. But after a string of sealing of nursing homes where Covid-19 patients had taken treatment, several hospitals had decided not to run OPDs or to carry out consultation only through phones or teleconference. Ahmedabad collector K K Nirala said the collectorate has assured private hospitals and clinics that their premises will not be sealed if Covid-19 cases are detected in their premises or such patients have frequented their hospitals or clinics. “These hospitals or clinics will be allowed to function after due sanitization of the premises. We will support them to function normally,” the collector said.The permission however will come with a rider – the staff members coming in direct contact with the patient must wear PPE kits, N95 masks, and the premises must be sanitized regularly and all due precautions taken while screening patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wont-seal-premises-govt-tells-hospitals/articleshow/75396660.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Pratapnagar sisters ate food from infected man||Vadodara: Health officials eventually solved the perplexing mystery behind how two girls in Pratapnagar area of the city got infected with Covid-19, leading to the death of one of them. The biggest puzzle was that there were no other cases in the Pratapnagar area where the family lives. Deceased Tanikha Maske (13), was the daughter of an auto-rickshaw driver who had multiple health complications. She used to stay at home and did not move out of her residence. Her father who was an auto-rickshaw driver also used to stay at home due to the lockdown. Tanikha died on April 14, the day she had tested positive of Covid-19. This left the health officials of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) perplexed as they couldn’t put a finger on any plausible angle on how the girl could have got infected. Many believed that something went wrong with the test, but even this theory was ruled out when her 10-year-old sister too tested positive on April 18. This made officials even more concerned as they were still not able to trace the source of infection. Finally, after days of investigations, SMC came to know that the girls had consumed food from a community kitchen and that a resident of Wadi used to serve the food, who too tested positive for Covid-19. This was revealed when officer on special duty for Covid-19 and senior bureaucrat Vinod Rao gave the details while discussing the need to stop community kitchens. Even earlier, the first person who tested positive for Covid-19 in Nagarwada was a man who used to serve food in the SSG Hospital started a community kitchen for the poor and needy. After the man from Nagarwada tested positive, drastic steps of not allowing any community kitchens to serve food in the city had been taken strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pratapnagar-sisters-ate-food-from-infected-man/articleshow/75394882.cms||Sachin Sharma
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to sequence Covid-19 strain||AHMEDABAD: Could a different strain of Covid-19 virus active in Gujarat compared to some of the Indian states be a reason for the state’s high death rate and less recovery rate? A study will soon answer the question, believe state-based experts. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), on Sunday mentioned that Gujarat’s death rate was higher compared to states such as Kerala and that it could be due to different strains of Covid-19 at work. On Sunday, C G Joshi, director of Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC), told media that analysis abroad had shown that L-type strain had been dominant where more mortality was reported among Covid-19 positive patients. It was the same strain which was prevalent in Wuhan of China. Joshi confirmed to TOI that the genome sequencing of Covid-19 virus at the GBRC indicated that it was L-strain. “However, the patient from which the sample for virus was taken has recovered,” he said. Leading infectious diseases specialist Dr Atul Patel said that process has been initiated to identify if Wuhan’s L-strain, which is more virulent and morbid, is more prevalent in Gujarat. “The pandemic is primarily driven by more virulent L-strain and less severe S-strain globally. Samples will be collected from patients with very severe complications and those with light symptoms for the GBRC to sequence and identify the viral strain responsible for higher death rate,” he said. He added that combination of strains with higher prevalence was also possible. “L-strain is found more prevalent in Wuhan, Italy, Spain, and New York,” he said. Comparatively, a few of the places have not recorded as much mortality or severity. Difference in strain could be one of the deciding factors, said experts. In Gujarat, the death rate is 4.5% of the positive patients compared to India’s 3.1%. Analysis of the deaths has revealed that more than 80% of the patients were having co-morbidity and they were in high-risk group (below 10 years of age and above 60 years of age).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-to-sequence-covid-19-strain/articleshow/75397075.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||47-year-old woman tests +ve in Dakshina Kannada; district tally now 19||Mangaluru: After an initial spurt, Dakshina Kannada reported hardly any Covid-19 cases in the first weeks of April. However, this streak ended on April 19, and in what appears to have become a trend since, the district has been registering one Covid-19 case every third day. On Sunday, the coastal district registered its 19th case of the infection – a 47-year-old woman, a resident of Narikombu village in Bantwal taluk. The woman contracted the infection from another patient, who subsequently succumbed to the disease – the second in Dakshina Kannada die of Covid-19. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that the woman had been admitted to the isolation ward at the District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. As on Sunday, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada district stands at five, with 12 patients having recovered and discharged. The district has also registered two fatalities. The 47-year-old patient had been working at a private hospital in Padil, on the outskirts of Mangaluru, where one of the infected patients had been admitted for treatment. Dakshina Kannada district health officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that, they had collected 177 throat swabs in all from the hospital. “We have received the results of 157 samples, among which the helper has tested positive. We are waiting for the results of the other 20 samples, which are being tested in Bengaluru and other districts,” Dr Bairy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/47-year-old-woman-tests-ve-in-dakshina-kannada-district-tally-now-19/articleshow/75395017.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Morbi resident fights Covid-19, emerges winner||Rajkot: A Morbi resident, who tested Covid-19 positive, has successfully fought coronavirus at Rajkot Civil Hospital. The hospital officials said that Ashok Siddhapara had been admitted to the hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19. “However, in the past 24 hours, Siddhapara underwent test twice, the report of which came negative,” said an official from the hospital. After Siddhapara tested positive, the entire township of Uma in Morbi, where Siddhapara lived, had been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-resident-fights-covid-19-emerges-winner/articleshow/75395032.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake deputy collector caught while ‘patrolling’ in Gujarat's Khoraj||AHMEDABAD: In a bizarre attempt to break lockdown and roam about freely, a Chandkheda man, Bhupendra Rawat, 36, made a fake identity card of a deputy collector and went about ‘patrolling’ on his sedan. He was caught by a team from Adalaj police station in Khoraj village on Saturday night. Adalaj police said the man was a resident of Saru Heights in Chandkheda, and used to work as the driver of an income tax officer. He forged the ID card on a computer, which he claims to have sold off to a scrap dealer. Adalaj police booked Rawat for impersonation of a government officer, forgery, and for violating lockdown norms. “He told us that he created the fake identity card to roam freely during the lockdown, and he had no other intention for posing as a deputy collector,” said inspector Dharmendra Chaudhari of Adalaj police station.l Chaudhari said, “We learnt that a deputy collector was patrolling in Adalaj area in his sedan to oversee proper implementation of lockdown. This was suspicious as in these days no government official roams like this without informing local police.” ’I told cops to be inform me if they came across the person,” Chaudhari added. On Saturday night, Rawat went to Khoraj village and began chiding the police there for lax implementation of lockdown. The cops immediately challenged him to produce his identity card. He produced an identity card apparently issued by the resident additional collector, Gandhinagar. On further questioning, he began giving vague answers about his posting. After this he was taken to Adalaj police station where he broke down and admitted that he had made a fake ID card, said Chaudhari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-deputy-collector-caught-while-patrolling-in-khoraj/articleshow/75396653.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Students to get results based on previous performance||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) on Sunday said that the final exam marksheets handed over to class 9 and class 11 students would be based on the internal exam performance as well as assignment marks obtained by them. The state government had earlier this year decided to promote school students en masse in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The annual examination of the students could not be held due to the lockdown situation across the country. “The students will be assigned grades from A to E depending on their performance in the earlier tests and school assignments,” GSHSEB told the district education officers in a written directive. This was issued following queries from various schools regarding preparation of marksheets and school leaving certificates. Earlier, the state education department had issued a similar directive for class V to class VIII students. The students, who have not achieved the average marks that qualify them to clear for the next level, will be given E grade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/students-to-get-results-based-on-previous-performance/articleshow/75397087.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||NGO writes to CM appealing to not use the term social distancing||Aurangabad: An NGO, People’s Voice, has written to the chief minister appealing him to use the term ‘physical distancing’ instead of social distancing, considering the practice of untouchability in India’s history. The term social distancing is leading to a socially unhealthy narrative, according to the NGO. From the time, the Covid-19 became a severe health issue, the government authorities in India and across the world have appealed to people to maintain distance from each other to contain the spread of the infection. Scientists said that the virus has a strong chance to spread through the droplets produced by coughing or sneezing hence physical distancing should be advocated. However, the term used to indicate this has not gone down well with the activists. According to Ravi Gaikwad of People’s Voice, in India the term social distancing has a history associated with it and that is why it is perceived differently. “A large section of society for centuries was required to keep distance from the people of higher castes as they were considered untouchables. This practice had a deep-rooted social, economical and emotional impact. The Constitution of India provided equal rights to all citizens, prohibiting such practices. The use of the term social distancing now is in violation of the spirit of the Constitution,” Gaikwad said. He has written an email to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to stop the official use of this term and instead use physical distancing. Human rights activist Satish Pattekar, said, “We work on a daily basis on the ground to distribute food packets. We have realised how wrongly the term social distancing is being perceived in Aurangabad. Many localities have barred entry of street vendors belonging to particular communities. The lockdown has already led a severe blow to these vendors and the term social distancing might be adding to their woes,” Pattekar said. He said that the World Health Organisation has also stopped the usage of term social distancing from March 20 after activists wrote against its use. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his Mann ki Baat address on Sunday, also urged people to use the term physical distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngo-writes-to-cm-appealing-to-not-use-the-term-social-distancing/articleshow/75395957.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM to take call after video call with PM Modi||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has said clarity on future course of action in the fight against Covid-19 will emerge after a video conference Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The CMs would explain the situation in their respective states to the PM. The prevailing situation in the country would be known. “Opinions on how the next plan of action will also figure in Monday’s conference. Hence, there will be clarity on the future course of action,” the CM said. “If the present lockdown continues for some more time, people maintain their personal hygiene and take precautions; the virus spread will totally come down during the days to come,” he added. He expressed satisfaction that the spread of coronavirus was on the decline in the state due to effective implementation of the lockdown. If people extend their support to the lockdown for some more days and follow guidelines provided by the government on containment of the virus spread, the situation would further improve. The CM held a high-level review meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Sunday on the implementation of lockdown, measures. Health minister Eatala Rajender, chief secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahendar Reddy, chief adviser Rajiv Sharma and other officials participated. KCR reviewed the situation in Hyderabad and other areas and enquired about the assistance being extended in the containment centres. He instructed that essential commodities be supplied so that people do not suffer in containment centres. He also inquired about the treatment given to those admitted at Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-take-call-after-video-call-with-pm/articleshow/75397083.cms||Roushan Ali
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: CM for testing of vendors engaged in doorstep delivery||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday heightened the preventive steps to arrest the spread of Covid-19 by directing officials to subject vendors engaged in doorstep delivery to rigorous testing for infection. The state government has put in place a mechanism for doorstep delivery, especially in over 400 hotspots which have been sealed due to high load of Covid-19 patients. Issuing directives after a high-level meeting at his official residence, Yogi pitched for special vigil on people engaged in doorstep delivery. He asked officials to put in place provisions to prevent doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from getting infected. “Medical staff should be provided personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks. Hospitals should be sanitized and a dedicated team of officials be constituted to monitor the staff engaged in treatment of coronavirus patients,” he said. Yogi sought quick disposal of bio-medical waste generated after treatment of patients. For this, the state government will constitute teams comprising an environmental engineer in all districts. The CM said Covid hospitals should be specifically demarcated and no other medical service be provided there. The directives come a day ahead of the CM’s scheduled video conference with PM Narendra Modi who is expected to take feedback from states as the deadline of second phase of lockdown is about to end in a week. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has reiterated strict implementation of lockdown and a ban on crowding at public places till June 30. There is also an urgent need to keep strict vigil on social media.” Yogi has also sought feedback from nodal officers who have been posted in 19 sensitive districts. The feedback will be taken by chief secretary RK Tewari, principal secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad and director general of police HC Awasthi. On Saturday, the medical and health department constituted dedicated teams to check coronavirus infections in various districts of the state. Yogi also batted for plasma therapy and pool testing of samples to intensify and expedite testing of potential Covid-19 patients. The decision is seen as the state government’s move to check coronavirus cases which have been on the rise in various parts of the state. Shelter homes to be geotagged After community kitchens, it is the turn of shelter homes to be geotagged to allow migrants to track remote location through coordinates. Earlier, the state government had joined hands with Google Maps to geo-tag more than 7,300 community kitchens. CM Yogi Adityanath has asked the revenue department to get more than 5,000 shelter homes geo-tagged. As many as 1.01 lakh people, essentially migrants, are already residing in these shelter homes for 14-day quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-testing-of-vendors-engaged-in-doorstep-delivery/articleshow/75397079.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||As hospitals start functioning, blood requirement to go up||KOCHI: With all major hospitals in Ernakulam slowly opening up and scheduling surgeries that were postponed due to the lockdown, the requirement for blood will go up as they are not encouraging the patients coming from other districts to bring donors. This is more so in the case of districts that are Covid hotspots. Ernakulam has the most number of tertiary and super specialty hospitals in the state and most of them have their own blood banks. “Almost all hospitals have closed down their blood banks and are depending on IMA blood bank to meet their requirements,” said IMA blood bank secretary Dr Junaid Rahman. “Since most hospitals were shut down, we didn’t have much requirement and so managed to meet the demand with whatever we had,” he added. Since organizing blood donation camps is not possible during the lockdown, blood banks and hospitals have been conducting in-house donation camps with controlled and restricted numbers. Blood Donors of Kerala (BDK), a forum of motivated youngsters has been steering the flow of donors to hospitals and blood banks. “In Ernakulam, we have made 430 donations in the past one month. On an average, 35 to 40 people are donating blood every day. In the initial days of lockdown, there was a crisis because people were not able to get out and there was a huge confusion regarding passes. Then hospitals were closed, and only emergency requirements needed to be taken care of, said BDK district coordinator Jishnu Raj. He said that they could slowly streamline activities as police were issuing passes and allowing movement if the documents were clear. “There was a shortage in Aluva blood bank and general hospital and they organized in-house camps. A team of 5 to 10 volunteers travel to the hospital and back in ambulance so that none of us get exposed to outsiders,” Raj said. When a person expresses willingness to donate blood, his/her travel details are taken. Most hospitals have arranged a counter where the preliminary testing for Covid-19 is done. Then a counsellor interacts with the person to make sure that he/she is not remotely exposed to any Covid environment. “We have been able to meet the blood requirement and are also working with voluntary organizations and conducting in-house camps to ensure that there is no shortage here,” said Dr N Vijayakumar of Aluva blood bank. One of the challenges is getting people to donate. “When the chief minister put out a request, many people contacted us and asked if they can donate. But after that, again there was a lull. We hope that more people will come forward to donate blood,” said Raj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/as-hosps-start-functioning-blood-requirement-to-go-up/articleshow/75388175.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
April 27, 2020||India||Order for purchase of 52k ventilators issued, Centre tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Centre told the Supreme Court through a status report on Covid-19 medical preparedness that it has issued purchase order for 52,094 ventilators to meet exigencies and that 10,500 would reach India by April 30. "Supply of 10,500 ventilators is expected by April 30, an additional 18,000 by May 30 and 20,000 by June 30. Union government has supplied 2,83,910 PPE kits and 20,52,417 N95 masks to states," it said in the status report filed in response to a PIL filed by Alakh Alok Srivastava seeking adequate protection gear for health workers across states. The Centre said it has banned export of PPEs and N95 masks and taken up production of these essentials on a war footing. "In view of global scarcity of PPEs (especially coveralls and N95 masks) and unavailability of indigenous manufacturing, testing and accreditation facilities, ministry of textiles in collaboration with ministry of health has identified 39 indigenous manufacturers of coveralls to ensure their local production and availability in Indian markets. Union government has sanctioned Rs 15,000 crore for India Covid-19 emergency response and health system package," it added. The government said it was trying to ensure that no one went hungry during the lockdown and had announced a package of Rs 1.70 lakh crore under the PM Garin Kalyan Yojana to meet expenses for food, drinking water, medication, sanitation and shelter. Under the Yojana, "80 crore individuals, that is roughly two-thirds of India's population, is being provided five kg of foodgrains (rice and wheat) free of cost per person per month for the next three months at an estimated cost of Rs 46,061 crore," it said. "Apart from this, 19.4 crore households are being provided 1 kg of pulses free of cost per family per month for next three months at an estimated cost of Rs 5,000 crore. Eight crore beneficiaries are being distributed one gas cylinder per month free of cost for next three months at an estimated cost of Rs 3,000 crore. 2.82 crore senior citizens, aged widows and divyang beneficiaries are being released Rs 1,000 in their accounts at a cost of Rs 3,000 crore," it said. In addition to these, Rs 16,000 crore has been released for eight crore farmers. "More than 20 crore women account holders under PM Jan Dhan Yojana are being released Rs 500 each for three months at a cost of Rs 31,000 crore. 78.74 lakh workers earning less than Rs 15,000 per month are being released their EPF contribution (24% of monthly salary) per month for three months at a cost of R 4,860 crore," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/order-for-purchase-of-52k-ventilators-issued-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/75397367.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wedding bells fall silent this Akha Teej||Family members of Poet Akha Bhagat celebrate his birth anniversary at desai ni pol in Khadia area of Ahmedabad on Sunday,26,April,2020 Photo Yogesh ChawdaAhmedabad: Wedding bells have fallen silent in Gujarat on Akshaya Tritiya, colloquially known as Akha Treej. Thousands of weddings scheduled to be solemnized on Sunday have been called off because of the nationwide lockdown to fight Covid-19. An estimated 30,000 weddings were to be held on this day, thought to stand within auspicious astrological coordinates. Of these, 10,000 weddings would have been held in Ahmedabad, going by the past trends. Weddings are a lavish occasion in the state where functions are spread over several days. Guest lists are usually long. The cancellation of weddings spells losses worth crores for those selling flowers, hoteliers, caterers, and those in garments and jewellery businesses. In normal circumstances, of the 18,000 villages in Gujarat, there’s barely any without an Akha Treej weddings. Bharat Paliwal, who runs a catering business, said he lost business from 10 clients due to the cancellation of weddings. To get permission in the present situation, a wedding should be held inside a house with no more than a handful of people. Social distancing, of course, must be followed. “Adhering to these rules seems impossible in Gujarat where a wedding is a big occasion for celebration with family and friends,” said Raju Dave, an Ahmedabad priest who was to oversee five weddings. There were some who tried to brave the odds by tying the knot online. Lavkush Yadav, a resident of Ramol in Ahmedabad, had planned to marry Puja Yadav of Mumbai in a cyberspace ceremony. Ten guests from each side were log in to bless the couple. The plans were called off at the last moment after one of their relatives got Covid-19, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wedding-bells-fall-silent-this-akha-teej/articleshow/75396616.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||SI attacked for telling butcher to close shop||LUCKNOW: A police sub-inspector was attacked by a butcher and his associates under the Ramgaon police station on Saturday when he asked him to shut his meat shop as it was not allowed in the lockdown. Butcher Abdul Kalim was arrested and a hunt was launched for his five associates. SP Bahraich Vipin Mishra said on Saturday that when sub-inspector Gaurav Singh saw a crowd at a bucher's shop in Bahgwanpur Mafi village he directed them to disperse. However, the butcher dd not listen to his pleas and attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. “When the SI tried to overpower Kalim his aids joined him and they all started beating him up,” Mishra said adding that the SI was rescued by some constables who were patrolling the area. In the meantime, Kalim along with his aides fled from the spot. The SI was rushed to a government hospital. On the basis of Singh’s complaint, an FIR under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and under various IPC sections was lodged against Kalim and his associates Siraj, Shakeena, Neha, Raju, Kismatul. Meanwhile, 100 policemen have been attacked in the lockdown related incidents in different parts of the state in the last one month. In Moradabad, a group of doctors and medical staff along with cops were attacked when they went to check primary contacts of a Covid-19 patient. Similarly, a mob attacked a police team in Jali Kothi area in Meerut on April 12 when they tried to shift three Covid-19 patients to an isolation ward. In another incident, a police team was attacked in Bareilly on April 6. Four cops were attacked in Hardoi on April 17. In another case, two cops sustained injuries when they were attacked by local residents during a raid on illicit liquor units in in Prayagraj on April 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/si-attacked-for-telling-butcher-to-close-shop/articleshow/75397094.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||After a month of lockdown, Maharashtra has 6 more districts in red||MUMBAI: While 21 states reported an improvement in caseload in one or more districts at the end of the 30-day lockdown, most in Maharashtra went the other way—from green to orange or orange to red, under the Central coding system—thus qualifying for a further tightening of measures. On April 15, there were 11 districts in Maharashtra in the red zone—these are the hotspots; 18 in the orange zone—these are non-hotspots but with cases; and 7 in the green zone, with no cases. By April 24, the situation had worsened: Maharashtra had 17 districts in the red zone, 16 in the orange zone, and three in the green zone. Thus, at least four districts in the state that did not have a single case till 10 days ago started to report cases, thus altering their status from green to orange under the tri-level coding introduced for surveillance. At the national level, only two other states with high case loads showed a similar decline in status—Delhi and Madhya Pradesh—in this duration. In 21 other states including AP, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, UP and WB (see box), no cases were reported in this time for periods ranging from 14 to 28 days in one or more districts. Senior officials said the deterioration in Maharashtra reflected in some way on the enforcement of lockdown rules. “The argument in favour of a lockdown was that cases could not be controlled if routine life continued, but after a month of the lockdown we have risen to 7,000-odd cases,” said a senior official. Districts like Nandurbar, Nanded and even Parbhani that did not have a single case till April 15 and whose borders were sealed have since reported cases. The point of the lockdown, said an official, is that people should not step out unless for an emergency. “Even the presence of one patient can create a cluster,” he said. He gave the example of Nandurbar, which had one case till 10 days back but now has 11 cases. “We should presume the novel coronavirus is out there. At least in areas with high incidence, this could be the case. So the best way to break the transmission chain is to not step out,” he added. Health minister Rajesh Tope, however, disputed the perception saying Maharashtra has seen improvement since the Central data was last updated. “Districts are showing improvement, they have not added new cases in the last many days. But as per guidelines they have to continue like that for 14 days to be categorised as an improvement. Our containment plan is working and due to rigorous contact tracing and testing we continue to add more cases, but there is definitely improvement in some districts,” said Tope. He said Washim, Gondia, Beed, Solapur, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have reported very few cases and have not added any for the past 7-10 days. In all, 11 districts have not reported any fresh cases in the last 3 days. A senior official said Maharashtra is now seeing “clusters of cases”. Basically, these are clusters with high transmission rates confined to small areas. “The entire state isn’t affected nor are entire cities. We only have clusters with transmissions. Containment zones are hence the most effective way of breaking the trend,” he said. However, many doctors agree that the lockdown has not been successful in high density zones like Mumbai. Dr Ajay Hariani from Kandivli said he is shocked to see crowded markets in and around Kandivli while driving to hospital. “I was going to see a patient and I was taken aback at the crowds. There is no social distancing and most wear masks that seem of the wrong kind,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-a-month-of-lockdown-maha-has-6-more-dists-in-red/articleshow/75397090.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Frustration Box filled with calls as women battle stress||KOCHI: “Can I come back to my house in Kerala and meet my children. I have tension over Covid-19”, read a message sent to Frustration Box, a helpdesk launched by Kudumbashree. “I travelled with my friend, who was tested positive for Covid-19 later. Will I be infected? I cannot sleep in the night due to tension,” read another message from an NRK from the Middle East. These are some of the messages, reflecting anxiety of thousands of NRKs, received by the helpdesk, a platform launched to address frustration and anxiety women go through as they are stuck inside the four walls of their houses during the lockdown. “We have received 95 messages from NRKs raising concern over Covid-19. We reply them to alleviate their tension. Some, who went abroad on visiting visa, have asked whether they can return home, will they be infected if people, who is Covid-infected in hotels prepare food and parcel it?” said Jesmine George, counsellor Frustration Box in Ernakulam received around 280 calls since its launch a week ago. Women, who want to share their emotions and frustrations, can either call at the helpdesk or share it in the form of messages, paintings, audio clippings or photo to the dedicated phone number of the helpdesk. The counsellor will intervene in the issue only when the caller or the aggrieved person demands for it. The Frustration Box is run by the same team, which mans ‘Snehitha’, a gender helpdesk of the Kudumbashree mission. “Women from upper class have started calling the Frustration Box which was not the case with Snehitha. With the lockdown in force, women face a lot of problems as they have no other ways to vent out their frustrations or stress. Family issues crop up when all the members remain in the house. Some are anxious about the future of their business due to uncertainty in the market. Two-months-long school vacation is the time for many women to visit their houses and relieve all the stress. But the Covid-19 disrupted their plan and many women are worried about it,”s said Jesmine George. The helpdesk included paintings, messages and audio clippings as medium to intimate the counsellors about frustrations, anxieties or stress woman feels about. “As there would be more members in the family, women might find it difficult to call us and share the problems. If they ask us to intervene in their issue, we will do it and give them counselling. Many mothers are under stress due to quarrel among their children. Though the helpdesk gives priority for women and children, men can also approach us for support,”s she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/frustration-box-filled-with-calls-as-women-battle-stress/articleshow/75388200.cms||T C Sreemol
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||PIL against Uttarakhand government order allowing schools to ask for fees during lockdown||DEHRADUN: The National Association of Parents and Student Rights (NAPSR) has filed a PIL in Uttarakhand High Court against the state government’s recent decision to lift the regulation that banned schools from asking for fees during the lockdown period. The members of the association claim that several local private schools are taking undue advantage of this particular order and are forcing parents to pay their ward’s fees during the lockdown period. “The government’s order (dated April 22) to lift the ban on schools from asking for fees during the lockdown has led to many private schools pressurising parents despite the fact that many people are struggling financially during this lockdown period. The government had stated very clearly that no school will increase fees in this financial year but several schools have hiked it by a significant margin. Many schools are even asking for transportation and computer charges even as the children are not going to schools due to the lockdown,” said Arif Khan, president of NAPSR. The official added, “We have received several complaints from the parents and they have even shared screenshots of messages from school officials asking for the monthly fees and in some cases, advance fees too. We have also observed that many schools don’t toe their line in spite of being served with notices from the education department. Therefore, it was important to move to the high court,” said Arif Khan, president of NAPSR. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand Rajya Andolankari Manch, a social organisation, has also expressed its discontent with the government’s order and has alleged that several private schools have either increased their fees or are asking for fee payments from the parents with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parent-and-student-rights-body-file-pil-against-govt-order-allowing-schools-to-ask-for-fees-during-lockdown/articleshow/75395985.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 27, 2020||Trichy||Man tries to leave isolation ward after testing negative, brought back||Trichy: The was confusion at the isolation ward at the Karur Medical College on Saturday after a 65-year-old man, who tested negative for Covid-19 negative, was stopped from leaving the hospital as he assumed to was discharged while being shifted to another ward. The patient from Velayuthampalayam of Karur district was brought to the isolation ward on Thursday. Denying reports of the patient escaping from the isolation ward, dean Rosivennila said the patient was being shifted to another ward after testing negative. “However, he assumed to have been discharged and tried to go out of the hospital. We brought him back and he is being kept in another ward. He will be discharged in a couple of days,” she said. A senior medical staff from Velayuthampalayam said that the patient was a chronic alcoholic. Currently there are 36 positive patients admitted to the isolation ward who are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-tries-to-leave-isolation-ward-after-testing-negative-brought-back/articleshow/75397095.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||All eyes on fate of Marathwada Development Board||Aurangabad: Even if the Marathwada Development Board (MDB), a statutory body, is slated to get dissolved by April-end, the state government was yet to announce whether it will receive further extension. On Saturday, leader of Opposition in state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis had written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, demanding another extension for three such boards, including the one dedicated for Marathwada. "The development boards aim at addressing regional imbalance while carrying out the development of Maharashtra. The issue of such imbalanced development is still not addressed 100% and therefore these bodies must receive further extension," Fadnavis wrote in the letter that was also posted on the social media. TOI recently highlighted how the statutory body in question for Marathwada has been allegedly leading a meaningless existence with a section of expert members of the board expressing dissent over being only a recommender and without any executive powers. The issue associated with the MDB has further compounded with no full-time chairman available currently. BJP leader Bhagwat Karad was serving as the chairman of the board, but resigned recently after getting nominated as the member of Rajya Sabha. Shankar Nagare, an expert member (irrigation) of MDB, said the statutory body concerned must receive more powers while getting further extension. Established with two other development boards — Vidarbha and Rest of Maharashtra— on May 1, 1994, the board got its term extended till April 30, 2020, by a Presidential Order five years ago. In absence of full time chairman, Aurangabad divisional commissioner is currently serving as the officiating head of Marathwada Development board. Authorities from divisional commissionerate said a proposal for extension of MDB has been already sent to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/all-eyes-on-fate-of-marathwada-development-board/articleshow/75395972.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hubballi||Vijayapura’s first patient discharged||Belagavi: There was something to cheer for among the Belagavi district health department personnel on Sunday, when a couple – a 40-year-old woman and 50-year-old man – who effected a complete recovery from Covid-19 was discharged from the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS). With their discharge, the number of patients who have recovered in Belagavi rose to six. BIMS director Dr Vinay Dastikop said that the couple had been treated in accordance with the guidelines prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Also on Sunday, two infected patients were discharged in Ballari, and another sent home after recovering from Covid-19 in Vijayapura. Ballari deputy commissioner SS Nakul said that a man and woman, who were tested for the presence of the novel coronavirus before they were discharged, had recovered and been sent home. In all, Ballari has recorded 13 Covid-19 cases, and in all, including the two patients who were discharged on Sunday, five have recovered from the infection. Meanwhile, in Vijayapura, the first patient who tested positive for the Covid-19 infection in the district was discharged on Sunday. The 60-year-old woman had been admitted to the hospital complaining of cardiac distress and diabetes. She also showed signs of severe acute respiratory illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vijayapuras-first-patient-discharged/articleshow/75395053.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||Surgeon booked for land grab of reservoir||Pilibhit: A local surgeon and 10-15 unidentified people were booked on Sunday by district police for allegedly taking possession of a reservoir by filling it up. In a written complaint at Sungarhi police station, area lekhpal Krishna Kumar Sagar accused Dr Shailendra Singh and his men of illegally filling up a reservior belonging to the revenue department with mud and taking possession of it. The16.54-acre reservoir is situated on a prime location within the city area on Pilibhit-Tanakpur by-pass road. Lekhpal Sagar alleged that the doctor also violated lockdown orders by deploying JCB machines, tractor-trolley and 25-30 labourers at 11 am on Saturday to fill up the reservoir. Initially, Dr Singh suspended the illegal work but resumed after a while. None of the labourers had masks or gloves, Sagar alleged. Atar Singh, SHO of Sungarhi police station, said an FIR against Dr Singh and 10-15 unidentified people had been lodged under IPC sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 269 (doing negligent act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignantly doing any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 447 (criminal trespass) and 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) besides provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/surgeon-booked-for-land-grab-of-reservoir/articleshow/75395050.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Trichy||NIT alumni pitch in with Covid containing efforts||(Cleared/Gopa) Trichy: The alumni of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy have been involved in curbing the effects of Covid-19 in various capacities inside the country as well as abroad. Apart from early detection, facility management and provision of face masks, they have been supporting people in the lower strata of society who are the worst affected by the pandemic. Stempeutics, an Indian stem cell company with NIT Trichy alumnus B N Manohar as CEO, has tied up with the global consortium of stem cell companies to come out with a potent drug for end-stage coronavirus patients. He said his company will be supplying clinical-grade MSCs (mesenchymal stem cells: multipotent stem cells found in the bone marrow that are important for making and repairing skeletal tissues). Similarly, to cater to the oxygen requirement of multiple patients, Admiral superintendent Sreekumar Nair and his team from Naval Dockyard Visakhapatnam have designed an innovative “'portable multi-feed oxygen manifold (MOM)”' using a six-way radial header fitted to a single cylinder. R B Ramesh, founder of New Life Trust, Chengalpet, and his friends have been providing groceries to daily wagers, civil workers, migrant labourers, tribal and leprosy families besides supplying water bottle and biscuits to police personnel in and around the district. NIT director Mini Shaji Thomas while appreciating their efforts said the alumni have also contributed to managing the crisis outside the country. S K Ramesh, director of AIMS2 programme at California state university, Northridge, responded through Bingbing Li, a faculty member, for the manufacture of PPE for first responders and frontline workers in Los Angeles. Under the leadership of Madhumohan Sreeram, chief innovation officer of Dulsco, a system for mass disinfection of the community was demonstrated to the municipality of Dubai and put into action the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-alumni-pitch-in-with-covid-containing-efforts/articleshow/75397096.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stricter implementation of lockdown now: DGP||Ahmedabad: DGP Shivanand Jha said on Sunday that the lockdown will be implemented more strictly in the state. Talking to mediapersons, he said liquor trafficking in vehicles meant for transporting essential items is a major concern. “A case was registered in Botad where both IMFL and country-made liquor were found in a van being used for transporting milk,” he said. “There have also been cases of vehicles for essential items carrying people from one district to another. Due to such incidents, the cops have beefed up vigil on such vehicles,” he added. He said no one will be allowed to move on roads without any valid reason. “They will be booked and their vehicles will be impounded,” he said. The DGP said that those coming out to buy essential items should use private vehicles. Taxis are prohibited from running on roads during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stricter-implementation-of-lockdown-now-dgp/articleshow/75396598.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Shops reopen only to be shut down within hours||RAJKOT/SURAT/VADODARA: The state government on Sunday modified its notification allowing shops selling non-essential items to reopen that was issued on Saturday. In the modified order, the state government stated that no shops apart from those dealing with essential items will be allowed to open till May 3 in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. According to the statement issued by the state government, it had conditionally eased some lockdown restrictions on shops, leaving aside those inside malls and commercial complexes, following an order to this effect by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) a day earlier. However, the statement added that the decision to keep only shops dealing with essential items open was taken after meeting with civic chiefs of the four cities. The statement added that traders and retail bodies have been consulted on the issue and they were in support. On Sunday, large crowds were seen in different markets of Rajkot since morning. The police forced the shops to close down in the afternoon. Jewellers in Soni Bazaar on Dharmendra Road had opened their shops on the occasion of Akshay Tritya festival. Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal said, “After the government declared relaxation in the lockdown, there were large number of people on the roads. We have detained as many as 12,000 vehicles in the past 24 hours.” District collector Ramiya Mohan said: “As per the government’s notification, only those shops selling essential commodities, milk, vegetables, fruits and medicines will be allowed to remain open.” Rajkot Municipal Corporation commissioner Udit Agrawal said, “Of 65,000 shops in Rajkot, there are only 3,500 shops of essential commodities which will be allowed to function.” In Surat, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that the city has one of the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases and was necessary to maintain social distancing. “So, in consultation with government and traders, we have decided to continue lockdown till May 3. Traders too have agreed,” Pani told TOI. Vadodara municipal commissioner Nalin Upadhyay said that after the decision to open the shops was announced many representations were received from business associations as well as citizens. He said that concerns were expressed that if this was done the situation in the city that had been kept under control due to the lockdown would go out of control. Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said, “To achieve 12-day doubling (cases) target, which is a little difficult, we have appealed to shopkeepers to not open shops till May 3. We have spoken to trade bodies and they have agreed. Police has also been informed. With shops open, the infection rate is likely to increase.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shops-reopen-only-to-be-shut-down-within-hours/articleshow/75395077.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||First green zones see red with 11 cases in one day||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first green zones in the state, Idukki and Kottayam, are turning into Covid-19 flashpoints. As many as 11 cases were reported in the state on Sunday of which six are from Idukki and five from Kottayam. Currently, Kottayam has 11 and Idukki 10 patients. Of the six cases reported in Idukki, one person had travelled from Spain and two from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The other three persons are primary contacts, of which one is a doctor. Two health workers are among those who contracted the infection in Kottayam. One person had come from outside the state. A total of 468 cases have been reported in the state, of which 342 have recovered. The number of persons under observation dropped sharply to 20,127, with 462 admitted to various hospitals with suspected symptoms. Of the 22,954 samples tested in the state, 21,997 have returned negative. On Sunday, four tested negative and were discharged -- one each in Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod. To date, 342 people have been cured in the state. With 54, Kannur has the more number of active cases, followed by Kasaragod with 14. Palakkad has the most number under observation, at 3,472, followed by Kannur (2,720) and Kasaragod (2,197). Kollam district administration released the route map of the health worker who tested positive on Saturday. The source has not yet been identified. There are reports that the person had come into contact with several people during Covid-19 prevention activities in the district. Chathannor and Sasthamkotta have been now declared as hotspots in the district. Kottayam is also on high alert after a head-load worker and a lorry driver tested positive. The entire market area in Kottayam town has been sealed off and disinfection activities are being carried out. Manarcaud panchayat has been declared a hotspot in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/first-green-zones-see-red-with-11-cases-in-one-day/articleshow/75395085.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Trichy||No new Covid-19 positive cases reported from central districts||TRICHY: There were no new Covid-19 positive cases reported from the central districts on Sunday. According to the health ministry, the total number of positive cases recorded in the region was 235, including 51 in Trichy, 55 in Thanjavur, 44 in Nagapattinam, 42 in Karur and 29 in Tiruvaur. Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai registered seven, six and one cases respectively. All the district administrations in the region have been taking various measures to contain the coronavirus spread. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam district collectors announced a total lockdown on Sunday in their districts. To maintain social distance in a more effective manner, collectors of the three districts announced full shut down which was effective between 6am and 9pm on Sunday. Tiruvarur collector T Anand announced a 24-hour total lockdown till 6am on Monday. A complete lockdown was observed by the people as the order was received well among residents of three districts with main roads and residential areas sporting a deserted look on Sunday. Roaming of people on two-wheelers on city roads was not witnessed during the shutdown. In Trichy, no new cases were reported for the last 4 days while the number of cases in Karur district has been at 42 since April 17. In Nagapattinam district, the number of cases has been the same since April 20. However, the district administrations are awaiting results of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients, sources from the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-new-covid-19-ve-cases-reported-from-central-dists/articleshow/75397100.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra count crosses 8,000 just a day after 7,000 mark||MUMBAI: As it recorded 440 new cases, the Covid-19 meter in the state crossed the 8,000 mark on Sunday with the needle coming to rest at 8,068 cases. Just a day before, the state’s tally had gone beyond the 7,000 mark to settle at 7,628 after the detection of 811 new cases, the highest in a single day anywhere in the country. For the first time, the total novel coronavirus infections in the state made the journey between two 1,000 markers —7,000 and 8,000 —in just a day. The 6,000 mark and the 5,000 mark had come in two days, and the previous 1,000 jumps had come in four and six days. Another 19 lives were lost to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the state toll to 342. The city witnessed a 41% day-on-day dip in positive cases on Sunday, with 358 new cases against Saturday’s 602. The new cases took the city tally to 5,407. With a dozen deaths—the joint third-highest for a day so far—the city toll crossed 200. It now stands at 204, accounting for 60% of the state’s 342 deaths. It is the highest for any city in the country. A death that was previously accounted in Thane’s toll was added to the city’s toll on Sunday. Three deaths were reported from Pune, two from Jalgaon and one each from Solapur and Latur. After the compilation of the lists, local authorities confirmed five deaths in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, of which three were at Sassoon Hospital. A state official said the deaths in the city and Pune continued to be a cause for concern. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including the city, Thane, Palghar and Raigad contributed to 223 of the 342 deaths, while Pune circle, which includes Pune city, Solapur and Satara, accounted for 83 deaths. “A majority of the deaths are coming from urban areas and it has raised questions about the quality of public health infrastructure and health protocols,” said the official. The case fatality rate (CFR) for both the state as well as the city remained steady at 4.23% and 3.77%, respectively. From being the state with the highest CFR, the state has now dropped to the fifth position in the country. Within the city, Dharavi on Sunday recorded 34 new cases, its highest single-day jump in a day since the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in the area on April 1. Around 26 BMC doctors are struggling to put a lid on the rising cases in one of the densest pockets of the city. Among hospitals, Bandra’s Asian Heart Institute joined the long list of affected healthcare institutions after 31 of their staffers, including eight nurses, tested positive. Also on Sunday, 112 patients went home, taking the count of recovered patients in the state to 1,188. From the city, a 90-year-old woman from G-South ward became the oldest patient in the city to recover and go home. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the key to winning the fight over coronavirus would be testing and quarantining. “Over 1.16 lakh swab samples have been tested, of which over 1.07 lakh have tested negative. The cluster containment zone action is being implemented well. As on today, 604 containment zones are active. As per the record, 1.36 lakh people are home-quarantined and 9,160 are in institutional quarantines,” the minister said. The state in an analysis of deaths said that of the 19 deaths on Sunday, 11 were men and eight were women. Seven were aged over 60 years, 10 were from the age group 40 to 59 years and two were under 40 years of age. Eleven out of the remaining 15 patients (59%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma, heart disease, TB etc. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that 80% of the positive patients in the state were asymptomatic. (Inputs from Sujit Mahamulkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-count-crosses-8k-just-a-day-after-7k-mark/articleshow/75397098.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Allahabad||AI-driven app tracks Covid patient’s contacts||AYODHYA: After a woman tested positive for covid-19 last week, the first coronavirus case in Ayodhya since its outbreak in India, police have swiftly tracked her contacts over a 90-day period through an Artificial Intelligence-driven ‘virus protection application’ to quickly isolate, quarantine and curb virus spread. The App saves the hassle of questioning the patient or rummaging through her phone book, unlike the case of celeb singer Kanika Kapoor, where precious time was lost in forming a 1000-strong police team to track those in her contact coupled with the infection ripple effect. Ayodhya police is running this exercise through a recently developed app developed by a team of IT professionals headed by Ayodhya SSP Ashish Tiwari, an IIT alumnus. Talking to TOI, Tiwari said, “We put the mobile number of an infected person on the app, which quickly maps areas where the patient visited along with mobile numbers of those who came in contact with the patient over a 90-day period. Also, the algorithm quickly even shows those came in proximity to the patient’s contacts.” The Virus Protection App can zero in on precise locations, coordinates, movement and other activities of an infected person’s contacts, who can be quickly quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ai-driven-app-tracks-covid-patients-contacts/articleshow/75397099.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Unseasonal rains in Saurashtra, one killed in lightning||Rajkot: A 30-year-old labourer was struck to death by lightening, while another labourer was injured at Kana Vadala village of Jamkandorana taluka in Rajkot district on Sunday. Apart from Rajkot, unseasonal rains lashed parts of Jamnagar, Amreli and Kutch districts on Sunday. At some places hailstorm was also experienced. In Rajkot district, unseasonal rains were reported from Kolithad, Kalmedhada and Betawad villages of Gondal taluka, Lunivav and Kanavadala of Jamkandorana taluka. In Jamnagar district, unseasonal rains were experienced in Bhangada, Machharada, Navagam and Jamnagar. Unseasonal rains were also recorded in Khambha Gir of Amreli district and Bhachau of Kutch district. The rains destroyed the crops of mangoes and onions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unseasonal-rains-in-saurashtra-one-killed-in-lightning/articleshow/75395099.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Despite thousands returning from abroad, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi districts have least Covid-19 cases||Mangaluru: Despite a large number of people from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, working across the globe, many of whom have returned to the districts, so far, the districts have the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. In Karnataka, Dakshina Kannada has recorded 3.6% of the total Covid-19 cases, while Udupi has just 0.8% of the total cases in the state. “The credit goes to the people of undivided Dakshina Kannada, who have again proved that they are educated and understand the situation, and secondly to the efforts of the district administration. We have noticed that people have been conscious about the gravity of the situation, and all those who have returned from abroad, have strictly been in home quarantine,” appreciated Munish Moudgil, nodal officer and in-charge of the state Covid-19 war room. He said that a good administrator can be the head of any district, but it is the people who are responsible to make a difference. If one looks at the data in Udupi, it had 1,990 people who returned from abroad till Tuesday, and as many as 904 samples were tested. However, the district had only three positive cases, who have now recovered, and been discharged. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha pointed out that Covid-19 was kept in check in the district, despite a large number of people coming back from abroad, due to the strict quarantine measures imposed by the district administration. “All the houses of those who returned from abroad, and anyone associated with the Tablighi Jamaat congregatin in Delhi, were strictly put under home quarantine. Officials from the health, revenue and police departments visited them every day. Stickers were put on houses, wherever people were in quarantine, and their neighbours were given the responsibility to alert the district administration, if anyone moved out of the house,” said Jagadeesha. Udupi district has also sealed its border, and allows in only people who are seeking medical help at Udupi and Manipal. “So far, 904 samples were tested for Covid-19, and the results of 51 samples are yet to arrive. Out of three positive cases in Udupi, only two had travelled abroad to Dubai. One of the patients was working at a private hospital, who was aware about the pandemic, and kept himself quarantined. Another Covid-19 patient returned from Dubai and came in contact with hundreds of people, but luckily, none of them got infected,” Jagadeesh added. Another senior official monitoring the response to Covid-19, pointed out that Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts were successful in keeping the Covid-19 numbers low, because of extensive contact tracing and cooperation of people. “The people of Dakshina Kannada have been cooperative, and joined hands to fight the pandemic,” added another source. Till April 20, Dakshina Kannada screened about 39,182 people for Covid-19 and 1,286 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/despite-thousands-returning-from-abroad-dakshina-kannada-udupi-districts-have-least-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75394220.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||With rations remaining elusive, migrants unsure of next meal||Bengaluru: “Have you brought any food for us?” That’s the question which greets anyone stepping into a migrant labourers’ colony near Nayandahalli junction on Mysuru Road. About 200 workers living in this colony are unaware of the government’s helpline for migrant labourers and the authorities’ delay in reaching out to them has left them to battle hunger on their own. TOI visited multiple migrant labourers’ camps to check if the affected are getting rations and food and found that in several places no official help had reached.There are about 200 migrant labourers, mostly from West Bengal and Bihar, living near Nayandahalli junction and they worked for a construction company. These labourers are getting meals twice a day due to some locals. But they are requesting for dry rations so that they can tide over many days. “I took a loan of Rs 8,000 and came here. I was expecting my salary in the first week of April but the lockdown was announced. For a few days, people from my place, who live here, provided food. But soon they too ran out of rations. Local Byatarayanapura police, with help of volunteers, are providing us cooked food, but we are always anxious about our next meal,” says Imtiyaz Ahmed, 22, from Uttar Pradesh.Subhash Yadav from Bihar says he was earning Rs 13,000 every month. “Every month I send Rs 10,000 to my parents and wife. Now, I don’t have much money for my survival and haven’t even asked them if they are in need of it. Even if people have money, we cannot go out as cops are there. Food and groceries have become very costly,” he said. Another labourers’ camp in Buddhanagar near Electronics City houses over 500 people. Vinay, who is from Madhya Pradesh and lives in Buddhanagar camp, said with help from locals, he and some others called the migrant labourers’ helpline only to be told that they would verify and get back. “After two days, when we followed up, they said that they were still verifying,” he said.Reena Chowdhury, a social worker who is feeding the hungry by raising funds from the public and other corporates, said, “I personally contacted the labour department helpline on the need to provide food for migrant labourers. The department spent nearly three days verifying the request. Precious time was wasted. There seems to be no sense of urgency. When people are starving, the on-ground response needs to be much more effective.”Kiran Soans, trustee, Humane Universal Good Deed Network, who is working on providing food at migrant labour camps, said places in and around Hebbagodi house thousands of migrant labourers, who are in need of food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-rations-remaining-elusive-migrants-unsure-of-next-meal/articleshow/75396344.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Cops save bird from Satranjipura||Nagpur: On Saturday, people got to see the other side of the city police, who are at times blamed for being harsh to enforce lockdown owing to spread of Covid-19. A section of policemen who were on duty at Satranjipura, Nagpur’s or rather one the country’s hotspots, saved a little swift that perhaps fell due to sunstroke. The policemen called the forest control room at noon asking forester Sapna Tembhre and forest guard Amol Dhale, who were on duty, to rush to Satranjipura to take the bird for treatment as it was struggling on the ground. Apart from enforcing the lockdown, the cops were also guarding the bird to ensure that it doesn’t fall prey to stray dogs. After getting a call from a hotspot like Satranjipura, the staff, though baffled, responded to the call of duty. Forester Tembhre, ambulance driver Ashish Mahale and veterinary assistant Sameer Neware rushed to the spot wearing protective gear and took custody of the bird. “The bird was administered saline and glucose and is doing well in isolation. Due to soaring temperatures, the staff at transit treatment centre (TTC) at Seminary Hills has been attending to several such calls. At least five birds that suffered sunstroke in the last two days are undergoing treatment,” said Kundan Hate, district honorary wildlife warden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-save-bird-from-satranjipura/articleshow/75396320.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 27, 2020||Hubballi||Low-key Basava Jayanti fete in North Karnataka||The birth anniversary of 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara was a low-key affair across North Karnataka on Sunday, thanks to the Covid-10 lockdown. The usual processions, seminars, vachana singing and speeches on Basava Jayanti were absent this year. Minister for large and medium industries, Jagadish Shettar, along with legislators, other elected representatives and district officials, garlanded the portrait of Basaveshwara at the DC’s office, and the statue at Kadapa Maidan in Dharwad. Various Lingayat organisations also paid floral tributes to the social reformer. At Kudal Sangam in Bagalkot district, Lingayat Panchamasali Jagadguru Peeth seer Jaya Mrutyunjay Swami celebrated Basava Jayanti by creating awareness about Covid-19 by using a van. The seer taught the villagers lessons on maintaining cleanliness. He handed over a cheque of Rs 1.1 lakh to the Vijayapura deputy commissioner for the Chief Minister’s Covid-19 relief fund on behalf of the Vijayapura-Bagalkot Lingayat Pachamasali Jagadguru Peeth. Davanagere DC Mahantesh Bilagi, along with a few senior officials, performed puja to cow at the Sri Bhagavan Mahaveera Goshala near Avaragere on the outskirts of Davanagere city. He then fed fodder, vegetables and fruits to over 450 cows. Simple celebrations were held at the DC office’s main auditorium and Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University in Gadag. DC M G Hiremath garlanded a statue of Basaveshwara. At Vimaleshwar Nagar, devotees offered prayers and chanted vachanas. Poor people were fed prasadam on the occasion. In Chitradurga, deputy commissioner R Vinoth Priya called upon people to follow the vachanas of Basavanna to lead a peaceful life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/low-key-basava-jayanti-fete-in-north-karnataka/articleshow/75394464.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Veggie prices shoot up due to steady demand in Chennai||CHENNAI: Prices of some common vegetables went through the roof at Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) on Sunday after more buyers than the anticipated number turned up. Market authorities had reduced stock arrivals from farmers by one-third on Sunday, expecting lower footfalls due to the complete lockdown. According to market sources, the number of supply trucks dropped to 150, a 100 lesser than other days during the lockdown period. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said traders at Koyambedu anticipated less crowd. “So supply of vegetables to Koyambedu was reduced. But we were surprised to see a bigger crowd than we expected, it sparked a jump in costs due to limited stock,” he said. The market had received just 150 bags of carrot on Sunday, against the 2,000 bags on Saturday. “Similar was the case with a few other veggies such as tomato. However, there was not much change in the cost of other veggies such as potato, beans and yam,” Chandran added. More than 40,000 people descended upon the market on Saturday, sources said, adding that the figure was around 10,000 on Sunday. Some traders claimed that vegetables were sold out in their neighbourhood. “So, we are increasing arrivals on Monday to stabilise the prices of vegetables,” Chandran said. The market had witnessed a record sale of 5,000 tonnes of veggies on Saturday, mirroring festive days, he added. It was due to a mad rush by traders following the state government’s announcement of complete lockdown from April 26-29 in Chennai and suburbs to contain the spread of Covid-19. Sources with Market Management Committee (MMC), which maintains KWMC, said about 7,000 vehicles visited the market on Saturday. “The numbers dropped on Sunday with hardly 1,000 vehicles spotted,” a MMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veggie-prices-shoot-up-due-to-steady-demand/articleshow/75396548.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Horses starve in Hyderabad as lockdown slashes caretaker revenues||HYDERABAD: Over 250 horses and ponies could starve with coronavirus pandemic slashing revenues for caretakers of these animals in the city. These horses, mainly used for marriage processions, joy rides and film shootings, are emaciated to a point where their ribs are visible beneath their patchy skin. The nurture of these horses — mainly found on roadsides and a few stables at places such as Chaderghat, Chudi Bazaar, Hassannagar, Necklace Road, Puranapul, Dhoolpet and Panjesha — depends on the daily wages earned by their caretakers. They only get fed when there is money to buy feed. “I have three horses and I am not able to feed them because of the lockdown. We usually buy the feed them with the money that we earn from marriage processions and film shootings but since the past one month, everything has been cancelled. I know they are starving but I am helpless,” said Abdhul Mohsin, a caretaker from Chaderghat. Mohsin’s concerns are echoed by Haroon Ahmed from Begum Bazaar who says: “Before the lockdown, I used to spend nearly Rs 400 on feed for each horse per day. If there is no support forthcoming to keep them safe, these horses, some of whom are ponies, will starve to death.” Meanwhile, a few animal lovers in the city along with Dr Veerendra Kaja of the Hyderabad Race Club (HRC) have collected some funds and also started a fundraising campaign to save the starving horses. Dr Kaja told TOI that they have identified nearly 30 horses at Chaderghat and Begum Bazaar whose owners were not in a position to feed them. “We purchased chickpea, husk, wheat bran that is regularly offered to these horses and handed it over to the owners. While I collected some funds from my friends to help a few horses, there are several more that are suffering in the city,” said Dr Kaja. The fundraising campaign — Please Help Feed Hyderabad’s Starving Horses — was started by Rebecca Gupta on ketto.org to help horses that are in need of food and medical care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/horses-starve-as-lockdown-slashes-caretaker-revenues/articleshow/75396806.cms||Moulika.KV
April 27, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur a new challenge as 81 cases take UP’s tally to 1,877||LUCKNOW: The surge of Covid positive cases continued in Kanpur which recorded 33 new patients among the total 81 reported in the past 24 hours, pushing the overall tally to 1877 on Sunday. The state also recorded three deaths and record discharge of 66 persons taking the total in the two categories to 30 and 327 respectively. Expressing concern over the situation in Kanpur, surveillance officer, Vikasendu Agarwal said: “Kanpur was on the fourth position in the state on Friday. Adding over 60 cases since then, the city has gone up to the third position on Sunday. Containment activities are being strengthened in the district to control the situation.” In Lucknow, a nurse working at King George’s Medical University critical care medicine unit who lived in densely populated locality of Nakhas Bazar, tested positive. University spokesperson Sudhir Singh said that the unit has been closed for sanitization purposes while 25 persons working there have been quarantined. Health officials also said that the total number of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat reached 1052 which is over 56% of the total cases reported in the state so far. They also said that 4,948 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Three deaths were reported in Agra, Meerut and Lucknow. In Agra, a 67- year-old Covid positive patient undergoing treatment for pneumonia since April 23 died at SN Medical College. This was the 10th death in Taj City. A patient’s death in Meerut was surrounded by controversy. It was alleged that a covid patient – a 66-year-old grocery shop owner – was turned away by a government hospital four days ago despite clear Covid-19 symptoms. He was admitted to the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College (LLRM) on Friday when he suffered stroke. The patient’s death on Saturday evening triggered protests by his family who claimed that he died due to negligence. Meerut DM Anil Dhingra ordered a probe into the death and sought a report from the hospital. The third death took place a SGPGI, Lucknow. An official statement from the institute said: “The deceased was a 72-year-old native of Sravasti who was shifted to ICU following renal complications.” The patient tested positive at a privatee hospital in Chinhat area. The list of new cases also included three men in Khakhi – two in Kanpur and one in Varanasi posted in hotspot areas. Eleven fresh covid cases created panic in Firozabad district. DM Chandra Vijay Singh said: “Six of these patients are family members of a computer operator who worked at the camp office of city Mayor Nutan Rathore. The operator tested positive two days ago.” Districts which recorded more than one case on Sunday included Hapur (7), Saharanpur (6), Ghaziabad (5), Meerut (3), Gautam Budh Nagar (3), Varanasi (3) and Aligarh (2). Agra, Lucknow, Mathura, Badaun, Rampur, Sambhal, Jalaun and Bahraich saw one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-a-new-challenge-as-81-cases-take-ups-tally-to-1877/articleshow/75399338.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Thirsty and hungry, migrants holed up in tents fear stigma||BENGALURU: Over 40 migrant workers from Assam and Bihar taking shelter in six tents in the woods of Anjanapura area, south Bengaluru, are battling thirst, hunger and social stigma. The young men worked in an agarbathi unit near Anjanapura masjid for the past 25 months and were abruptly locked out of their dormitory at their workplace on March 25 after the lockdown came into force. The employer has allegedly not paid their salaries, leaving them penniless and homeless. The migrant men include 35 from Assam and eight from Bihar. They are staying in tents made of torn blue plastic sheets erected amid a thicket of trees. “Our company has abandoned us without even giving us our last month’s salary. We can’t go anywhere as we don’t have money, rations and drinking water,” lamented Renson Singnar of Karbi Anglong district, Assam. Shockingly, the men have only one meal a day and take turns to eat daily as they fear their limited stock of rice and dal will get over before the lockdown ends. “We eat very little as everyone needs food. There is no one to hear our pleas,” said Songja Teron of Lakimpur district. They take turns to hunt in the ark for branches and sticks to use as firewood for cooking outside the tents. The men fear them being from the northeast may invite the wrath of locals as they’ve heard some of their people are being racially abused and called coronavirus carriers. However, some locals have helped them with rations. But most men are staying out of their sight in fear and venture out in the dark to find water from a temple pipe nearby. “We haven’t bathed in a while. We initially paid Rs 400 to a tanker which brought us water but now that has also stopped as our finances have run dry,” says Rakesh Kumar Yadav from Bihar. With the group starving for nearly 20 days, temporary hope came in the form of Stelin Tisso, president of Bengaluru Karbi Society, which is working for the welfare of northeasterners in the city during the Covid-19 crisis. “When I met them, they looked starved and petrified. They were holed up in their tents fearing they could be racially attacked if they went out. I distributed some rations but that wasn’t enough,” said Tissom, who has been trying to mobilise some help for the men, but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thirsty-hungry-migrants-holed-up-in-tents-fear-stigma/articleshow/75396385.cms||Petlee Peter
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Local bodies in Ernakulam collect details of NRKs||KOCHI: Local bodies in the district have started collecting details of people staying and working abroad through rapid response teams, constituted in each division in local bodies and Asha workers. They also collect details on facilities available in each house to quarantine the members if they came home from abroad. The family members here were asked to fill a questionnaire containing around 10 questions. “Around 2,561 people in Kochi corporation limit are staying abroad, mostly in the UAE. The data collection process is still going on,” said secretary Anu R. Meanwhile, the same procedure was started in Kalamassery municipality limit only a few days ago due to the unavailability of Asha workers, who have been busy with Covid-19 preventive measuers. The rapid response team comprises 15 members, including ward councillors and people from various fields. The data collection of people staying or working abroad is part of identifying how many people are likely to return to the state once lockdown restrictions are lifted and international flight services resume. Meanwhile, health officials plan to convert prepaid taxis operating at Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) , into double chamber ones for the safety of drivers while transporting passengers. A thick sheet will be placed between the passenger and driver seats, like the ones used in an autorickshaw which transported a patient to a primary isolation facility during a mock drill in Cheranelloor last week. Around 650 prepaid taxis operate at Cial. “We prefer that a taxi should come from the passenger’s house with only the driver in it. If no taxi from the house is possible, we will arrange an ambulance or prepaid taxi to transport the passenger. We will convert the interior of the taxi into a double chamber facility to ensure the driver’s safety. We will submit this proposal to the government for permission,” said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-bodies-in-ekm-collect-details-of-nrks/articleshow/75388223.cms||T C Sreemol
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Jobless cane cutters return from Sangli, abandoned by villagers||Yavatmal: A group of farm labourers first lost jobs due to lockdown and were later driven out from their village in Yavatmal district. They were forced to spend two days out in the open under scorching sun just because they have returned from Sangli where they had gone for cutting sugar cane over six months ago. One of the labourers Sandeep Raut (42) on Sunday told TOI over phone that he and his wife were among the 40 families from Churmura village, 7km from Umarkhed tehsil, who had gone to Sangli district to work with Sonhira Cooperative Sugar Factory Limited managed by Mohanrao Kadam. Mohanrao is relative of Dr Vishwajeet Kadam, MLA from Palus-Kadegaon and MoS for social justice. “Rendered jobless after the lockdown, we exhausted all our savings. On minister’s behest, the administration granted us permission to return home,” Raut said. Raut further said that on April 20, 100 men, women and children aged 5-16 were loaded in three vehicles at Sangli flouting the social distancing norms. They reached Churmura on April 23 night. In the morning, villagers led by sarpanch Lalita Jadhav and police patil Narayan Pawar allegedly forced the labourers to leave the village. The labourers had no option but to take shelter in the nearby forest area for two days under scorching sun without food and water. An anganwadi sevika, Ujjwala Sawate, on Saturday night told TOI that they haven’t got any order yet to provide food and water to the labourers. She urged the administration to help the labour families. On Sunday, tehsildar Rupesh Khandade and others reached the place where the labourers were put up for the last two days and shifted them to the local Datta mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jobless-cane-cutters-return-from-sangli-abandoned-by-villagers/articleshow/75397120.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai medical college hosp begins RT-PCR testing||Trichy: Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital started testing Covid-19 samples after health minister C Vijaya Baskar inaugurated the facility on Sunday.Real-time polymerase chain reaction laboratory, popularly known as RT-PCR lab, which can test 300 samples a day, was set up at a cost of Rs 52 lakh. So far, samples from Pudukottai were sent to Trichy or Tiruvarur for testing resulting in delays. The facility was ready for operations a few days ago, but it was awaiting approval from Indian council for Medical Research (ICMR) New Delhi. The government Pudukkottai Medical College received RT PCR machine on April 8. “The college has created necessary infrastructure, trained medical and paramedical staff, procured ancillary equipment and reagent kits and a test run was also completed,” said medical college dean, A L Meenakshi Sundaram.So far, 973 samples have been sent for testing from Pudukottai. While 942 samples tested negative, one has been tested positive. We are awaiting results of 30 samples and these samples will be tested in Pudukottai, he said.The lab will be run round-the-clock with five microbiologists and six lab technicians. The number of samples is expected to be less in Pudukottai as we have less number of contacts tracing as there was only one positive case. So far, samples were collected from people with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). Now samples of pregnant woman in the district are also being taken. This is to ensure safety of doctors, said the dean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-medical-college-hosp-begins-rt-pcr-testing/articleshow/75397106.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Business||US stimulus will keep IT downside in check: Infosys||BENGALURU: Infosys CEO Salil Parekh said the fiscal stimulus that most western economies have announced, especially the US, is a huge positive for the IT industry. The comment comes in the backdrop of the pandemic and lockdowns that have caused consumer demand to collapse around the world. “We don’t see any of our clients in that situation (bankruptcies) as there is tremendous amount of fiscal support in the US market. There is nothing that we see today that makes us believe there is a concern,” he told TOI in an exclusive interaction. However, there have been some requests for price cuts and credit extensions. And Parekh admitted that there will be some near-term challenges. “We don’t have a good estimation and that’s part of the reason why we suspended (revenue) guidance,” he said. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThe US government’s massive $2-trillion stimulus is expected to provide liquidity to companies, including banking and financial services that are the biggest outsourcers of IT.  Infosys gets 31% of its revenue from banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI). HDFC Securities Institutional Research analysis of H-1B visas issued to Infosys indicates that nearly half of the company’s top 20 customers are in the BFSI space, including American Express, Citibank and Wells Fargo. While BFSI will gain from the stimulus, Infosys admitted in its recent earnings call that the vertical would be impacted negatively due to lower interest rates, deferred loan payments and low premiums. It said the card and payments business will be soft as customers spend less. Asked how the pandemic compares with the 2008 global financial crisis, Parekh said, “This has affected everyone, every geography, every sector at the same time. In a way nothing in the recent experience that seems to be equivalent in that sense. Medical conditions essentially have to be satisfied for this to abate,” he said. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe pandemic has come just as Infosys crossed the midpoint of its three-year turnaround plan. Infosys finished the 2019-20 financial year with a strong 9.8% constant currency growth in revenue despite the slowdown in March because of Covid-19. The company had more than $9 billion in total contract value (TCV) in FY20, which is 44% higher than in the previous year. There has been some discussion on whether customers would look to reduce their dependence on India, particularly for BPM, given the disruptions in these operations because of lockdowns. Parekh thinks if there is any impact, it will be on the smaller players. “In terms of the remote model itself, my sense is this approach is giving some new ideas. On-shore, 98% of employees are working from home today. In India, it’s overall 93%, including BPM. Our sense is, because of the strength we have demonstrated in the way we have transitioned and the overall strength of the company, many large clients are going to focus on Infosys, and some of the smaller players will lose out on that. That is one of the ways large enterprises can have good control in this situation,” he said. Parekh said clients are seeing Infosys as a stable partner with a very strong financial position, $3.6 billion in cash reserve. “They are looking at vendor consolidation and we think we will be beneficiaries,” Parekh added. Asked if the pandemic could make customers invoke penalty clauses and how such clauses might evolve in the future, Parekh said Infosys has had no situation as of now “that is challenging between us and our clients.” He said there’s also no new evolution of risk clauses, though some changes could emerge as people learn from this pandemic. “This has happened with such speed that the focus on both sides so far has been to see how to maintain service delivery,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-stimulus-will-keep-it-downside-in-check-infy/articleshow/75396551.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur a new challenge as 81 cases take UP’s tally to 1,877||LUCKNOW: The surge of Covid positive cases continued in Kanpur which recorded 33 new patients among the total 81 reported in the past 24 hours, pushing the overall tally to 1877 on Sunday. The state also recorded three deaths and record discharge of 66 persons taking the total in the two categories to 30 and 327 respectively. Expressing concern over the situation in Kanpur, surveillance officer, Vikasendu Agarwal said: “Kanpur was on the fourth position in the state on Friday. Adding over 60 cases since then, the city has gone up to the third position on Sunday. Containment activities are being strengthened in the district to control the situation.” In Lucknow, a nurse working at King George’s Medical University critical care medicine unit who lived in densely populated locality of Nakhas Bazar, tested positive. University spokesperson Sudhir Singh said that the unit has been closed for sanitization purposes while 25 persons working there have been quarantined. Health officials also said that the total number of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat reached 1052 which is over 56% of the total cases reported in the state so far. They also said that 4,948 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Three deaths were reported in Agra, Meerut and Lucknow. In Agra, a 67- year-old Covid positive patient undergoing treatment for pneumonia since April 23 died at SN Medical College. This was the 10th death in Taj City. A patient’s death in Meerut was surrounded by controversy. It was alleged that a covid patient – a 66-year-old grocery shop owner – was turned away by a government hospital four days ago despite clear Covid-19 symptoms. He was admitted to the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College (LLRM) on Friday when he suffered stroke. The patient’s death on Saturday evening triggered protests by his family who claimed that he died due to negligence. Meerut DM Anil Dhingra ordered a probe into the death and sought a report from the hospital. The third death took place a SGPGI, Lucknow. An official statement from the institute said: “The deceased was a 72-year-old native of Sravasti who was shifted to ICU following renal complications.” The patient tested positive at a privatee hospital in Chinhat area. The list of new cases also included three men in Khakhi – two in Kanpur and one in Varanasi posted in hotspot areas. Eleven fresh covid cases created panic in Firozabad district. DM Chandra Vijay Singh said: “Six of these patients are family members of a computer operator who worked at the camp office of city Mayor Nutan Rathore. The operator tested positive two days ago.” Districts which recorded more than one case on Sunday included Hapur (7), Saharanpur (6), Ghaziabad (5), Meerut (3), Gautam Budh Nagar (3), Varanasi (3) and Aligarh (2). Agra, Lucknow, Mathura, Badaun, Rampur, Sambhal, Jalaun and Bahraich saw one case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-a-new-challenge-as-81-cases-take-ups-tally-to-1877/articleshow/75397105.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government reverses decision of extending shop timings in nine districts, now shops to open till 1pm only||DEHRADUN: A day after issuing order of allowing shops to remain open in nine Covid-19 free hill districts to open from 7am till 6pm, the state government on Sunday reversed its decision. In a review meeting held at chief minister’s residence, it was decided that the relaxation given in the nine hill districts in terms of shop timings will be taken back and shops across the state will remain open from 7am till 1pm. According to sources, the decision to revert to the earlier arrangement was taken on the basis of feedback received from the nine districts where not many people turned up to the shops in the wake of ban on inter-district movement. "In the hills, opening of shops from 7am till 1pm was sufficient as locals buy the essentials during morning hours only," said a senior official. During the meeting, it was also decided that the shops would be allowed to open in both rural and urban areas as per the latest guidelines issued by the union home ministry. Incidentally, Union home ministry on April 24 evening issued an order stating that the neighbourhood and standalone shops, including those located in residential complexes, in urban areas can open during the ongoing lockdown, but those in designated markets will remain shut till May 3. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat directed the senior officials present in the meeting to enforce the lockdown effectively and strict action should be taken against people violating social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-reverses-decision-of-extending-shop-timings-in-9-districts-now-shops-to-open-till-1pm-only/articleshow/75396020.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||B’luru doc builds UV robot to disable virus||Bengaluru: A Bengaluru doctor has built a robot that uses UV light to disable the virus causing Covid-19.UV light in specific doses is capable of inactivating micro-organisms such as bacteria and viruses, thus disinfecting both air and solid surfaces. Experts have argued that chemical disinfectants are often not enough to remove the bacteria and viruses found in hospitals and other contamination-prone environments. A medical device enthusiast, Dr Deevish ND, who runs a clinic in Rajajinagar, told STOI: “The robot is designed and built by me, while a friend from Udupi helped with the coding. There is enough scientific literature now to show the efficacy of UV against coronaviruses and a latest study in the US shows that it is also effective specifically on SARS-CoV2, the strain causing Covid-19.”However, Deevish would need to do more tests locally before being able to take this to manufacturers for mass production. He has already written to the Indian Council of Medical Research to get clearances for testing at BSL-3 labs.“While there are some UV trolleys too that are being developed, I want to reiterate that exposure to UV has its side effects and long-term exposure can even lead to cataract. Which is why I decided to build a robot that can be operated remotely and, in this case, one just needs to ensure that there’s nobody in the room that’s being disinfected,” he said.Arguing that rapid decontamination of hospital rooms, used patient-care beds and even other public spaces is a big requirement he said the germicidal effects of UV irradiation results in cellular damage of the virus, thereby inhibiting cellular replication.An alumnusof Bangalore Medical College and St John’s Medical College, Deevish is also a recipient of Rs 50 lakh in grant from the Centre for a wound management device, work on which is under progress. For the UV robot, he has consulted clinicians and experts from IISc to fix the right dose. “We need about 30mJ/cm² (30 milliJoule per centimetre square) for surfaces like tables, beds or walls and nearly 1J if we are speaking of N-95 masks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-doc-builds-uv-robot-to-disable-virus/articleshow/75396400.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Seven more test positive in city, elderly woman dies||Vadodara: Seven more persons tested positive for Covid-19 and a woman died due to the disease, taking the death toll to 13 in Vadodara. Out of 249 samples that were tested since Saturday evening, seven were found positive. One case was reported from the Kalupura locality of Navapura, four in Nagarwada and one each from Goyagate Society in Shiyabaug and Dudhwala Mohalla in Panigate area. The deceased has been identified as 63-year-old woman Bhikhi Prajapati who had tested positive on Saturday. She was admitted at the SSG Hospital where she breathed her last. According to official data, 169 patients were admitted at various facilities in the city. The condition of 162 of these patients was stable, five were on life support system and two on oxygen. Officer on special duty for Covid-19, Dr Vinod Rao, met the elected representatives and key functionaries of the ruling BJP in Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to apprise them of the situation. Details of the preparedness for the epidemic was also discussed at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-more-test-positive-in-city-elderly-woman-dies/articleshow/75394902.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Central team pats Telangana cops for Covid-19 fight||HYDERABAD: An inter-ministerial central team (ICMT), visiting the city to assess the Covid-19 situation, appreciated the efforts of Telangana police in tracing contacts of Covid-19 patients and advised cops to continue the existing security set up at containment zones and quarantine centres. The committee suggested government agencies to install a transparent separation between the driver and passengers in cabs used for emergency transport in the city. On Saturday night, the central team, comprising Arun Bakora, additional secretary, ministry of Jal Shakti, Dr Chandra Sekhar Gedam, senior public health specialist, Dr Hemalatha, director, National Institute of Nutrition, SS Thakur, director, ministry of consumer affairs and Shekhar Chaturvedi, associate professor, National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), New Delhi, visited the Hyderabad police commissioner’s office and reviewed Covid-19 work. A team of city police officials, headed by Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar, explained to the five-member ICMT how they had tracked over 2,000 contacts of the 400 plus positive patients from the city so far. “The committee members were happy with the contact tracing and asked us to keep up the good work. They have also enquired how the family members of police personnel have been coping with the situation and asked us to take all precautions while performing our duties,” a deputy commissioner of police level officer told TOI. After the meeting, the team visited Charminar and Mecca Masjid and spent about 20 minutes observing the historic monuments. On Sunday morning, the team visited Telangana police headquarters and DGP M Mahendar Reddy and senior cops explained work that has been done through Covid-19 control room, including coordination for supply of essentials and food to migrant workers,supply of medicines and emergency transport for medical treatment. “The step-by-step methods used for contact tracing were explained to the committee. We explained the security arrangements at containment zones, quarantine facilities and hospitals to ensure that no one slips in or out . We also explained that all cops posted at hospitals were provided with personal protection equipment (PPE) kits,” a police source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-team-pats-t-cops-for-covid-fight/articleshow/75396775.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Boy drowns in water tank in Modasa village||Palanpur: An eight-year-old drowned in an open water tank in Dadhaliya village about 17km from Modasa town of Aravalli district on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Mihir Pranami.According to village sarpanch Bhanu Pandya, the boy had gone missing since afternoon on Sunday. During search, his body was found floating in water tank outside his house. He was rushed to a private hospital in Modasa where doctors declared him dead on arrival. The boy studying in class III was only son of Yogesh Pramani, who is currently working as a surveyor in a private factory located in Korba district on Chhattisgarh. But due to lockdown Yogesh won’t be able to attend the last rites of his only son, said Pandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/boy-drowns-in-water-tank-in-modasa-village/articleshow/75395109.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Supply ample as 5K pushcart vendors fan out||Chennai: The demand for vegetables was well met with on the first day of total lockdown as more than 5,000 pushcart vendors catered to city dwellers so they do not have to venture out of their homes. Apart from this, the Market Management Committee (MMC), which maintains the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC), has delivered 30 tonnes of vegetables to the doorsteps of residents on Sunday. Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu president A M Vikramaraja said the intensified lockdown has given employment opportunities for those out of jobs too. “Around 50 staff of a home appliances showroom chain too are part of the mobile vegetable market team. We were able to cover the entire city,” he said. Vikramaraja said there was no shortage of vegetables. The traders association had already modified the tricycles used by scrap dealers into vegetable carts. Market Management Committee officials said fifty mini-trucks were used to ferry vegetables from Koyambedu to anywhere between 180 to 200 locations in Chennai and suburbs. “The demand was huge on Sunday because of the complete lockdown for four days. It was the second highest deliveries recorded since supply of vegetables was launched,” an official said. The programme for door delivery of vegetables at door steps was launched on April 8, for which dedicated mobile numbers have been provided to the public. Meanwhile, it was not easy for those using app-based delivery services to buy vegetables. Dunzo charged Rs 130 per delivery of vegetables from Koyambedu. They also notified customers on their website saying they do not have enough delivery partners to bring vegetables. A call centre staff of Supr Daily, another app for essentials, said they could not deliver because of restrictions in lifting items from the warehouse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/supply-ample-as-5k-pushcart-vendors-fan-out/articleshow/75396553.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Two health workers contract coronavirus in Kottayam||KOTTAYAM: Two health workers were confirmed with Covid-19 in the district on Sunday. They are the staff nurses in the general hospital here and the regional cancer centre in Thiruvananthapuram. Sunday saw a total number of five cases being confirmed making the total number of patients who are under treatment currently 11. The samples of all those who were confirmed with Covid on Sunday were collected at the general hospital here. Meanwhile, the district administration has announced Aymanam, Ayarkunnam, Velloor, Thalayolaprambu and Manarcad grama panchayats as the hotspots in the district. Vijayapuram and Panachikkad panchayats and ward number 20,29,36 and 37 of Kottayam municipality were declared as hotspots earlier. The two health workers who contracted the virus are from Olassa and Kidangoor. The 32-year-old Olassa native was subjected to medical tests following cough. He was confirmed with the disease in swab test. The 33-year-old health worker hailing from Punnathara in Kidangoor is a health worker in Thiruvananthapuram. She too had sought medical assistance following cough. In Vadayar near Vaikom, a 53-year-old man is suspected to have contracted the virus after coming into contact with relatives who had come from abroad. The person had sought medical assistance following fever. The 25-year-old PG student from Channanikkad in Panachikkad panchayath had sought medical assistance as she had persistent cough for over two weeks. In Velloor near Piravom road, covid was confirmed in a 56-year-old railway employee hailing from Tamil Nadu. He had gone to Nagercoil in Tamilnadu on March 20 and had returned on March 22. He had sought treatment following fever. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-health-workers-contract-virus-in-kottayam/articleshow/75395122.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Komar appointed nodal officer||Ahmedabad: The state home department has appointed inspector general of police (law and order) Narsimha Komar as nodal officer for coordinating the efforts of Gujarat police to ensure the safety and security of health workers in the state. The Supreme Court of India in response to a writ petition has issued directions to all states and Union territories for providing security to health workers associated with prevention and treatment of Covid-19 patients, in view of the recent attacks on them in certain parts of the country. The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 has been amended to enhance punishment for people engaging in acts of violence against health workers. The city and district police have made security arrangements at hospital complexes, quarantine centres, and cluster-quarantined areas for providing security to health workers on field duty. The home department has also appointed nodal officers at city and district levels to coordinate on security issues connected with doctors, paramedics and other health workers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/komar-appointed-nodal-officer/articleshow/75396594.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||80 buses carrying stranded Sikh pilgrims from Nanded to reach Punjab in 4 days||AURANGABAD: The 3,500 Sikh pilgrims stranded in Nanded, at the Gurdwara Sachkhand Shri Hazur Apchalnagar Sahib, are expected to reach their homes in Punjab within the next four days. The 80 luxury buses, sent by Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh to pick up the pilgrims, reached Nanded late on Sunday night. The buses, after leaving with the pilgrims on Monday morning, will drop them to nearly 14 cities in Punjab in the next four days, said Ravinder Singh Modi, a senior gurdwara functionary on Sunday. Some pilgrims are also being sent on private four-wheelers to places like Kurukshetra in Haryana, added Modi. Each bus will carry 30 passengers, including two drivers and a cleaner, and will be escorted by Punjab police personnel. As none of the 3,500 stranded pilgrims has tested positive for Covid-19 so far, Modi cited Punjab additional chief secretary Satish Chandra’s communication, which urged the Maharashtra government to ensure smooth travel of pilgrims stranded in Nanded to Punjab. Chandra has promised that these travellers would be screened and quarantined for 14 days as per norms. The passengers would be provided with food-kits comprising milk, water and sanitizers to last the four days of travel, Modi said. Takhat Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib, the main gurdwara in Nanded, is one of the four high seats of authority of the Sikhs and attracts lakhs of pilgrims from across the world. Gurdwara president Bhupinder Singh Mina, superintendent Gurvinder Singh Wadhva, and all board members have been supervising the arrangements. Modi told TOI: “With due permission from the administration, the gurdwara started sending pilgrims back to Punjab onboard private buses since Thursday. The gurudwara board sent 10 buses to different directions on Thursday night and all the passengers from the first batch have already reached their destinations in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Delhi. Other batches left on 13 buses and 17 tempos provided by Sant Baba Narinder Singhji Karsewawale and Sant Baba Balwinder Singhji Karsewale, the Jathedar trustees of the Gurdwara Langar Saheb trust, Naginaghat. These vehicles started on Friday and Saturday. They are also expected to reach their destinations by Monday or Tuesday morning. Modi said there are at least 40 pilgrims from Punjab who have refused to move out till May 3, when the lockdown is expected to be relaxed. The official said these pilgrims feel safe in the yatri niwas here. The gurdwara administration has provided them with free accommodation in AC rooms. Nanded has reported one positive Covid-19 case so far. Meanwhile, Sant Baba Narinder Singhji Karsewawale and Sant Baba Balwinder Singhji Karsewale are also providing langar to about 4 lakh people every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/80-buses-carrying-stranded-sikh-pilgrims-from-nanded-to-reach-punjab-in-4-days/articleshow/75396016.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
April 27, 2020||Pune||Pune company plans to ready 20-40 million Covid-19 vaccine shots for launch by September-October||(This story originally appeared in  on Apr 27, 2020)MUMBAI: Pune-based Serum Institute, credited with affordable and innovative therapies like pneumonia and dengue monoclonal vaccines, plans to price the proposed Covid-19 vaccine at around Rs 1,000 per dose in India. Serum is one of the global manufacturers that is putting its weight behind an Oxford University-led consortium, which announced the start of human clinical trials on April 23 and is one of the first such projects to get underway globally. “We hope to start trials in India from May, with a few hundred patients, and expect to roll out the vaccine by September–October, if the trials are successful. We are planning to make the vaccine available at an affordable price of around Rs 1,000 in India, which will take into account costs (for us)”, Serum Institute CEO and promoter Adar Poonawalla told TOI. The pricing in India, he said, is expected to be substantially lower than the global one as in the case of other vaccines like MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) which are available at over 10 times the India price in countries like UK. “We are not waiting for the trials to get over in September in UK, and then start production here. The decision—at our own risk and cost— has been solely taken to get a jump-start on manufacturing, to have enough doses available, if the clinical trials prove successful. We aim to manufacture four to five million doses per month for the first six months, following which, we might scale up to 10 million doses per month, based on the success of trials. We are looking to build it up to 20-40 million doses by September-October. If successful, we will make the product available in as many countries as possible including India,” he said. The vaccine will be made at Serum’s existing facility in Pune. For this, it will be stopping the production of other vaccines, as its new plant, with an investment of about Rs 3,000 crore, will take a couple of years to come up. “We would have spent around $150 million, directly and indirectly, in this project. We hope the government will partner (with us) by stock-piling the vaccine. It will help us recover the cost,” Poonawalla said. Elaborating, he said that besides the capex of around $60 million on the new plant, there is also the lost opportunity cost of around $60 million per annum (on account of stopping production of other vaccines), cost of clinical trials, and production of the Covid-19 vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-co-plans-to-ready-20-40m-vaccine-shots-for-launch-by-sept-oct/articleshow/75397121.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Gujarat governement rescues over 50 stranded people from Rishikesh ashram||DEHRADUN: The Gujarat government on Sunday rescued over 50 stranded people in four buses from Rishikesh who were staying in an ahram for more than a month. The stranded people were staying at the Swami Narayan ashram in Rishikesh where they had also undergone a series of medical tests by a team of state doctors before being given permission to board the buses. Speaking with TOI, state government spokesperson and Haridwar MLA Madan Kaushik said, "The MHA guideline are clear that if the two state governments are willing then permission would be granted to allow buses to bring home stranded people. In this case, our government had facilitated the medical check up of all the people in Rishikesh." A functionary of the Swami Narana Ashram, Sunil, said, "The group of people had middle aged women and men who had come to Rishikesh before the lockdown. The Gujarat government had sent four buses for them." He added that the local police had prepared a list of passengers, their addresses and medical report for the Gujarat government. A passenger, Nanabhai Rawal, said, "We are very thankful to the Gujarat and Uttarakhand government that the buses were allowed to take us back home in Surat from Rishikesh. During the lockdown we stayed in the ashram and had no problem." By evening, the buses had crossed Delhi. Interestingly, the Gujarat government had on Saturday rescued over 50 people from Haridwar. Kaushik said that the Gujarat government is not alone to have approached the Uttarakhand government for cooperation. Other state governments such as Maharashtra, West Bengal and Bihar are also in touch with the Uttarakhand government. "The SOP for the carrying out such rescue operation is clear that the buses would be given special clearances from the MHA. The policemen of the state government would travel from the origin to the destination state where the people would get medically examined before being allowed board the bus." The state government is in process of getting details of the people, and their locations in Uttarakhand from the different state governments. "So far we have received details of around 100 people from Maharashtra and over 200 people from West Bengal. Our government is in talks with these states to chalk out the plans and the modalities," Kaushik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gujarat-govt-rescues-over-50-stranded-people-from-rishikesh-ashram/articleshow/75396043.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man holds baby shower, booked||AHMEDABAD: Satellite police on Sunday booked a leading jeweller of Ahmedabad for disobeying the lockdown notification issued by the state home department as he held a baby shower ceremony of his wife and invited guests to his home in the Ambawadi area. According to the FIR, a sub inspector M G Limbola learned from an informer that a resident of Sumadhur Society near Ocean Park, was holding Shrimant (baby shower) ceremony at home and had invited a few guests. On questioning, the jeweller told the police that he had invited the guests to hold the baby shower ceremony of his wife. The jeweller was booked under IPC Section 188.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-holds-baby-shower-booked/articleshow/75396583.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Amid lockdown norms, portals of Gangotri, Yamunotri shrines re-open||UTTARKASHI: A much-mellowed version of the annual Char Dham Yatra began on Sunday, with the opening of portals of the Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines after six-month-long winter break on the auspicious occasion of Akshay Tritiya here in Uttarkashi district. Amid strict lockdown guidelines, priests opened the portals of Gangotri shrine, which is dedicated to goddess Ganga at shubh muhurat (auspicious timing) of 12.35 pm, whereas gates of Yamunotri temple, dedicated to goddesses Yamuna, was opened at 12.41 pm in the presence of selected people. Earlier, the ceremonial palanquin of goddesses Ganga reached Gangotri town on Sunday morning after night stay at Bhairav temple. On arrival of the palanquin, priests opened the gates and set up the idol inside the temple. After this, priests offered the first prayer on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and wished for his success in fight against Covid-19 pandemic. On the other hand, the palanquin of goddesses Yamuna accompanied by her brother lord Shani ‘Someshwar Devta’ left her winter abode Kharsali village and reached Yamunotri shrine by afternoon, where priests opened the gates of the temple after offering special prayers. Suresh Semwal, president of Gangotri temple committee and Kriteshwar Uniyal, secretary of Yamunotri temple committee said, “Apart from selected priests, no pilgrims and devotees will be allowed to visit the shrine, until further directions. We are hoping that soon the Covid-19 crisis gets over and the government starts the Char Dham Yatra, which is the backbone of the state’s economy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-lockdown-norms-portals-of-gangotri-yamunotri-shrines-re-open/articleshow/75396036.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Aavin milk packets sold at higher price||Chennai: Following a shortage, Aavin milk packets were sold in black, at a much higher price than the Maximum Retail Price (MRP), in Chennai on Sunday complained several residents. T Sadagopan, president of Tamil Nadu Progressive Consumer Centre said, “The half-litre milk packets, priced at Rs 23, were sold for Rs 35-40 on platforms in Purasawalkam. It seems like these vendors purchased the milk packets in bulk from Aavin outlets and sold them for profit.” Consumers from Kodambakkam, Nanganallur and Royapettah posted on social media about the overpricing as Aavin’s official helpline only dealt with sales at authorised depots/ sales units. According to official data, Aavin has 1,654 depots, delivery points, parlours and franchise retail outlets in Chennai. A senior official working at Aavin, who rejected complaints about the overpricing, said, “Teams were formed to keep a check on such issues. Usually, 12 lakh litres of milk is sold through these points on a daily basis. But since April first week, the sale has increased to 13.8 lakh litres.” Meanwhile, people also began stocking up on milk packets stating the four-day complete lockdown as a reason. People began waiting in long queues outside Aavin sales units from 4am onwards while most shops opened only at 5.30am. By around 6am, almost all stores ran short of the stock and people were asked to come after 12 noon. Aavin stepped up its production and ensured that milk was available at their stores by noon. In a press release, Aavin announced that alongside Zomato and Dunzo, Swiggy too had been roped in for door delivery. Swiggy would door deliver Aavin products across eight categories from 21 outlets in the city. While Aavin claimed that 3.5 lakh litres of milk were sold through these online apps on Sunday, a few consumers complained that the option was unavailable in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aavin-milk-packets-sold-at-higher-price/articleshow/75396556.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 27, 2020||Business||Sequoia Cap, Sofina infuse $20m in Bira||Bengaluru: B9 Beverages, which owns the Bira beer brand, has raised $20 million in bridge financing from two of its existing investors Sequoia Capital and Sofina, a Belgian investor. This is part of the company’s pre-Series C equity financing round which began last year, as part of which it raised $4.3 million from Sixth Sense Ventures, a domestic venture capital fund focused on consumer investments. Proceeds from the funding would be used to expand its business in India. “Our market shares in several markets are now higher than 5% of overall beer, and more than 20% share of premium beer,” said Ankur Jain, CEO of B9 Beverages. Bira has raised $130 million since it started five years ago. Bira recently entered the mass market segment with the launch of Boom which will compete against United Breweries’ Kingfisher Strong. Its other competitors include Carlsberg and AB Inbev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sequoia-cap-sofina-infuse-20m-in-bira/articleshow/75396559.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t ostracize entire group over mistakes of a few: Bhagwat||Nagpur: It is not right to ostracize an entire group if a section of it has committed an irresponsible act out of fear or anger leading to the spread of Covid-19, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat in an online address on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on Sunday. In an obvious reference to Nizamuddin Markaz incident of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi and its fallout, Bhagwat said it was not right to have same yardstick for an entire community. “There are black sheep everywhere,” said Bhagwat who stressed such incident should not fuel hatred in the country. “There is a segment active these days that has evil intentions of dividing the nation. The common man should understand they should not react with hate and understand that each of the 130 crore people living in India belong to our motherland and are our brothers,” said Bhagwat. There should be no reaction out of fear or anger from either side and leaders of every group should be preventing their people from such acts, said Bhagwat as he also deplored the killing of sadhus in Palghar. “Much has been said about the incident. However, the question is should it have happened. Should people have taken the law in their own hands,” he said about the Palghar killings. “There have been calls from Hindu Dharma Acharya Sabha and Vishwa Hindu Parishad on holding a programme to pay homage to the sadhus on April 28. We all will be taking part in it,” said Bhagwat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-ostracize-entire-group-over-mistakes-of-a-few-bhagwat/articleshow/75392530.cms||Shishir Arya
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Leopard spotted on tanker at Alang ship recycling yard||RAJKOT: Workers on a ship anchored at ship recycling yard in Alang, Bhavnagar were shocked to find a leopard on the vessel on Saturday night. The leopard was sighted on tanker King Kong 2 beached on plot no, 153 of the Alang ship recycling yard. According to sources, nearly half of the ship has been cut for recycling. “After a worker spotted the leopard, it sneaked into the ship and did not come out. The ship breaking yard officials alerted the police and the forest department officials,” said S T Maheshweri, sub-inspector with Alang marine police station. “We set up a cage, but the leopard did not enter it. We could see the big cat on the ship in a torch light. We wanted shoot it with a tranquillizing dart. However, we could not do so, as the leopard did not come out,” said a forest official. Sandeep Kumar, deputy conservator of forest, Shetrunji range, told TOI: “We got a message around 9m on Saturday that a leopard had entered one of the ships that was beached for breaking there. We have placed a cage in the ship, but it has not been captured yet.” “We are hopeful it will be caged soon as there is no other way for it to escape. There is water on all sides,” Kumar said. According to Kumar, there is very less movement of workers in Alang due to lockdown and the leopard might have been somewhere near by. Environment officer Atul Sharma said that the pollution levels in Alang have drastically reduced due to number of steps taken by the Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) and ship recyclers. As a result, flaura and fauna are both flourishing in and around Alang. According GMB officials, there are 65 vessels under recycling in Alang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-spotted-on-tanker-at-alang-ship-recycling-yard/articleshow/75395124.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Robotic ally joins duty at Covid ward||KOCHI: A robot developed by Asimov Robotics that can minimize exposure of healthcare workers to the novel coronavirus by carrying out routine jobs like disinfection and delivery of meals and medicine to patients joined duty at the Covid ward of Government Medical College, Ernakulam, on Saturday. It will also help address the shortage of PPE kits by minimizing its use by workers. The robot, Karmi-bot was donated by ViswaSanthi Foundation of actor Mohanlal. The robot comes attached with a UV disinfection cabinet to sanitize masks, and a nozzle that can be used to disinfect surfaces. “We have customized the robot for use in the Covid care ward after talking to healthcare personnel in the hospital regarding the routine procedures and tasks,” said Jayakrishnan T, founder and CEO of Asimov Robotics. Any installation, re-installation or upgradation that is needed can be done remotely and does not require site visits by the team. Asimov Robotics started work on customized Karrmi-bot on March 25 and came up with a prototype in 15 days. “For the 10 beds in the ward, sequencing can be done in any order by the user. It can move to each patient and inquire if they have any needs through a video call. If the patient is not responding it would move to the next bed,” Jayakrishnan said. The company has received around 500 inquiries from private and public agencies in India, New York, Boston and Qatar. “We have completed 3D modelling for a production-friendly design taking into account availability of spare parts,” said Jayakrishnan. Apart from funding, the availability of spare parts is one of the most frustrating issues faced by startups which have innovative, market-ready products that can be scaled up. Once configured, the robot will be able to perform its duties fully autonomously. Carrying a payload up to 25kg, the robot is capable of achieving a maximum speed of 1m/sec. “It can carry out sanitization by trashing masks and other materials from the patients in a detachable UV disinfection box. The disinfection box can be removed once the bot is back at the nursing station,” he said. The bot is fitted with a nozzle that can spray disinfectant on leaked body fluids or vomit to reduce the risk of infection before cleaning is undertaken manually. “It can even chat up the patients to keep them entertained using pre-defined setting in multiple languages,” said Jayakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/robotic-ally-joins-duty-at-covid-ward/articleshow/75388257.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Mercury dips after Sunday downpour, more rain likely||Chennai: The rest of total lockdown is likely to be cloudy or wet as the city is expected to get more rain in the coming days, because of convergence of wind and clouds developed due to the heat. A Met department forecast said, “The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Rain or thundershower is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 31C and 25Rs C respectively.” The total lockdown in Chennai and its suburbs began on a surprise note with heavy rain on Sunday morning. Chennai, parts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur districts received showers. The rain that started around 5am lashed many parts of the city for at least an hour. Nungambakkam received 13.2mm rain till 8.30am while Meenambakkam received 8.5mm rain. Light to moderate rain continued till 10.30am. The rain caused daytime temperature to dip to 31C on Sunday, when compared to the previous days when mercury hovered around 35C. The day was cloudy and pleasant. It is the second rain in the city this summer after the heavy rain on April 9. Met department officials said the rain was due to a convective action triggered by formation of clouds after land heated up. "This is usual summer rain and it can continue, but cannot be forecast like we do for rains triggered by weather systems formed during northeast monsoon," he added. Private weather blogger Pradeep John in a post said, “Rain chances exist for Chennai almost on all the days till April 30th.” “Though on other days it is going to be luck-based hit-or-miss type rain, from late night on April 28 to the morning of 29, massive convergence is seen over Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chennai. With the heat available, there are high chances of massive thunderbolts like today (Sunday) to be seen across Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and coastal areas of TN on the morning of April 29,” the post said. He also said, “This is like northeast monsoon rains with clouds coming from sea.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mercury-dips-after-sunday-downpour-more-rain-likely/articleshow/75396562.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Nursing staff at AIIMS-Rishikesh, parents of day-old baby in Dehradun found Covid-19-positive||DEHRADUN: The administration of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh has quarantined the entire staff of its urology in-patient department (IPD) after a nursing staff member of the department was found Covid-19-positive on Sunday. This comes even as AIIMS has neither tested nor treated a single Covid-19-positive case till now and the staffer had no travel history as well. The hospital is now suspecting that one of the patients in the IPD was asymptomatic who had spread the infection to the staff. Besides, the entire staff of Doon Hospital’s women’s wing as well as 12 other pregnant women were quarantined on Sunday after the mother of a one-day-old baby (who was from the sealed locality of Azad Colony) tested Covid-19-positive. Later in the evening, reports of the baby’s father also came out positive, taking the tally of infected patients in the state to 51. With two patients from Haridwar getting discharged on April 26, total cured cases in the state have now reached 28. Doon Hospital staff is now testing all the other new mothers and newborns as well as the doctor who conducted the woman’s delivery on Saturday. Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) said that the woman’s family members and other staff members were also being tested. UB Mishra, dean of hospital administration, AIIMS Rishikesh, meanwhile told TOI that the 28-year-old nursing staffer who was found Covid-19-positive on Sunday is being queried in order to trace how he had got infected. “We are asking him about the people he has come in contact with in the past 10 days. We are expecting that there is an asymptomatic patient admitted in the urology ward who has infected the staffer." According to the daily bulletin issued by the health department, the rate of doubling of positive patients in the state has been 28 days for the past week, that is April 19 to 25. Of the total tested people, only 1% have tested positive which is less than the national average of 3.26%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nursing-staff-at-aiims-rishikesh-parents-of-day-old-baby-in-doon-found-covid-19-positive/articleshow/75395131.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch BJP leader’s brother caught with liquor||Rajkot: The brother of Kutch BJP district president Keshu Patel was arrested with a bottle of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in a car at Sheikhpir check post near Bhuj on Saturday night. Police said a knife was also recovered from the accused, identified as Chandu Patel (59). “Chandu was arrested when the liquor bottle and the knife were found in his car while we were checking vehicles at the check post. He has been booked under Prohibition Act and for the violation of the lockdown order,” said Rameshdan Gadhvi, assistant sub-inspector with Padhar police station. Patel was going to his residence in Bhuj Bankers’ Colony when his car was stopped by the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-bjp-leaders-brother-caught-with-liquor/articleshow/75395140.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t ostracize entire group over mistakes of a few: Bhagwat||Nagpur: It is not right to ostracize an entire group if a section of it has committed an irresponsible act out of fear or anger leading to the spread of Covid-19, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat in an online address on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on Sunday. In an obvious reference to Nizamuddin Markaz incident of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi and its fallout, Bhagwat said it was not right to have same yardstick for an entire community. “There are black sheep everywhere,” said Bhagwat who stressed such incident should not fuel hatred in the country. “There is a segment active these days that has evil intentions of dividing the nation. The common man should understand they should not react with hate and understand that each of the 130 crore people living in India belong to our motherland and are our brothers,” said Bhagwat. There should be no reaction out of fear or anger from either side and leaders of every group should be preventing their people from such acts, said Bhagwat as he also deplored the killing of sadhus in Palghar. “Much has been said about the incident. However, the question is should it have happened. Should people have taken the law in their own hands,” he said about the Palghar killings. “There have been calls from Hindu Dharma Acharya Sabha and Vishwa Hindu Parishad on holding a programme to pay homage to the sadhus on April 28. We all will be taking part in it,” said Bhagwat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-ostracize-entire-group-over-mistakes-of-a-few-bhagwat/articleshow/75393447.cms||Shishir Arya
April 27, 2020||Madurai||Court rejects bail plea of 3 IS suspects||Madurai: Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court has dismissed the bail application of three alleged Islamic State (IS) sympathizers who were arrested in January in that district. Pitchaikani, 42, a native of Keezhakarai, Mohammed Ameer, 27, a native of Villupuram and Mohammed Ali alias Manikandan, 28, from Cuddalore were arrested by Devipattinam police and booked under sections 153A, 153B, 120B of IPC, sections 18, 18B, 38, 39 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and under section 66F(2) of Information Technology Act. The prosecution contended that on January 21, the trio along with other accused criminally conspired and radicalized youths to undertake unlawful activities and asked them to undergo training under IS organisation. The trio had filed an e-bail application which was heard through conference call by the court recently. The petitioners submitted that they have been falsely implicated in the case and that they were in judicial custody since January 22. The public prosecutor also submitted that the petitioners along with other accused also attempted to access a computer resource without authorization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-3-is-suspects/articleshow/75396563.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teenager caught trying to sodomize 8-year-old boy||Ahmedabad: Alert neighbours saved an 8-year-old boy in Nikol on Saturday from becoming the victim of a 16-year-old boy’s sexual predation and attempt to sodomize the child. The older boy was apprehended inside a locked common bathroom while he was molesting the 8-year-old, and handed over to Nikol police, who sent the accused to a shelter home. Police sources said the accused teenager was allegedly a porn addict and used to watch pornographic videos on mobile phone. “Thankfully, he was caught before he could sodomize the child,” said a police source. Sources in Nikol police station said that on Saturday, the teenager was playing with the 8-year-old boy, and he took him to the common bathroom and locked the door from inside. Local residents felt something was amiss, and went to check. “They caught the teenager trying to sodomize the 8-year-old,” said a police source.“. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teenager-caught-trying-to-sodomize-8-year-old-boy/articleshow/75396570.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||One lakh litres of craft beer in Maharashtra to go down the drain||MUMBAI: Chaitanya Khanapure, a computer engineer, was having a decade-long run in Mumbai’s swelling realm of tech innovation, but a need for a switchover kept gnawing at him. When he quit to study and brew beer for a living two years ago, it was to concocting his own unique flavours of ale and hit the sweet spot that locally brewed craft beer had managed to open up in 2018—a far cry from 2009, when he tasted this artisanal brew for the first time at Doolally, India’s first microbrewery in Pune. From one craft brewery about 10 years ago, Maharashtra is now home to 20. Yet, the sense of uncertainty is overwhelming for Khanapure as he stares at barrels of the first batch of freshly-brewed beer from his brewery that he will soon have to pour down the drain. It had taken over a year to set up his brewery, handle bureaucracy and licensing permissions before he could fire up the fermenters and keg a breadth of German, Belgian and American craft brews in February. Then came the virus, and the restaurant that the brewery was depending on was closed, indefinitely. At a moment when the state’s craft beer industry was poised for increased growth and a steady trickle of neighbourhood taprooms had become the lifeblood of the modern bar, they were forced to shut down brewhouses and abandon the beer in kegs and tanks. Unlike larger brands that bottle their froth and sell through retail shops, these production-only craft breweries by law are allowed to sell only through restaurants and bars and rely on either their own taprooms or keg sales via distributors, an impossible model in the pandemic. As the industry heads for a rocky spell and the workforce of 1,400 fear for their livelihood, what would horrify both brewers and beer connoisseurs is the massive one lakh litre of beer that will have to be thrown away. “There’s almost 1 lakh litres of craft beer — roughly three lakh pints — that all the breweries are sitting on cumulatively with no way to sell,” said Nakul Bhonsle, president of Maharashtra Craft Brewers Association of India (mCBAI). Unlike whisky, wine and other aged alcohols that become more refined as they spend years resting in a barrel, craft beer loses its brightness and flavour in about a month. Maharashtra’s craft brew industry had enjoyed a growth of 25% over the past three years, driven by millennials and their fascination with locally handcrafted brews that opened up new possibilities with local farmers in the use of regional fruits and grains. To foster domestic production, a manufacturing plant was set up in Ambernath in 2017 to produce kegs previously imported from Germany, China and the US. “The sector saw an overall investment of close to Rs 120 crore and contributions of over Rs 10 crore in excise revenue annually. In recent years we’ve also seen young graduates from catering colleges move into the industry either as brewers or in marketing roles,” said Vipul Hirani, secretary of mCBAI. A poll conducted by mCBAI in early April, took a sobering look at how Covid-19 had battered the state’s craft beer wave. If a whopping 92% of breweries responded that they might not be able to survive for more than two months, the remaining 8% feared that they may not be able to make it through for even a month, if social distancing measures continue. To tide over the pandemic, that Hirani feels could sound the death knell for microbreweries in the state, the association had written to the state excise commissioner last week proposing the introduction of growlers (an air-tight refillable jug made of glass, ceramic or stainless steel used to transport or store beer) and standalone growler-filling stations. “We’re not asking for tax cuts. Just a few tweaks to the policy. Nearly 100% of our revenues have crashed. Parceled beer could be the easiest way to save the industry,” said Suketu Talekar, co-founder of Doolally taprooms and posterboy of the country’s craft beer story who also helped shape the state’s microbrewery policy. Until that happens, brewers have pivoted their distilling equipment to produce hand sanitizers. Effingut, a six-year-old craft brewery in Pune has already repurposed its production line to make and distribute hand sanitizers, while Khanapure’s Igloo Brew Works is awaiting permission from the FDA. “Both central and state governments have fast-tracked the process of approvals for sanitisers,” added Hirani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1l-litres-of-craft-beer-in-state-to-go-down-the-drain/articleshow/75397128.cms||Mohua Das
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Businesses hit in Garhwal area as supply chain disrupted||DEHRADUN: A day after the state government gave relaxation to shop owners and other businesses in nine districts of Uttarakhand, traders in Garhwal region say that the ongoing lockdown regulations in Dehradun and Haridwar will hit supplies and thereby, hurt businesses. “The small and medium scale businesses in the hills would get normailised only after regulations in the supply chain hubs — Dehradun, Haridwar, Haldwani — are lifted,” said Pankaj Gupta, president of Industries Association of Uttarakhand. He added that these supply hub districts also help with freight movement from other states. TOI spoke to owners of several businesses to identify the challenges they are facing due to the lockdown. Bishan Singh Rana, owner of a poultry farm who also deals in trout fish, told TOI, ““All my stock of fishes and chickens finished last month and I am not getting any more supplies from Dehradun because of the lockdown. The government must ensure that the businesses in the hill districts get regular supplies after the lockdown is lifted.” Farmers in the Garhwal region are also facing supply disruption issues due to the lockdown. A Pauri-based farmer Anil Chaufin told TOI, “All farmers cultivate pea crop in this region and it gets ready for selling in the market by March-April but due to the lockdown, farmers were not able to transport their produce to other cities and were forced to sell at throwaway prices.” Meanwhile, the shopkeepers, mostly general store owners, say that they have stock of grocery items for just one more week. Negi, who runs a general store in Khirsu village, told TOI, “All my stock, including necessary items like salt, rice, and pulses, would be sold in a week. This issue in the hills won’t get solved unless supplies from Kotdwar, Dehradun, and Haridwar are normalised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/businesses-hit-in-garhwal-area-as-supply-chain-disrupted/articleshow/75396048.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 man taken to hospital from border, Nagala Park evades containment||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has decided not to mark the Nagala Park area as a containment zone though a resident of the locality has tested positive for coronavirus. This is because the man had not been home and had been sent directly to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) civil hospital from the district border upon his return from Rajasthan. On Saturday, a 38-year-old resident of Nagala Park — who had gone to Iran and then taken to Rajasthan — tested positive for Covid-19. According to his relatives, he had gone to Iran and after the flights were cancelled, he, along with several others, were taken to Rajasthan on a defence plane. There he had tested positive and was put under treatment. After the treatment, his samples tested negative for the virus and he was allowed to return home, along with three others from the city. All four were issued special travel passes. However, before they could enter the city, the 38-year-old man and his three companions were sent to the CPR hospital directly from the district border at Kini toll booth. Throat swabs samples of all four were sent for testing again. While his companions tested negative, this man tested positive for the virus. Kolhapur municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti said, “The person is now at the isolation centre. The three individuals who travelled with him have been put under institutional quarantine. Since all of them were taken directly to the hospital, and they had not gone to their homes, no containment zone has been marked at Nagala Park.” Once a containment zone is marked, the locality is completely sealed and people are not allowed to come out of their homes. Disinfection is carried out and a health survey is done. The locals at Nagala Park are thus relieved that the administration decided to take these persons directly to the hospital. “I have written to all the mandals and residential societies to let us know of the persons who have arrived from other places. Already, we have traced a large number of such people and they have been home-quarantined. We don’t want a single person with travel history to stay at home as Covid-19 can often be asymptomatic and people may continue to infect others unknowingly,” said Kalshetti. The doctors at CPR hospital said the Covid-19 patient develop pneumonia when brought late for treatment. Dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye said pneumonia can be cured, however, it still exists in a small amount. As a result, a person can test positive for Covid-19. She said that the person will get recover soon and the test results for another swab sample sent to the Miraj laboratory are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-man-taken-to-hospital-from-border-nagala-park-evades-containment/articleshow/75396037.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Rishikesh colony declared containment zone||DEHRADUN: Days after Bees Bigha Colony that falls under the municipal limits of Rishikesh reported Covid-19 cases, the Dehradun district administration on Sunday declared the area as ‘containment zone’. The Dehradun district magistrate has ordered a complete lockdown in several residential area, including Bapugram-Miranagar trisection, Bees Bigha lane number 2 and 3 till the midnight of May 3. Officials said that the decision has been taken in interest of the residents who will not be allowed to move out of their homes during the complete lockdown period. Police will put up barriers on all the entry and exits points to ensure compliance of lockdown and no shops, offices, and banks will be allowed to remain open till further orders. However, the district magistrate has ordered the district supply officer to ensure the availability of mobile vans for regular supplies of essential commodities such as ration. In addition, supply of dairy products along with mobile ATM machines in the areas will also be stationed for limited duration. For getting essential supplies, one member from each family will be allowed to move out during the timings allowed for buying ration, vegetables, and dairy products. The district administration has also issued helpline numbers for residents living in the areas under complete lockdown in case they experience health issues like cough, cold, and fever. The residents can reach out for medical help at 0135-2729250, 2626066, 2726066, and 7534826066. The district magistrate has instructed the chief medical officer, Dehradun, to ensure community surveillance in the areas declared containment zone, while the teams of municipal corporation Rishikesh have been tasked to carry out sanitization and awareness drives as well. In case of any other emergency, the residents have been asked to call at the toll free number 112 to contact the police control room for assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rishikesh-colony-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/75396049.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Voluntary association gives fillip to science with webinars||KOCHI: Science and scientific temperament have received an unprecedented fillip because of scientific conversations around the novel coronavirus according to a bunch of activists who are making use of online tools to reach out to a wider audience. The Ernakulam chapter of the Breakthrough Science Society (BSS) has been organizing a series of webinars using virtual meeting apps to hold lectures and discussions on science topics during the lockdown. The society is even planning to provide guided stargazing to astronomy enthusiasts using online tools. Amateur astronomers are increasingly utilizing the lockdown to observe the sky because of the reported lowering of atmospheric pollution. “We tried guided star watch two times but it was not successful because the sky was cloudy,” said Harikumar K S, one of the organizers. “I feel there is a resurgence of science. People now understand the science behind hygiene. They also understand that having religious belief is not enough. Everyone is now looking at the development of vaccine for Covid-19, which is looking up to science,” said Dr Babu P S, a medical doctor and state president of BSS. On Saturday, the society organized a webinar on diseases and treatments in the era of science by C Ramachandran, a retired scientist. On Wednesday, Harikumar led a webinar on life and contributions of Louis Pasteur. The first talk on the series was a talk by Sajeev T Prabhakaran, an amateur astronomer, on ‘Comets - Ice from space’. “We are using an application called GoTo Meeting to organize webinars,” Harikumar said. BSS is a voluntary science organization engaged in the popularization of science and cultivation of scientific temper among the public. BSS chapters in other districts are also organizing similar programmes. Kozhikode district chapter of the society is organizing a webinar on ‘The earth: its journey through space and time’ by Sajin Kumar, assistant professor with the department of geology, Kerala University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/voluntary-assn-gives-fillip-to-science-with-webinars/articleshow/75388276.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||18-month-old is youngest Covid-19 patient in Nagpur||NAGPUR: An 18-month-old boy from Mominpura in the city is among the 22 new Covid-19 cases reported from the region on Sunday. With this, Vidarbha has recorded new cases in double digits for the third consecutive day. The new cases include highest 16 from Yavatmal, which has emerged as a new hotspot, four from Nagpur and one each from Amravati and Akola. The Mominpura boy happens to be the youngest Covid-19 patient in the city. Vidarbha’s youngest patient is from Buldhana — a three-and-a-half-month-old who is recovering fast. With this, total number of Covid-19 confirmed positive cases in Vidarbha region have reached 247 on Sunday. These include 60 patients who recovered and discharged, nine deaths and one suicide. The only person who got discharge today is a patient from Satranjipura connection who was admitted in the GMCH isolation ward. Yavatmal has been brimming with fear as the number of the active positive patients jumped to 50 on Sunday. Total 16 patients tested positive in a day on April 26, which is in addition to the Saturday’s figure of 20. According to district collector MD Singh, he has received reports of seven positive patients in the wee hours of Sunday. “At 5.30pm, we received nine more positive reports from Nagpur. Now, the city has 50 active Covid-19 patients admitted in Vasantrao Naik Government Medical College and Hospital (VNGMCH),” the collector said. The city has so far recorded 60 active positive cases of whom 10 have recovered and discharged. A total of 264 swab samples have been sent to Nagpur on Sunday and the reports are awaited. Meanwhile, the collector and SP held a joint review meeting in the hotspot area of Indira Nagar. Municipal council members of ward no. 10 Javed Ansari and Pravin Prajapati attended the meeting. Collector has authorized the councillor duo to create mass awareness among the residents of the containment areas to remain at home and maintain social distancing always. He has also urged Muslim community to offer their Ramzan prayers as per the set norms in their own houses. Case from rural Amravati: Novel coronavirus that claimed six lives in Amravati seems to be spreading its tentacles in rural parts of the district as a new Covid-19 positive case came to fore from Nandura Pinglai village in Morshi tehsil. This took the number of positive cases from Amravati to 20 which include six deaths and four recovered. At present, 10 are in the Covid-19 hospital. “We received reports of five suspects late Saturday night and four of them came negative while the one of a 58-year-old man from Nandura Pinglai came positive,” said collector Shailesh Naval. With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases has gone up to 20 in the district, which includes six deaths and four recovered. At present, 10 patients are in the Covid-19 Hospital. The district administration clarified that the Covid-19 positive person has been living with his family in a house on Bhatkuli Road near Pathan Chowk under Kholapuri Gate police station area for the last five years. Though it was learnt that he had returned to his village a few days ago, the administration said he did not visit the village for a month now. Yet, as a precautionary measure, a health survey has been conducted in the village that falls under Mahuli Jehangir Primary Health Centre, the administration said. Four members of his family have been institutionally quarantined and their swab samples sent for testing. Administration said the man, a TB patient, was admitted to Covid-19 ward on April 22 and tested positive on Saturday night. One of the three cases that came to light on Saturday evening include a 52-year-old man from Noor Nagar locality of Old Badnera. He is a teacher at an Urdu school in Kamargaon town in Washim district and had returned to Badnera as the school was closed due to lockdown. Inquiries revealed that he had travelled with family to Baitul Naka residence of his relative in Paratwada and made a night’s stay there. However, his health deteriorated next morning and he was rushed to a private hospital which advised him to go to Covid-19 Hospital where he tested positive last evening. Following this, Amravati Municipal Corporation health authorities have put Noor Nagar, Baripura, Khatikpura and Malipura localities in containment zone and sealed the entire area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/18-month-old-is-youngest-covid-19-patient-in-city/articleshow/75397133.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Madurai||Virudhunagar admin says those entering dist will be screened||Madurai: The Virudhunagar district administration has locked down all entry points into the district from Sunday after a man from Tiruvallur district who obtained travel pass by making false claims regarding medical emergency tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan told TOI that the man had obtained the pass to travel to Tuticorin district. However, he and a few others came to his native place at Chettikuruchi near Aruppukottai instead. Later, samples were collected from him and he tested positive. They have informed the Tiruvallur district administration about it which would be taking action against the person who applied for the pass. He said that in an attempt to increase the vigil and ensure that all those who enter the district are screened, all major entry points have been sealed. “Medical teams are deployed at all the six major entry points at Chattirareddiapatti in Virudhunagar, Chokkampudur in Rajapalayam, Alagapuri, Sattur, Aviyur and Pandalgudi in the district. All people travelling to the district would undergo thermal screening initially. If the teams identify any symptoms, then they would be placed under quarantine at places nearby and samples collected. They would be permitted to proceed further only based on the test results,” he said. This apart, the teams would also be verifying the genuineness of the travel passes by cross verifying with officials in the districts from where they are travelling. The collector further said that of the seven people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday, a 66-year-old man from Kullur Sandhai had recently travelled from Coimbatore district. Apart from identifying his contacts, the officials are also conducting inquiries about the genuineness of his travel pass, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-admin-says-those-entering-dist-will-be-screened/articleshow/75396566.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Shops selling non-essential items to remain shut in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Shops selling non-essential goods will continue to remain closed as the state government has not issued any notification with regard to implementing the Centre’s order of reopening shops. On Friday night, the Centre had issued an order stating that shops could reopen and some state governments had started implementing that order. However, later the Centre had to issue many clarifications one of which was that the decision to reopen shops rested with the state governments depending on the status of Covid-19 cases. The traders were expecting that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would make some announcement during his special address to the state on Sunday afternoon. However, Thackeray did not give any such order and hinted that he would speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conference on Monday. it is likely that the decision to allow shops to reopen will be taken thereafter. Ajit Kothari, director of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries and president of Electricals Association of Kolhapur said, “The notifications and orders issued earlier are vague. For instance, the governments has allowed shops selling fans to reopen. You can hardly find a shop exclusively selling fans. Other electrical appliances are also sold in the electrical shops.” “We have decided to remain united. No one will open the shop until and unless clear directions are issued by the government and the district administration. We are ready to make all possible arrangements to ensure social distancing,” said Kothari. The traders are demanding that the shops be re-opend as the closure of shops was affecting people in other professions, like tea-sellers and autorickshaw drivers, who do not have enough money to sustain. They further claimed that even the industries which have been given permission for production would need electrical equipment to start operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shops-selling-non-essential-items-to-remain-shut/articleshow/75396055.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Residents of Nainital village use lockdown period to rebuild road||NAINITAL: Cooped up inside houses during the lockdown, while some have learnt new recipes, others new language skills and yet others are hooked to movies on streaming platforms, people of a village in Uttarakhand used the time to rebuild a road in their village. According to villagers of Kharki, which is home to around 40 families, a 3-km-long stretch had been built by the government to connect their village to Shilauti in Nainital district at a cost of Rs 6 lakh nearly a decade ago. Villagers said they used the road for some time but eventually it fell into disrepair. Debris from landslides started piling up and shrubs grew all over. As authorities looked the other way, villagers were forced to use a different road. “The track was barely a-meter-and-a-half wide. We used it for some time but because of the carelessness of those responsible for its maintenance, it was soon covered in shrubs and boulders,” said Durgadatt Paladiya, a resident of Kharki village. Villagers said their repeated requests to repair the road had fallen on deaf ears. However, with the lockdown offering them ample time, they hit upon the idea of rebuilding it themselves. “We gathered around 25 people from the village and decided to work in small teams to clear different stretches,” said Vinod Kumar Arya, another villager. Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal said, “We will help the villagers with the road. Right now we are focused on containing the pandemic. We will use the administration’s discretionary funds or state funds for the project.” The residents said they would take turns to cook meals for everyone who worked on the road. Most people used regular household tools to restore the road. There were challenges, including lack of proper equipment and the danger of working in a forest frequented by wild animals including leopards and tigers, but they persevered. Finally, in about a month, the road had been made at least 2 meters wide, completely cleared and flattened. A track which was hardly fit for walking before, could now accommodate a motorcycle. “For the very first time, a two-wheeler reached our village. For generations, we had to trudge up the three kilometres, but now that the road has been widened, people can easily ride motorcycles,” Paladiya said. The villagers added they observed all lockdown restrictions while working on the road by maintaining social distancing and working from 7am to 1pm, the hours during which the lockdown was relaxed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-of-nainital-village-use-lockdown-period-to-rebuild-road/articleshow/75395164.cms||Prashant Jha
April 27, 2020||Business||JioMart starts WhatsApp orders in Mumbai||Bengaluru: Days after the WhatsApp-Jio deal, JioMart has started accepting orders through WhatsApp in Mumbai suburbs — Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, and Thane. Currently, users can place orders through WhatsApp by sending message to a number being promoted by JioMart and then enter the required items in the chat window. Once the kirana store confirms it through another SMS, the customer can pick it up from the store and pay there. This facility is live with about 1,200 stores for now. As TOI reported on Thursday, the work on WhatsApp-Jio collaboration had already started as the $5.7-billion deal was being announced by Facebook and Jio Platforms. This is now expected to be scaled up as local kirana stores have started resuming operations across India. The partnership between Jio and WhatsApp is touted as a potential game-changer of how commerce could work in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jiomart-starts-whatsapp-orders-in-mumbai/articleshow/75396571.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||GDMCH to get containers for Covid-19 cases||DEHRADUN: City’s Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMC) is expected to get containers where Covid-19 patients (or suspected cases) can be quarantined. According to a GDMCH source, two containers are being sent by the Centre to be utilised as quarantine or isolation wards. These containers can also be used to make small Out Patient Department (OPD). The size of the containers is expected to be 40 feet in length and 10 feet in breath. The container is expected to have 6 beds and two separate doors for entry. However, with already existing 400 beds, specially meant for Covid-19 patients, the hospital staff is unsure of its use. An official from GDMCH told TOI that these containers should be sent to places where there are no hospitals and adequate quarantine facilities are not available. “We are still mulling where to get the vehicles parked and what use should we put them into. These containers are expected to reach here by Monday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gdmch-to-get-containers-for-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75396059.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Man steps into puddle with live wire, electrocuted||CHENNAI: A 50-year-old man was electrocuted after he stepped into a huge puddle in which a live wire was submerged at Ennore on Sunday. A milkman who tried to rescue him also suffered an electric shock. The victim Selvin, 50, of Sathyavani Muthu Nagar, was on his way to buy milk early in the morning when the incident took place. Selvin stepped into a puddle formed from the heavy downpour on Sunday morning and was thrown off. Seeing him fall down, Madhavan, a milkman who was near the scene, went to his rescue but suffered a shock as well. Passersby noticed that a live wire had snapped due to the rain and was submerged in the puddle. They alerted the Tangedco office in Ennore and power supply was suspended immediately. Locals then pulled Selvin and Madhavan out of the water. While Selvin died on the spot, Madhavan was rushed to Government Stanley Hospital where his condition was said to be out of danger. On information, the Ennore police registered a case and began investigation. Police said Selvin ran a scrap shop. He stepped out to buy milk before shops close for the four-day complete lockdown from April 26 to 29. Police said the wire snapped due to the strong wind that accompanied the showers on Sunday morning. The street was cordoned off until the Tangedco staff rectified the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-steps-into-puddle-with-live-wire-electrocuted/articleshow/75396567.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Woman doctor in Idukki tests positive||KOTTAYAM: A woman doctor in Idukki district contracted novel coronavirus on the job. Six persons, including the doctor, were confirmed with Covid-19 on Sunday, said district collector H Dinesan, taking the total number of people in the district to be Covid infected to 20. Of the six cases, two each are from Elappara and Vandiperiyar and one each from Vandanmedu and Uppukandam. The doctor, 41, who works at a primary health centre in Elappara, is suspected to have contracted the virus from the mother of the Covid-infected person who arrived from Mysore. The mother, confirmed with Covid, had earlier sought treatment at Elappara PHC. A 54-year-old woman, who supplied milk and eggs to the Covid-affected woman’s house, is the other case in Elappara. The Uppukandam native, 24,who returned from Germany via Spain and Abu Dhabi on March 15, tested positive with Covid. A 24-year-old youth of Vandanmedu rode a bike home from Malappuram on March 23. Though he remained in home quarantine since then he tested positive of coronavirus. In Vandiperiyar, a 35-year-old man, who returned from Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu on April 12, and his daughter, 7, were confirmed with Covid after a swab test. The health of all six is satisfactory, said the district collector. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-doc-in-idukki-tests-positive/articleshow/75395173.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Cops arrest duo for ferrying liquor||Vadodara: Detection of crime branch (DCB) arrested two men for ferrying liquor in Manjalpur area of the city on Sunday. The accused duo was carrying fake identity card and posed as security personnel of SSG Hospital. Police said the duo had been ferrying liquor during lockdown by flashing the fake identity card. “They prepared the duplicate card and whenever they were intercepted by the cops, the accused used to flash it. They used to claim that they were out for serving people,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). The cops have seized liquor stock, two mobile phones, a fake identity card and two motorbikes from the accused. The cops are now investigating how many trips they made to ferry liquor during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-arrest-duo-for-ferrying-liquor/articleshow/75394924.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Rajkot||Ganja seized from car||Rajkot: A total of 457 grams of ganja (marijuana) worth Rs2,742 was seized from a car on Morbi Road in Rajkot on Saturday night. “When we stopped the car, two unidentified occupants got out and fled, leaving the contraband in the vehicle,” said an officer from Rajkot B division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ganja-seized-from-car/articleshow/75395170.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Madurai||OPS checks Covid preventive measures in Theni district||Madurai: Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam conducted inspections in Bodinaickanur, Chinnamanur, Cumbum and Gudalur in on Sunday while taking stock of Covid-19 prevention measures in Theni district. He interacted with the local body, health and police officials involved in prevention works. However, he created a flutter when he said during a review meeting that it was a good sign that no positive cases were reported in the district in the past 11 days, when actually, it was only nine days since the last case was reported on April 17. It is unclear whether it was a slip of the tongue from the minister or officials had given him the wrong figures. OPS urged the officials to ensure that enforcement measures of the lockdown are implemented fully, but also to be compassionate towards the needs of the people. He has also arranged special ambulances in the eight blocks in the district to help pregnant women reach hospital after he was informed that two women were harassed and made to walk long distances by the police. The deputy CM distributed four lakh masks from his own funds to the frontline workers, while his son and Theni MP P Ravindranath Kumar gave away a vehicle for disinfection to the district from his funds for the purpose. The 600 litre capacity tractor costing Rs 11 lakh has 12 nozzles for spraying disinfectants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ops-checks-covid-preventive-measures-in-theni-district/articleshow/75396575.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||100 citizens who bought flu drugs tested for coronavirus in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Health authorities in the state are using the records with pharmacies of people buying drugs for fever and cold to test them for Covid-19. The state authorities had earlier directed pharmacies and pharmaceutical associations to note down the name, address and contact details of those who buy drugs for fever and flu as many people with symptoms of coronavirus were not getting tested. “We have taken the records of those people from shops, tracked them and tested their samples. Around 100 people were tested through this process. Their results are awaited,” said a district medical authority, adding that these people had not revealed they weresuffering from fever during the door-to-door survey. On the other hand, a few pharmacies have said that they have not received any directions from the authorities. “This was reported in media but we did not get any directives,” a private medical shop owner said on conditions of anonymity. He said that while some Whatsapp groups were created for this purpose, not all the shops were included. There are around 4,800 medical shops in Hyderabad. Dolo 650, Paracetamol etc are available over the counter. According to sources, purchase of such medicines is rampant in Secunderabad and SR Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/100-citizens-who-bought-flu-drugs-tested-for-virus/articleshow/75397147.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 27, 2020||Madurai||5 kids among 15 who test +ve in Madurai||Madurai: With 15 new cases including five children, Madurai recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases among the southern districts on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the southern districts climbed to 401. Those who tested positive on Sunday in Madurai were secondary contacts, but the fact that five of them were children below the age of fifteen was a matter of concern. They included two eight-year-old girls from Vandiyur and Sellur, and three boys aged 14, nine and eleven from Sellur. After two police personnel tested positive for Covid-19, a fire and rescue personal tested positive on Sunday. He was posted at Meenakshi Amman Temple fire station and was one among the six people from the station whose samples were sent for testing along with temple priests and police personnel. He was staying alone in the fire department quarters in Periyar. Fire officials said that they have requested the health department to carry out a test to all the remaining eight people in the station. The tests are expected to be carried out on Monday. Meanwhile, the eight personnel and neighbours in fire department quarters have been told to isolate themselves as a precautionary measure. Fire officials said that safety gears such as masks, gloves and hand sanitisers were distributed to all the fire and rescue personnel in the district. They have also been sensitized on social distancing and are staying away from crowd, they said. The other positive cases are six men -- three from Sellur, one from Koodalpudur, one from Annaiyur and one from Koodalnagar -- and three women from Annaiyur, Doddappanaickanur and Sikkandar Chavadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-kids-among-15-who-test-ve-in-madurai/articleshow/75396588.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Mercury dips in Uttarakhand following rain, thunderstorm||DEHRADUN: The maximum temperature across Uttarakhand dropped by 5-9 degrees Celsius on Sunday as several parts of the Himalayan state were lashed by rain and thunderstorm activity in the past 24 hours, according to the meteorological center. At 32mm, the maximum rainfall was recorded in Pithoragarh, followed by Dehradun (30mm), Mussoorie (30mm), Bageshwar (20mm), Dhumakot (20mm) and Uttarkashi (10mm). Following the rain activity, mercury dropped significantly in Dehradun where the maximum temperature was recorded at 24.5 degrees Celsius, almost nine notches below normal. The minimum also witnessed a drop of two notches at 16.6 degrees Celsius. Maximum temperature plunged in Tehri and settled at 14.2 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature remained at 10.8 degrees Celsius. In Mukteshwar, the day’s temperature was recorded at 14.5 degrees Celsius, nine notches below normal. Rookree remained the hottest place in Uttarakhand with maximum temperature touching 37.7 degrees Celsius, while Mukteshwar remained the coldest town with minimum temperature remaining at 7.7 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, the regional meteorological center has issued a yellow warning of hail, lightning and thunder squall at isolated places in Uttarakhand, especially in the hills, on April 27 and 28. "Several places in Uttarakhand received rainfall on Sunday. The current activity will continue till April 28 with light to moderate rainfall, hail and squall likely at several places during next 48-hours," said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological center.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mercury-dips-in-ukhand-following-rain-thunderstorm/articleshow/75396072.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Take tough steps to contain outbreak: Shrinivas Poojari||Mangaluru: District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari on Sunday directed deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh to take strict steps, if deemed necessary to combat spread of Covid19, given the steady increase in positive cases in Dakshina Kannada since April 19. Given that most of the cases are being reported from Kasba and rural areas of Bantwal taluk, Poojari said there will be no relaxation in lockdown norms announced by the government there till May 3. Chairing an emergency meeting with senior district officials and DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel at Bantwal, Poojari said Asha workers must report on health status of residents of 213 houses in Kasba hobli and 213 houses in Narikombu gram panchayat limits daily. There will be no relaxation in lockdown norms for residents of either the hobli or gram panchayat limits in the interim, he said, given that all recent cases have been reported from there. Special officers have been appointed to oversee the seal down of the two hotspots in the taluk and they will be assisted by a 24x7 control room. People may contact the control room to procure essential supplies including grocery, milk, newspaper, medicines, vegetables, fruits, meat, LPG cylinders and other emergency services. Residents in the sealed down areas of the taluk must cooperate with the authorities and follow their instruction, he said. EOM/April 26, 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/take-tough-steps-to-contain-outbreak-shrinivas-poojari/articleshow/75394297.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Cop posted at relief camp turns it into school of sorts for 19 kids||PITHORAGARH: When constable Kamla Chauhan of Banbasa police station, Champawat district, saw children at a relief camp roaming around aimlessly, she hit upon the idea of organising classes for them. Chauhan, in her thirties, is posted at a relief camp in a Government Inter collage, Bajanpur and she has turned it into a school of sorts. The camp, which was built on March 20, houses some 73-odd persons from Pilibhit, Kheri, Sitapur and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. “I noticed that the district administration had taken care of all necessities at the camp, including food, shelter and medical aid. However, one thing was missing. The persons at the camp, especially the children, had nothing to engage with. The children were wandering around aimlessly, with nothing much to do,” said Chauhan. The cop took it upon herself to turn this leisure time into a learning opportunity for the kids. She arranged for a bunch of books, pencils, erasers etc. and gave them to the children at the camp. She started her classes by teaching them the norms to follow to prevent contracting the coronavirus. “I started by teaching them how to fashion masks out of any household clothing item and wear them. I also taught them about the importance of social distancing,” Chauhan said. However, the venture wasn’t easy. At the camp, which has 41 men, 13 women and 19 children, the kids hardly formed a homogenous group. “All the children belonged to different age groups. While some are enrolled at schools, others have never been to one,” she said. However, after a month of efforts, the children not only responded to Chauhan’s classes but also waited eagerly for her to turn up each day. “I taught them how to read and write in Hindi and English, counting and elementary Math. The children instantly took an interest. I also started giving them homework, which they would complete the very next day and enthusiastically wait for me to check,” Chauhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cop-posted-at-relief-camp-turns-it-into-school-of-sorts-for-19-kids/articleshow/75396090.cms||Prem Punetha
April 27, 2020||Madurai||Containment zones to get Kabasura Kudineer||Madurai: The city corporation will distribute Kabasura Kudineer to people residing in containment areas to boost their immunity from Monday. Officials said that the decoction prepared will be taken to all the containment zones on vehicles. People can collect it in utensils and share with their family members. Officials from corporation said that Melamadai, Narimedu, Mahaboobpalayam, Gurunagar, SVP Nagar, Kuppupillai Thoppu, Madhichiyam, Karisalkulam, Mela Masi Street, Palanganatham, Sellur and Anaiyur have been announced as containment zones in the city limits as at least one person from each of these areas have been tested positive for covid-19. Already corporation is providing Kabasura Kudineer in urban primary health centres run by it and at Amma canteens. Apart from the corporation, few NGOs, too, have taken up the task of distributing Kabasura Kudineer in their localities. The corporation commissioner S Visakan urged public to come forward to get the decoction and maintain social distancing while receiving the decoction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/containment-zones-to-get-kabasura-kudineer/articleshow/75396596.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Madurai||Six held after bid to cheat people using black magic||MADURAI: The Ramanathapuram district police on Sunday arrested a gang of six people including a village administration officer for the possession of six idols of gods and goddesses. Police said that the idols were buried in the ground with the intention to cheat someone by making it appear as if they were treasure troves, which can fetch huge sum of money in the black market. Ramanathapuram district police superintendent V Varun Kumar got a tip-off about the gang and its suspicious activities on his mobile number 94899 19722. He formed a police team consisting of assistant superintendent of police Vivek, deputy superintendents of police Rajesh (Mudukulathur) and Mahendran (Kamuthi) and special branch sub-inspector Divakar. The team picked up the gang members Selvakumar from Mudukulathur, Chellapandi and Murugaraj from Thoppadaipatti village, Muthu, a woman from Enathi, and Mahadevan from Keelakanjeerankulam. Chellapandi is village administration officer of Pudukottai, whereas Mahadevan is a retired thalaiyari. Selvakumar was practising black magic. Six idols, copper coins, copper plates and ornamental stones were seized from them. Inquiries revealed that they had buried the idols and other items at a location in Anaiyur near Peraiyur in Mudukulathur and was searching for potential clients to cheat them. The gang planned to make the idols, coins and stones look like treasures of the bygone era. They were planning to unearth them in the presence of their potential client after conducting a yagam, to make it look like the treasure was found through black magic. An officer privy to inquiry said that they could not ascertain the composition of the metal, which the idols were made or from where they procured them. They are in search of a kingpin, who can throw light on the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/6-held-after-bid-to-cheat-people-using-black-magic/articleshow/75396590.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kochi||Quotation gang member arrested from Aluva||KOCHI: Police probing the case in which a Tamil Nadu-based gang was hired to murder a Perumbavoor man arrested one more person in the case on Wednesday. Most of the accused were arrested from Munambom in March before they could execute the crime. The case is being probed by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of Kerala police. The arrested person has been identified as Dileep (23) who hails from Perumbavoor. He was arrested from Aluva. Police had arrested another accused in the case, K Liyaqat on Tuesday. He was arrested from a house at Aluva where he was staying underground. Polices said that Liyaqat was a gangster and was a main accused in the case. Dileep was his aide. Police had arrested Liyaqat based on a tip-off. He was on the run for over a month. Ernakulam Rural police had arrested the eight-member TN gang from a homestay functioning adjacent to Velankanny church at Munambam on March 5. Those accused of murder and other criminal activities were among the arrested. The case was later handed over to ATS after the Rural police conducted an initial inquiry. Source said that the investigation team is yet to identify the person who hired the gang and brought them to Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/quotation-gang-member-arrested-from-aluva/articleshow/75388299.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Madurai||Sivaganga bookseller lends books for free to beat lockdown blues||Madurai: At a time when most booksellers cash in on the idle lockdown hours to make a quick buck, a 36-year-old man from Madurai made a difference by lending books without any charges and thereby inculcating the habit of reading in people. M Murugan, of Sivaganga, has his old bookstore in Kaalavasal in Sivaganga town and gives them free son people would develope the habit of reading. He said he has always had the desire to read books and set up an old bookstore to fulfill this desire. I thought I could make others read the books,’’ he says. Most of his customers, who come to his shops ask for the books for preparing for the competitive examinations, and he says he makes about Rs 12,000 a month by selling his books on normal days. “Rs 2,000 goes to the rent my shop and then I manage my monthly expenses with the remaining amount which is more than sufficient because I don’t have big ambitions,’’ he said. Murugan takes book from a relative named Kutty, who runs a shop of old newspapers and books, in Madurai. He buys them from him for a nominal cost and sells them in Sivaganga. “When the lockdown started, I decided that this was the best way to promote the habit of reading. I passed the word around and have given away 300 books so far,’’ he said. People have started asking for the translated versions of autobiographies and biographies of great leaders, motivational books and novels. Murugan learnt that people in villages have no access to books during lockdown and he took a stack of his books to villages for them. People in Pilloor village on the Sivaganga-Madurai road were happy at getting old books to read. “I asked him for magazines and my husband found a very good set of books. We were allowed to take a book each from him,’’ said Shengabagam, a resident of Pilloor. As the books are free, people often want to borrow many books at one time. “I politely tell them that they can take a book, read it and return it and take another book,’’ he said. But if the book is a favourite of the reader, he gets to keep it. Murugan says he would like people to keep passing down the books in a chain reaction, so that many people would have read at least a few books when the lockdown ends. Murugan has a collection of 1,000 books now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivaganga-bookseller-lends-books-for-free-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75396599.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown within lockdown: The day Madurai stood still||Madurai: State government’s blanket lockdown received good cooperation as people obeyed the rules staying home for the day. A few vehicles seen on the road were used by those involved in essential works, who have been exempted by the government. Except for the police enforcing the lockdown and sanitary workers, major junctions sported a deserted look. Only medical stores remained open but hardly a few people turned up to buy medicine. Police officials said the empty roads had a feel of the Janata curfew observed on March 22. Traffic deputy police commissioner K Sugumaran said, “There was a complete cooperation from the public on the day one of the complete lockdown. Only a few people like corporation employees, tele communication, internet and government officials were on the roads. We made usual police deployment throughout the city to ensure lockdown,” he said. Madurai corporation quietly delivered vegetables at doorsteps in both containment areas and all parts of the city through vehicles. Those, who were assigned the job of delivering essentials at containment areas, have been provided with personnel protection equipment. Volunteers involved in helping poor and providing food for stray dogs carried out work as usual. P R Vishwanath of Thirunagar Pakkam, an NGO, said police allowed them to carry out their regular work of feeding the poor. “We did not find any difficulty in moving around as we are familiar with the police in our area,” he said. A meeting convened by zonal task force formed to prevent covid-19 spread held at Madurai district collector office on Sunday. In the meeting, it was decided to ensure that each containment zone has only one entry and exit points. Each street in containment zone will be blocked to prevent people from moving from street to street. Action will be taken against those going out of their houses. A list will be prepared containing details of elderly people, and those having diabetes, high blood pressure, and have kidney transplanted and pregnant women to check their health status on regular basis. Zonal task force chief C Kamaraj, Madurai district collector T G Vinay, inspector general of police S Murugan and south zone inspector general of police K P Shanmuga Rajeswaran took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-within-lockdown-the-day-madurai-stood-still/articleshow/75396602.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Satranjipura has 80 +ve cases and 503 quarantined||Nagpur: Three more persons from city including one-and-a-half-year boy, who now becomes district’s youngest patient so far, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday taking the total to 127. Two of the three are connected with Satranjipura chain and the number of positive cases from this increased to 80. On Sunday, 123 more people from Satranjipura were quarantined taking the total to 503. Also, 13 people were booked in connection with Satranjipura case increasing total persons facing action to 15. Remaining positive person is a 37-year-old woman from Mominpura. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials told TOI, “The nne-and-a-half-year old boy who tested positive on Sunday was already at GMCH. His parents had tested positive on Saturday. The couple had kept the child with them,” they said. Another positive person from Satranjipura is a 55-year-old woman who was quarantined at MLA Hostel. She has been shifted to IGGMCH. The couple and 55-year-old woman are neighbours of 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura. They were among 150 people quarantined on Thursday. The 37-year-old woman from Mominpura was also already at GMCH. Her five-year-old son had tested positive on April 24. The woman got admitted in Covid-19 Isolation Ward of GMCH with the boy. Her husband has also tested positive. The husband is brother of 42-year-old resident of Choodi Gully, Mominpura, who had tested positive on April 18. Earlier, 12 members of the same family had tested positive. With latest woman, total number of cases from this family has increased to 13. The 42-year-old was taking care of seven Jabalpur-based Tablighi Jamaatis who were camping at Darul Falah, Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura. They had tested positive on April 12 and 13 following which the person and his family were quarantined and tested. Total number of cases from Mominpura are now 25. With some among 150 Satranjipura residents quarantined on Thursday testing positive, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe directed the officials to trace and quarantine more neighbours. Team led by assistant commissioner Vijay Humne and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane took in 123 persons from 21 families including 93 adults and 30 children between 5pm and 11pm on Sunday. Samples of all persons will be taken on Monday. Kalamna police registered an offence against 13 persons in connection with Satranjipura. TOI on Sunday had reported Mundhe had directed police action against 10 persons hiding in a godown at Vijay Nagar, Kalamna. An offence under Section 188 (disobedience to public servant), Sections 269, 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act-1897 was registered against the 13 including 10 who were hiding, two nearby residents who were helped them in hiding and owner of godown. The 13 include women and children. They were hiding to avoid quarantine. People from Vijay Nagar noticed them and informed NMC and Kalamna police who quarantined them at MLA Hostel in the wee hours of Saturday. One of the family members was already quarantined at Wathoda. This is second such action related to Satranjipura case with earlier a couple (Covid-19 positive) from Shanti Nagar and relatives of deceased were booked for hiding their children at Bhaldarpura. Later, one of two children had also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/satranjipura-has-80-ve-cases-and-503-quarantined/articleshow/75397145.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 27, 2020||India||TN issues ordinance; Up to 3 years’ jail term for preventing burial of Covid victims||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government on Sunday issued an ordinance that seeks to sentence people to three years in prison for disrupting or preventing burial of patients, who die due to notified diseases. The move comes in the wake of increasing incidents of local people preventing burial of bodies of Covid-19 victims in Chennai and other parts of the state. Anyone preventing or attempting to prevent the bodies of patients, who die of notified diseases, from getting a dignified burial or cremation will be sentenced anywhere from one year to three years, besides a fine, under Section 74 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, a statement from the state government said. A few days ago, a mob indulged in violence and prevented the burial of Dr Simon Hercules, a neuro surgeon and managing director of New Hope Medical Centre in the city. His body was later buried with police protection. The incident led to a political outcry, with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and DMK president M K Stalin and other opposition leaders condemning such acts of the people. Several political leaders urged the state to educate the public that burying/cremating the dead bodies of such victims does not cause corona virus to spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tn-issues-ordinance-up-to-3-years-jail-term-for-preventing-burial-of-covid-victims/articleshow/75397371.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chennai||City wakes to a calm & cloudy Sunday||Chennai: On the first day of the ‘total lockdown’ on Sunday, most streets in the city wore a deserted look. Cops and conservancy workers were the only ones about. However, the heavy showers early in the morning kept electricity and corporation staff busy through the day, clearing tree falls and restoring power. In most areas, power was restored by 9 am. Markets in Nanganallur, Koyambedu, Thiruvanmiyur, MGR Nagar, Royapettah, and Royapuram, that on Saturday drew unmanageable crowds, were shut. Zam Bazaar and Gangaikondan market remained deserted. As vegetable markets and shops didn’t open, neither did many small restaurants. “Except for the four pharmacies here, none of the other shops were open. Only a few delivery men were seen on the road,” said M Selvam, who runs a pharmacy in Nanganallur. Policemen heaved a sigh of relief as there were few vehicles on the roads. Even arterial stretches such as Anna Salai and Poonamallee High Road were devoid of any activity – just what the cops wanted. In Anna Nagar, hardly half a dozen two-wheelers were seized a checkpoint where at least 25 vehicles used to be impounded every day for the past two weeks. “The motorists’ usual excuse when we stopped them was that they had stepped out to buy groceries. But now with even such shops shut, they could not find any other reason and had to remain indoors,” said an assistant commissioner, who was on patrol on Poonamallee High Road. The police had collected Rs3.27 crore as fines across the state for curfew violations, arrested 3.24 lakh people and seized 2.76 lakh vehicles. In Chennai, in 12 hours from 6pm on Saturday to 6am on Sunday, the police booked 1,296 cases against people violating section 144 and seized 1,045 vehicles, including 912 two-wheelers. The Chennai traffic police seized 1,643 vehicles for traffic violations like riding triples, drunken driving and not wearing helmets. Police booked 826 people roaming without purpose and seized 602 vehicles including 543 two-wheelers. Another 646 cases were registered against people violating traffic rules. Federation of Tamil Nadu Traders’ Association President A M Vikramaraja said traders are ready to co-operate with the government even if the complete lockdown is extended for a week and that supply of vegetables will not be hit. “As for groceries, the authorities are in touch with the traders and delivery can be arranged,” Vikramaraja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-wakes-to-a-calm-cloudy-sunday/articleshow/75396639.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Dehradun||Body of 25-year-old that had been sent back by immigration officials, repatriated||DEHRADUN: The body of 25-year-old Kamesh Bhatt, which had been sent back by immigration officials in Delhi on Friday citing a ministry of home affairs (MHA) order that prohibited receiving of any such cargo from outside India during the lockdown, was in the process of being repatriated from Abu Dhabi, family members of the deceased said on Sunday. Bhatt, who hailed from Tehri Garhwal, was working at a hotel in Abu Dhabi, and had passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest on March 17. After struggling for several days to get his body repatriated amidst the ongoing lockdown, his family members had finally managed to arrange to have the body sent back on April 24 with the help of an Indian-origin social activist Roshan Raturi who arranged for all the requisite clearances. However, the body was returned by immigration officials. Soon after the incident of the body being sent back to UAE came to light, the MHA had issued an office memorandum on Saturday clarifying that bringing back mortal remains to the country was permissible as long as all guidelines were being followed. A detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for immigration officials was also issued in this regard. Speaking to TOI, Bhatt’s cousin Vimlesh who had also approached the Delhi high court regarding the matter, said, “We have been told that the body would arrive at the cargo terminal of IGI Airport in Delhi on Sunday midnight.” He added that an ambulance had been provided by the Uttarakhand government for him and another family member to travel from Dehradun to Delhi to bring back the body. Speaking on the issue, Uttarakhand protocol minister Dhan Singh Rawat said that the state government had taken up the matter with the ministry of external affairs and MHA in order to speed up the process of repatriating the body after which all the formalities regarding the repatriation were done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-25-yr-old-that-had-been-sent-back-by-immigration-officials-repatriated/articleshow/75395220.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 27, 2020||Madurai||Police stn disinfected after SSI tests positive||Madurai: The city corporation’s health workers, on Sunday, disinfected the South Gate police station after a special sub-inspector of police attached to the station tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. It has now been revealed that a head constable from Madurai South traffic police station, who also tested positive on Saturday, used to visit the station often. Both of them were deployed on duty at Kuppu Pillai Thoppu, a containment zone in the city. Following this, the city police asked at least 30 police personnel, who were on duty along with the SSI, to go into self-isolation. Higher police officials including the city police commissioner S Davidson Devasirvatham visited the station while it was being disinfected. Screening of police personnel, which started on Saturday, continued on Sunday as well. Swabs of those who worked closely with the SSI and head constable have been taken for testing. The SSI was on rotational off when he was tested for Covid-19 on Friday. There are a total of 75 police personnel including 23 in the crime unit attached to South Gate police station. At least 10 of them are involved in station works and preparation of reports. Some of them were unhappy that testing was not carried out on them till 11 am on Sunday. A police official from South Gate station said that the infected SSI used to visit station before he used to go on field duty and returned to station only after duty ended. He used to provide them the report for vehicular check and return the challan machine. The same machine would be used by the officer who would replace him, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-stn-disinfected-after-ssi-tests-positive/articleshow/75396610.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Madurai||‘Indians genetically stronger to face viruses’||The genetic make-up and food habits of Southeast Asians including Indians have given them a better chance of fighting Covid-19 keeping in view our encouraging response to the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2003, says Dr T Mariappan, former scientist and now senior deputy director at Indian Council for Medical Research’s Vector Control Research Centre (VCRC). He also observed that the country will have to brace for tackling dengue and Covid-19 cases when the monsoon sets in. “Southeast Asians are well protected hereditarily and have developed strong and powerful genes to fight against vector-borne viral diseases. They are exposed to various blood sucking insects, especially mosquitoes, unlike those in continents like Europe or Americas, which helps them develop immunity against several viral diseases,” said Dr Mariappan. He said India had little trouble during the SARS outbreak. According to a newsletter published by National Institute of Communicable Diseases, till April 9, 2003, no SARS cases were reported in India but other countries had a vast number of them by then. The virus causing Covid-19, SARS CoV-2, is from the same family of viruses. “Food habits also play a part in ensuring we are protected from certain diseases. In South India, we keep ‘rasam’ in our diet. Its ingredients like garlic, pepper and bellary, which has anti-oxidants, protect lungs. Such food is included in our diet for years and years. Notably, the number of deaths compared to number of cases is much less in Tamil Nadu and India,” said Dr Mariappan. He also said that geographical location plays a role when it comes to number of cases, observing that districts like Nagapattinam and Ramanathapuram, which are close to the shore and have scattered population are likely to have less number of Covid-19 cases. Areas with dense population, like urban and semi-urban areas, would have more cases as there is more chance of Covid-19 spreading through contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/indians-genetically-stronger-to-face-viruses/articleshow/75396640.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Decks cleared for four wildlife passes on NH6||Nagpur: Decks have been cleared for construction of four wildlife underpasses on NH-6 between Sakoli and Deori with Regional Empowered Committee (REC) of the MoEFCC finally giving a go ahead. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will spend about Rs 400 crore on these underpasses. The already widened NH-6 cuts through vital wildlife corridors. Over 50.68 hectares of forest land will be diverted for the project that will enable animals to safely pass under the highway. “We will have to float fresh tenders as the underpasses were not part of the works when the highway was widened. The final estimates are being prepared and it would cost roughly Rs 400 crore. Actual work will start once lockdown is withdrawn,” said Naresh Wadetwar, regional officer, NHAI. These four forest patches connect seven vital tiger populations of Central Indian Tiger Landscape. These are corridors connecting Melghat, Satpura, Pench (MP & Maharashtra), Kanha, Navegaon-Nagzira, Indravati and Tadoba-Andhari tiger reserves. The proposal includes three underpasses of 750 metres and one underpass of 700 metres length. The Patch 1 between Sirpur-Navatola (700mt), Patch 6 Maramjob-Dongargaon (750mt), Patch 8 Bamhni-Duggipar (750mt) and Patch 10 Sakoli-Mundipar (750mt). All will have 5-metre height. The REC had approved the proposal in January 2019 and accordingly Stage-I clearance was granted in March 2019. However, one year was wasted as user agency made some typographical errors in the proposal as recommended by the WII-NTCA. “REC ordered a physical recheck of locations and dimensions and a fresh joint survey was conducted in January 2020 by NHAI and WII officials. The proposal was submitted again before the REC and approved on February 24, 2020. Now getting Stage-II clearance is just a formality,” said REC member Suresh Chopne. Chopne said NHAI proposal has been approved with a suggestion to develop separate nurseries to raise at least 50,000 seedlings of native species. It was suggested to NHAI that 50% of these seedlings be used for plantations in the vicinity of the project area. The user agency has also been asked to distribute 50% of seedlings free of cost. NH-6 mitigation structures are a case of huge curtailment of mitigation steps. Of the 23.85km stretch falling within forest patches from Bhandara to Deori, 13.45 km has already been upgraded to four-lane by violating Forest (Conservation) Act 1980. WII’s initial report submitted in 2012 recommended 1500 to 2000 metre wildlife underpasses in 10 forest patches but as NHAI did not agree, these were brought down to four under political pressure in 2015. Even these could materialize due to high court intervention. Reprieve For Wildlife * Patch I between Sirpur-Navatola is 6.3km. It is already widened but will now have a 700 metre underpass with 5 metre height * Patch 6 between Maramjob-Dongargaon is 4.15km. It will have two structures of 240 metres & 510 metres length * Patch 8 between Bamni-Duggipar is 3km. It will have 750 metre underpass * Patch 10 between Sakoli-Mundipar is 3.2km. It will have 750 metre underpass||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/decks-cleared-for-four-wildlife-passes-on-nh6/articleshow/75397153.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 27, 2020||Bhopal||13,000 migrant workers return to Madhya Pradesh from Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra||BHOPAL: More than 13,000 migrant workers from MP, who were stranded in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan, have returned home in the past two days. As many as 8,000 workers were brought back on Saturday and another 5,000 on Sunday. They were screened and will be in quarantine for 14 days. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday spoke with some of them through video conferencing. Additional chief secretary IPC Kesri on Saturday wrote to all district collectors and SPs, asking them to issue e-passes to migrant workers coming home, except for those who hail from Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain. The workers were brought in sanitized buses and had been screened before they embarked. Social distancing norm was observed while bringing them back by bus, said state BJP media cell in-charge, Lokendra Parashar, who is coordinating the operation to bring MP’s migrant workers home from other states. The MP government sent 84 buses to Gujarat to bring back 2,000 migrant workers – around 24 per bus, so that they can be seated safely apart from each other. During the video conference, the labourers thanked CM Chouhan for arranging to bring them back to their home state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/13k-migrant-workers-return-to-mp-from-guj-raj-maha/articleshow/75397151.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Scam of selling fair price shop grains to flour mill unearthed||Vadodara: A scam of selling grains from a fair price shop to a flour mill in Manjusar GIDC in Savli taluka was unearthed in Sokhda village by the local crime branch (LCB) of Vadodara rural police.An offence was registered against the owner of the fair price shop – Bhailal Makwana, the administrator Raju Marwadi, driver of a truck in which the grains were transported Keyur Makwana and the owner Shana Parmar. According to LCB sleuths, Keyur and Parmar were intercepted near a canal on the outskirts of Sokhda village on April 24 midnight. When the truck was checked, 240 sacks of wheat worth Rs 2.2 lakh were found in it. When the duo was questioned, they did not give any satisfactory answer about the source of the grains so they were arrested and handed over to Vadodara Taluka police station. Later when they were interrogated at the police station, they told cops that the grains were from the fair price shop and had to be taken to Vinayak flour mill located at GIDC estate in Manjusar.“We had initiated investigation against the fair price shop and had also informed the civil supplies department who were also conducting their own probe. On Sunday evening, the civil supplies department submitted their complaint based on which an FIR will be registered by late night,” said inspector D B Vala of LCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/scam-of-selling-fair-price-shop-grains-to-flour-mill-unearthed/articleshow/75394936.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad hospital now medical, research institute||HYDERABAD: The 1500-bed exclusive Covid-19 hospital at the Gachibowli sports complex has been designated as a medical and research institute. A formal order to this effect was issued after the Central team expressed its satisfaction with the facilities here. The research institute is expected to be of national eminence. The land of the sports complex, which has now been refurbished and converted into the medical facility, had been officially transferred to the health and family welfare (H&FW) department. “In view of coronavirus pandemic it is decided to establish a hospital in sports hostel building at Gachibowli to provide healthcare services. Pursuant to this decision, the YAT&C department has transferred the building along with the land to the H&FW Department,” says an an order issued on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-hosp-now-a-medical-research-inst/articleshow/75397166.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Amid Covid lockdown, DMIMS virtual convocation today||Nagpur: Among the many firsts amid the Covid-19 lockdown will be the convocation of Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences (Deemed University), Wardha, which will be held on Monday on a virtual platform. DMIMS management clarified that a traditional convocation ceremony will also be held whenever the government guidelines permit in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Pro-chancellor Dr Ved Prakash Mishra took the initiative of holding a ‘notional’ convocation and streaming it on the institute’s website as well as YouTube. This will enable the university to fulfil the mandate of the University Grants Commission (UGC) of awarding degrees to the graduates within 180 days of passing the examination even in this challenging period and thus avoid inconvenience to the students who aspire for further studies or jobs. The degrees and awards will be conferred to the students in absentia. The video streaming will begin at 5pm on Monday and total of 791 degrees will be conferred. These include 336 from medicine faculty, 165 from dentistry, 98 from ayurveda, 163 from nursing, 19 from allied health sciences, eight from physiotherapy and two from the faculty of interdisciplinary sciences. These degrees include 502 undergraduate, 210 postgraduate, one DM, 68 fellowship, eight MPhil and two PhD awardees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-covid-lockdown-dmims-virtual-convocation-today/articleshow/75397164.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bhopal||3 held for smuggling liquor in BMC vehicle||BHOPAL: City police on Tuesday registered 81 cases for lockdown violation. Three sanitation workers were arrested for allegedly smuggling liquor in a BMC garbage pick-up vehicle near Lalghati. Police seized 81 litres of liquor. Koh-e-Fiza SHO Sudhir Arjaria said that acting on a tip , BMC garbage pick-up vehicle was intercepted near Lalghati. Three on board— Sonu Jatalia (driver), along with Shankar Singh Molia and Bunty Patolia, told police that they had brought the liquor from a woman in Gondarmau Gandhi Nagar. Search was on to find her. Further probe is underway. Earlier, on Monday, 145 cases were registered for the breach. The accused were booked under section 188, 269 and 270 of IPC. Few were also booked under National Disaster Management Act for the violation. Police seized the vehicles of those found roaming on streets without any valid reason, and registered cases under Motor Vehicles Act. Since March 22, after the lockdown order was issued , over 2100 cases have been registered against the violators. Meanwhile, Ashoka Gardan police nabbed another BMC garbage pick up vehicle on Tuesday night and seized illegal liquor being transported by two BMC employees. Police registered two separate cases against the accused and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-held-for-smuggling-liquor-in-bmc-vehicle/articleshow/75397168.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Flower biz droops as all sales opportunities dry up||Margao: Entrepreneurs in the floriculture sector in Goa are staring at an uncertain future on account of the lockdown, especially as they mainly depend on the booming flower markets of the metropolitan cities of India to sell their produce. Director of agriculture Neville Alfonso told TOI that the floriculture industry has been adversely hit. “It’s a global situation. Floriculture hubs all over the world have suffered losses. In Goa, the business has reduced to zero,” he said. Speaking at a recent video conference of all agriculture ministers chaired by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Goa’s agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar apprised the Centre that floriculture in the state stood to be greatly affected owing to the lockdown. “Flowers like gerbera, which locals grow in polyhouses, were mostly sent to other states and exported, which is not possible now. I have issued necessary directions to the state agriculture department to conduct a preliminary assessment of their losses,” Kavalekar told Tomar. The demand for flowers like gerbera and orchids largely comes from the hospitality, entertainment and tourism sectors. The closure of all these and the uncertainty of them resuming operations hashit the trade and led to losses for the cultivators. Especially the orchid cultivators of Goa, who had just begun to break new ground in the flower business by marketing their produce in the metropolises incurring large investments, are now staring at huge losses. Goa produces 10,000 orchid spikes per week during the peak season, which make it to India’s major flower markets of Bangalore, Delhi, Pune and Hyderabad. During the off season, the demand dips by 50% . There are nearly 30 orchid cultivators in Goa, mainly in Canacona and Sanguem talukas, sources in the agriculture department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flower-biz-droops-as-all-sales-opportunities-dry-up/articleshow/75396671.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 27, 2020||Lucknow||First plasma transfusion on covid-19 patient at KGMU||LUCKNOW: In the first plasma transfusion on a covid-19 patient in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, a 54-year-old government doctor from Orai was transfused with plasma donated by Canada-based woman doctor, who incidentally was Lucknow’s first coronavirus patient and recovered after quarantine and medication. Convalescent plasma therapy on the critical patient was conducted by doctors of King George’s Medical University (KGMU), which also recorded its third plasma donation on Sunday. Both the recipient and donor had matching blood group and this expedited the decision to conduct plasma therapy. Antibodies from covid-19 survivors reportedly help in treating coronavirus infection. “The doctor from Orai was transfused with 200ml plasma on Sunday night. And the donor was the first covid-19 patient of Lucknow,” said head of transfusion, KGMU medicine department, Prof Tulika Chandra. A patient transfused with 200ml plasma should display uphill response within 24 hours. If not, a second unit of 200ml plasma is transfused after 24 hours, she said. The Orai doctor’s condition was extremely critical which led KGMU doctors to conduct the therapy. “The patient, who is father of a MBBS student of the university, had high fever for eight days and also had difficulty in breathing. He came to Lucknow on an ambulance on Friday and was admitted in the isolation ward’s ICU. Swab samples of the patient and his wife were sent for testing on Saturday and the reports confirmed infection. The woman has mild symptoms and has been admitted to the isolation ward,” said Dr Himanshu, in charge infectious disease unit, KGMU. He may have contracted the infection while treating patients in Orai, said doctors. Prof Chandra said, “While the therapy works faster on moderately affected patients, we decided to go for plasma therapy after consultation with the family.” Besides the Canada-based doctor, two other covid-19 survivors — Dr Tauseef Khan of KGMU and 54-year-old Lakhimpur resident Uma Shankar Pandey — had donated their plasma for the cause. The NRI’s doctor’s two-year-old son and in-laws were also diagnosed with the virus. While the son recovered, in-laws are still under treatment at Central Command’s base hospital. “She was excited about donating her plasma so that lives could be saved,” said head of transfusion, medicine department, Prof Tulika Chandra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-plasma-transfusion-on-covid-19-patient-at-kgmu/articleshow/75397177.cms||Yusra Husain
April 27, 2020||Goa||Margao residents surprise sanitary worker with gifts||Margao: Expressing gratitude to the sanitary workers who have carried out door-door garbage collection services in their housing colony even during the pandemic, residents of VVGB housing society at Ravanfond, Margao, on Sunday felicitated a garbage collection worker as a token of their appreciation. The sanitary worker, Ramavva Goud, was presented with a garland of currency notes and provided with food grains and other essential goods purchased with funds raised by the 33 families residing in the society. The residents said the groceries would be sufficient to meet her family’s needs for the next three months.“The sanitary workers, who are doing a yeoman service in keeping the city garbage free, have always remained a neglected lot. This woman has been coming to our building everyday without fail to collect our garbage during the lockdown, risking her life. In order to acknowledge her services, this is a small contribution from our side,” resident Chandrakant Alloli said. He urged people to treat sanitary workers with love, kindness and dignity. “This was unexpected for me. Garbage collection workers are often scorned upon and treated with disdain by the people. I am immensely pleased with this honour, which I will never forget in my life,” an overwhelmed Goud told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-residents-surprise-sanitary-worker-with-gifts/articleshow/75396676.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||TTD’s lockdown prevented outbreak among pilgrims||Covid-19 has unleashed a crisis the world has never seen before. This is perhaps the first time in the history of mankind that the borders of all nations, states and districts have been sealed following an outbreak. While the unpreparedness of the developed nations was exposed by the coronavirus crisis, India continues to strongly fight back Covid-19 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who leads a family of 137 crore people, like a Vasudaika Kutumbham. The timely decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) to suspend the darshan for devotees prevented Covid-19 outbreak at Tirumala. The TTD closed the world-renowned Tirumala temple for devotees on March 20, five days before the nationwide lockdown came into effect. With nearly 80,000 to one lakh devotees visiting the Tirumala temple from across the country and the world, it could have been disastrous if there were an outbreak of the virus in the temple city. This eventually would have had a cascading effect across the country. The TTD management performed Yagams to save mankind from coronavirus. Seeking divine intervention to save mankind from the coronavirus pandemic, TTD organised Srinivasa Veda Mantra Arogya Japa Yagnam from March 16 to 25 and Sri Srinivasa Shantyutsava sahita Dhanwantari maha yagam from March 28 to 30 at Tirumala. “Vedaparayanam” recital has been going on every single day at Tirumala from April 10 and it will be continued till the world is relieved of the deadly coronavirus. The TTD has immersed itself in the fight against Covid-19. Sri Venkateswara institute of medical sciences established the first Covid-19 testing lab in Andhra Pradesh. This continues to test samples received from across Andhra Pradesh. Sri Padmavathi medical college hospital has been converted into a state Covid-19 hospital, and Sri Padmavathi Nilayam at Tiruchanoor into a state government’s quarantine facility. The TTD trust board sanctioned Rs19 crore towards the purchase of necessary medical equipment. The TTD has turned into a saviour for the poor during the nationwide lockdown. It has distributed 1.4 lakh free food packets in Tirupati since March 28. It has also distributed three tonnes of fodder to various goshalas in Tirupati, besides feeding 500-odd stray cattle and dogs. The village volunteers system, a brain-child of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, has come as a blessing not only for the people of the state but also for institutions such as TTD. It is because of the strong network of village volunteers, all state government aid and welfare schemes are delivered at the doorsteps of people. The fact that several states have taken Andhra Pradesh as a role model to replicate village volunteer system, stands testimony to the success of the local governance model. Though Tirumala temple remains closed for pilgrims, all the daily, weekly, monthly and annual festivals continue to be performed at the sacred abode of Lord Venkateswara as per the prescribed agamas, some of which are telecast live on SVBC. Through SVBC, devotees continue to stay connected to their “Kula Deivam” -- the living God through Govinda Nama Smarana 24/7. It is rightly said, “Prayers can move mountains”. Our earnest appeal to all devotees is to stay home and stay safe and make a silent prayer for the universal well-being. (By YV Subba Reddy. The writer is the chairman of the TTD Board)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ttds-lockdown-prevented-outbreak-among-pilgrims/articleshow/75397180.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Cops arrive, but Arambol party site cleared quickly||Mapusa: High-ranking officers from the Goa police rushed to Pernem following a TOI report that foreigners have been arranging and hosting rave parties in the coastal belt. SP (north) Utkrist Prasoon, DySP (Mapusa) Gajanan Prabhudessai, PI Sandesh Chodankar and several other policemen made their presence felt at the site, and for the second successive day, foreigners who were at the banyan tree in Bhomwada, Paliem, fled inside the jungle. The presence of policemen was welcome by locals, who have now demanded stringent action.“Just a visit by the police is not enough. We want the police to put a stop to all this,” a local told TOI. On Sunday when TOI visited the site again for the second time in as many days, it was cleared. “I had seen fruits, eatables, pillows, bedsheets on Friday night, but now everything is cleared. I am still surprised how motorcycles with deflated tyres were taken away from here. It seems like they planned this clearance well,” said one eyewitness. Police have been denying that rave parties or get-togethers – in the time of national lockdown – are being held in the Pernem coastal belt, but the presence of several foreigners in one place and plenty of bikes at the scene suggest otherwise. “It’s not just about the parties. Here, foreigners are moving around as if things are normal. There are two on bikes everywhere. You wouldn’t know that there is a lockdown,” said another villager from Arambol. Locals are also demanding action against some of their own. For instance, several have called for stringent action against people who have given their private two-wheelers on hire, without the licence to rent them out. “I saw the foreigners, about 25 to 30 of them, entering the jungle. They told me they are having a party,” said the villager who first spotted the group and alerted locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-arrive-but-arambol-party-site-cleared-quickly/articleshow/75396700.cms||Keshav Naik
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Conduct objective type-exams for state universities: Academician||Nagpur: With summer examinations of state universities going for a toss due to Covid-19 outbreak and nationwide lockdown, a senior academician has suggested to conduct objective-type tests, which would not only save time but also manpower and funds. Founder president of Maharashtra Association for Social Work Educators (MASWE) Ambadas Mohite has written to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari and state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant to give directives to all universities in this regard. “The students and their parents are in a state of confusion. They’re worried about when the examinations would be conducted, when will the results be declared, when they will apply for revaluation, and when will the next academic year begin. They are also worried about their next year’s admissions,” he said in his letter. Explaining his proposal, Mohite, also a former senate member of Nagpur and Mumbai universities, said in such conditions, the government can consider this alternative. “Except professional courses, all other exams could be conducted through objective-type pattern, which could provide quick results and would save evaluation and moderation work in a big way. It would further help the universities to start their next academic year (2020-21) as scheduled in mid-June or July,” he said, adding that universities would also save a lot of funds on travel and other bills of evaluators. The senior academician requested all vice-chancellors to conduct meetings of their various authorities like management and academic councils, along with senate and Board of Examinations and Evaluations, through digital platform so that their universities’ routine works shouldn’t get affected. “It’s high time the university officials use technology to deal with such contingencies. There are various platforms available for conducting such meetings like Zoom and Google,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/conduct-objective-type-exams-for-state-universities-academician/articleshow/75408724.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Cabbies launch ‘selfie with empty vessels’ protest in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Cab drivers have launched a massive protest on social media against what they call “indifference” of central and state governments to the hardships they are facing due to the lengthy lockdown. As part of their ‘Selfie With Empty Vessels Abhiyana’ protest, cabbies from across the country, under the aegis ‘Coalition of Drivers against State and Central Governments’, on Sunday began posting selfies with an empty vessel in hand and a black cloth tied around their foreheads on Facebook, Twitter and other social media. Gandasi Sadananda Swamy, president of the coalition, said the empty vessel symbolises the rough times cabbies are going through. They do not even have food, he said. “I alone have received over 15,000 pictures so far, including of a woman who drives a pink cab,” Swamy said. “The government does not understand that most drivers are daily wage workers. No work for over two months means they cannot feed their families.” He said Andhra Pradesh and Delhi governments are paying drivers Rs 10,000 and urged others to follow suit. “They need to understand that even if the lockdown is lifted, drivers will not have money to pay taxes or EMIs,” said Swamy. A cabbie said, “The government collects taxes from drivers, but has no money to help them in times of distress. People are distributing rations, but the government must realise cash is also necessary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabbies-launch-selfie-with-empty-vessels-protest/articleshow/75396173.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
April 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Cops on alert to keep tabs on rumour mongers, cyber fraudsters as cases rise||BHOPAL: Cops are not only enforcing lockdown on the streets, but are also busy in the virtual world fighting rumour mongers and cyber frauds, who are taking this period as an opportunity to siphon money from people’s bank accounts. Police are constantly keeping tabs on social media to prevent the spread of rumours. Miscreants are using it as an opportunity to create panic and even for personal vendetta. On March 19, a trader in Narsinghpur who had a dispute with some locals was arrested after he shared on social media that that two of those persons are suffering from Covid-19. In another case of spreading rumours on April 17, two quacks — Sanket and Yogesh — were booked for spreading rumours that a woman had died of the Covid-19 in Balaghat. In Singrauli, accused Neeraj Gupta had shared messages claiming that a Covid-19 patient was found in Singrauli. He was booked on March 11. On April 5, two persons were booked in Sagar district’s Gadhakota for spreading rumours that a local leader was distributing cash, leading to a mob outside the leader’s house. In Bhopal too, police are facing similar situations. ASP (Crime branch) Nishchal Jharia said that police monitors social media platforms round the clock. ASP Jharia said that since section 144 was in force, the city police have booked 18 people for spreading rumours and posting objectionable content. ASP (Cybercrime branch) Sandesh Jain said that many fake messages having names of PM, CM and other political figures were also being shared on social media, promising free recharge, but no such offer is being run by government. He said that people should avoid forwarding any inflammatory message which can cause communal tension or rumours. “One should verify the content shared on social media first before forwarding such stuff,” he said. Police have appealed people to report any such matter on the helpline/WhatsApp number 7049106300.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-on-alert-to-keep-tabs-on-rumour-mongers-cyber-fraudsters-as-cases-rise/articleshow/75397186.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Adopted after ’07 blast, girl now guards siblings||HYDERABAD: A 17-year-old girl has been taking care of her step-siblings during the lockdown ever since her adoptive parents were sent to judicial custody for a scuffle with neighbours in Old City. The minor, Sania Fatima, found abandoned after the 2007 bomb blast in the city near Gokul Chat, was adopted by a couple who was arrested a month ago. “We had essentials for only a month and I was cooking whatever was available at home. But we ran out of grocery soon and one of my father’s friend near Charminar gave shelter to me and my siblings two days ago,” Sania told TOI. The family was earlier staying at their house in Begumbazar. A class X student, Fatima has been taking care of her siblings Ekta (12), Umanand (8) and Pardhana (4). After a child rights NGO, Balala Hakkula Sangham, received information about them, they wrote a letter to director general of police Mahender Reddy on Sunday, appealing to provide protection to the children. “The DGP promptly replied and said he will look into the matter. Following that, food and other essentials have been provided ,” said Achyuta Rao, president of the NGO. “We are getting food from the DCP control room. But I just want my parents to come back soon,” Sania said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/adopted-after-07-blast-girl-now-guards-siblings/articleshow/75396705.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||99 samples test negative for Covid-19||Panaji: Three patients have been placed in hospital isolation at GMC on Sunday. A total of 99 test reports received on the same day came back negative, while 52 samples were sent for testing. Three of the seven recovered Covid-19 patients have completed seven days facility quarantine as well as the subsequent seven day-home quarantine, and the remaining four are currently in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/99-samples-test-negative-for-covid-19/articleshow/75396709.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka cases could touch 912 in another 10 days||BENGALURU: Karnataka is likely to add 409 cases to touch 912 by May 6 at the rate of 40 new cases each day, according to a projection by the state’s Covid-19 war room. The state added 361 cases in the past 22 days, at 16 cases a day. Officials and doctors tracking the disease say this means Karnataka has done well to contain it. The projection is based on current growth rates across district, and doesn’t account for a non-lockdown scenario. Earlier this month, chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the cases in Karnataka would see a spike by April-end and further increase in May. “Studies show there are no chances of the number of daily cases reaching zero for the next six months at least. The projected number of cases for May first week would still be within the agreeable positivity rate given the number of tests would have increased multifold,” Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 taskforce, said. On April 26, the number of days taken for cases to double was 12. Experts said while percentage calculations on doubling of cases may indicate that days taken are increasing, the number of actual cases added each day would increase. “Earlier, we projected that cases could touch 1,000 by April 25, but we’ve only touched half. The lockdown and other measures have worked well,” said war room in-charge Munish Moudgil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/912-cases-likely-by-may-6/articleshow/75396557.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 27, 2020||Goa||Allow those who travelled out of state to return: Kamat||Panaji: Opposition leader Digambar Kamat on Sunday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to bring back students, workers and patients who had travelled out of Goa and who wish to return home. Kamat said that many Goans are trapped outside the state, with limited resources. The former chief minister also welcomed Sawant’s announcement that Goan students who are stuck in other states can return to Goa after following due process. “I welcome the decision to allow Goan students to return back home. As we will touch 43 days of lockdown on May 3, Goa CM needs to work out a plan to permit Goans who were on a short visit to various places within India but got stuck there due to the lockdown, to return home,” said Kamat. On Saturday, Sawant said that Goan students, who are stuck in other states and want to return, should apply online to the collector of the area where they are and to the collector of district in Goa where they reside. The collectors will grant permission on case-to-case basis, Sawant had said. Many Goans who had travelled for religious or medical reasons or for family functions remain stranded either at hotels or with relatives. Many senior citizens, had travelled to Mumbai, Belgaum and Bengaluru to seek treatment for cancer and cardiac ailments. “Just as seafarers are being allowed to come back, similar guidelines have to be framed for others who left the state ,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allow-those-who-travelled-out-of-state-to-return-kamat/articleshow/75396717.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara man breaks wife's spine after she defeats him in online ludo||VADODARA: The pleasure of online ludo game turned intensely bitter for a couple after the man mercilessly thrashed his wife who defeated him consecutively in the game. The 24-year-old woman suffered severe spinal cord injuries and had to be hospitalized recently. According to the counsellors of 181 Abhayam helpline, the woman, who gives tuition at her house in Vemali to contribute to the family income. Wanting her husband to stay indoors instead of spending time with others in their society, she coaxed him to play ludo on the mobile phone. He agreed to play, but his wife defeated him consecutively for three to four rounds in the game. “A sore loser, he started arguing with with his wife and the verbal duel turned ugly. He started beating her with such ferocity that the woman developed a gap between two of her vertebrae,” said a counsellor from 181 Abhayam. “His ego was hurt thinking that wife outsmarted him and was more intelligent as she also contributed to the family income,” said the counsellor. The man works in a private electronics company and earns enough to sustain both of them. However, as they have to pay instalments of their home loan, the woman started started giving tuitions at home and did a beautician’s course. The woman was taken to an orthopaedic surgeon and after treatment she decided to go to her parents’ home instead of living with her husband,” the counsellor said. “But before that she wanted to go to her home to collect some documents. We then counselled them both,” the counsellor added. Project coordinator Chandrakant Makwana said, “Our counsellors give options to the women whether they want to lodge a police complaint or settle the issue. In this case since the husband apologized and the woman did not wish to register an offence, so we counselled to live to together and the consequences about marital discord.” The man was warned that physical torture is a crime and he can be arrested for the crime if she would complain to the police. “He agreed and apologized to the woman. She too agreed to return to him after spending a few days with her parents,” the counsellor said. A written undertaking about it was also taken from the couple. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/defeated-in-online-ludo-man-breaks-wifes-spine/articleshow/75394992.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 27, 2020||Goa||‘Shops in both rural and urban areas can open’||Panaji: While the Ministry of Home Affairs has differentiated between shops in rural and urban areas, the State Executive Committee (SEC) has decided to treat establishments in villages and towns the same. The SEC, which is chaired by chief secretary Parimal Rai said that all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood stores and shops in residential complexes which are registered under the Shops and Establishments Act will be allowed to open irrespective of whether they are in urban or rural areas. “The MHA's order has made a distinction between shops in the rural and urban areas. However, the SEC felt that there should be a uniformity in Goa and rural areas should be treated similar to urban areas,” said the SEC in a statement. The SEC retained all the other guidelines laid down by the MHA. “Those establishments which have not been allowed to operate under the Epidemic Disease Act or u/s 144 CrPC by the collectors will remain closed till further notice,” the SEC said. With the seafarers expected to arrive in the coming days, the SEC took stock of the plan to bring them home. The SEC asked the North-Goa Collector and the health department to put in place the necessary modalities for the testing and quarantine of the seafarers. Health secretary Nila Mohanan informed the SEC that the second batch of 1,000 thermal guns have arrived and most have been distributed to government departments based on priority. The SEC inquired about the marketing support provided to the farmers by the department. The SEC noted that more than 6000 foreigners have left Goa in special ferry flights from Goa International Airport. Meanwhile, the excise department has seized unauthorised stock of about 20,000l liquor worth Rs 79.4 lakh and 20 cases have been booked since the lockdown began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shops-in-both-rural-and-urban-areas-can-open/articleshow/75396722.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bats are not the culprit, say global researchers||BENGALURU: A team of researchers based in various universities and conservation organisations in nine countries including India, Germany, UK, Australia and US, have urged people not to villainise bats which have been widely blamed – wrongly as the researchers point out – for the genesis of the current pandemic. Several unverified social media posts have led to widespread antipathy and fear over bats among the general public in India resulting in a spike in the number of people demanding colonies of bats be removed from their neighbourhoods and destruction of bat roosts. The researchers say the viruses found in two species of bats found in India as per the most recent ICMR study, are different from the one that causes Covid-19 and therefore cannot spread the disease. Researchers also argue that it is premature and unfair to blame bats or any other animal for the pandemic, given that the exact origin of the Covid-19 virus or its precursor is still not known. “Information on current, and past zoonotic disease outbreaks suggest global wildlife trade and/or large-scale industrial livestock farming play an important role in such events. Killing bats and other wild animals, or evicting them from their roosts in retaliation is counterproductive and will not solve any problems,” a joint statement by 64 researchers reads. They argue that bats, in fact, perform vital ecosystem services: They pollinate flowers of some mangroves, and many other commercially and culturally important plants. Insect-eating bats are voracious eaters of pests which target rice, corn, cotton and potentially tea plantation. Therefore, they say, bats benefit the ecology and human health, and provide intangible economic benefits. Stating that none of the South Asian bats are proven to be natural reservoirs of the Covid-19 virus, they also point out scientists strongly suggest that it is highly unlikely for the viruses to jump directly from bats to humans. Also, there is no evidence of humans contracting coronavirus or any such viruses through excreta of bats. Recently, an ICMR study found bat coronaviruses (BtCoV) in the common Indian flying fox and fulvous fruit bat. “However, less than 5% of the screened samples contained this BtCoV and, as the study mentions, it is very distantly-related to SARS-CoV-2 [which causes Covid-19] and hence cannot cause Covid-19,” they said. “Society needs more awareness on bats around them in addition to epidemiological facts for a healthy coexistence. We urge governments of South Asian countries to strengthen the legal framework to protect bats in view of the services they render to the ecosystem and their slow breeding capacity,” the researchers further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dont-villainise-bats-say-researchers-as-they-bust-outbreak-myths/articleshow/75395552.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown lessons from a century ago||Chennai: Authorities scampering to restrict public movement, thousands being isolated and people hoping the bad times would pass was the norm in 1902 during the plague. In 1918 came Spanish flu, and precautions to contain the spread were thorough hand washing and physical distancing. Read the entire story on TOI+  Lockdown lessons from a century ago||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-lessons-from-a-century-ago/articleshow/75396723.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||BJP supplies food kits in DK||Mangaluru: Responding to a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that none should be deprived of essentials, the state unit of the BJP started supplying food kits to beneficiaries on Sunday. Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel initiated the process in his home district of Dakshina Kannada, by dispatching 12,000 food kits to beneficiaries in eight assembly constituencies, with each constituency being allocated 1,500 food kits. Nalin, who is also the member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada, has already distributed 3,000 food kits prior to this drive, and kept an equal number in reserve, in his Covid-19 war room, to fulfil requests for essential supplies. The kits contain rice, tur dal, wheat, masala powder, cooking oil, tea and coffee powder as well as sugar. Some of the kits also have soap and toothpaste, said Nalin, prior to launching the initiative in the presence of the seven BJP MLAs from Dakshina Kannada. District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari symbolically handed over the kits to the respective MLAs, and said that these will be given to those who do not have ration cards. This aid is important in a district that has done a tremendous job under the leadership of Nalin and the entire district administration in combating the pandemic, he said, adding this initiative was important, in that the district with its multi-modal connectivity, was prone to an outbreak. Nalin said it was the wish of the Prime Minister that each party worker come to the aid of at least five people, and the party has supplemented efforts of the state government in this regard. Each party MLA has taken the initiative to distribute ‘Modi Kits’ to the deserving in their area, after mobilising funds, or from their own resources, he said. The muzrai department too has served more than 16,500 midday meals every day to the homeless and those in need, he said. Minister for urban development Byrathi Basavaraj, philanthropist G Shankar and many donors have aided the party’s efforts in ensuring that no one sleeps hungry, Nalin said. This is in addition to steps taken by the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP to provide relief to people through fair price shops, by issuing them ration for April in advance, he said, adding food stocks for May will be released shortly to beneficiaries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-supplies-food-kits-in-dk/articleshow/75393956.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Expedite accommodation plan, demand Telangana doctors||HYDERABAD: Junior and resident doctors on Covid-19 duty at government hospitals have demanded to fast-track the plan of providing accommodation to them. Even after 10 days of the formation of a special committee by the state, healthcare workers in the state are still awaiting a response on the plan. Quoting the example of Delhi, where healthcare workers received accommodation within a week of lockdown, doctors in the state have said that they are expecting a decent place to live with food. “Not a single doctor or faculty has been provided accommodation so far. Many resident doctors have been facing issues. The government should fast-track the plan, at least for doctors working in core areas,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, the president of Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association. Meanwhile, the committee formed to look into the requirement of accommodation has been given the task to book hotel rooms to accommodate medical professionals, and work out the modalities for the same. “The health department has indicated that, if there is a spurt in Covid-19 cases, lot of medical professionals are likely to be recruited. It is also expected that the existing medical professionals may also be shifted to hotel accommodation as per standard operating procedure. So, the government may have to hire a number of hotel rooms to accommodate medical professionals,” a circular by the general administration department said. Doctors on Covid-19 duty are under the additional stress of possibility of passing on the infection to family members. “Leave alone neighbours, even our families ate scared and it weighs down on us,” said a doctor who did not want to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/expedite-accommodation-plan-demand-telangana-docs/articleshow/75396718.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 27, 2020||Bhopal||Adopt best practices for Covid-19 treatment: CM||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that best practices must be adopted everywhere in the state for treatment of Corona virus. Presently, Chirayu Hospital is providing the best treatment in Bhopal. Chouhan reviewing Corona situation and control arrangements in the state through video conferencing on Sunday said, “We have to make every effort to ensure that every Corona infected person recovers and goes home. Arrangements to start ICU facility in every district must be made. In suspected cases, home quarantine should be preferred.” Chief minister has given instructions to improve the arrangements of RD Gardi Hospital in Ujjain. Even the slightest carelessness in the treatment of Corona patients will not be tolerated. The chief minister in the past too had expressed concern over complaints about poor arrangements at RD Gardi hospital in Ujjain which has been notified as a Covid-19 hospital. Chouhan warned, “In case of any negligence, strict action will be taken.” Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains informed that a team of two officers has been sent to Ujjain to monitor the work. Meanwhile, Chouhan said that labourers of the state stranded in other states are being brought to Madhya Pradesh by buses. Besides, labourers are also being sent from one district to their districts / villages in the state. He instructed that it should be ensured that they reach their destination without any trouble, they should be screened at both the places from where they started travelling and their destination. The chief secretary informed that instructions have been issued not to recover toll tax from vehicles that are bringing labourers to the state. The chief minister said that the health workers and policemen and other staff engaged in the task of dealing with Corona should take full care of their health. They should work with utmost care and caution so that they do not get infected. They should use N95 masks, PPE kits. Secretary public relations P Narhari informed that activities for entertainment of patients are being started in the Corona Hospitals and quarantine centres for the patients so that they remain positive and stress-free. Chief secretary Bains instructed that these activities should be started soon after talking to the district collectors and in-charge of Covid hospitals. Director general of police Vivek Johri, additional chief secretary health Mohammed Suleman were also present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/adopt-best-practices-for-covid-19-treatment-cm/articleshow/75397188.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Goa||Lockdown keeps summer treats out of reach as homegrown, foraged berries don’t make it to markets||Panaji: Tangy bimblim, hydrating water apples and the sour-sweet berries like jamun, boram, canttam and chunna. Many of these, grown by families for self consumption, are usually distributed among friends and neighbours, who, this year will be deprived of these treats. “Our love apple tree fruits twice in the summer and sometimes we get so many fruits that even after distribution we are left with plenty to use in salads and juices,” Eva Baretto said. The crop was planted in their property by her grandmother in the seventies. This time, lockdown restrictions and the fear of meeting people has led the owners of such trees to limit the produce to themselves. “I have fond memories of plucking kokum and jamun from my aunt’s tree in Bicholim while going on a hunt for canttam and chunna in the wilds of Valpoi with my cousins. While we outgrew these adventures as adults, the fruits were often sent to us by family members every summer,” a Merces resident said. Even small-time vendors, who would go house-to-house to gather these fruits, have been unable to do so keeping the fruits out of the markets. “Village hawkers would come over to our house to collect bimblim and then sell them in the Mapusa market along with other summer fruit they’ve collected from other neighbours. Even that trend may come to a complete stop this year owing to the lockdown,” a Parra-resident said. St Cruz-based Nestor Rangel, who has been growing some of these fruits as a hobby, came to the rescue of Panaji residents looking for water apples. “Every single fruit we put up was sold. It is not possible to have a street sale so to avoid crowding, we move around from place to place selling the fruits in a vehicle. I’ve been growing these trees as a hobby, but now a lot of people are asking for saplings of the water apple,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-keeps-summer-treats-out-of-reach-as-homegrown-foraged-berries-dont-make-it-to-markets/articleshow/75396727.cms||Nida Sayed
April 27, 2020||Goa||Completion of Mopa airport may be delayed||PANAJI: Work on the Mopa international airport has recommenced after the Centre allowed construction activities during the extended lockdown. However, its completion may be slightly delayed due to the initial lockdown phase. Director of civil aviation Suresh Shanbhogue told TOI that work began on April 20. He said that when the first lockdown was announced, there were 750 workers at the site, so, when construction activity was allowed, getting labour was not an issue.“Nearly 1,000 labourers have started working on the airport, but there may be a slight delay in its completion.” A senior government official said that work on the airport was delayed by around 20 months after social activists approached the courts. He said that the initial deadline for getting the airport operational was September 2020, but due to the cases, it won’t be met. As per the new schedule, he said, infrastructure will be finished by December 2021, and operations will start by May 2022. However, this deadline, too, is likely to be broken, an official said. An official said that it takes around six months to secure permissions and clearances from all authorities to start operations. On November 8, 2016, the Goa government signed a concession agreement with GMR Goa international airport limited for developing the greenfield airport at Mopa on a public-private partnership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/completion-of-mopa-airport-may-be-delayed/articleshow/75396724.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Two cops held for taking bribe from lockdown violators||NAWADA: Two policemen were suspended and sent to jail for issuing a transit ‘permit’ after extracting Rs 500 from commuters who violated the lockdown rules. After a video grab went viral on Saturday which showed ASI Ramadhar Prasad Yadav and constable Bhupendra Yadav (both posted at Sitamarhi police station under Rajauli sub-division), extracting money from people violating the lockdown, Nawada SP Hari Prasath directed Rajauli SDPO Sanjay Kumar to probe the matter and submit a report. Acting on the SDPO’s report, which found the charges against the two cops true, the SP on Sunday ordered their suspension and an FIR was also lodged with the Sitamarhi police station. They were arrested and forwarded to judicial custody. It may be recalled that the ASI not only stopped the commuters travelling on Sitamarhi-Hisua road and charged Rs 500 from them, but also gave them his c4ell phone number with an advice that in case they were stopped during the course of their onward journey, he can be contacted assistance. About half-a-dozen people were forced to pay for the ‘transit permit’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-cops-held-for-taking-bribe-from-lockdown-violators/articleshow/75395364.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||‘Dial 112’ cops step in hour of need, arrange medicines for cancer patient in Kheri||Bareilly: When a family in Neemgaon area of Lakhimpur Kheri was desperately seeking help to get medicines for a cancer patient delivered from Lucknow, a Police Response Vehicle (PRV) of ‘Dial 112’ stepped in the hour of need and ensured that the “life-saving” drugs reach the patient. ‘Dial 112’ cops had received a call from one Rajkumar who wanted to know whether they can deliver the medicines from Lucknow for his wife Rama Devi, who is suffering from cancer. Rajkumar told the police that his wife was getting treatment from Lucknow and he was not able to go there due to lockdown restrictions. The PRV in-charge in Kheri, Dharmesh Gautam and assistant Ravindra Singh, shared the information with the control room and coordinated with other PRVs and ensured that the medicines are arranged for Rama Devi. Gautam said, “The payment of the medicine was already done. We contacted a PRV in Lucknow and got the medicines delivered to Neemgaon police station. We later provided the medicines to Rajkumar late on Saturday night.” Meanwhile, in another humanitarian effort, a Muslim woman, who has been fasting for Ramzaan, donated blood for a Hindu man, who was battling for life in Mishrana locality in Lakhimpur city on Sunday. Vijay Kumar Rastogi was in urgent need of O-positive blood, and given its rarity, it was not available at the blood bank, following which the information was shared on social media through an NGO. Soon, Alisha Khan approached the NGO and offered to donate blood. Alisha said, “Helping someone in the need is also a part of prayer offered to Allah, and I am doing the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dial-112-cops-step-in-hour-of-need-arrange-medicines-for-cancer-patient-in-kheri/articleshow/75395347.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 27, 2020||Mysuru||Drowning of forest personnel in Kabani will be probed: Minister||Mysuru: A day after two forest personnel drowned in the Kabini backwaters, after the coracle in which they were patrolling, capsized at Gundre forest range in Bandipur Tiger Reserve, forest minister Anand Singh rushed to the accident site on Sunday. He told reporters that there are complaints against senior officials, that they pressurised the personnel to use the coracle to stop illegal fishing. “The tribals from the region have expressed suspicion over the death of the forest personnel. The matter will be probed, as we have to ensure justice for the people of the region and their family members,” he said. He stated that the government will give ex gratia to the families of the deceased. Singh visited the spot where the coracle capsized in HD Kote taluk, and collected details about the accident from senior officials, and also interacted with the field staff. The minister also spoke to forest guard Mahadev and watcher Bomma, who survived the accident. He travelled in a forest department boat, in the backwaters, to inspect the place where fish is caught illegally. HD Kote MLA Anil Chikkamadhu, principal chief conservator of forests Punati Sridhar and Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra were present. Forest watcher’s body retrieved Foresters managed to retrieve the body of forest watcher Shivakumar, from the backwaters, on Sunday morning. During an operation on Friday night, to catch miscreants involved in illegal fishing, a coracle carrying four forest personnel had capsized in the backwaters. Forest guard Mahadev and watcher Bomma were rescued, while guest house caretaker Mahesh and watcher Shivakumar drowned. The foresters had managed to retrieve the body of Mahesh on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/drowning-of-forest-personnel-in-kabani-will-be-probed-minister/articleshow/75394389.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Bodies of Telangana workers lying in Gulf morgues||HYDERABAD: Mortal remains of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) have been stuck in the Gulf countries for weeks due to the Covid-19 lockdown regulations. Several dead bodies of workers from Telangana could not be flown back as special permission and required certificates have to be obtained from the Gulf authorities. In the UAE alone, the mortal remains of five workers from the state, who died due to cardiac arrest or in accidents, are lying in mortuaries. “My nephew Bathini Ravi died in Oman as he fell from a building that was under construction. We have written a letter to the Indian Embassy in Muscat seeking completion of formalities and issue of NOC to airlift his mortal remains to India. We had submitted the letter on April 23,” said Bathini Sadhan, a resident of Yousufnagar in Kortula mandal of Jagityal district. Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued strict guidelines for the repatriation of dead bodies due to the Covid-19 situation. Manda Bheem Reddy, president of Gulf Emigrants Forum, told TOI, “Several dead bodies are lying in mortuaries in the Gulf. Due to the lockdown, we don’t exactly know how many.” Meanwile, Airport public health officials at Hyderabad airport said that they hadn’t received any mortal remains during the lockdown. Public health officer at Hyderabad airport, Dr Anuradha Medoju, told TOI, “We are not allowing the mortal remains of any person who died due to coronavirus. Regarding non-coronavirus deaths, the family is required to obtain the cause of death and embalmment certificate from the health ministry of the respective country and NOC from the Indian Embassy there. Bodies of those who died due to communicable diseases are not repatriated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bodies-of-t-workers-lying-in-gulf-morgues/articleshow/75396720.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gandhi medics ask people to not attack doctors||HYDERABAD: In a four-minute video, medical personnel of Gandhi Hospital urged people not to attack health workers, who are risking their lives to treat people. “If we don’t work, who will take care of you,” they questioned in the video. Gandhi Hospital superintendent, Dr Raja Rao said the attacks must stop. “We are trying our best. In some cases, patients are dying due to other health conditions,” Rao said. A nurse claimed that some patients are quite aggressive, while another staffer said that some of them were being tortured by house owners. Director of medical education, Dr Ramesh Reddy said if the health staff don’t work, Covid-19 could not be controlled. - Sribala.Vadlapatla||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-medics-ask-people-to-not-attack-docs/articleshow/75396741.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||With virtual visiting hours, nurses bridge cellphone gap in Kolkata Covid-19 hospitals||KOLKATA: Cut off from the world and confined to an isolation chamber without a mobile phone, Covid-19 patients in Kolkata couldn’t feel more lonely. With the state health department banning mobile phones at Covid-19 treatment facilities last week, patients lost touch with everyone, including their family. Two hospitals have now come to their aid with a unique solution — they are being provided with a ‘virtual visiting hour’ or a video call with family. AMRI Hospitals launched its virtual visiting hour on Sunday, connecting around 20 patients with their loved ones. The hospital has asked its nurses to arrange video calls every day from 4.30pm to 5.30pm. MR Bangur Hospital, too, started a similar arrangement on Sunday. Some other hospitals are also contemplating such a move. “Since patients’ families are anxious and cell phones are banned in isolation wards, we have arranged ‘virtual visiting hours’ so that patients in isolation can keep in touch with loved ones,” read a statement issued by AMRI. Every day, nurses at the AMRI isolation wards will connect each patient to his/her family over video call. Each patient will get around 3-4 minutes to interact with their family members. The facility was launched at the AMRI, Salt Lake Annexe, Covid-19 facility and will soon be started at AMRI, Dhakuria, and Mukundapur. AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua said that this will keep patients from feeling lonely. “It will alleviate their anxiety to a great extent. Our doctors believe that interacting with loved ones will help patients recover faster,” he said. At MR Bangur Hospital, the authorities have arranged for GSM-based WLL phones in all the isolation wards where patients can speak to family members any time of the day. “However, the calls need to be on the loudspeaker and the patient needs to wear a mask while speaking to avoid contamination. After every call, the phone is properly disinfected before someone else can use it,” said Sisir Naskar, superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital. Naskar added, the phone numbers are written on the admission ticket of the patient at the time of his/her admission. Further, the hospital authorities have also set up a helpline number — 88202 07070 — where relatives of patients can call to get their status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-virtual-visiting-hours-nurses-bridge-cellphone-gap-in-covid-hosps/articleshow/75396175.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||‘Doctors are dying for you, be respectful’||NAGPUR: Dr Lokendra Singh, a leading practitioner, is the consultant neurosurgeon and director of Dr GM Taori Central India Institute of Medical Sciences in Nagpur. Dr Singh, who is the current president of the Neurological Society of India, spoke to TOI about the Covid pandemic, its implications and related issues. The Neurological Society of India is upset with what happened to Dr Simon Hercules in Chennai last week. Dr Hercules was a good neurosurgeon, a good human being, did charity work and also provided employment to others. He operated upon a Covid patient, got infected and succumbed. When his body was taken to the cemetery, people around started pelting stones. It had to be brought back to hospital and then with police help buried after a close friend himself dug the grave. There was no dignity in death. The Centre was quick to take action and stricter laws are coming. Doctors need some kind of protection. This hatred, especially when something goes wrong, has always been there. Is Covid going to worsen the situation?Definitely. There is more danger once the restrictions are off. 80% of the population is asymptomatic. How will doctors evaluate Covid carriers? Doctors need to take quick decision. If somebody sues, it will be difficult for us. No doctor will do anything to kill a patient. Recently, many citizens came out and clapped for healthcare workers. Are there some double standards here?Clapping is OK. But when one sees the danger close by, one is scared and reacts differently. Standards change when it is for oneself. Unfortunately, this is how society functions. How can you make people respect the work being done by doctors, nurses, paramedics, health workers.. even cops?When they need you, the respect is automatic. When something goes wrong even those whom you have treated can behave differently. There is lack of knowledge, scare and confusion, even among the medical fraternity and scientists. This virus is intelligent and is changing fast. Nobody knows how it is going to behave. People will have to trust doctors, there is no other choice. Doctors are dying for you, be respectful. Should the lockdown be extended?The pandemic is going to last for at least 18 months and then another six months to restore normalcy. The government has to carefully study the situation and relax the rules where there is a need. Though we are flattening the curve, the lockdown will not eradicate corona, it will only give us breathing time. God willing, a vaccine will be invented, some miracle may happen. Living with less money is better than dying and the lockdown has showed how little we need to survive. What has India done right to keep the number of positive cases and casualties down?Difficult to say. Asian countries are exposed to various infestations, viruses and endemics. We have more resistance than our western friends. The coronavirus is heat sensitive and India being a warm country is another reason. Also, Indians have been more disciplined than those in developed countries. What about Nagpur and Vidarbha? There is a sudden recent spike. Is it a cause for worry?More and more people are being tested. Though the source was one particular event, the virus can hit every community. People were not forthcoming with information. It did create some rift in society. But it is good that the naming, because of which there was shaming, has stopped. When will this pandemic end?It will remain in our psyche for a long time. Our behaviour, how we interact, shake hands, hug each other will change. More than PPE (personal protection equipment), PPB (personal protection behaviour) will come into play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-are-dying-for-you-be-respectful/articleshow/75396204.cms||Sunil Warrier
April 27, 2020||Mangaluru||BJP supplies food kits in DK||Mangaluru: Responding to a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that none should be deprived of essentials, the state unit of the BJP started supplying food kits to beneficiaries on Sunday. Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel initiated the process in his home district of Dakshina Kannada, by dispatching 12,000 food kits to beneficiaries in eight assembly constituencies, with each constituency being allocated 1,500 food kits. Nalin, who is also the member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada, has already distributed 3,000 food kits prior to this drive, and kept an equal number in reserve, in his Covid-19 war room, to fulfil requests for essential supplies. The kits contain rice, tur dal, wheat, masala powder, cooking oil, tea and coffee powder as well as sugar. Some of the kits also have soap and toothpaste, said Nalin, prior to launching the initiative in the presence of the seven BJP MLAs from Dakshina Kannada. District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari symbolically handed over the kits to the respective MLAs, and said that these will be given to those who do not have ration cards. This aid is important in a district that has done a tremendous job under the leadership of Nalin and the entire district administration in combating the pandemic, he said, adding this initiative was important, in that the district with its multi-modal connectivity, was prone to an outbreak. Nalin said it was the wish of the Prime Minister that each party worker come to the aid of at least five people, and the party has supplemented efforts of the state government in this regard. Each party MLA has taken the initiative to distribute ‘Modi Kits’ to the deserving in their area, after mobilising funds, or from their own resources, he said. The muzrai department too has served more than 16,500 midday meals every day to the homeless and those in need, he said. Minister for urban development Byrathi Basavaraj, philanthropist G Shankar and many donors have aided the party’s efforts in ensuring that no one sleeps hungry, Nalin said. This is in addition to steps taken by the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP to provide relief to people through fair price shops, by issuing them ration for April in advance, he said, adding food stocks for May will be released shortly to beneficiaries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-supplies-food-kits-in-dk/articleshow/75395357.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops take to Twitter to crack down on fake video||KOLKATA: The city police has initiated legal action against a social media user who had deliberately uploaded a fake video from a street in Metiabruz claiming that there was total violation of lockdown before Iftari on the first day of Holy Ramzan. In an unprecedented move, the Port division of Kolkata Police used its Twitter handle to upload a small but actual CCTV footage of the same area — around the same time when the fake video had claimed the incident took place — to prove that no one was even trying to violate lockdown. TimesViewFake news is a nuisance at all times. In times of crisis like this, they can become dangerous. Responsible behaviour is the need of the hour.Though rejoinders are common from police, this was the first time when cops shared a CCTV footage to push their point ever since the lockdown began. The live CCTV footage shows a recording from 5.04pm to 5.05pm on Saturday. The cops also turned it in to a “pinned video” so that it was visible at first glance. “A video claiming to be of yesterday before Iftari from Metiabruz is doing rounds on social media. CCTV coverage of the area proves that the video is fake. A specific case has been initiated and legal action is being taken against all those persons spreading this fake news,” the tweet from Port division stated. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said they have made some initial investigation and that the accused will be “nabbed soon”. Sources said the video has been traced to a user with right wing links who had been earlier warned by the Bengal police for circulating another fake video. The rebuttal assumes significance amidst increasing social media theories that the police need to clamp down even more near the market areas in the Port area. Police commissioner Anuj Sharma, who had himself gone to the Port areas of Garden Reach and Metiabruz to take stock of lockdown situation after OC Garden Reach was found to be Covid-positive, has instructed his men to ensure that no one from the community faces any problem reaching the market to break their daylong fast during the holy month of Ramzan. “These are attempts to try and ferment trouble. Hence, we will be slapping the accused with the Information Technology Act along with several sections of the IPC. Several Twitter users called for quick action against the perpetrators. There are a lot of people who posted this video claiming to be from Metiabruz, all of them should be punished...,” tweeted Shahnawaz Anwar. “Wow so fast. Please carry on the good work,” tweeted Kollol Roy. The cyber cell of Kolkata Police has so far questioned over 45 people for allegedly spreading rumours on social media during the lockdown. Among those who were questioned were students studying in colleges and universities and businessmen. A few social media groups are being closely watched round the clock, said sources. The Bengal police has arrested 96 people and registered 96 separate FIRs in this regard. It also warned 230 people for sharing fake news. Police sources said that most of the fakes were mostly about the spread of Covid-19 and rumours about fresh containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-crack-down-on-fake-video/articleshow/75396181.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Petty fight ends in farmer’s murder||HYDERABAD: A farmer was brutally attacked by his relatives with sticks and knives at Yellaram in Kumarambheem-Asifabad district on Friday. The farmer, S Shankar, suffered grievous injuries and succumbed while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mancherial on Saturday. Though the incident happened on Friday, no arrests have been made in the case. However, some assailants were reportedly in the custody of police. Asifabad police said Shankar, who was around 50 years, was attacked by six persons, allegedly on the provocation of his relative Lakshmi. Both families have been fighting over ownership of seven acres of farm land, presently in possession of Shankar’s family. On Friday, Lakshmi took objection over cattle belonging to Shankar’s family entering her residence and creating disturbance. When Shankar’s son Venkatesh went to bring the cattle home, she abused him using filthy language. A minor scuffle broke out between them and an enraged Venkatesh pushed her. Later, Lakshmi’s three sons —Tirupati, Ashok and Kumar —and three other relatives went to Shankar’s house and started attacking him and Venkatesh. Venkatesh escaped and hid himself in the house, while Shankar was repeatedly attacked with sticks and knife by the six, which was captured by someone on a mobile phone. The victim was shifted to local government hospital at Mancherial, where he succumbed. Based on the complaint by Venkatesh, police registered a case under Section 302 (Murder) of the IPC against the six assailants and Lakshmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/petty-fight-ends-in-farmers-murder/articleshow/75396725.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||180 migrant workers reach Moradabad from Haryana in four buses, quarantined||Bareilly: As many as 180 migrant labourers, who arrived in Moradabad from Haryana late on Saturday evening, have been quarantined at different centres. According to health department officials, the labourers will be allowed to go to their homes after completing 14 days in quarantine and testing negative for Covid-19. Meanwhile, no fresh case of novel coronavirus was reported in Moradabad district on Sunday. Well-placed sources with the district administrative told TOI that the labourers hailing from different villages of Moradabad district arrived in four buses. Additional district magistrate (executive) Lakshmi Shankar Singh said all labourers were sent to their respective sub-divisions, where they were quarantined at centres especially set-up for them. “The labourers are placed under quarantine at the centres located in Sadar, Kanth, Thakurdwar and Bilari sub-divisions. During the quarantine period, they will be provided nutritious food and our experts will make them practise yoga to keep them fit,” said the ADM. After completing the 14-day quarantine period successfully, the labourers will be given Rs 1,000 cash and ration packets before they leave for their homes. On the other hand, in a big relief, no fresh positive case was reported on Sunday, said Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg. The CMO said they received 199 reports on Sunday, of which 192 tested negative; the samples of three people will be sent for the test again, while four other positive cases have tested positive again. Director (medical & health) Dr Akhilesh Kumar, who visited Moradabad from Lucknow, told the media that they were satisfied with the arrangements made at the quarantine centre. Asking families of the Covid-19 suspects not to panic, the director said the quarantined people were being provided with best facilities at the centres. The director further said that the health department had started a telemedicine clinic, where anyone could consult doctors over the phone in two shifts between 8am to 8pm. “In the morning shift, 8am to 2pm, Dr GL Mangoi (physician) will be available on 8218064766, while orthopaedic surgeon Dr SS Kakar can be consulted on 9412746147. Similarly, ENT surgeon Dr AK Srivastava can be contacted on 8077857192 and paediatric Dr Veer Singh on 9412635176 in the evening shift starting from 2pm to 8pm,” added the director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/180-migrant-workers-reach-moradabad-from-haryana-in-four-buses-quarantined/articleshow/75395383.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Exams only after campuses open’||BENGALURU: The pending exams of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences will be held in the last week of July or first week of August depending on the Covid-19 situation. Participating in a phone-in programme organised by Vijay Karnataka, a sister publication of The Times of India, on Saturday, RGUHS vice-chancellor S Sacchidanand said the varsity will keep students informed about schedule. They must make best use of the situation to study more and not worry, he added. “We will hold practical or theory exams only after making sure students stuck in Covid-19 red zone districts are back in their colleges. No student will be left out,” the VC asserted. Several medicos on Covid-19 duties voiced concerns during the programme. “What if exams are held during my 14 days of quarantine?” asked a final-year student. The VC said they will be held only after all students deputed for Covid-19 work complete their quarantine period. For the first time, the university will conduct exams with external examiners from within the state instead of professors from neighbouring states. This year, given the Covid-19 situation, we will not be able to get external examiners from other states; they will be from Karnataka’s nine deemed-to-be universities, the VC said. The university is providing provisional certificates online for courses for which exams have been held. To make up for classes missed due to the lockdown, the university has told its affiliate-colleges to hold online sessions, but several students spoke of technical glitches. “Students missing online classes due to network issues can access recorded versions; all professors must shared them with these students,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rguhs-exams-only-after-students-are-back-on-campus-vc/articleshow/75396187.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||‘Dial 112’ cops step in hour of need, arrange medicines for cancer patient in Kheri||Bareilly: When a family in Neemgaon area of Lakhimpur Kheri was desperately seeking help to get medicines for a cancer patient delivered from Lucknow, a Police Response Vehicle (PRV) of ‘Dial 112’ stepped in the hour of need and ensured that the “life-saving” drugs reach the patient. ‘Dial 112’ cops had received a call from one Rajkumar who wanted to know whether they can deliver the medicines from Lucknow for his wife Rama Devi, who is suffering from cancer. Rajkumar told the police that his wife was getting treatment from Lucknow and he was not able to go there due to lockdown restrictions. The PRV in-charge in Kheri, Dharmesh Gautam and assistant Ravindra Singh, shared the information with the control room and coordinated with other PRVs and ensured that the medicines are arranged for Rama Devi. Gautam said, “The payment of the medicine was already done. We contacted a PRV in Lucknow and got the medicines delivered to Neemgaon police station. We later provided the medicines to Rajkumar late on Saturday night.” Meanwhile, in another humanitarian effort, a Muslim woman, who has been fasting for Ramzaan, donated blood for a Hindu man, who was battling for life in Mishrana locality in Lakhimpur city on Sunday. Vijay Kumar Rastogi was in urgent need of O-positive blood, and given its rarity, it was not available at the blood bank, following which the information was shared on social media through an NGO. Soon, Alisha Khan approached the NGO and offered to donate blood. Alisha said, “Helping someone in the need is also a part of prayer offered to Allah, and I am doing the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dial-112-cops-step-in-hour-of-need-arrange-medicines-for-cancer-patient-in-kheri/articleshow/75395371.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools do their bit to keep pupils busy||HYDERABAD: Schools are doing their bit from organising competitions to sharing workout videos to help students be fit and occupied during the lockdown. Apart from conducting online classes, many schools in the city are also encouraging students to maintain art and crafts books or pick up a hobby to keep themselves busy. “Children are always bustling with energy, but now due to this lockdown, they are confined to the house. They don’t even have the chance of going out and playing. The implications of staying indoors for such a long period may have adverse effects on their well-being and health. To prevent this, I have made short videos suggesting some simple exercises that can be a regular workout for children,” said V Amarnath, director, Slate School. On the other hand, Ambitus World School has been conducting several competitions such as Little Master chef, Helping Hands at Home, Community helpers challenge, Role model challenge among others for its students since mid-April. Students and their parents are actively taking part in these competitions by posting videos and photos of their wards on social networking sites. Apart from subject-wise tests and worksheets, some schools are also conducting online quiz competitions on current affairs, GK and other topics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-do-their-bit-to-keep-pupils-busy/articleshow/75396730.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nashik||New undertrials to be housed in a private school||Nashik: The Nashik Road Central Prison authorities have created a separate facility for new suspects remanded in judicial custody. A senior jail official said a private school — close to the jail premises — has been acquired for keeping the suspects. "We can keep around 100 suspects at the newly-acquired facility on a temporary basis. The facility has recently started and there would be sufficient staff to guard the new facility," the official said, adding that the aim is to cut down the spread of Covid-19 among the inmates inside the jail. Earlier this month, as many as 60 undertrials — charged under small offences and in judicial custody — were released from the jail on emergency parole as per the directive of the state government in view of the coronavirus pandemic. "Currently, there are 3,500 inmates lodged inside the jail. If new undertrials are brought in the jail, the chances of the spread of the virus can increase. If someone catches infection, the spread would be rapid. Thus, as a precautionary measure, a separate facility has been set up for the new suspects remanded in judicial custody," the official said. According to the official, the new facility will be guarded by the jail guards and the city police. Suspects from across the district, who are remanded in judicial custody, are brought to the Nashik Road Central Prison. Apart from this there are also prisoners who are convicted by different courts from across the state. Also, there are a many barracks inside the jail in which the convicts and undertrials are kept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/new-undertrials-to-be-housed-in-a-private-school/articleshow/75396189.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 27, 2020||Pune||Father of DSK’s ailing kin told to pursue bail for son with panel||Pune: The Bombay high court has asked the father of Kedar Vanjape, one of the arrested accused in the multi-crore rupees economic fraud by developer DS Kulkarni (DSK) and his group of companies, to pursue an interim bail relief for his son with the high-powered committee (HPC) looking into the release of prisoners to decongest jails in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench of Justice G S Kulkarni, hearing the petition on April 23, referred to the first part of the prayer regarding medical aid and took on record public prosecutor Deepak Thakare’s statement that “the state has given instructions to all the in-charge officers of the prisons that all the prisoners who are lodged in jail, would be entitled to receive medical aid, special food, etc as per the jail manual”.“In the present case, he (the public prosecutor) would submit that the petitioner (Vanjape) would be entitled to receive insulin and other medicines from his father/relatives and appropriate instructions to that effect would be issued to the concerned officer of the Yerawada Central Prison. Statement of Mr Thakare, learned public prosecutor, is accepted,” the bench observed.Referring to the second prayer regarding interim bail, the bench cited Thakare’s submission that “as there is a charge under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust) IPC, the petitioner’s case would not be a case of the punishment being less than seven years and for an entitlement for temporary bail/parole as per the orders of the Supreme Court”.Justice Kulkarni said, “Having heard the learned counsel for the parties, in my opinion, in regard to the directions of the high-powered committee, it would be appropriate that the petitioner’s father pursues the representation made to the high-powered committee. It is thus appropriate that this petition is also adjourned to April 30, when the suo motu petition, which also concerns the orders of the Supreme Court qua the prisoners in jail and involving the decision of the high-powered committee, would be heard by the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/father-of-dsks-ailing-kin-told-to-pursue-bail-for-son-with-panel/articleshow/75397198.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cancer patients suffer as hospitals defer surgeries||KOLKATA: Cancer patients are among the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic that has forced hospitals to defer or cancel chemothepary and surgeries, seriously jeopardizing recovery and even risking death in some cases. Across the city’s cancer treatment facilities, number of surgeries has dropped to less than 10% of the normal figure. Hospitals, on the other hand, are wary of operating their cancer services fearing infection to patients who have lower immunity due to cancer and hence are prone to transmission. With no public transport available and services having to be truncated, logistical barriers, too, have come in the way of cancer patients seeking treatment. Patients have tested positive at two specialized cancer hospitals in the city so far. While Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre and Research Institute (SGCRRI), Thakurpukur has been forced to shift most of its patients after a patient tested positive, Tata Medical Centre (TMC), too, has had Covid patients that forced quarantine of some of its staffers. Ruby General Hospital that runs a cancer unit has deferred all surgeries and asked patients to wait till next month. Narayana Health in Howrah has seen a ‘considerable decline’ in the number of cancer patients. “In order to continue OPD services we have started online consultation system which is giving relief to those who weren’t able to come for follow-up in the current lockdown situation. All emergency cancer surgeries are being performed. Patients who require immediate surgical intervention are admitted after thorough Covid-19 symptom evaluation. Patients with primary symptoms of Covid-19 are advised to wait for a minimum 14 days in home quarantine,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. While all ‘elective’ cancer surgeries have been put on hold across Kolkata’s private and state hospitals, chemotherapy and radiotherapy are being delayed by two-three weeks on an average. It could be risky to defer chemotherapy even by a week, according to Ruby General oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. “But there’s no option now since our resources, in terms of the number of healthworkers and support staff, have been depleted. Secondly, medicine supply has slowed down which is forcing us to space out chemotherapy. More importantly, patients are finding it difficult to travel,” said Mukhopadhyay. The impact of this slowdown could be disastrous, according to IPGMER professor of surgery Diptendra Sarkar. “Apart from the huge backlog which is building up, a deferred surgery could see a patient move to a higher risk stage of cancer,” said Sarkar. Sarkar also cited the instance of an oral cancer patient who had an operation at IPGMER last week and is recovering. “His family has managed to return but he is now stuck at hospital,” Sarkar said. The lost time could have fatal consequences for a substantial number of patients, felt onco-surgeon Sourav Datta. SGCRRI plans to resume emergency surgeries from Tuesday. “All our healthworkers in quarantine have tested negative. We will now be testing more suspects,” said medical director Arnab Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cancer-patients-suffer-amid-pandemic/articleshow/75396195.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard spotted in Kanakagiri forest||KHAMMAM: The camera traps installed to monitor the movement of wildlife in Kanakagiri forest in Khammam district captured the movement of a fully grown leopard recently. The big cat was captured during the night hours on April 21 in Gurramgudem of Tallapenta section in Tallada range in the forest. “The leopard was captured in the infrared nightvision camera installed near one of the water holes in the forest. The cameras were installed to observe the movement of wild animals as well as poachers and smugglers to ensure safety of the wildlife,” said K Aravind, forest range officer, Khammam. Though the exact population of leopards in the forest is yet to be ascertained, forest officials suspect that there could be two or three leopards lurking in the range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-spotted-in-kanakagiri-forest/articleshow/75396739.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nashik||Father in a fix as daughter stranded in Kota||NASHIK: Abhijit Pawar is having sleepless nights as his 18-year-old daughter Anandi is stranded in Kota, Rajasthan and not getting the necessary permission from the state government to go and bring her back. Pawar has received a letter from the director of disaster management in Mumbai giving permission for the private vehicles from Rajasthan to cross the three state borders to bring his daughter home. “The letter says that they will allow my daughter to come to Nashik from Kota but it is not a safe option to let her come by hiring a cab. I am requesting the government to let me go in my car and get her back in 48 hours. But I am not getting the permission to travel from Maharashtra to Rajasthan,” the 42-year-old told TOI. The letter is posted on twitter for the convenience of all the stranded students and their parents. It accepts the interstate movement under the guidelines issued for travelling during Covid-19 and has provided a contact number of the control room officer, Mantralaya, Maharashtra to be contacted for any assistance. Control Room Officer Onkar Navalihalkar said that there are nearly 2,000 students from Maharashtra stranded in Kota. “Many of them have requested us to make arrangements to bring them back but they do not want to come by bus or common vehicles. They are scared of catching the virus while commuting,” he said. According to him, the government is yet to figure out how to bring all of them back to the state. Meanwhile, if the students want to come back, the letter gives them permission to cross the borders of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Maharashtra strictly for the purpose of returning home. “Anyone who crosses the borders will be screened and quarantined for 14-days as a safety measure,” he added. Anandi Pawar has been staying in a Kota hostel since August 2019 to prepare for NEET exams. All her hostel friends have already been taken back by their respective state governments. “All my friends from Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat has left by buses. Only those from Bihar and Maharashtra are left-back. I would like to go home soon as there is a feeling of insecurity and uncertainty over here. My NEET examination is deferred by a month and now it will take place in June. Also the situation of Covid-19 doesn’t look good. I only want to be home with my parents,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/father-in-a-fix-as-daughter-stranded-in-kota/articleshow/75396208.cms||pragya jain
April 27, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon farmer donates 3 tonne of onions||Nashik: A farmer from Malegaon has been recognised by the APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation for donating three tonne of onions to the poor people in his area amid the crisis. Dinesh Ahire, an onion farmer, was approached by a few NGOs enquiring about onions in large quantity. Ahire told TOI “A few members of a local NGO had come to me asking for few quintal of onions. They told me that there are many people in the area who do not have access to food and are struggling to survive.” Then, he willingly gave three tonne of onions without charging anything. “It was my chance to contribute to society. I told the NGO members to take the onions and did not charge them. Although due to the lockdown, the sale of onions have been less, but my business is not going in loss,” he said. The three tonne of onions cost him nearly Rs 45,000. “People like those who used to work here in road constructions do not have any source of income at present and are finding it difficult to afford vegetables. Onion is the most essential of them. My friends also donated some of their produces to the NGOs.,” said Ahire. Apart from vegetables, they also gave grocery packets which they received from the government. “We do not require the grocery packets. Therefore, my friends and I gave those grocery packets to the NGOs,” he said The onions and grocery packets were then donated to nearly 300 poor people in Malegaon. The Nashik branch of APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation appreciated Ahire’s contribution and rewarded him with a digital certificate. Rachana Hande, the district coordinator of the organisation said, “We feel proud when farmers like Ahire think of others and contributes towards the society. The foundation congratulates and encourages him for the good work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-farmer-donates-3-tonne-of-onions/articleshow/75396217.cms||pragya jain
April 27, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts light rain with thunder on April 29 and 30||Pune: The India Metrological Department (IMD) on Sunday forecasted light rain with thunder and lightning on Wednesday and Thursday. “The discontinuity of wind in the lower atmospheric-level over Madhya Maharashtra will bring moisture from the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal over the region. This atmospheric condition will bring very light to light rain over the region and district,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of forecast division of the IMD Pune, said.  “The day temperature will remain around 39°C. The presence of high moisture and the temperature will develop local instability in the atmosphere. So, chances of strong or gusty wind with 30-35kmph speed are expected to be in the city. This weather phenomenon may result in hail in some places in the district,” Kashyapi said. The district may experience this weather till Friday, following which it will become normal, he added. The city has recorded fall in night temperatures. On Sunday, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 18°C and 20.4°C, which were below normal by -3.2 and 0.6 degrees Celsius respectively. “Northerly wind components are stronger in the lower atmospheric level and it is reaching up to North Maharashtra and Pune. So, the night temperatures have fallen in the region and the district. It will marginally rise because of the moisture incursion towards the end of April,” he said. From last week, the day temperatures sub-divisions in the state had fallen below normal, with nights remaining relatively cooler as minimum temperatures fell below 20°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-light-rain-with-thunder-on-april-29-and-30/articleshow/75397203.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mysuru||Canadian tourists taken to B’luru, to take spl flight today||Mysuru: Scores of Canadian tourists who were stuck in various parts of the Kerala, were ferried to the Kempegowda International Airport in Devanahalli, Bengaluru, through the Mulehole checkpost in Chamarajanagar, on Sunday. These tourists were ferried in two buses. After thorough checking, including document verification, Chamarajanagar police allowed them to carry on their journey to Bengaluru. These tourists will be taken to Canada, in a special aircraft, on Monday. “No foreign tourist is there in Chamarajanagar district,” stated the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/canadian-tourists-taken-to-bluru-to-take-spl-flight-today/articleshow/75395404.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||5 KMC docs sent to home quarantine||Kolkata: Five Kolkata Municipal Corporation medical officers who came in contact with Covid-positive patients at civic health clinics across the city have been placed under home quarantine. According to KMC sources, they had either examined or treated patients, who later tested positive, at KMC clinics. According to a senior KMC official, civic health officials in large parts of north and central Kolkata are scared after three medical officers were put in home quarantine from north and central Kolkata. “One of our medical officers in the Burrabazar area was the first in north-central zone to treat a patient, who later tested positive. We advised the doctor to stay under home isolation. Four others in Belgachhia-Tallah zone, Narkeldanga, Raja Debendra Street and Bowbazar were sent to home quarantine too,” said a KMC health department official. Non-availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) for on-duty medical officers at KMC clinics has left a section of civic doctors apprehensive. State health department officials, however, said adequate PPE have been provided to the KMC. A section of KMC medical officers has decided to stay home instead of attending clinics in high-risk zones. “The scare among a section of our medical officers is not unjustified. However, people need their services and they should attend the clinics,” an official said. After discussing the matter with the senior officials, the civic brass decided to ask a section of the medical officers in high-risk Covid-19 zones to be available on phone for the patients of their respective clinics. Most of them subscribed to the idea. They said it would be the best for residents who may get infected by coming in close contact with a doctor at the clinic who could be a silent carrier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-kmc-docs-sent-to-home-quarantine/articleshow/75396210.cms||Saikat Ray
April 27, 2020||Pune||Veteran novelist Uttam Tupe passes away||Pune: Veteran award winning novelist Uttam Bandu Tupe, also known as ‘Zhulvaakar’, passed away at a city hospital following a prolonged illness. He was 89 and is survived by two sons. Tupe was suffering from paralysis and was admitted to hospital two days ago. His novel Zhulva earned him the title ‘Zhulvaakar’ while several others were recognized with awards. His collection of stories, Aandan, earned him the best novel award from the Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad. Tupe was born in Khatav in Satara district and came to Pune for employment and settled here. He was highly influenced by Lokshahir Annabhau Sathe and his writings. Despite having been exposed to minimal education, he could write novels, stories, plays and autobiographies, and had to his credit over 50 books. He was a member of the Samrasta Sahitya Parishad. He was the president of the 2010 Samrasta Sahitya Parishad meet held in Nashik. He was also a member of the state government’s Marathi Sahitya Parishad and Cultural Board. Izal, Kobara, Shevanti, Chipad, Bhasma, Khuli, Kala, Kalashi, Nakshari, Bhasam, Mati ani Mansa are some of his books that were widely popular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veteran-novelist-uttam-tupe-passes-away/articleshow/75397206.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor boy stabbed to death in Asifabad, one held||HYDERABAD: A class X student was stabbed to death by a person, who was allegedly in an inebriated condition, at Kaghaznagar, Asifabad on Saturday night. According to Kaghaznagar police the minor was found lying in a pool of blood by his mother, a little away from their residence. The mother went out looking for him in the night. The locals found that the minor was stabbed to death. After a preliminary enquiry, the police came to know that the accused is a 36-year-old worker called Praveen. “Praveen developed a grudge against boy who attacked him earlier in the day. A little while after the attack, Praveen came back and stabbed the boy to death. There were six stab injuries,” the police said. The accused was taken into custody. Police said that Praveen purchased illicit liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-boy-stabbed-to-death-1-held/articleshow/75396749.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Stigma attached to coronavirus now stoking protests, violence||BENGALURU: As if ensuring lockdown norms are followed and migrant workers are fed has not been enough of a task, the government is now waging a war within its battle against Covid-19 battle on a new front – increasing stigmatisation around the disease resulting in politics, protests and violence. The government is not only worried over increasing incidents of violence against those who have been infected, but the stigma is also preventing people from reporting infections, resulting in a drop of almost 5% of suspected patients coming forward for tests. “While initial estimations in reporting positive cases were barely 10% of those infected, there has been a further dip of another 5% due to stigmatisation of patients and resulting violent incidents. People with symptoms now think twice before opting for tests,” said Dr MK Sudarshan, chairman of the state government’s advisory committee on Covid-19 data analysis. Although absolute numbers of samples collected and tests being done are increasing, it is not in proportion to the actual rate of the virus spread, which is much faster, Sudarshan said. One big reason, officials say is misinformation on the virus and reporting of incidents by some news channels, which tend to target patients and their contacts. This has created confusion among people. Following the incident in Sadiq Nagar, where a mob allegedly attacked an Asha worker on Covid-19 duty, incidents over the past two weeks have spiralled. The Padarayanapura violence and the subsequent political slugfest over shifting the accused to Ramanagara jail after five of them tested positive created a furore. This was followed by JD(S) MLC KT Srikante Gowda and his son vandalising a Covid-19 screening camp in Mandya just because it was set up close to his residence. On the weekend, BJP leaders including chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary and Yelahanka MLA SR Vishwanath and Kacharakanahalli BBMP corporators Padmanabha Reddy staged separate public protests against moving patients to their respective constituencies. “Covid-19 patients are not criminals and need to be treated with compassion,” said Dr CN Manjunath, member of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce. “Moreover, there is no reason to be scared about the virus. The only requirement is to be careful and follow social distancing norms in order to curb its spread.” Sudarshan pointed at the high recovery rate – 96% – and insisted Covid-19 is not as fatal as being wrongly perceived by the general public. He went on to say that even the vulnerable group of aged patients with comorbidities can be saved with timely reporting. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also time and again warned against stigmatisation, but those warnings appear to be falling on deaf ears as incidents of violence continue to rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stigma-attached-to-virus-now-stoking-protests-violence/articleshow/75396221.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||Man, daughter buried alive as house collapses due to heavy rain in Sambhal||Bareilly: A house at Jagdishpur village in Sambhal district collapsed on Sunday due to thunderstorm and heavy rain killing a 50-year-old man and his daughter. The neighbours pulled the father-daughter duo out of the debris and rushed them to a hospital where doctors declared them as "brought dead". The deceased were identified as Ramautar, a migrant labourer who had returned a month ago from Chandigarh, and his 18-year-old daughter Ganga. Ramautar had reportedly come to Jagdishpur with his daughter to fix her wedding, but due to the ongoing lockdown his wife and one of his sons were left stranded in Chandigarh. Superintendent of police (SP) Yamuna Prasad said, “A police team reached the spot for rescue operations. But, the neighbours had already taken them to hospital where they were declared dead. Their bodies were sent for postmortem.” Police said the house was in a state of disrepair and collapsed due to heavy rain. Station house officer (SHO) of Kudh Fatehgarh, inspector Ilam Singh, under whose jurisdiction the incident occurred, said Ramautar had been living in Chandigarh along with his wife and a son while his another son lives in Jagdishpur. “It was a mud house. Both father and daughter were having lunch when the roof collapsed burying them alive,” the SHO added. Additional district magistrate KK Awasthi, upon getting information, reached the place. Local administrative officials said that information of the deceased will be sent to Lucknow as their family may get "ex-gratia compensation for casualty caused by natural calamity".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-daughter-buried-alive-as-house-collapses-due-to-heavy-rain-in-sambhal/articleshow/75395423.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Skeleton staff who keep order among quarantines||Nagpur: At quarantine centres, doctors and multipurpose workers from the state public health department have been playing the role of corona warriors behind the curtains just like their counterparts at government hospitals. Badly short of hands, they have managed to run the affairs and keep things going for the last 45 days as all centres have seen number of suspected cases rise. As of Sunday, 664 suspects are staying at MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati, Police Quarters and other places. A total of over 1,400 have been serviced by the officials since March 11. Each quarantine centre has one duty doctor and one MPW at a time in two shifits during 24 hours. The in-charge senior doctor is only present during the day time. It is largely upto the team of two to address all concerns and ensure suspects don't breach medical guidelines while in institutional quarantine. In the over month and a half, the doctors had been at the receiving end of the suspects’ wrath who had been impatient to go home. As the numbers starting climbing since April first week, the health officials had a tough time dealing with irate inmates. Reportedly, the health officials were left to handle all types of issues raised. “Inmates would come or call and tell that their room’s bathroom was not clean. Sometimes they complained about quality of food. Regularly, they kept pestering us for early release,” said a doctor. The doctors had to also counsel them to ensure there is no law and order problem while officially their role is limited to monitoring the inmates for symptoms and co-ordinating with hospitals or civic officials. The centres were also monitored by a team of policemen and revenue officials. However, doctors rarely found support from them. Senior officials said cops were asked to take a round of corridors on hourly basis. “But they rarely stepped out of their tents fearing getting infected,” said officials from one of the Centres. The revenue officials and cops were fearful though they had been informed that inmates were just suspect cases. These doctors had been and continue to remain at high risk as several suspects ultimately turned positive. Refusing to be identified, the officials said they had been well supported by higher authorities. “Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, district health officer Dr Deepak Selokar, Dr Nitin Gulhane, Dr Anil Hazare, Dr Danish Iqbal, Dr Rajesh Debardwar, and Dr Shrikant Karode ensured we worked as a team and provide smooth functioning at the centres,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/skeleton-staff-who-keep-order-among-quarantines/articleshow/75396229.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||Heavy rainfall in city amid lockdown Locals fear covid spread as temp drops||Bareilly: The city witnessed heavy rainfall and thunderstorm on Sunday afternoon, bringing a slight drop in both minimum and maximum temperatures, and a significant chill in the air. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted partly cloudy sky with rainfall and possibility of thunderstorm for a couple of days more. The unseasonal rainfall amid lockdown, however, triggered fear among locals, from the unsubstantiated but widely-held belief that the Covid-19 virus survives longer in cooler temperatures. According to information from IMD, the maximum temperature recorded in the city was 30.1°C, 9°C below normal, while minimum temperature was 22.9°C, 1°C above normal. Maximum and minimum humidity was recorded at 100% and 61% respectively, while 20.2mm of rainfall was recorded on Sunday. Thunderstorms lashed the city in the afternoon, followed by heavy downpour which continued for around two hours. Thick black clouds covered the sky which lowered visibility even as it started raining at around 1pm. Roads were already deserted, except for some locals who had stepped out for emergencies, while the few people allowed to step out, like vegetable vendors, were spotted caught in the rainfall. There was panic among locals concerned that the sudden change in weather would accelerate the spread of Covid-19. “It is believed the virus can survive for a longer duration in lower temperatures. If true, such weather might only add to the prevailing problems,” said Amit Khanna, a local. “I have come across number of messages and posts on social media that suggest the virus can’t survive in hot and humid climates. Thus, the current weather could be suitable for its survival,” said Hema Singh, a resident of Rampur Garden. As per IMD predictions, similar weather conditions with partly cloudy sky, rains and thundershowers are likely to prevail over the next couple of days, with minimum and maximum temperatures hovering around 20°C and 34°C respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/heavy-rainfall-in-city-amid-lockdown-locals-fear-covid-spread-as-temp-drops/articleshow/75395414.cms||Maria Khan
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traders play it safe a day after chaos, most shops stay closed||NEW DELHI: On a breezy Sunday afternoon, Suresh Kumar (57) was seen with confusion writ large on his face sitting on a plastic stool outside his mobile phone sales and repair shop. The shutters were down like most other shops in east Delhi’s Acharya Niketan. “The central government said shops like mine, which are in a residential area, can open. But those who opened their shops yesterday were asked to close them. Now Delhi government has said we can open our shops. I’m not sure what to do,” Kumar said. A local resident, Kumar had come to see if other shops were open. But the area was deserted except for grocery shops and vegetables and fruit vendors. “As online classes have started, many residents want to buy tablets or get their phones repaired. Many have been calling to inquire when the shop will open,” he said. While Saturday saw many shops selling non-essential items open in different parts of the capital, they largely remained shut on Sunday even after the clarification by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal that Delhi would implement the guidelines. Traders’ bodies and union rued that there was lack of clarity about which shops fall under the relaxed category as haphazard urban growth and rampant mixed-land use has resulted in clustering of shops in residential areas. “This is a residential area, but shops are there on the ground floor of almost every building. Will you call this a market or are we allowed to operate here?” asked an employee of a jewellery shop in south Delhi’s Kalkaji. “Today is Akshaya Tritiya, but we are not taking any chances in opening the shop,” he added. Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) estimates that there are about 75,000 shops in the city that are eligible to open under the new order. CAIT general secretary Praveen Khandelwal said, “There’s confusion about what constitutes neighbourhood shops and standalone shops. We have written to the home secretary regarding the difficulties faced by the traders and urged him to issue a clarification. There is a lack of consensus between the administration and the law enforcing agency in the matter.” The shops open on Sunday were mostly those selling books, stationary and electrical items in areas like Laxmi Nagar and Pandav Nagar in east Delhi. In areas such as Bhogal in south Delhi and Karol Bagh in central Delhi, few tea stalls were also open. Rajiv Kakria from GK-1 said except a few book and electrical shops, most establishments in the surrounding areas remained closed. He argued for the lockdown to be lifted in a phased manner. “There is a lack of understanding in Delhi’s makeup as over 60% shops are located in residential areas due to mixed-land use. It will throw the lockdown to the winds,” Save Our City campaign said in a joint statement. SP Mudgil from Maya Vihar in west Delhi said that shops in the region remained largely shut. “We have deployed volunteers in every lane who are ensuring total lockdown,” he added. Sanjay Bhargav, who heads Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, reported heavy crowding in the interior lanes of Jama Masjid area in morning and evening. “There is confusion all around. In 80% of Delhi’s localities, shops are running in residential areas and unauthorised colonies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-play-it-safe-a-day-after-chaos-most-shops-stay-closed/articleshow/75396762.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 27, 2020||Nashik||Grape export dips 25% in current season||Nashik: The grape export to European countries in 2019-20 (Dec-April) has dropped by 25% as compared to that of last year, the reason being the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Maharashtra is the only state in the country that exports grapes with Nashik district contributing 92% of total grape export of the state. According to sources from Agricultural and Porcessed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), the grape export from the country to various European countries has dropped by 25% to 91,000 tonnes so far as against 1.21 lakh tones of grapes exported to European countries during the corresponding period last year. The grape export season is coming to an end and around 300-500 tonnes of grapes are expected to be exported in the next three-four days. “Usually, the district gets empty containers from yards in seven-eight villages in Raigad district. But, the movement of containers had been stopped by the villagers after the lockdown was imposed by the government due to outbreak of Covid-19. The container movement had been completely stopped from March 26,” said an office-bearer of Grape Exporters’ Association of India (GEAI). The government had taken several initiatives and had begun container movement from April 1, however, only 10,000 tonnes of grapes were exported thereafter in the next 26 days. The grapes, which were already in cold storages before the lockdown, were only exported. Manik Patil, a grape exporter and senior office-bearer of Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagayatdar Sangh said that shortage of workers had badly hit plucking of grapes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/grape-export-dips-25-in-current-season/articleshow/75396223.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: No new Covid-19 case in 13 districts, but fingers crossed||CHENNAI: Thirteen districts in Tamil Nadu have not reported additional Covid-19 positive cases for a maximum of 15 to a minimum of five days – seemingly an indication of declining infection rate amidst a lockdown. But epidemiologists warn that celebrations may be premature as the number of people being tested in these districts may not be significant. The Nilgiris, which had nine cases till April 11, has not reported a new case since then. Kanyakumari, which has 16 cases, hasn’t reported a new case for 13 days now along with Ranipet, which has 39 cases. Among the high prevalence district, in Erode, which has 70 cases, no new case has been reported in the past 12 days. In Theni (43) and Karur (42), the Covid positive numbers have remained the same for the past 10 days. Krishnagiri has not recorded any case so far, while Pudukottai and Dharampuri have one case each. Many other districts such as Perambalur and Ariyalur have reported cases in single digits. While health department officials and health minister C Vijayabaskar say it is a sign of declining infection rates, public health experts and scientists say it may be too early to come to such a conclusion. “You may not see numbers if you don’t look for them,” said public health expert and former National Health Systems Resource Centre executive director T Sundararaman. “We need to test more people,” he said. On an average the state claims to test at least 6,500 people every day. But the directorate of public has not yet released the number of people the state has screened in each of these districts. Chennai, where at least 1,500 people are tested every day, has the maximum number of cases. The city has recorded 523 Covid positive cases, while Coimbatore has 141 and Tirupur 112. Tuticorin, which has managed to contain the Covid spread to some extent, has not reported a positive case in the past six days. Collector Sandeep Nanduri said contact tracing was being done within two days of a person testing positive. Erode deputy director of health services Dr S Soundammal said the district had managed to identify 27 Tablighi Jamaat members within two days after they returned to the district and the remaining members were identified within another three to four days. “As the returnees were identified in a short span of time, they did not come into contact with many others,” said Soundammal. In the Nilgiris, the number of cases of Covid-19 positive cases remains the same from the date of declaration of the seven positive cases in the first week of April. A cluster of 8 people were identified in the Nilgiris by the district health officials, after a list of Tablighi Jamaat members was released by the government. Public health deputy director Dr P Balusamy said before the test results were announced, all the eight TJ attendees were isolated and kept in Ooty GH. Immediately, the prime contacts were identified and samples were drawn. “All the entry points into the district were sealed and all the 1,417 people from the Nilgiris with travel history were home quarantined with stickers plastered on their house walls,” said Dr Balusamy. There has been no new Covid-19 positive case in the past nine days in Karur district. Extensive testing of samples was the key, said Karur deputy director of public health Selva Kumar. (With inputs from V Mayilvaganan, Shantha Thiagrajan, Padmini Sivarajah and Sambath Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-new-case-in-13-districts-but-fingers-crossed/articleshow/75396751.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Skeleton staff who keep order among quarantines||Nagpur: At quarantine centres, doctors and multipurpose workers from the state public health department have been playing the role of corona warriors behind the curtains just like their counterparts at government hospitals. Badly short of hands, they have managed to run the affairs and keep things going for the last 45 days as all centres have seen number of suspected cases rise. As of Sunday, 664 suspects are staying at MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati, Police Quarters and other places. A total of over 1,400 have been serviced by the officials since March 11. Each quarantine centre has one duty doctor and one MPW at a time in two shifits during 24 hours. The in-charge senior doctor is only present during the day time. It is largely upto the team of two to address all concerns and ensure suspects don't breach medical guidelines while in institutional quarantine. In the over month and a half, the doctors had been at the receiving end of the suspects’ wrath who had been impatient to go home. As the numbers starting climbing since April first week, the health officials had a tough time dealing with irate inmates. Reportedly, the health officials were left to handle all types of issues raised. “Inmates would come or call and tell that their room’s bathroom was not clean. Sometimes they complained about quality of food. Regularly, they kept pestering us for early release,” said a doctor. The doctors had to also counsel them to ensure there is no law and order problem while officially their role is limited to monitoring the inmates for symptoms and co-ordinating with hospitals or civic officials. The centres were also monitored by a team of policemen and revenue officials. However, doctors rarely found support from them. Senior officials said cops were asked to take a round of corridors on hourly basis. “But they rarely stepped out of their tents fearing getting infected,” said officials from one of the Centres. The revenue officials and cops were fearful though they had been informed that inmates were just suspect cases. These doctors had been and continue to remain at high risk as several suspects ultimately turned positive. Refusing to be identified, the officials said they had been well supported by higher authorities. “Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, district health officer Dr Deepak Selokar, Dr Nitin Gulhane, Dr Anil Hazare, Dr Danish Iqbal, Dr Rajesh Debardwar, and Dr Shrikant Karode ensured we worked as a team and provide smooth functioning at the centres,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/skeleton-staff-who-keep-order-among-quarantines/articleshow/75396240.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 27, 2020||Nashik||NMC deposits Rs 2,000 to bank a/c of 512 disabled people||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has deposited Rs 2,000 each to the bank accounts of over 512 disabled people for April. The disabled people are registered with the civic body. The amount has been deposited in their accounts through RTGS. NMC officials said that the total amount of Rs 10.24 lakh was transferred by the social welfare department under its scheme to provide financial assistance to disabled people. The state government has been insisting on various government agencies to implement various projects and schemes for the welfare of disabled persons. Around 3% of the total funds in local civic bodies are reserved for the welfare and rehabilitation of disabled people. The NMC has decided to provide a monthly financial assistance of Rs 2,000 each to the disabled people who are registered with the NMC. The financial assistance in the first month of the new financial year has been deposited. The NMC administration is also providing kits containing essentials to each of the disabled people.  The kits include five kg of wheat flour, rice, two types of pulses, one litre of edible oil, red chilli powder, turmeric, tea powder, sugar, soaps. The kits are being provided in view of the lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Essentials like foodgrain is being supplied to the disabled people through the divisional offices in their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-deposits-rs-2000-to-bank-a/c-of-512-disabled-people/articleshow/75396235.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Back-benchers play havoc in online classes too||BENGALURU: Online classes are giving back-benchers more room for mischief, all because a large number of their teachers are not tech savvy. A video of a teacher asking students to change their profile ids from ‘Osama Bin Laden’, ‘Lallu ki tapri’ and ‘Rathi ma’am best teacher’ to their real names with roll numbers so she could mark attendance, even as a ‘Mia Khalifa’ (a porn star namesake) joins in, is a huge hit on social media. “Students log in with nicknames like ‘I’m corona’ and ‘cute girl’. You cannot identify who has joined and who has left. Sometimes, their family members also join the session and it’s very embarrassing,” said a guest lecturer at a girls’ college. A student of a Jayanagar college said: “Once, our whole class pretended not to hear the teacher. We made her repeat herself so many times she discontinued the class.” Zoom bombing is the flavour of the season in engineering colleges. “Some students send links and password to outsiders who join the classes. We won’t know they’re around unless they ask unrelated doubts or make weird noises. Things are better now with new features on this platform,” said a final-year engineering student. Degree college teachers, who are not too well versed with online platforms, have a tough time controlling students. “In one of my earlier classes, students started scribbling on my white board, changed slides during my PowerPoint presentation and chatted away. I’ve learnt how to disable certain features so I can teach without disturbances,” said Bharathi A, a teacher at Government RC College. A student said: “Once, pranksters merged two classes and the lecturers started teaching at the same time without realising the other was also present. The teachers warned us they’d find out who did it, but they couldn’t. Teachers have started using other platforms instead of relying on Zoom.” Some mischievous students mute their teachers, turn off video inputs and go to sleep. Some play trending Instagram tunes in class. “Sometimes, students mute themselves and leave their seats. In a class of 60-70 students, it’s not possible to check if all students are tuned in. We try to keep our classes interactive,” said a professor in the department of communication, Bengaluru Central University, who spoke on condition of anonymity. A dental student said: “Sometimes, students take a few minutes to respond to questions. If they’re directed at one person, we have to give missed calls to wake them up.” However, some pranks can be very offensive. A secondary school teacher in Whitefield was shocked when a student started playing a porn clip during a Zoom meeting. “It’s sad that teachers are mercilessly teased and helpless in keeping students in check,” said an engineering student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/back-benchers-play-havoc-in-online-classes-too/articleshow/75396242.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
April 27, 2020||Pune||Quarrel over spitting causes riot in Yerawada||PUNE: An argument over spitting on the road caused ruckus in Laxminagar, in Yerawada in the early hours of Saturday. The police later arrested one person and booked 12 associates, most of them having a criminal background. The troublemakers not only assaulted complainant Mayur Gunjal (22), an autorickshaw owner residing at Shani Aali, Vadar Vasti, and his brother Siddhant, but also damaged a car and a motorcycle with iron rods and sticks to create panic in the locality, police said. Gunjal sustained injuries to his back, police added. Police identified the arrested suspect as Kiran Bhagwan Mire (20), a resident of Sevak Chowk in the Laxminagar slum pocket. “We are searching for the other suspects involved in the crime,” inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police said. “Mire and the remaining 12 suspects have been previously arrested for body offences,” he added. Considering that curfew measures are in place in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the police took the incident seriously by booking the suspects on 11 counts under the Indian Penal Code, as well as provisions of the Maharashtra Police Act, the Indian Arms Act and the Disaster Management Act. “Gunjal and the assailants are familiar to each other and they had gathered at Sevak Chowk around 1.30am to have some discussion. Some of them were sitting in Gunjal’s autorickshaw. Soon, the discussion turned heated and one of the men in the autorickshaw spat on the road to show his disdain for the others. This led to the violence,” Waghmare said, “The assailants picked up iron rods and sticks from the road and smashed the windshield and windows of a car and also damaged a two-wheeler parked on the road. Later, they assaulted Gunjal and Siddhant,” Waghmare said. Police said they have invoked various offences because the suspects breached the lockdown orders and indulged in vandalism to create panic in the locality. Offences were registered under sections 143, 144, 147, 148 and 149 (all related to unlawful assembly and rioting armed with deadly weapon); 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public authority), 269 & 270 (both related to negligent and malignant act to spread infectious disease) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/quarrel-over-spitting-causes-riot-in-yerawada/articleshow/75397216.cms||Gitesh Shelke
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain drenches Ooty town||Udhagamandalam: Ooty town received quite a heavy rainfall on Sunday, bringing cheer to all sections of people, including farmers and tea estate owners. “We have been waiting for a few showers. Agriculture lands with standing crops like carrot, beetroot and cabbage need rain,” said M Raman, a local farmer. Rain will benefit farming land and tea gardens, said an official of the horticulture department. “It is good for the plants in the Government Botanical Garden and the Government Rose Garden. We expect a few more in the coming weeks,” he said. By drenching the hills, the rain will check forest fire, a forest department official said. “It will also benefit wild animals.” The summer shower helped to settle dust in the hill town and brought down temperature. Meantime, Nanjanadu village near Ooty received good rain accompanied by hailstorm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-drenches-ooty-town/articleshow/75396768.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Pune||5 more nCov casualties on eve of meet to lift curfew||Pune: Five more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the contagion and the total number of positive coronavirus cases went up to 1,264 in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, a day before the government would decide on lifting curfew from the city and Pimpri Chinchwad. Health officials said all five casualties — three in the state-run Sassoon General Hospital and two in a private hospital in Kothrud — were reported from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. With this, the death toll in the Pune Metropolitan Region has gone up to 77. The officials said all five men who died on Sunday had comorbidity factors such as pneumonia and respiratory difficulties. Among them were three senior citizens — a 77-year-old man from Ganesh path, a 65-year-old man from Patil estate and a 66-year -old man from Hadapsar. The remaining two were a 51-year-old man from Khadki and a 40- year-old Kondhwa resident. Pimpri Chinchwad and the rural parts of Pune did not register any death. As many as 72 new Covid-19 positive cases were found in Pune city. Of the five casualties, two men died on Sunday. Two others died on Saturday and one on Friday. The reports confirming that they were Covid-19 positive reached the officials on Sunday. On Saturday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the decision on lifting curfew from the city and Pimpri Chinchwad would be taken on Monday. He also said people showing coronavirus infection symptoms in slum pockets should be put in institutional quarantine so that they could adhere to social distancing norms. In the meantime, the Pmpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s efforts to reign in the coronavirus has spawned door-to-door drives involving over 14 lakh citizens, marking of over a dozen containment zones, strict monitoring of those under home quarantine and increasing testing. In the first 10 days since the first case was found on March 10, only about 14 people were tested every day on an average. In the last 10 days to April 25, the number has increased to 112 tests per day — an increase of about eight times. However, the positive to test ratio has remained range bound between 3-4.5 over the last 35 days. “The ratio of 3-5% is in line with the global trend. The increase is because of better contact tracing,” said Shravan Hardikar, municipal commissioner. He added that the situation now was manageable because it was easy to trace about 10 high-risk contact of every positive patient. “For now, we are getting about 4-5 new positive patients daily and it is easy to trace their high-risk and low-risk contacts and test those who show Covid-19 symptoms. Most of the new positive cases are being traced back to the known positive cases,” Hardikar said, adding that it would be difficult to manage if the count increased rapidly. “If the count increases to 100, then we have to test about 1,000 contacts at least. Where do we have the capacity for the that. The containment remains a policy of choice, for now,” he said. The PCMC has so far tested over 19,00 people for the novel coronavirus and most of the positive cases were from zone E (places like Bhosari, Charholi and Dighi).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-more-ncov-casualties-on-eve-of-meet-to-lift-curfew/articleshow/75397220.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||In Ngp central jail, lockdown turns officers into ‘inmates’||Nagpur: The Nagpur central jail would be completely sealed later this week as a precautionary measure to check the Corona spread. Seven other jails in the western Maharashtra, including four in Mumbai and Yerawada in Pune, have already shifted into lockdown mode following a direction from higher authorities. It is learnt that an entire team of jail officials, including SP Anup Kumar Kumre, would enter the prison with their support staff and remain inside until further orders from an officer of at least Inspector general of police (IGP) rank. Even women jailors and their subordinate staffers would stay inside the prison. Officials and their entire teams in western Maharashtra prisons have have already spent two weeks inside the prisons. No one, including the undertrials or convicts, would be allowed to enter or leave the premises except for medical emergencies or other unavoidable circumstances. SP Kumre said approval for going into lockdown was expected to reach them later this week. “The arrangements have been made to camp inside the jail with adequate rations to last a considerable period. We also have a hospital inside the jail for medical emergencies. The decision of prison lockdown is being taken to avoid contracting the virus,” he said. In order to make lockdown effective, the jail authorities have also got additional premises sanctioned from the district collector to create quarantine facility where the new undertrials would be kept for a period of 15 days and their samples sent for testing. “The ones getting bail or those ending their sentence shall be released as per regular practice,” Kumre said. The jail authorities had already created two quarantine facilities within the premises where a few inmates have been kept. Following approval of the collector, they now have an additional 30-bed one created on the programme lawn outside the jail and adjoining the inmate-operated car wash centre. Kumre said a team has been created to manage the quarantine facility and another would remain in reserve. “Two coordinating officers would manage the show outside the prison and also help the families of the personnel. Vendors of vegetable and other essential commodities would be allowed to visit the quarters of the jail personnel. We are stacking up the ration and other daily needs for the ones inside the jail,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-ngp-central-jail-lockdown-turns-officers-into-inmates/articleshow/75396252.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM cites plasma therapy for Hindu-Muslim unity||NEW DELHI: Using the success of plasma therapy in treating serious Covid-19 cases, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday called upon people to break religious barriers and urged for Hindu-Muslim unity. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said that novel coronavirus can infect people belonging to any religion and faith and the plasma donated by a Muslim can save the life of a Hindu patient and vice versa. “Corona affects both Hindus and Muslims. The plasma of our blood saves lives, irrespective of religions. If we work together, no force can defeat this country,” he added. The CM said the authorities were requesting patients who had recovered from the disease to donate plasma. His statement comes a day after several Tablighi Jamaat members, who were quarantined at AIIMS in Haryana’s Jhajjar, agreed to donate their plasma after recuperating from Covid-19. “It occurred to me that tomorrow the life of a Hindu patient, who is in a serious condition, might be saved due to a Muslim’s plasma. Or a Muslim patient’s life will be saved due to the plasma of a Hindu. The almighty did not put up walls between us. We created the divisions,” he said. The remarks of the CM come in the wake of Tablighi Jamaat members facing a backlash as they had gathered in thousands at Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in Nizamuddin for an event before the lockdown was announced. Moreover, just before the novel coronavirus outbreak, northeast Delhi had witnessed communal riots in February, which left more than 50 dead and over 400 injured. Kejriwal said that a patient at Lok Nayak Hospital, whose condition was sinking till Saturday night, showed signs of recovery after undergoing plasma therapy. Officials said at least six more patients had undergone plasma therapy at Delhi government hospitals as part of clinical trials. A 49-year-old man who was administered convalescent plasma therapy at a private hospital in Saket recovered and was discharged on Sunday. The man had tested Covid-positive on April 4. He soon developed pneumonia with Type-I respiratory failure and had to be put on ventilator support on April 8. His family requested for administration of plasma therapy on compassionate grounds and arranged for a donor, who had recovered from the infection three weeks before. The critically ill patient was administered fresh plasma on the night of April 14. By the fourth day, he was weaned off ventilator support on April 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-cites-plasma-therapy-for-hindu-muslim-unity/articleshow/75396778.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH incubated startup to receive Birac funding||HYDERABAD: OncoSeek Bio Pvt Ltd, an incubated startup of University of Hyderabad (UoH), has been selected for Covid-19 funding by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (Birac). According to a press release issued by UoH, the startup has been selected for financial support to develop an in vitro lung organoid model. OncoSeek Bio is one of the 16 projects of the 500 proposals received by the Birac under the department of biotechnology (DBT) for funding support for the Covid-19 research consortium. “Current animal models available for research on Covid-19 are either difficult to get into India or create them in time, to address the pandemic. The company envisages creating novel in vitro platforms for Covid-19 research under the support,” said Dr Suresh Poosala, founder and chief executive officer of OncoSeek Bio Pvt Ltd. Under the Covid-19 grant received from BIRAC/DBT, they plan to expand the team and enhance the scope of the current in vitro platforms to a different state-of-the-art research level. Under this grant proposal, the company plans to use their novel platform to screen drugs/peptides/molecules/agents/compounds targeted against the virus or the host cell. It plans to create this capability in the next six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-incubated-startup-to-receive-birac-funding/articleshow/75396766.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nashik||10 spots fixed for selling vegetables and fruits in Malegaon||Nashik: The district administration has finalised ten major spots in Malegaon town where essential items, including fruits and vegetables, will be sold during Ramzaan, deputy commissioner of Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) Nitin Kapadnis said. These spots include Nihal Nagar, Kallu Kutti Maidan, Saleem Nagar, Ahle Hadis Idgah, 60-feet road, Abbas Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Gulsher Nagar depot, Jamhur Nagar and Aziz Kallu Stadium. The administration is also taking steps to ensure that people maintain social distancing when stepping out of their homes to make purchases. Besides, the administration is also preparing a list of vendors who will be allowed to sell fruits in the permitted areas to ensure that there is no overcrowding. Sub divisional officer of Malegaon Vijayanand Sharma has banned the sale of fruits and vegetables during the holy month of Ramadan after 5 pm in Malegaon and that too in specified areas only. The SDO has also restricted the movement of vehicles and hand carts in some areas of the powerloom town to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. The sale of bakery products as well as fruits will only be allowed from 6 am to 5 pm. The SDO has also warned of strict action if people are seen gathering in market areas in large numbers. 14 officials for monitoring relatives of patients The district administration has appointed officials at various hospitals for monitoring the functioning of the hospital, including timely arrival of medical staff, among other things. Two officials have been allotted per hospital. These officials will monitor the completion of the administrative process, ensure the medical staff is there on time and also ensure that the reports of the patients are submitted in time and also resolve the issues of the people, if any. The administration has appointed 14 officials for resolving the queries and issues of people who have been quarantined across seven centres including Badi Malegaon, Mansura Hospital, Jeevan Hospital, Farani Hospital, YN Jadhav high school and Jaat Mangal Karyalay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-spots-fixed-for-selling-vegetables-and-fruits-in-malegaon/articleshow/75396257.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Four of family test positive in Namakkal||Coimbatore: A six-month-old boy, his parents and grandmother tested positive for Covid-19 in Namakkal district on Sunday. District collector K Megraj said, “The family members were neighbours of a positive Covid-19 patient.” The patients were shifted to the government medical college hospital in Karur and their health condition is stable, he added. Till Sunday, the number of positive cases recorded in the district stands at 59. He said the district administration was strictly monitoring the lorry drivers and others who had entered the district recently and had directed them to remain in home quarantine. Meanwhile, the Tirupur district has recorded two more positive cases on Sunday and took the total number of cases to 112. The district had not recorded any positive cases in the last two days. A 40-year-old man and 22-year-old woman were neighbours of a patient who had tested positive for the virus, an official of the district administration said. The patients were shifted to the ESI hospital in Coimbatore for treatment. Similarly, a 29-year-old woman was tested positive for the infection in Salem. The source of infection is yet to be identified. She is undergoing treatment at the government hospital and her condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-of-family-test-positive-in-namakkal/articleshow/75396773.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Patna||Girl abducted, gang-raped for 4 days in Gaya||PATNA: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped for four days by two youths who abandoned her at a village in Gaya district on Sunday. The girl was kidnapped by the two accused — Md Mudasir and Ranjay Kumar alias Tenghra — from the village when she had gone to a field to relieve herself on Wednesday night. Her father had lodged a missing complaint with the Mahkar police station on Friday. The girl’s father told the police that the accused had taken his daughter to a house and raped her for four days. SHO of Mahkar police station Rajeshwar Prasad said the girl would be produced before a local court on Monday. “Raids are on to arrest the two accused,” he added. Meanwhile, mukhiya of Naili panchayat Shravan Kumar has accused the police of trying to suppress the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16-yr-old-girl-gang-raped-in-gaya/articleshow/75395571.cms||Ramashankar
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: He keeps hospital ward housing infected patients spick and span||BENGALURU: Swabbing and sanitising can be incredibly boring jobs, but when performing them inside a ward filled with Covid-19 infected patients, it could be terrifying. However, this 21-year-old working at Sir CV Raman General Hospital shows no sign of fear, but on the contrary is bubbling with pride on his new job. Meet Channappa Prakash, ward boy at this Covid-19 facility in Indiranagar, who cleans, sanitises and disinfects rooms of suspected Covid-19 patients. “I’m here to do my bit in this crisis. Once all this ends and we all return to our normal lives, I will also go,” Prakash, fully clad in his PPE including large protection goggles, says, as he sprays the reception area of the hospital with sodium hypochlorite solution from a manual disinfecting device mounted on his back. The youngster from Byappanahalli and another man have been tasked with disinfecting the hospital. Prakash says he was posted at the hospital a month ago. “I’m not scared because I take all precautions. I take a shower and sanitize myself every time I’m out of the PPE and before heading home to my family,” he says. Prakash is from Yadgir district and recently received his first pay cheque for Rs 12,000. Prakash worked as a salesperson in a supermarket in Thippasandra, but then quit that job to grab the hospital housekeeping opportunity as it came with a slightly better pay to support his family of five. His family is in dire straits, what with his father, an autorickshaw driver, now jobless because of the lockdown. A 2018 student of the Government Industrial Training Institute (ITI) near Nimhans, Prakash pursued a Turner’s course in mechanics. “I have one subject to clear and I’m confident that I will complete it this year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/this-youth-keeps-wards-housing-infected-patients-spick-and-span/articleshow/75396258.cms||Petlee Peter
April 27, 2020||India||Cong asks govt if national plan ready for post-lockdown period||NEW DELHI: Congress Sunday asked the government if it has a national plan ready for post-lockdown period and if Prime Minister Narendra Modi will share it with the chief ministers in the meeting on Monday. The party also asked the government if it was deliberately keeping the testing levels low for fear of consequences. Congress spokesman Manish Tewari said coronavirus is here to stay and the government needs to have a holistic programme on dealing with the pandemic and reviving the economy. He said the Disaster Management Act that the Centre has invoked enjoins upon the government to craft a national plan to deal with natural disasters or pandemics. “It is a germane issue because till the time a national plan is put in public domain, the states or district administrations will not be able to formulate their plans to deal with the crisis,” he said. Former PM Manmohan Singh said without aggressive testing facilities, India cannot conquer challenges posed by Covid-19. “There are problems with regard to the inadequacy of testing facilities and without more aggressive facilities of testing, we are not going to conquer this menace," Singh said. Tewari added that testing remains low in India despite global evidence that aggressive testing is the only way to deal with the pandemic, adding that even India’s neighbours are faring better on this crucial front. Asserting that India has a testing capacity of one lakh per day, he asked what was the reason to keep it at 39,000 per day. “Is it to play down the pandemic spread in India or whether the government thinks that if testing goes to capacity, it cannot deal with its implications? Either way, the government needs to tell people why is it not testing to full potential,” Tewari asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-asks-govt-if-national-plan-ready-for-post-lockdown-period/articleshow/75397413.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Central team takes stock of Covid-19 readiness in Chennai||CHENNAI: A five-member team of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) visited on Sunday various spots in the Chennai to assess the state government’s preparedness to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. The multi-disciplinary team held a review meeting with revenue administration and disaster management commissioner J Radhakrishnan and director of disaster management D Jaganathan at the disaster management data analytics centre. The centre was established by the state disaster management authority in association with HCL to project the data collected from various departments for better understanding and coordination in executing Covid-19 preventive measures. After the review meeting, the five-member team split into two. While joint secretary of NDMA V Thiruppugazh and two other members visited the Koyambedu market complex, professor of community medicine Dr Anita Khokar and another member of the team visited Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and Government Medical College and Hospital in Omandurar estate and interacted with doctors and healthcare staff at the Covid-19 facilities. Later, they jointly visited the 532-bedded quarantine facility at the Trade Centre in Nandabakkam and an Amma canteen in Saligramam. The team once split into two and inspected several facilities -- including an exclusive call centre for people with disabilities established by the social welfare department and the corporation’s community hall that accommodates more than 50 guest workers. Thiruppugazh and his team also visited Port Trust and the hospital on the premises. The team conducted ‘surprise inspections’ at all the spots. "The team meet officials of various departments in the next four to five days. They will evaluate various measures taken by the government and submit a report to the Centre. The team will also recommend if anything more needs to be done," said a senior official who accompanied Thiruppugazh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/central-team-takes-stock-of-covid-19-readiness/articleshow/75396777.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Social media, second-hand sale sites see rise in fraud||HYDERABAD: With the lockdown in wake of coronavirus increasing screen-time among people, cyber crime cases have been on the rise, especially marketplace frauds. Apart from second-hand product selling platforms such as OLX and Quikr, social media platforms like Instagram and Facebook are also being used to target victims. “Amid the lockdown and social distancing, people have been spending more than the usual time on social media platforms. Taking advantage of this, several offenders are luring victims by selling fake smartphones and vehicles through social media,” said Rachakonda ACP (cyber crime), S Harinath. Around ten cases have come to the attention of Rachakonda police so far since the lockdown began. In the last week of March, a 30-year-old private employee ended up losing Rs 1.7 lakh on pretext of buying a second-hand car in Saroornagar. He had seen the advertisement on Facebook of the car being sold for less than Rs 2 lakh and began a conversation with the seller who introduced himself as an Army official. After getting a call that the vehicle will be delivered amid the lockdown, he transferred Rs 1.7 lakh, only to realise later he was cheated. “Most victims who fall for such traps are from well-to-do backgrounds.... During the lockdown when movement is highly restricted, people should be careful when fraudsters say, they will deliver the vehicle or gadgets to their home,” the ACP said.. In another case, a 21-year-old from Bommalaramaram lost Rs 1.3 lakh after a seller, again pretending to be an Army official working at the Shamshabad airport, put up a post to ‘sell his car’. The fraudster even offered to deliver the car to the victim’s home. “We want to inform people that during the lockdown when people are only allowed to come out to buy essentials or need to have a pass to move within the city, no such products will be delivered at their doorstep,” the ACP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-media-second-hand-sale-sites-see-rise-in-fraud/articleshow/75396784.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 27, 2020||Pune||IMA conducts training session for auto drivers||Pune: Suggestions such as putting up a plastic film between the passenger and the driver, and avoiding contact, were points discussed during a training session organized for ‘Dial an Autorickshaw’ drivers on Sunday by Indian Medical Association (IMA). “The event was fruitful with around 225 drivers participating. They engaged in emergency services, particularly related to medical issues; transporting people to and from different hospitals. We thought the drivers needed to be told by experts about ways of protecting themselves, as well as other issues related to cleanliness, hygiene and sanitization of themselves and their vehicles,” Nitin Pawar, general secretary of Rickshaw Panchayat, the largest union of autorickshaw drivers in Pune, said. The drivers were given special training in ways to disinfect their vehicle every time it is used for a patient, ways to take care of themselves by observing the standard norms of personal hygiene and other protocols. “We don’t think the lockdown will end in Pune even after May 3, considering the situation. However, we are thinking about ways to restart our services while maintaining safety and social distancing, once the lockdown is over and public transportation comes back on track,” Pawar said. The ‘Dial an Autorickshaw’ service can be availed by people by dialling 9859198591 and mention the details. The service will reach the person provided the need is genuine. Additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde, who was also present at the session, took the initiative to provide disinfectant to all the drivers, who were also given cotton masks and hand sanitizers. IMA said a similar project will be undertaken in Kolhapur, Sangli, Ahmednagar and Satara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-conducts-training-session-for-auto-drivers/articleshow/75397225.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 27, 2020||Pune||Workers with Aadhaar card to get 5kg ration from ZP||Pune: A worker with an Aadhaar card will get 2kg wheat and 3kg rice from the Sharad bhojan yojana implemented by Pune Zilla Parishad’s social welfare department. The department received several complaints about starvation and non-availability of food among workers without ration cards. The ZP’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad told TOI, “We have issued an order after studying various aspects. We have told the chief officers of municipal councils, talathis, gramsevaks and gram panchayat members to carry out surveys and verification of such people and send a list of eligible people. Once we get the exact number, we will distribute the ration through the tehsil, municipal council and village administrations.”Prasad said the opening of postal bank accounts with help from the village postman has made mandatory for the eligible beneficiary of the Sharad bhojan yojana to ensure that only authentic person gets benefit of the scheme.Pravin Korangativar, district social welfare officer of ZP, said, “If a worker is from another state and he doesn’t have a ration card, the respective council or grampanchayat can enrol his name under scheme. He and his family members will get rations. If the family is of four members, they will get 20 kg dry ration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/workers-with-aadhaar-card-to-get-5kg-ration-from-zp/articleshow/75397227.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nashik||APL families to get subsidised grains from May 1||Nashik: Subsidized foodgrain distribution in Nashik district among those who have saffron cards, but do not fall in the bracket of priority households (PHH), will commence on May 1. The beneficiaries will have to present their cards at the fair price shops to get the supplies for the next two months. “The state government has started the programme to distribute foodgrain among the above poverty line (APL) people with saffron ration cards at subsidised rates through the fair price shops. While the programme has already started in some parts of the state, people in Nashik will get the benefits from May 1,” state food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said. The grains will not be as subsidized as they are for priority household (PHH) or Antyodaya beneficiaries, but the rates will be far lower than in the open market. The supplies have been lifted by various district administrations from the godowns and are being routed to people through the fair price shops (FPS) of the public distribution system. Each beneficiary is entitled to 3 kg wheat and 2 kg rice each month. The subsidised rate of Rs 8 per kg and Rs 12 per kg will be applied on wheat and rice, respectively, Bhujbal, who is also the Nashik district guardian minister, said. In all, 1.5 lakh tonne of grains will be required for distribution to 3.08 crore cardholders in the district. Almost 92,000 tonne wheat and 62,000 tonne rice will be distributed. Bhujbal said people who have saffron cards are expected to have an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh but above Rs 59,000. They are not entitled to subsidised foodgrain, but the state government has decided to extend the benefits to them during the lockdown period. It may be noted that the PDS can distribute 3.5 lakh tonne of foodgrain every month. But during these exceptional times, the department achieved managed to distribute the same volume in the first 15 days of the month. It also achieved the target of distribution of 5 kg of rice to 7.5 crore people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/apl-families-to-get-subsidised-grains-from-may-1/articleshow/75396265.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||Two gruesome murders in Bareilly in single day||Bareilly: Two separate murders in a single day has shocked many in Bareilly district. The first incident was reported from Bithri Chenpur area while the second one was from Aonla area. In Bithri Chenpur, a 45-year-old man was shot dead by his relative over a property dispute. And in Aonla, three people opened fire at two friends and later attacked them with sickles. The two injured were taken to hospital by police where one of them succumbed. Police have registered an FIR and launched a massive search for the accused. In the first case, police said Veerpal Giri, 45, used to live with his brother in-law Sadhu Giri in Biharipur village. Sadhu had rivalry with his nephew Surendra over property dispute and he had allegedly thrashed Sadhu’s wife on Thursday. On Sunday morning, Veerpal was on his way home when Surendra along with three others shot multiple times at him. One of the bullets struck Veerpal on his head and he died on way to hospital. Surendra and one of his aides Monu Giri were arrested and the weapon used for the killing has been recovered. In Aonla, Jasveer Yadav and Rajkumar Singh were attacked by Vijay alias Lalla, Chotte and Nanhe as they were suspecting that Jasveer had given a tip off to police which led to an action against them. The accused fled after locals reached the spot. Later, Jasveer was declared dead at hospital while Rajkumar is currently under treatment. On Sunday, SP (crime) RK Bhartiya said, “We have arrested two accused in Bithri Chenpur murder case while search for the accused in Aonla case is still on. We will reach a breakthrough soon. We have recorded the survivor's statement and it is suspected that the deceased had a quarrel with the killers over some issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-gruesome-murders-in-bareilly-in-single-day/articleshow/75395465.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||Police station in Sambhal relocated after area declared hotspot||Bareilly: Rajpura police station in Sambhal district was shifted to Ganvan police outpost as a precautionary measure on Sunday, after Rajpura was declared a novel coronavirus hotspot. This happened after a villager in the area tested positive for the infestion.SP Yamuna Prasad said a hotspot area of one kilometre radius was declared around the residence of the Covid-19 patient. Since his house was located just opposite the police station, it was shifted. It is the first such instance when a police station has been relocated in the district for any reason.The Rajpura police station is located in the middle of a densely populated area. The SP said after the entire staff is shifted to the new location, two policemen with safety gear would be left at the abandoned police station for security purposes.“We have shifted computers, wireless set and other equipment to the Ganvan outpost, where we have set up a temporary police station. We have also leased a room at the Rajpura sugar mill nearby as living quarters of the cops,” the SP added.He further said the patient, a 35-year-old man, had taken his mother for treatment to Delhi, and then to a hospital in Moradabad. “They would have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient either in Delhi or Moradabad. After we heard of his travel history, we put them in quarantine and sent their samples for testing. We decided to relocate after the man’s report returned positive. Today, even his mother was reported positive,” Prasad added.He said the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Sambhal has now reached 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-station-in-sambhal-relocated-after-area-declared-hotspot/articleshow/75395460.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 27, 2020||Erode||Govt hosp helps Covid-19 patient observe fast||Erode: The health authorities have made arrangements for a Covid-19 patient at Perundurai IRT Government Medical College Hospital to observe Ramzan fasting. Out of the four Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital, only one requested the authorities to make arrangements for prayers and fasting. “Since he was fit enough to fast, we gave permission and made necessary arrangements,’’ said hospital dean R Mani. He is being given traditional food early in the morning and dates and kanji in the evening to break the fast. The six Thailand nationals who tested positive for Covid-19 however did not make any request for special arrangements. Though the six have been recovered and tested negative, they are yet to be discharged. They are kept in a separate portion of the isolation ward in the hospital. Mani said all the six were aged and had several health complications. “It’s not medically advisable for them to undergo fasting. ’’ he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/govt-hosp-helps-covid-19-patient-observe-fast/articleshow/75396781.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Startups, small scale industries badly hit by Covid-19 lockdown||HYDERABAD: Startups and small scale industries are the worst hit due to Covid-19 lockdown. A recent survey by Local Circles revealed that 47% of Indian startups and small scale industries are having limited cash reserves which can fend them only for a few days. Around 74% startups and SMEs are either staring at a shutdown or planning to scale down their operations in the next six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic that has affected business across the nation.. Akshay Gupta of Local Circles said, “Startups, SMEs and industry associations are seeking government’s help to wriggle out of this crisis. Our survey received over 13,970 responses from startups and SMEs located in about 90 districts.” “Queried about their cash reserves, 6% said they can manage for six months, 23% have reserves for three to six months and 24% said they can survive for one to three months,” Akshay Gupta added. “But about 20% of startups have cash to survive only for a month while 27% have no funds,” he said. Startups are demanding the government to reimburse 50% of employee salaries for one month or give a grant of Rs 20 lakh. About 61% are planning to scale down their business, 7% are planning to sell their units and 13% want to shut down completely. However, 13% sounded optimistic and are looking to expand their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/startups-small-scale-industries-badly-hit-by-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/75396796.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 27, 2020||Salem||Wedding of AIADMK MLA’s daughter kicks up a political storm||SALEM: The marriage of Yercaud MLA G Chitra’s daughter on Sunday, during the lockdown, has kicked up a political storm. The bone of contention is the wedding photographs of the MLA’s daughter shot in front of a temple, the doors of which were kept open. DMK cadres alleged that the wedding was performed inside the temple in violation of lockdown rules. They have sought a probe alleging that not only was the wedding held inside the temple, but also a large number of people were allowed to participate in the ceremony. The AIADMK MLA denied the charges and said the wedding was held in front of the temple and not inside. The wedding of Chitra’s daughter Sindhu was initially planned at Arulmigu Thaanthondriswarar temple in Vazhapadi on April 26. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was an invitee. Owing to the lockdown, the marriage was conducted in Yercaud, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/wedding-of-aiadmk-mlas-daughter-kicks-up-a-political-storm/articleshow/75396788.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Why Jahangirpuri is Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot||NEW DELHI: With one confirmed death and more than 100 cases of Covid-positive residents, Jahangirpuri has emerged as one of the biggest hotspots in the capital. Six out of seven containment zones located in the north district are within this region and the affected parts are in B, C, H, K, G and F blocks. According to an estimate, more than two lakh people live in this densely-populated residential colony. Several cases have also cropped up from Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital, which has amplified the anxiety of people. A large number of hospital staff live in Jahangirpuri. Many people working at the Azadpur mandi also reside here. A district health officer blamed such high number of cases from one residential pocket on mishandling of a case of Covid-19 death by a prominent health facility early this month. The official said the test reports after her death in a government hospital confirmed that she was Covid-positive. A large number of people had gathered at her funeral and to offer condolences to the family at her house. At least 31 people, including 26 members of her extended family, were later tested positive. District Magistrate (North) Deepak Shinde said the area had now been completely sealed and no new positive case had emerged in the last few days. “There is regular patrolling and monitoring by local police and civil defence volunteers. Police are also keeping a close eye through drone survey. We are aggressively sanitising the whole area with the help of the municipal corporation,” Shinde said. A senior corporation official from public health department said Jahangirpuri exemplified the challenges being faced by the authorities in very high-density settlements where social distancing was hard to achieve. “The area is made of resettlement clusters with small rooms occupied by large number of people. Each house is mostly just 25-yard properties with four to five storey structures. Both bathing as well as toilet facilities are common and used by hundreds of people every day,” the official added. An official in charge of overseeing the disinfection drive said tankers were being used for sprinkling sodium hypochlorite on wider roads. First docking station for cluster of Jahagirpuri has been established in B block. It acts as a changing point, a PPE storage centre and a training centre for the civic staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-jahangirpuri-is-delhis-biggest-hotspot/articleshow/75396790.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Pune||Forest staff away, poachers hunt with snares and traps in Maharashtra||PUNE: A leopard was found trapped in an iron snare in Khairi village of Achalpur taluka in Amravati on April 25. A forest department rescue team went to the corn field where the snare had been set up and tranquilised the leopard before freeing it. On April 23, volunteers of the Pune based Ela Foundation found a female chinkara (black buck) near Pingori, that was seriously injured after getting caught in a trap. Ornithologist Satish Pande found that her hind leg was fractured and needed to be put in plaster. The same day, animal lovers in Daund helped forest officials remove a trap that was laid in the forest area to trap deer. On the one hand, nature lovers are rejoicing that birds and wild animals are venturing out more because of the lockdown and the absence of human intervention, while on the other they have also noticed with concern, the increasing cases of hunting and poaching attempts. The understaffed forest department is struggling more because attendance has been affected because of the Covid-19 scare and assignment of duty for virus containment. “After the lockdown, not many are venturing out. Shepherds and local people who normally keep an eye on illegal activities in the forest areas are staying home so hunters and poachers are taking advantage. We are getting information about traps and injured wildlife almost daily from western Maharashtra, Konkan, Thane and closer home from Purandar, Baramati, Indapur, Daund and Mulshi,” ornithologist and radiologist Satish Pande, director of Ela Foundation, said. The female chinkara rescued on Thursday had been trapped in a snare as evident from the nature of injuries. “An X-ray revealed a fractured hind leg. Her wounds were cleaned, she was put on a drip and antibiotics. She is on the mend now. She is pregnant and may deliver any time,” he added. Volunteers at Ela Foundation also rescued an owl the same day, again injured by a trap. “The owl had fought hard to untangle itself, so much so that the flesh and tendons of one its claw had been ripped out. The nature of injuries clearly indicated an attempt at poaching. We are treating the owl at Ela habitat,” Pande said. The snares and traps were almost fool-proof which made escape impossible. Poachers also keep dogs which chase these animals towards the traps, Pande said adding that the increasing population of stray dogs in forest areas is a concern. Omkar Sumant, an animal lover and physician who has a clinic in Jejuri, confirmed that poaching and hunting activities are up since the lockdown. “There are hardly any people on the roads, there is no movement of shepherds in the forests and hills so there is no check on illegal activities. But some people do give tip-offs to local doctors like us,” he said. Both Pande and Sumant said their volunteers have been regularly removing traps and handing them over to the local forest department officials. A note sent by a forest department official from Padgha forest area in Bhiwandi taluka said shortage of meat and fish during the lockdown has translated into increasing poaching and hunting. “Hunters are taking help from local tribal people to lay traps to hunt peacocks, rabbits, wild boar, barking deer, civet and Lavari. Sometimes, they set small patches on fire to expose animals,” he said,in the note, adding that two hunters were recently nabbed in the Padgha forest area and were in their custody. The official stated that it was becoming increasingly difficult to control such activities because limited staff members are reporting for duty. Vivek Khandekar, chief conservator of forest, Pune division said there is no change in the number of hunting cases being reported in various parts of Pune division after the lockdown. “I have personally visited some places and found that hunting had occurred only in a few places. Forest department employees and officers patrol only forest land and not other areas. We appeal to people to inform about illegal hunting incidents on the international toll free number 1926 and if anyone has videos, they should send them to us on ccfteampune@gmail.com.” A senior official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “ Some employees have been given duties of Covid-19 preventive work, but it has no major impact on the working of the forest department.” (With inputs from Siddharth Gaikwad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poachers-have-a-field-day-with-forest-staff-on-ncov-duty/articleshow/75397229.cms||Manjiri Damle
April 27, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Gold sale in twin cities hits bottom on Akshaya Tritiya||HUBBALLI/DHARWAD: This was easily the bleakest Akshaya Tritiya for jewellers in the twin cities. The purchase of gold and other valuables on this day is believed to bring prosperity, but the custom was missing on Sunday, thanks to the lockdown. With the physical purchase of gold not possible, some branded jewellery companies in Dharwad have been approaching their customers through telephone offering online booking of the yellow metal and the delivery promised after lifting of the lockdown. “If there is hike in the price on the day of delivery, we will not charge the additional amount. However, if the price on the day of delivery is lower than the one which prevailed on the day of the booking, we will charge the reduced price,” said an executive of a branded company. This apart, many branded companies have even given a discount up to 15% on making charges. However, these offers have failed to encourage sales, he said. The jewellers’ association had urged the government to allow offline transaction for at least a few hours on Akshaya Tritiya, but the government did not allow it as the situation is volatile due to Covid-19. Karnataka State Jewellers Federation chairman G Jayacharya said 10% increase in business was expected this year. “We don’t blame the government or anybody here. Worrisome is that over 4 lakh direct and indirect employees of the industry are in trouble,” he said. Jayacharya said many jewellers have been helping their outsourced workers who rendered jobless now. “But we cannot take it longer. So, we have demanded some financial assistance for such employees from the government. As a token of social security, the government should waive interest at least by some percentage,” he said. Jewellers fear losing skilled workers if they do not retain them with minimum support. Parashuram Chillal, president, Jewellers’ Association Hubballi, and Srikant Kari, treasurer, KJF, said many jewellers who are sponsoring the expenses of labourers are worried about the coming days. Govind Niranjan, president, North Karnataka Jewellers Associations’ Mahasabha, said it is time to realise that Covid-19 has turned into a big threat for small and medium scale jewellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gold-sale-in-twin-cities-hits-bottom-on-akshaya-tritiya/articleshow/75394527.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
April 27, 2020||Patna||12 killed in lightning strikes in Bihar||PATNA/SARAN: Lightning strikes killed at least 12 people, including two members of a family, in the state on Sunday. Eight others have suffered serious burn injuries in the incident. While nine deaths were reported from Saran, two from Jamui and one from Bhojpur district respectively. Expressing profound grief, CM Nitish Kumar asked the officials concerned to pay ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to each of the bereaved families. He also asked the authorities concerned to provide medical treatment to the injured free of cost. The CM said that the intensity of lightning was very high. “It could not cause much damage despite its high intensity as people were mostly indoors due to the lockdown,” a press release issued by the IPRD quoted the CM. Reports reaching the headquarters said that nine people died and eight others received burn injuries after lighting struck them in diara between Khalpura and Makdumganj villages of Saran district. While most of the victims were plucking vegetables in their agriculture field, others were busy in measurement of their land at the time of the incident. Locals said that heavy rains followed by hailstorm forced people to take shelter in a nearby hut in the diara, around 60 km north of Patna. Lighting struck them causing grievous burn injuries. While nine people died on the spot, seven others were rushed to Chhapra sadar hospital. The hut was completely destroyed in the incident. Chhapra sadar hospital superintendent Dr Ram Iqbal Singh confirmed the deaths. Six of the deceased were identified as Arvind Kumar Singh, Nitish Kumar, Sahdeo Kumar, Jitendra Kumar, Chandeshwar Rai and Ram Nath Rai. Chhapra Mufassil police station SHO Karmaveer Kumar said that efforts were on to ascertain the identity of the remaining three deceased. Saran SP Har Kishore Rai said that the bodies were sent to the sadar hospital for postmortem. In Jamui, two minor boys—Satish Thakur (14) and Targen Manjhi (12)--die in lighting strikes at Khadui-Bariapur and Abhaypur villages, on Sunday. The bodies of the victims were handed over to their families after postmortem at Jamui sadar hospital. Meanwhile, one death has been reported from Bhojpur district also. The CM has appealed to the people to take precautions during bad weather conditions. The MeT department has predicted rains and thunderstorm for the next two days. According to senior officials in the state disaster management department, altogether 39 people had died of lightning during the monsoon in July last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-state/articleshow/75395594.cms||Ramashankar
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Keep your guard up against KYC calls||HYDERABAD: Getting calls asking to update KYC of payment gateway applications? Police ask citizens to be wary as cases of fraudsters are duping victims on the pretext of updating KYC details during the lockdown. The offenders usually call up customers of online wallets such as PayTM and tell them that their wallet will be blocked for not updating KYC documents. “They sometimes instruct them to download remote access applications like Team Viewer, Quick Support, Any Desk or similar on their phones to gain access of it,” said an official from Cyberabad police. The fraudsters then hack into the account by asking them to transfer a minimum amount of Rs 1 or Rs 100. After they enter their account details, the fraudsters siphon the money. “Amid lockdown, people are using online payment gateways for paying bills. Fearing their app will be blocked, they believe the fraudsters,” said Rachakonda cyber crime ACP, S Harinath. In 11 such cases during the lockdown, victims lost over Rs 1 lakh. In another 15 cases, victims lost Rs 20,000 or less. In one incident, a victim from Sanathnagar lost Rs 5 lakh fearing his PayTM account will be blocked. The victim was asked to download Team Viewer app on his phone to share details and was asked to make a Rs 100 payment to make the transaction through net-banking for updating KYC. Believing the fraudster, the victim shared the details and ended up losing Rs 5.05 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/keep-your-guard-up-against-kyc-calls/articleshow/75396794.cms||Aditi Mallick
April 27, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Gold prices surge, touch record high on Akshaya Tritiya||BHOPAL: Gold prices jumped on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya even as jewellers suffered huge loss due to no sales amid the lockdown. On Sunday, gold touched Rs 46,500 and analysts see further gain for gold ahead. With weddings and other rituals cancelled due to the pandemic, experts estimate that the gold bazaar alone has incurred a loss of Rs 150 to Rs 200 in Madhya Pradesh, in the last 15 days or so. In all this, gold has become the safest commodity for investment leading to sharp hike in its price, across the world. “Though there was an increase of almost 28 % in gold rates in the last one year, the yellow metal saw a rise of about 12 % in its prices during the last 4 months alone. It continues to increase considerably during the lockdown period also”, said Navneet Agrawal, state general secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Udhyog Vyapar Mandal, an organization of traders and business community of India. Agrawal said, “The price of crude oil crashed, and the share markets have also become a loss-making business venture, corporates across the world are buying gold online pushing its prices up.” Even otherwise, he added, over the last two years, there has been a change in the pattern of gold purchase among the middle-income group during festivals and weddings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gold-prices-surge-touch-record-high-on-akshaya-tritiya/articleshow/75397236.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Bareilly||Banker tests positive in Budaun, Covid-19 tally 14||Bareilly: Field manager of a bank tested positive for Covid-19 in Budaun district on Saturday night. He had returned to Budaun from his hometown, Agra, on April 15 and was staying at his rented house alone. He has been shifted to Bareilly. With this recent case, the total number of Covid-19 patients has risen to 14 in Budaun. One of the patients has recovered. According to sources, the banker was already quarantined at the district hospital after he fell ill on his return. Dr Yashpal Singh, CMO, Budaun, said, “The patient may have got infected in Agra. We have shared the information with the health officials there and his family members will be quarantined. Here, we have sealed the area where he was staying. We are screening all the residents living within one sq area."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/banker-tests-positive-in-budaun-covid-19-tally-14/articleshow/75395480.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 27, 2020||Nashik||Six new patients in Nashik dist||Nashik: Six new Covid-19 patients were reported in the Nashik district on Sunday even as three Malegaon patients, who recovered after treatment at the Mansura Hospital, were discharged. Five of the six new patients are high-risk contacts of the Yeola patient. The sixth patient is a 24-year-old man from Talpada, Surgana. Meanwhile, four new positive cases were reported in Jalgaon and three in Ahmednagar. Jalgaon now has 18 patients, while one has been cured. Ahmednagar has 43 patients and 24 persons have been cured. A person already taking treatment in Jalgaon has succumbed, taking the toll in the district to four, the authorities said. 3 recover in Malegaon A 35-year-old woman from Madinabad, a 45-year-old from Khushamadpura and a 27-year-old man from Chandwad were admitted to the isolation ward in Malegaon. The throat swab samples of all the three patients sent on April 21 and 23 had tested negative. The second swabs of the patients also tested negative. “This is good news. It has definitely boosted people’s confidence in the health system here,” Maharashtra agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said. The minister, along with mayor Tahera Shaikh, deputy mayor Nilesh Aher, assistant district collector and incident Dr Pankaj Ashiya, additional district and others were present at the time of discharge of the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/six-new-patients-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/75396279.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: MSRTC buses likely to ferry students from Kota||PUNE: A final decision on how to bring back the students stuck in Kota in Rajasthan will be taken on Monday, state transport minister Anil Parab told TOI. The minister said that in all likelihood, the buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be used for their transportation. “We have decided to bring back the students of Maharashtra who are presently stuck in Kota. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video-conferencing with the chief ministers on Monday, following which a final decision would be taken. If the Centre allows transportation through trains, the students would be home much sooner. However, if not, we will make up a preliminary plan on ways to bring them back,” the minister told TOI. Sources told TOI that at present, there were more than 1,500 students belonging to different districts of Maharashtra stuck in Kota. “We don’t know the definite number of students who are stuck in Kota. It will be difficult to say as to how many buses, if at all, will be required to bring them home. However, the collectors of the different districts are being contacted and they are being told to provide us with numbers. If, for instance, there are 10 students of Sangli who are stuck, a bus will be sent for them and proper care will be taken to ensure social distancing and all other safety norms. The same goes for the students of another district of Maharashtra,” the minister said. Sources in the transport department said the state government was in touch with the Rajasthan government and the authorities in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh as the buses will have to cross parts of both the states to reach Kota and come back with the students. “Going by the estimated number of students, one will need close to 100 busses. The whole operation, if finalized, will be done in phases,” a source said. Maharashtra’s relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wedettiwar has said that the work towards bringing back the students will begin soon all the students would be brought back home within a week. The minister took to his Twitter handle on Sunday to inform that the students will be brought back from Monday onwards. Wedettiwar said the transport minister was requested to make arrangements to bring the students back. Maharashtra’s chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Saturday had asked his counterparts in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat to take back 3.5 lakh migrants belonging to these states who are presently stuck in Maharashtra. The state government said that they were willing to ferry the migrants to the borders of their states and hand them over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-buses-likely-to-ferry-students-from-kota/articleshow/75397235.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 27, 2020||Goa||Amid lockdown, laity, clergy team up to feed the needy||Panaji: Parishes and Catholic communities have stepped up in the fight against Covid-19, with the laity and clergy teaming up to reach out to those vulnerable in their areas. In Orlim, for instance, parishioners made 1,600 masks and distributed them to houses in the vicinity to protect them from the novel coronavirus. “They were made in three days and distributed freely,” said parish priest Fr Roger Godinho. In addition, his flock also distributed vegetables and helped 36 families — locals, construction workers, rag-pickers, daily-wage labourers and domestic workers. In Margao, devotees who attend St Joaquim chapel in Borda continue to cook and serve food to 300 people in the town. In nearby Navelim, Catholic lay people have distributed rations to 400 families, as well as serve tea to those at the indoor stadium. Chaplain Fr Simon D’Cunha told TOI that 15 volunteers conduct field research, looking out for the needy, and serve them food, which is cooked in the kitchen of the Carmel Seva Mandir convent. Across the state, churches and chapels have been in the forefront of charity after Caritas’ appeal to reach out to the needy. In Panaji, the St Inez outreach group was formed to provide groceries to families living on daily wages as well as the elderly, said parish priest Fr Albano Fernandes. Similar activities were conducted by the Colvale and Guirim parishes, where Fr Januario Da Costa and Fr Anand da Gama Pais respectively got nurses to distribute medicines to the needy. The small Christian community at Stella Maris Chapel, Miramar, also got into the act, with ward leaders ordering and delivering supplies to home-bound, elderly, poor and those living alone, said chaplain Fr Barry Cardozo. Some parishes are working in close coordination with their local panchayat. In Siridao, for instance, Fr Valerian Vaz has been closely working with elected representatives to distribute food packets. A similar exercise was undertaken at St. Francis Xavier church, Chicalim, where Fr Bolmax Pereira, inspired by the slogan ‘No one goes hungry’ coordinated with panchayat members and other well-wishers to distribute daily essentials. In nearby Vasco, at the Our Lady of Desterro church, Fr Anthony Rodrigues said groceries were distributed to over 200 families with the help of local councillors and social workers. In Sanvordem, parish priest Fr Vital Miranda monitored the distribution of groceries to 18 families. While most parishes dealt in food and other essentials, some, like the St John the Baptist church in Benaulim, also dispensed monetary aid to individuals (Rs 500) and families (Rs 2,000) in addition to essentials. Parishes also reached out to migrants in their localities. Agonda parish priest Fr Romeo D’Silva supervised the distribution of supplies to 16 migrant families for a week, while at Chaudi-Canacona, parish priest Fr Isidore Dias said that essential commodities were given to 10 migrant families living under the flyovers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-lockdown-laity-clergy-team-up-to-feed-the-needy/articleshow/75396846.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Horses starve as lockdown slashes caretaker revenues||Hyderabad: Over 250 horses and ponies could starve with coronavirus pandemic slashing revenues for caretakers of these animals in the city. These horses, mainly used for marriage processions, joy rides and film shootings, are emaciated to a point where their ribs are visible beneath their patchy skin. The nurture of these horses — mainly found on roadsides and a few stables at places such as Chaderghat, Chudi Bazaar, Hassannagar, Necklace Road, Puranapul, Dhoolpet and Panjesha — depends on the daily wages earned by their caretakers. They only get fed when there is money to buy feed. “I have three horses and I am not able to feed them because of the lockdown. We usually buy the feed them with the money that we earn from marriage processions and film shootings but since the past one month, everything has been cancelled. I know they are starving but I am helpless,” said Abdhul Mohsin, a caretaker from Chaderghat. Mohsin’s concerns are echoed by Haroon Ahmed from Begum Bazaar who says: “Before the lockdown, I used to spend nearly Rs 400 on feed for each horse per day. If there is no support forthcoming to keep them safe, these horses, some of whom are ponies, will starve to death.” Meanwhile, a few animal lovers in the city along with Dr Veerendra Kaja of the Hyderabad Race Club (HRC) have collected some funds and also started a fundraising campaign to save the starving horses. Dr Kaja told TOI that they have identified nearly 30 horses at Chaderghat and Begum Bazaar whose owners were not in a position to feed them. “We purchased chickpea, husk, wheat bran that is regularly offered to these horses and handed it over to the owners. While I collected some funds from my friends to help a few horses, there are several more that are suffering in the city,” said Dr Kaja. The fundraising campaign — Please Help Feed Hyderabad’s Starving Horses — was started by Rebecca Gupta on ketto.org to help horses that are in need of food and medical care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/horses-starve-as-lockdown-slashes-caretaker-revenues/articleshow/75396807.cms||Moulika.KV
April 27, 2020||Nashik||People use empty lanes in Nandurbar to maintain social distancing||Nashik: The people in towns of Nandurbar district have made effective use of empty lanes and bylanes by maintaining social distancing while going out to markets to purchase essentials. Generally, the people are seen crowding around the vegetable vendors – especially around carts. The administration has utilised the empty spaces and demarcated the place where people and the vendor can stand maintaining social distancing. But the open spaces are limited and the people want the system to be raised further. Hence, the authorities thought of using the empty lanes and bring the vendors in the middle of the road instead of them being at the side. The administration has used the zigzag pattern on the streets and accordingly aligned the carts so that they can attend the customers coming from only one side. The vendors are thus segregated from the others and a norm has been set that when a customer is being attended to, the others have to stay in a queue. “By this way, the people are discouraged from coming together to buy vegetables and fruits. During the lockdown period, the vehicular movement has been banned. Besides, the lane which is being used has alternative routes for emergency vehicular movement,” said an officer from Nandubar district administration. “A shop is accessible only from two sides, but the handcarts are accessible from all four sides and hence people try to handle their goods themselves. So the idea of demarcating spaces for handcarts and people was carried out in Nandubar city,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/people-use-empty-lanes-in-nandurbar-to-maintain-social-distancing/articleshow/75396270.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 27, 2020||Coimbatore||3,640 booked for violating curfew in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris continues to report on an average 80 cases of curfew violation a day. Police said they have registered 3,640 cases as on Sunday 2pm. They have arrested 3,433 people for violating CrPC Section 144 and seized 1,444 vehicles during the period. They said there was no decline in the number of cases being booked in a day. As per the available data, a minimum of 80 and a maximum of 150 cases are registered daily in the district. On Sunday, 88 people were booked until 2pm. A police officer said, “Despite being very strict on roads and creating awareness, some people come out unnecessarily. They think only containment areas are dangerous to venture out and that other parts are safe. Mostly, youngsters are the violators.” He said people in the four containment areas in the district have been abiding by the rules. Nilgiris superintendent of police V Sasi Mohan said, “As of now, there are no repeat offenders. All the arrested people were released.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3640-booked-for-violating-curfew-in-ooty/articleshow/75396797.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Working professionals get to spend Ramzan month with family||By-Anjali.Jhangiani@timesgroup.com PUNE: Working professionals, who would earlier break their fast at their workplaces, are now getting to spend time at home during the Ramzan month and eat iftari with their families, in wake of the nationwide lockdown. Kashif Shaikh (33), who works at TCS, said, “When we couldn’t change our shift timings to allow us to be home for iftari, all my colleagues who were fasting, would gather in the cafeteria and eat together. Now, as we are working from home, we get more time for our prayers. We are not even allowed to go to the mosque for ‘tarabi’, but we do it at home. Every house has now become a mosque.” Kashif lives with his parents and younger brother who works in the IT sector as well. “Usually, the ‘hafiz’ conducts the ‘tarabi’ prayers. But now, whoever at home knows the Koran the most does it,” he said. Mohsin Shaikh, a 27-year-old employee of Wipro, lives with seven family members including his two-year-old daughter. “This year, she is trying to copy the way we pray,” he said, adding he was getting the time to observe Ramzan properly and do all the prayers this year as he was home. Farees Siddiqui (31), who works at Compucon, said he had been breaking his fast at his workplace for the last six to seven years and was glad he got the opportunity to spend the holy month at home. “In office, it would take longer to wash up and get ready for namaz, break the roza and then come home. I used to spend around two hours a day travelling from home to office and back. Now, as I am working from home, I save on travel time and I am not exhausted,” he said. Talking about how this month calls for iftar parties, he said, “The intention behind these get get-togethers is that you are blessed if you provide a person with food to break his fast. My colleagues and I have made a WhatsApp group where we coordinate and distribute food packets to the people in need from our community.” Asif Shaikh (35), who works for the retail company Searf Holding, said that even though there was scarcity of ingredients in the market and food stalls that served Ramzan specialities were closed, they were making the best from whatever they had. “When we used to break our fast in office, we would buy a lot of Ramzan specialities from food stalls. Now, we are making a lot of pakodas and other vegetarian items at home for iftar,” he said, adding that he had downloaded an app for ‘tarabi’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/working-professionals-get-to-spend-ramzan-month-with-family/articleshow/75397231.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Baby stillborn, mom in Kolkata's Covid hospital||KOLKATA: The isolation and labour rooms at the state-run Chittaranjan Seva Sadan have been closed for sanitization after a woman who gave birth to a stillborn child tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital authority has also started tracing healthworkers at the hospital who had come in contact with the patient. It is unclear how many of them have been identified and quarantined so far. The woman from a Beltola locality was admitted to the hospital in Hazra a few days ago. Hospital sources said the woman had fever and respiratory distress and was put in the isolation ward. Her samples were sent to IPGMER. Before the reports came in, she delivered a stillborn child. The report, which came late on Saturday night, confirmed the woman to be positive for Covid-19. She was shifted to MR Bangur Hospital on Sunday. “The labour room and the isolation ward will be disinfected over the next two days,” said a source at Chittaranjan Seva Sadan. This is the second case of a pregnant woman testing positive for Covid-19 in 48 hours. Another woman had tested positive at a private hospital for women and children on Saturday. The hospital has closed admission for sanitization and is planning to resume admissions from Monday. Such cases have also been reported from Medical College Kolkata and NRS Medical College. In fact, several doctors and nurses of Medical College Hospital’s gynaecology unit had tested positive later. A few of them are still under quarantine. Such instances have mounted the risk for healthworkers in the state. On Sunday, a nurse and an attendant of Marwari Relief Society tested positive. The hospital on Rabindra Sarani has been sealed for sanitization. A few other healthcare workers, including a doctor of the hospital, have been put under quarantine. Sources in the health department said that at least 50 healthcare professionals in the state, majority of them doctors, were reported to have been infected by the novel coronavirus. Many doctors’ organizations have demanded that the government comes out with a regular bulletin on the status of healthcare workers who have tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, a cook at Belle Vue Clinic, who had tested positive last Friday, was admitted to Beliaghata ID Hospital. It has led to the quarantine of five other cooks at the hospital. Moreover, one of the kitchens at the hospital has been shut for sanitization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/baby-stillborn-mom-in-covid-hospital/articleshow/75396268.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 27, 2020||Nashik||Despite police action, people continue to venture out of houses||Edited Nashik: Despite the lockdown orders in the city, a large number of people are neglecting the appeals of the police and the district administration and are venturing out of their houses. People have been found coming out of their houses in almost every lane of the city for morning and evening walks. All the four units of the Nirbhaya squad are continuously taking action against the morning walkers. Police sub-inspector Neha Suryawanshi of the Nirbhaya squad’s unit 2 said over the last two to three weeks we have taken action against 155 morning walkers. More than 30 people have been booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code on Friday and Saturday. Suryawanshi said “These people include young men and women, and elderly people. When the people concerned are asked for a reason to venture out of the house, they say that they came out to get some fresh air.” “However, what people do not understand is that this negligence on their part is putting them and others at risk of contracting the infection,” said the PSI. The cases are handed over to the respective police stations for further action against the people. Police officials said that they have been continuously making announcements through the public address system on the police vans to not venture out of their houses unless there is an emergency. However, almost every day, the police find people out of their houses for morning or evening walks. The police said, “People should not even move in their residential societies irrespective of them wearing a mask or not.” There are people who do not even care about covering their mouth with handkerchiefs, said the police Police officials said that morning walkers are booked even if they are wearing a mask as the lockdown means a complete ban on moving out of the house. Though, one member of a family can go out once a day to buy essentials. The police said that over 300 people have also been booked for not wearing masks. The Ambad police had created a selfie point where people without masks are brought and asked to click their selfie with a board in their background saying ‘I am an irresponsible citizen’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/despite-police-action-people-continue-to-venture-out-of-houses/articleshow/75396286.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 27, 2020||Patna||23 fresh Covid cases take tally to 274 in state||Patna: The surge in the number of Covid-19 patients in Bihar continued on Sunday with 23 more people testing positive for the virus. Total 274 positive cases have been reported in the state so far. However, 56 patients, including 11 on Sunday, have been discharged from hospitals after treatment. But 216 cases still remained active in the state. Two patients died. Of the 23 fresh cases, Gopalganj reported the maximum nine followed by six in Rohtas, four in East Champaran, three in Arwal and one case in Jehanabad. Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar told this newspaper that the new cases in Gopalganj were reported during the door- to-door screening of people. “Seven men (19, 30, 41, 45, 60, 60 and 65 years of age) and two women of 50 and 60 years were tested positive. The cases were reported from Panchdewari, Sadar, Phulwaria and Bhore blocks of the district,” he said. “Their samples were collected during home screening as they were found having symptoms of cold, cough and fever,” Sanjay added. He said the four from East Champaran are migrant workers and three of them had returned from Mumbai and one from Delhi. “One migrant worker from Delhi is from Areraj while three others are from Banjaria in East Champaran. They returned to Bihar five days ago and had been kept in a quarantine centre for testing,” he said. A 28-year-old man in Jehanabad, a six-year-old boy and three other men aged 17, 20 and 66 years and two women aged 32 and 35 years in Rohtas and three men aged 20, 21 and 37 years in Arwal have tested positive. “The trail of infection of new cases has yet to be ascertained,” Sanjay said. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra, said of the nine fresh cases in Gopalganj, one was a native of Madhubani and another belonged to Nalanda district. “Though their samples were collected in Gopalganj,” she said. Meanwhile, of the 11 patients discharged from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Sunday, five were from Munger, three from Nalanda and one each from Bhojpur, Buxar and Nawada. According to the health department, Munger has so far reported the maximum 65 Covid patients in the state, followed by 34 in Nalanda, 33 in Patna, 30 in Siwan, 25 in Buxar, 15 in Rohtas, 14 in Kaimur, 12 in Gopalganj, 9 in Begusarai, 6 in Gaya, five each in Bhagalpur and East Champaran, 4 in Arwal, three each in Nawada and Saran, two each in Banka, Aurangabad, Vaishali and Bhojpur and one each in Jehanabad, Lakhisarai and Madhepura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/23-fresh-covid-cases-take-tally-to-274-in-state/articleshow/75395607.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Used masks can turn into threat in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Even as the world is fighting to contain the spread of Covid-19, the habit of discarding used masks and gloves in the open along with other trash is a matter of growing concern in the city. Discarded masks and gloves have been spotted in several places across the city, a few even flying off the open garbage bins. “We have been collecting several discarded masks and gloves while we are cleaning the roads in the city. They are found in parking lots, residential colonies, sidewalks and around open garbage bins. People simply throw them on the roads after usage,” said P Narayana, a GHMC sanitation worker. The used mask or gloves might turn out to be one of the biggest potential sources of virus transmission, medical experts said. While research suggests that live Covid-19 virus particles can live on surface for anywhere between three hours and three days, medical experts in the city say that the used masks or gloves discarded in open can directly affect at least three people. “An infected mask or a glove thrown in the open is like one extra person on the street. As per the public health calculation, one person is liable to infect at least three people on an average. We should at least ensure that these masks are properly disposed off in closed or one way bins so that they do not litter the streets and become a health hazard to someone else,” said Dr S A Rafi, consultant pulmonologist, CARE Hospital. “Even if we do not have the Covid-19 crisis, it is a civic responsibility of every person to discard waste responsibly,” he added. Dr V V Ramana Prasad, pulmonologist, KIMS Hospital said improper disposal of masks could lead to spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/used-masks-can-turn-into-threat-/articleshow/75396821.cms||Moulika.KV
April 27, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra hospitals to get more oxygen lines to make life easier for Covid patients||VIJAYAWADA: Hypoxia has emerged as the new focus area in Covid-19 treatment in the state. Due to the compromised lung function and capacity in some Covid patients, oxygen cannot reach red blood cells, leading to hypoxia. There are about 1,200 beds with oxygen lines in the state-level Covid hospitals as well as district-level Covid hospitals, besides 2,200 beds with oxygen lines in other hospitals identified under line one to line six Covid hospitals. Now, the state health department has decided to add oxygen lines to about 2,000 more beds in the state-level Covid hospitals itself to augment its infrastructure in the battle against Covid-19. According to medical experts, some patients do not even exhibit any breathlessness symptoms despite having exceedingly low blood oxygen saturation levels, which is called as silent hypoxia or happy hypoxia in medical parlance. The insidious form of hypoxia makes it difficult for the treating doctor(s) before it progresses into the advanced stage. To tackle the same, the Covid-19 treating facilities in the state were recently supplied with nearly 1,900 pulse oximetres. These devices do not only help in monitoring the oxygen saturation levels of the patient, but also detect hypoxia early. According to reports, several Covid deaths in other countries were attributed to persistent hypoxia or it at least leading to severe complications such as tissue damage and infections. Special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare department, KS Jawahar Reddy said; “As per the emerging Covid data from other countries, it is hypothesised that some Covid patients will develop impaired oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood and hypoxia. It is also assumed that oxygen supply is better than providing the patients with ventilator facility,” said Reddy. The special chief secretary said that 2,000 more beds in the state-level Covid hospitals will be fitted with oxygen lines in the next three weeks in addition to the existing ones. “The civil works pertaining to these oxygen lines are likely to be completed by May 20. We have already supplied 1,900 pulse oximetres to the hospitals. Breathlessness is an ominous manifestation in Covid patients. I request the public to call 104 and seek medical intervention if anyone is experiencing breathlessness or feels like they are gasping for air,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/hospitals-to-get-more-oxygen-lines-to-make-life-easier-for-covid-patients/articleshow/75399226.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 27, 2020||Nashik||Mini truck carrying beef seized, 2 held||Nashik: The Wavi police on Saturday arrested two people at Sinnar-Shirdi road for illegally carrying beef under the pretext of transporting essential materials like onions and watermelons. API Ranjeet Galande said that police personnel were guarding the Pathare check post came across a mini truck arriving from Ahmednagar's side. The personnel got suspicious of the body language of the driver and cleaner and checked the vehicle, where they found one tonne of beef beneath heaps of watermelons and onions. Galande said that the worth of the beef was approximately Rs one lakh. However, they also seized the mini truck worth Rs two lakh and the onions and watermelons of Rs 6,000. This is the sixth action regarding illegal transportation of flesh of animals by the Wavi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mini-truck-carrying-beef-seized-2-held/articleshow/75396290.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hindu Rao sanitised, three OPDs and emergency to open from Monday||NEW DELHI: After a 32-year-old nurse working at Hindu Rao Hospital was found Covid-positive, sanitisation started on Sunday and the entry and exit gates were temporarily shut to ensure no identified contacts left the premises. All emergency and OPD services were also suspended. North Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner, Varsha Joshi, said the hospital will resume services of casualty and emergency wards, including the flu clinic along with three OPDs (gynae, paediatrics and medicine), with restricted entry of patients and attendants from Monday. Joshi said the primary contact tracing had been completed and the initial phase of sanitisation of the entire premises was completed at night. “A meeting of the technical committee of the hospital was held in coordination with medical officers of Delhi government,” she added. The nurse is a resident of Mahipalpur and doesn’t have any foreign travel history. “The source of infection has not yet been ascertained. She had been in touch with healthcare personnel in the medicine department, flu centre and ENT department. On Sunday, we screened 57 healthcare personnel who were in direct contact with her,” an official said. “Samples of seven contacts have been collected and they have been placed in institutional quarantine. The rest are in home quarantine and their samples will be collected tomorrow,” the official added. A senior official said the nurse had got her temperature checked and it was recorded at 99.5 degrees F. “At that time, coronavirus-like symptoms were not visible, so she continued to work. Her Covid-19 test came out positive on Saturday,” the official added. Several questions have been raised about procedural lapses in handling this case. A colleague of the nurse alleged that she had sought leave as she had the symptoms of the virus for several days, but it was not granted. This may have expanded the list of people who came in contact with her. Replying to this allegation, Joshi said she has asked for a full report on the matter. “Other contacts of the nurse, who were not in the hospital, will also be tested and quarantined separately. We don’t know how the nurse got infected as there’s no established contact history in a lot of cases nowadays,” added the commissioner. The 980-bedded hsopital is one of the largest facilities in north Delhi. Currently, 170 patients are admitted here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-sanitised-3-opds-and-emergency-to-open-today/articleshow/75396810.cms||Paras Singh
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS foundation day to be a low-key affair||HYDERABAD: Chief minister and TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday extended wishes to the people of the state and the party cadre on the eve of TRS party foundation day. TRS working president KT Rama Rao donated blood on Sunday and appealed to the party cadre to donate blood. KCR and KTR expressed satisfaction over the achievements of the party including its main objective of achieving a separate Telangana state. He said though the 20th anniversary celebrations of TRS party foundation day were planned in a grand manner, it was decided to hold the celebrations in a simple manner following the lockdown norms. CM will hoist the party flag at Telangana Bhavan here at 9.30 am on Monday in a low-key affair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-foundation-day-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/75396801.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra hospitals to get more oxygen lines to make life easier for Covid patients||VIJAYAWADA: Hypoxia has emerged as the new focus area in Covid-19 treatment in the state. Due to the compromised lung function and capacity in some Covid patients, oxygen cannot reach red blood cells, leading to hypoxia. There are about 1,200 beds with oxygen lines in the state-level Covid hospitals as well as district-level Covid hospitals, besides 2,200 beds with oxygen lines in other hospitals identified under line one to line six Covid hospitals. Now, the state health department has decided to add oxygen lines to about 2,000 more beds in the state-level Covid hospitals itself to augment its infrastructure in the battle against Covid-19. According to medical experts, some patients do not even exhibit any breathlessness symptoms despite having exceedingly low blood oxygen saturation levels, which is called as silent hypoxia or happy hypoxia in medical parlance. The insidious form of hypoxia makes it difficult for the treating doctor(s) before it progresses into the advanced stage. To tackle the same, the Covid-19 treating facilities in the state were recently supplied with nearly 1,900 pulse oximetres. These devices do not only help in monitoring the oxygen saturation levels of the patient, but also detect hypoxia early. According to reports, several Covid deaths in other countries were attributed to persistent hypoxia or it at least leading to severe complications such as tissue damage and infections. Special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare department, KS Jawahar Reddy said; “As per the emerging Covid data from other countries, it is hypothesised that some Covid patients will develop impaired oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood and hypoxia. It is also assumed that oxygen supply is better than providing the patients with ventilator facility,” said Reddy. The special chief secretary said that 2,000 more beds in the state-level Covid hospitals will be fitted with oxygen lines in the next three weeks in addition to the existing ones. “The civil works pertaining to these oxygen lines are likely to be completed by May 20. We have already supplied 1,900 pulse oximetres to the hospitals. Breathlessness is an ominous manifestation in Covid patients. I request the public to call 104 and seek medical intervention if anyone is experiencing breathlessness or feels like they are gasping for air,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hospitals-to-get-more-oxygen-lines-to-make-life-easier-for-covid-patients/articleshow/75395530.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Shamshabad SI attached to headquarters||HYDERABAD: An inquiry has been ordered into allegations of irregularities in an excise case booked recently and a SI of the Shamshabad PS, who was investigating the case, was attached to the Cyberabad commissionerate headquarters. On March 31, an SI of Shamshabad PS raided a liquor shop in Palmakul and caught some people red-handed when they were handing over stock to organisers of belt shops to sell it illegally. A case was booked under Sec-188 of the IPC and the Excise Act against the shop owner and others. However, later senior officials came to know that the SI, who was heading the probe, has not added relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act to the case and part of the cash seized during the raid was allegedly returned to shop management. On Saturday, the Cyberabad commissioner ordered Shamshabad ACP to conduct an inquiry into the incident and issued orders attaching the SI to commissionerate headquarters pending inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shamshabad-si-attached-to-headquarters/articleshow/75396814.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: This Akshaya Tritiya, people ditch gold to feed poor||NEW DELHI: The mythical akshaya patra — an inexhaustive vessel gifted to Draupadi by Lord Krishna in the Mahabharata to ensure never-failing supply of food — seems to have gained a real-life significance today when scores of people are without a source of livelihood due to the spread of novel coronavirus. With almost all business activities coming under the grip of the Covid-19 lockdown, this year’s Akshaya Tritiya, which is usually celebrated by buying metal — especially gold — items to secure health and wealth, became a sombre affair on Sunday. Gold items being out of reach — with some online exceptions — many people instead went for annadaan by donating money to NGOs to feed the needy. The Akshaya Patra Foundation, one such NGO, has been providing 60,000 meals a day in the national capital region since the lockdown has begun over a month ago. Referring to the legends, other NGOs also urged people to donate money. Bharatarshabha Dasa, who is coordinating the operations in Delhi and UP for the foundation, said while initially around 5,000 meals were being distributed, the number had reached 28,500 only in Delhi. These meals are prepared at its kitchens in Badli and Gole Market. “We are distributing all meals with the help of Delhi and UP governments and the authorities,” said Dasa, adding that around 50,000 ration kits, each serving over 42 meals, were also distributed. Till April 25, the foundation has provided around 3 crore meals across the country. The Narayan Seva Sansthan, another NGO distributing food during the lockdown, said it had collected over Rs 7 lakh from around 150 contributors on Akshaya Tritiya. Prashant Agarwal, its president, said, “Our campaign focuses on serving humanity and people are donating to help daily wage earners and migrants.” The campaign has been launched to distribute food packets and masks among underprivileged people. The NGO has provided 26,700 masks and 48,900 food packets with the help of government officials. Vishal Purohit, who has donated to mark the occassion, felt it was the right thing to do. “It is considered a tradition in our family to buy a gold item on Akshaya Tritiya, however small it may be. This year, we thought we could do much more on this special day,” said Purohit, who lives in Dwarka. Praveen Khandelwal of Confederation of All India Traders said bookings of gold items worth Rs 600 crore had been taken online across the country but the delivery would be made after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-akshaya-tritiya-people-ditch-gold-to-feed-poor/articleshow/75396824.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 27, 2020||Nashik||Father-son duo held for assaulting policemen||Nashik: The Mhasrool police have arrested a father-son duo from Tavali Phata of Peth Road for allegedly assaulting a police team on Saturday afternoon. The suspects have been identified as Bapurao alias Bhaskar Kadad and his son Balkrushna alias Kallu Bapurao Kakad, residents of Tavali Phata. The father-son duo was produced before a city court which remanded them to three-day police custody. The incident took place after a non-cognizable offence of causing hurt was registered with the Mhasrool police against Balkrushna Kakad. As part of investigation, a team of Mhasrool police had visited the residence of Kakad. They attempted to make him understand the consequences of getting into fights or any offences. They also warned him if strict action if he indulged in any crime or wrongdoing. However, the police team’s advice left Balkrushna and his father Bapurao infuriated and they attacked the police team with wooden sticks. Taking serious cognizance of the same, the police arrested the duo under sections 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (Criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The case is being investigated further, said an officer attached with the Mhasrool police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/father-son-duo-held-for-assaulting-policemen/articleshow/75396293.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Home guard succumbs to head injuries in Shahalibanda||HYDERABAD: A 43-year-old home guard attached with Shahalibanda police station, who had sustained severe head injuries in an accident on Thursday, succumbed while undergoing treatment at hospital on Sunday morning. The home guard, B Sathyanand, was a resident of Uppuguda. On Thursday night, Sathyanand met with an accident at Nagulchinta crossroads while returning home after performing his duties. “In an attempt to save a dog, which suddenly came in front of his two-wheeler, he swerved and lost control over the two-wheeler and fell. Sathyanand sustained severe head injuries and was shifted to Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet,” Shahalibanda inspector P Srinivas said. He was working at the police station for the past four years. A case was registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shahalibandahome-guard-succumbs-to-head-injuries/articleshow/75396811.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Nagpur||Shopkeepers support closure, assistants want shops open||Nagpur: The Union home ministry has allowed shops to open in non-market areas but the state government has not implemented this directive. City’s traders and businessmen have welcomed the state’s move but their employees are against it. The businessmen feel that with number of Covid-19 patients rising, opening shops would spread the disease. However, their assistants say their employers are not paying them salaries and hence it has to be business as usual or they will starve. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said the city was at a critical stage in the fight against corona and hence relaxations should not be given. “If shops are opened people from rural areas will come to the city for buying things and then the disease will spread to rural areas, which will be disastrous,” he added. TS Renu, secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers’ Association (VTA), echoed the sentiments. “At this time, lives are more important than the economy. If the disease spreads it will spread havoc,” he said. Govind Gupta, owner of a garment store in Surendra Nagar, who would have benefitted had the state government implemented Centre’s guidelines, also supported the Maharashtra government saying fighting the pandemic was paramount. Shop assistants have a completely different view. Vikas Khobragade, who works in a garment store, said his employer had paid him only half the salary for March and had told him that he won’t get anything for April. “The half salary for March was finished a few days ago and I had to obtain an advance from my employer. He gave me only Rs 2,000. I don’t how I will survive if I don’t get salary for April. The government must allow shops to function or poor people like us will starve,” he told TOI. Vijay Bamburwar, a salesman in an electronic shop, also demanded that shops be allowed to open. “If the government wants to keep markets closed it must force our employers to pay us full wages. I got full salary for March but my employer told me that he would pay only one-third for April,” he said. NVCC members have decided to pay only 25% salary to their staff. Mehadia justified the decision saying expenses of their employees had also gone down due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shopkeepers-support-closure-assistants-want-shops-open/articleshow/75396301.cms||Ashish Roy
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Decision on lifting lockdown difficult to make, says Alamgir Alam||Ranchi: While many state governments, including a few non-BJP ones, have voiced their support in favour of another extension of the nationwide lockdown, the Jharkhand government was yet to take a call on the matter. Asked whether the lockdown would be extended, chief minister Hemant Soren’s principal secretary Rajiv Arun Ekka said, “Nothing has been decided till now. Deliberations are underway to find out ways to cope with the emerging situation.” Although, Alamgir Alam, one of the key ministers in the mahagathbandhan government, said that going by the surge in the number of Covid cases, especially in Ranchi, the decision to lift the lockdown won’t be easy for the state government to make. Alam hoped that some clarity would emerge after the meeting between the prime minister and the chief ministers on Monday. He said, “The government seems to be in a wait-and-watch mode at the moment. While we complied with the first advisory from the Centre asking us to relax certain lockdown norms from April 20 onwards, we prefer not to enforce the second advisory on opening of standalone shops. Although the government led by the chief minister will soon take a call, I personally believe that we have to strike a perfect balance — i.e. to continue with certain curbs in affected zones and relax lockdown rules in a staggered manner in non-affected areas.” Alam added that the state government is also readying a blueprint to handle the influx of stranded migrants post the lifting of the nationwide lockdown. “Even if lockdown goes, a host of restrictions would be in place till the Covid situation returns to normal,” he added. Amid the uncertainty, Alam’s party, the Congress, wrote a letter to the chief minister placing certain demands. Senior Congress leader Alok Dubey said, “The party has demanded waiver of water and electricity bills, among others, for micro and small businesses to help the latter tide over the crisis. Moreover, infrastructure projects — mainly in the public sector — should be pushed so as to give more labourers an avenue of employment.” Another spokesperson, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, added, “Sweet shops should be allowed to open in areas that aren’t in the red zone. This move, if taken, will help dairy farmers. Regulated movement of traffic between districts should also be permitted.” Notably, in less than a month after the first Covid case was detected in the state, the total number of cases has jumped to 73 and the coronavirus has spread to 10 districts in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/decision-on-lifting-lockdown-difficult-to-make-says-alamgir-alam/articleshow/75395816.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Vendors asked not to put up religious banners, BJP cries foul||Jamshedpur: Police on Sunday appealed to vegetable and fruit vendors not to put up any banners pertaining to religion or linked to religious outfits. BJP has, however, criticised the police move and said it was an attack on religious freedom of the vendors. The appeal by police in the Steel City came after four vendors in Kadma market were found putting up Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) banners and declaring their religious faith to attract customers on Saturday evening. The incident happened at a time when Muslim vendors were ostracised as they were often and mistakenly linked to the spread of coronavirus infection in the country and the state. The banners put up by the four vendors display an endorsement by VHP and said ‘a Hindu fruits shop’. Police took down the banners in the evening after chief minister Hemant Soren issued a directive on Twitter. Stating that banners linked to religion or religious outfits are violations of the 2011 Jharkhand Municipal Act, East Singhbhum SSP Anoop Birthare said, “No religious outfit can give permission for putting up its banner at shops and vendors and no shopkeeper is permitted to put up such banners and posters at his or her shop.” He further said, “When only few shops are open to sell essential commodities to the citizens in this hour of crisis, no shopkeeper is allowed to draw customers on religion lines.” Stating that the four vendors were let off with a warning and no case was filed against them, Birthare added that such acts can lead to communal discord. On Sunday, former chief minister Raghubar Das visited the Kadma market and spoke to the vendors. He said, “The action of the police is an attack on the religious freedom of the vendors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vendors-asked-not-to-put-up-religious-banners-bjp-cries-foul/articleshow/75396066.cms||B Sridhar
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City hotel sealed for ‘violating’ lockdown norms||Jamshedpur: Police on Sunday sealed The Alcor Hotel under Bistupur police station after it was found violating the lockdown norms and running its spa, bar and bakery. The matter came to light on Saturday when six businessmen were found partying inside the bar located on the second floor. While three of them managed to escape, three others were detained and later released. Police said a woman from Kolkata, who works at the spa, was also found in the hotel during the raid on Saturday. She has allegedly being serving customers even after the lockdown. On Sunday, police detained the woman, who was living in the hotel since March 23. “We have shifted the lady to Mahila Thana for interrogation to ascertain in detail about her stay at the hotel and purpose of visiting the city. Health check-up of the lady will be done,” East Singhbhum SSP Anoop Birthare said. A police team, headed by SP (city) Subhash Chandra Jat, has been constituted to search all the 69 rooms at the hotel and examine the CCTV footage to ascertain the activities of the hotel in the last 15 days. Birthare said, “The CCTV footage of all the cameras in the hotel have been collected and it will be scanned to see entry and exit of people in the hotel in the last 15 days.” Sources also said the three businessmen, who were released after the brief detainment, were summoned once again for questioning. Birthare said, “The initial FIR has been on the basis of the lockdown violation, but it may be revised if the other serious allegations are substantiated.” The hotel management said that salon was opened for the hotel staff and in the meantime, three guests arrived for shaving and soon after that police raided the hotel. “The guests had arrived for shaving, but I told them that it is open for the staff alone. We also served cold drink to the guests on their arrival but in the meantime police raided. On noticing the guests sipping cold drink police alleged that we are serving liquor to the guests,” claimed Alcor Hotel’s administrator Dhananjay Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-hotel-sealed-for-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75395851.cms||B Sridhar
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Implement ban on tobacco sale effectively: Jharkhand health dept to DCs||Ranchi: The state health department has directed deputy commissioners of all 24 districts in the state to strictly implement the ban on sale and consumption of tobacco products apart from banning spitting in public to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. On March 21, health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni issued an order declaring spitting in public a punishable offence with a penalty provision of up to six months of imprisonment. The order also banned sale of tobacco products in the state. Jharkhand had also banned sale of loose cigarettes in 2016. But there were no overall ban on sale of cigarettes, khaini, pan masala and other forms of tobacco. On Saturday, mission director of the National Health Mission Jharkhand, Shailesh Chaurasia, wrote to deputy commissioners, SPs and senior SPs of Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad directing them to implement the order on the ban in letter and spirit. In his letter, Chaurasia asked the administrations to mobilize district, block and panchayat-level flying squads to conduct raids on defaulters and those consuming tobacco in public, outside government offices, educational institutes and tobacco sellers as per a directive issued by the state tobacco consumption control committee in January this year. The committee took a decision in this regard during its meeting chaired by then chief secretary D K Tiwary in January. “In government offices, a senior employee must be made a nodal officer where complaints can be lodged and subsequent action can be taken based on the complaints,” the letter read. In its April 21 order, the department said, “Tobacco users tend to spit everywhere, which can lead to the transmission of serious ailments such as Covid-19, encephalitis, tuberculosis and flu. The WHO has already declared Covid-19 as pandemic, whose transmission is caused by touching, sneezing, coughing and spitting by an infected person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/implement-ban-on-tobacco-sale-effectively-jharkhand-health-dept-to-dcs/articleshow/75395899.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||12 stuck in Kota return home, courtesy Saryu||Ranchi: Around 12 students from Jharkhand, who were stuck in Kota, managed to return to their hometown in Jamshedpur with the help of Kota administration and Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Rai. After getting a transit pass from the Kota administration, the students booked three cabs and returned home on Saturday night. After a few students and their parents got in touch with Rai, who spoke to a tour operator in Kota and coordinated with the district administration and the parents to bring back the children. Aishwarya, a medical aspirant, said, “I am relived after reaching home. The environment in Kota is very depressing and the fear of getting infected by the virus is palpable. My father got to know about a tour operator and asked me if I wanted to come back. I said yes.” According to a rough estimate, around 2,000 students from the state are currently stranded in Kota. While many are tirelessly requesting the Jharkhand government to help them come back, the latter blamed the Centre for not giving a nod to bring the students back home. Another student, Snehlata Sanga said, “We were in despair as we were not getting any positive news from our government. We tweeted to chief minister Hemant Soren, but did not get any help. If other states can bring back their students, why can’t Jharkhand?” Meanwhile, Rai questioned the Centre’s intent behind the delay in bringing back the children. “Many states have brought back their students while authorities in Jharkhand said that they are not getting permission from the central government. UP has again announced that they will bring their labourers, too. If they can be permitted, why can’t we?” The tour operator, Narendra Singh, who helped these students thanked Rai for supporting him. Singh said, “I am thankful to Saryu ji for helping the students in this critical time. I have attended hundreds of calls from the parents to help them to get them back home. Many students have booked my vehicles and will reach Jharkhand in the next couple of days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/12-stuck-in-kota-return-home-courtesy-saryu/articleshow/75396019.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Law varsity goes online for teaching||Ranchi: Following a directive from the Bar Council of India (BCI) for timely completion of syllabus, the National University of Study and Research in Law (NUSRL) here has started online classes for undergraduate and post-graduate courses. A letter issued by the BCI on April 25 directed heads of law schools to hold online classes and submit a detailed action report by May 10. Talking to TOI, NUSRL registrar MBS Murthy said, “We started online classes using a video-conferencing app on March 23 itself. But, soon after, we had received a message from the Union ministry of home affairs, asking us not to use that particular app. Now, we are using other options to hold the classes.” Murthy added, “We have drawn up a roster of 30 faculty members. The teachers are recording video and audio lectures and sending them to students via email and WhatsApp groups. They are also preparing notes in PDF and PowerPoint formats.” Speaking on the BCI’s directive for a detailed report, Murthy said they have already uploaded the details of the programmes that were conducted till April 15 on the university’s website. He added that they will further update the website soon. The NUSRL have also asked students to provide their feedback on the online classes. “Since the online method of learning is new to all of us, we sent out emails to the students asking them for their feedback. We have started getting replies and are committed to taking appropriate steps to further improve the experience for the students,” said S K Sinha, PRO of NUSRL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/law-varsity-goes-online-for-teaching/articleshow/75396152.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Migrant labourers’ movement a problem in Dhanbad||Sindri: Despite the lockdown, migrant labourers continue to pour into Dhanbad, leaving the district administration clueless about their movement. When Dhanbad police stopped 10 persons riding on five bikes for checking at Randhir Verma Square on Sunday morning, it was found that all of them were coming from Chhattisgarh. The labourers said they hail from West Bengal and work as cloth vendors in Chhattisgarh. They further said that they were in home quarantine for 14 days in Chhattisgarh. However, police, as a precautionary measure, took them to PMCH for medical tests and sent them to 14 days’ quarantine at Dhanbad sadar hospital. Dhanbad SDO Raj Maheshwaram said, “The fact that the labourers could cross state and district borders indicates that there is some leniency at the checkpoints as they were all coming on bikes and could not have gone unnoticed at so many places.” He added, “On our part, we are maintaining the lockdown strictly and have even stopped nearly 400 miners coming to duty to BCCL area 1 from Bokaro on Sunday. They are working in BCCL, but their colonies are situated in the administrative area of Bokaro district. We are trying to devise ways to solve this problem,” he added. The SDO also admitted that movement of migrant labourers and their management are proving to be a bigger task. “We caught 39 persons coming from Odisha on bikes around 20 days ago and they all have been kept in isolation at Purbi Tundi. Similarly, 278 have been kept in isolation in Maithon. Around 50 migrant labourers, who completed their quarantine period at PMCH and sadar hospital, were moved to the isolation centre at Nirsa on Sunday,” he said. “All of them want to get back to their homes in Bihar and West Bengal, but we cannot allow that,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/migrant-labourers-movement-a-problem-in-dhanbad/articleshow/75396109.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Rims plans plasma therapy for critically ill Covid-19 patients||RANCHI: Doctors at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) plan to start plasma therapy for seriously ill Covid-19 patients on an experimental basis after the treatment showed promise in curing many patients across the globe and in the country. Currently, Jharkhand has no critically ill Covid-19 patient. The doctors have now asked the Ranchi district administration to get in touch with the patients who have recovered and are willing to donate plasma to start the therapy in Jharkhand, whenever required. However, the recovered patients, a total of 13 so far in the state, will have to first cross the mandatory convalescent period of three weeks before plasma can be drawn from them. Head of trauma, emergency and critical care unit at Rims, Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, who is closely monitoring the Covid 19 patients, said plasma therapy involves a slew of tests and consent of both the donor and the recipient. “From one unit of blood, two bags of plasma can be separated. This plasma contains among various other things, the antibody produced by the patient’s body who contracted the novel coronavirus. We are trying to use the antibodies present in the recovered patient’s body to fight the virus in patients who are critically ill,” he said. Bhattacharaya added that at present there is not a single patient in the Covid-19 unit who requires plasma therapy. “Most of them are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms that is expected to be cured without major intervention,” he said. Another member of the newly formed committee for plasma therapy, Dr J K Mitra, who is also the head of the department of medicine at Rims, said instead of only transfusing plasma taken from a convalescent patient, they are also planing to go for whole blood transfusion. “For the whole blood transfusion process, we have to ensure the blood groups match besides testing the blood for other possible infections like HIV, Hepatitis B and C before giving it to any other patient. However, if we use whole blood instead of plasma, the process would be less cumbersome but it is something which has not been tried earlier to treat viral infections,” he said. Asked if plasma therapy had been used earlier, Bhattacharya said some countries had also used it during the swine flu epidemic. “We have not worked on plasma therapy to control viral infection yet and not many literature is available on its success rate, but research on Covid-19 patients have shown some positive results in other countries and in India as well and there is no harm trying it out,” he said. Associate professor in the department of preventive and social medicine (PSM), Dr Devesh Kumar, said the only patient who was in need of plasma therapy was the elderly man who was the first casualty of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. “Apart from that single case, no other patient has been so critical that requires plasma therapy. This therapy is used only as a life saving technique,” he said. Convalscent plasma therapy has been tried in China and US before Indian Council of Medical Research gave a go ahead for the therapy in India. Different medical institutions have also decided to begin clinical trials and see if it reduces the fatality in case of critically ill patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-plans-plasma-therapy-for-critically-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75395780.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Unlicensed clinics in Hazaribag found duping patients during lockdown, sealed||Hazaribag: While many prominent hospitals and nursing homes in the district curtailing their operations to comply with the ongoing lockdown norms, several unlicensed health facilities are, however, duping patients and even putting the lives of the themselves and the patients at risk, prompting the district health officials to take action. On Sunday, civil surgeon Dr Krishna Kumar said they have raided and sealed six unlicensed nursing homes across the district ever since lockdown was ordered on March 23. One of the owners was even fined Rs 48,000. “A report will be sent to the department about these illegal clinics,” Dr Kumar said. Besides sealing the six nursing homes, Dr Kumar said a probe has been ordered against the owner of a private clinic in Chouparan. The probe was ordered after an FIR was lodged against the clinic’s owner Chaman Sao. Ashish Das, the complainant, blamed Sao and his wife for medical negligence which caused the death of his pregnant sister Manju Devi (20) on April 23. In his FIR, Ashish said Manju went into labour and was admitted to Chouparan community health centre. Finding Manju’s case complicated, doctors referred her to the Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH). While on their way to HMCH, Manju’s husband Mohan Ravidas was stopped by Sao, who convinced him to shift Manju to his clinic. At Ashiana Clinic, Sao’s wife treated Manju but she became critical. Manju was then referred to Chouparan CHC, where she died. The civil surgeon said, “The medical officer of Chouparan visited the clinic but the couple were absconding. Upon inquiry, it was found that the clinic did not possess a valid operational license. The team sealed the clinic in the presence of a magistrate. An inquiry is on to ascertain whether the patient died of medical negligence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/unlicensed-clinics-in-hazaribag-found-duping-patients-during-lockdown-sealed/articleshow/75395935.cms||Abhijit Sen
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Most city path labs to function despite a technician testing positive in Ranchi||Ranchi: Although rattled by a lab technician testing positive for Covid-19, majority of Ranchi’s pathological and radiological clinics on Sunday said they will remain functional during the ongoing lockdown to cater to patients. “A lab technician testing positive is worrying. But we will remain functional by taking all preventive measures as laid down in the protocol of Covid-19 management,” Dr Judhajit Pal of the Station Road-based Ranchi X Ray Clinic told TOI. “The OPDs are closed in private and government healthcare facilities. As professionals, it is our duty to cater to the patients,” Pal said. Likewise, the manager of a prominent private national pathological laboratory chain based in Karamtoli area of the city said: “All our sample collection centres are functional. We are observing social distancing protocols and not allowing any patient in without face masks.” Most of Ranchi’s laboratories have pruned their business hours. “There is less footfall of patients these days. So, we are working from 7.30am to 1pm on weekdays. The premises are being disinfected after every one hour,” the owner of a pathological lab in Ranchi’s Bariatu Road said. Many labs have shut their shops to comply with the lockdown orders. “Our lab is closed since March 23. Many are calling, but we will resume business after lockdown is lifted altogether,” an owner in Booty Road, said. The lab technician, a resident of Kantatoli’s Netaji Nagar, is the city’s first positive patient outside Hindpiri locality. He is also the first health sector professional to get infected with the novel coronavirus in Jharkhand. The district administration has begun contact tracing of the man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/most-city-path-labs-to-function-despite-a-technician-testing-positive-in-ranchi/articleshow/75395982.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Psychiatrists to aid govt call centre staff helping migrants||Ranchi: Poonam Kumari, a call-centre operator at the government-run helpline for migrant workers, was left teary-eyed after receiving a call from a stranded labourer in Uttar Pradesh. The man said he had only Rs 100 left with him and he gave it away to help another man. Kumari said, “I felt bad that I could not help the starving man. I, literally, couldn’t sleep for days after receiving the call.” Poonam is not alone. Many among the 180 helpline workers of the call centre run by the state labour department at the Nepal House were reported to be suffering from anxiety and mental depression. A team leader at the call centre, Johnson Topno, said that they are now taking help of psychiatrists to keep their employees in good mental health. Topno said, “We have attended as many as 33,000 calls from March 27 and helped around 9.4 lakh people stranded in other states. But some calls leave us exasperated. Often we also get calls where people abuse us, while in some cases callers try to play a prank.” Topno added, “Sensing the growing anxiety among call centre workers here, we asked Unicef, which is another stakeholder in this project, for help. The Unicef, in turn, coordinated with the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP), Ranchi, and has arranged de-stressing sessions.” On Friday, a mental de-stressing session was held for 60 people. Again on Monday, a similar session will be held. An associate professor at CIP, Dr Nishant Goel, said, “It was necessary to have a session with the call-centre workers. In the first session, we answered all the queries of participants and advised them to meditate. The other suggestion we gave them was to change their mindset. They must realise that they cannot directly help the stranded workers. They can only share the information with the departments concerned so that help reaches the migrants.” Priti Srivastava of Unicef said, “Staying mentally fit is equally important for call centre workers here, who are playing a key role in providing assistance to the stranded migrants during the nationwide lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/psychiatrists-to-aid-govt-call-centre-staff-helping-migrants/articleshow/75395787.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||Rains push health dept to plan checks for vector-borne diseases||Ranchi: In the wake of unseasonal rain, the state health department has decided to begin a statewide surveillance for vector-borne diseases to stop diseases like malaria, dengue and chikungunya. MD of National Health Mission, Jharkhand, Shailesh Chourasia issued letters to all civil surgeons and district vector-borne disease officers to launch the drive soon. “Keeping in view the lockdown which has been initiated to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, most of the population is at home leading to an increased use and storage of water, especially in areas with poor water supply. In such conditions, there are possibilities of outbreak of vector-borne diseases which include malaria, dengue and chikungunya. You are directed to take immediate measures to start surveillance and ensure proper vector control and environment management measures in place,” the letter read. The state vector borne disease cell has swung into action directing all the districts to start a simultaneous surveillance of all patients who are getting screened for Covid-19. Speaking to TOI, state entomologist Sagya Singh said, “We have enough rapid testing kits to detect patients suffering from vector-borne diseases and we have started distributing them in the districts” Singh added, “Anti-malarial drugs are available with all districts and they have been directed to provide enough stock to all surveillance teams in order to ensure immediate intervention in case of detection of any patient.” The state vector-borne disease cell has also directed a few local bodies to carry out anti-larval fogging in order to eliminate breeding spots and to start awareness campaign in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rains-push-health-dept-to-plan-checks-for-vector-borne-diseases/articleshow/75395925.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 27, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: World’s largest image bank of Ravi Varma goes online||VADODARA: Amid nationwide lockdown, works of India’s celebrated artist Raja Ravi Varma, who gave face to Hindu gods and goddess, have gone virtual. Five specially curated exhibitions and 200 images of paintings, sketches and archival photographs of work of the Prince Painter from Travancore were launched in Vadodara on Saturday. This is the largest image bank of the works of the legendary painter, who had received patronage from Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III, the visionary ruler of erstwhile Baroda state. This is the first time that works of Ravi Varma are being exhibited on an online platform. Member of Baroda’s royal family and M S University chancellor Shubhangini Raje Gaekwad launched the images on the google arts and culture platform of Bengaluru-based Ganesh Shivaswamy Foundation that has sourced the images from 18 private and institutional collections from across the world. “This is so far the first and the largest collaborative effort,” said Bengaluru-based Ganesh Shivaswamy, a collector of Raja Ravi Varma’s lithographs and an expert on the maestro’s works. “In 1993, there was an exhibition of Raja Ravi Varma’s works in the National Museum in Delhi which had around 50-70 images. The images that have been virtually launched are through official collaborations between individuals, institutions both within the country and outside the country to bring together nearly 207 images of his works,” he said. The online images include two sketch books from the Delhi Art Gallery that help understand the mind of the artist before he painted the final pictures. “These sketch books have close to 100 sketches which the artist himself had prepared,” he said. The launch this year holds significance as the legendary artist’s first commissioned painting was that of a family portrait of Kizakke Palat Krishna Menon. It was painted in 1870. The launch of the paintings, sketches and archival photographs is a commemoration of 150 years since Ravi Varma's first commissioned painting. From Baroda’s Royal Gaekwad Collection, ‘Sita Bhoomi Pravesh’ (the 19th century artwork depicting Sita being taken into the earth by her mother – the Goddess Bhoomi) too is part of the rare images that have gone online. Interestingly, the music that was played in the background for the inaugural video was re-created in Bengaluru by Dr Saumya Athreya. The music too has a special Baroda connection. “Raja Raja Varma, the youngest brother of Raja Ravi Varma, in 1903 had mentioned in his diary that ten years ago when the two had come to Baroda, they had seen two dancers – Gauri and Kantimati – dancing on a song for the Maharaja of Baroda. This song was re-created for the launch,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/worlds-largest-image-bank-of-ravi-varma-goes-online/articleshow/75395015.cms||Prashant Rupera
April 27, 2020||India||Govt’s grain-buying hits top gear amid lockdown||NEW DELHI: Amid the ongoing lockdown, nearly 90% of the wheat arriving in mandis over the first 10 days has been procured by government agencies, while the entire paddy crop in southern states has been purchased, as part of an attempt to ensure that farmers do not face hardship, while also replenishing stocks in Food Corporation of India silos. The food stock, which is remains surplus by a long margin, has been depleted in the last few weeks as the government doubled the quota of grains given to the poor through the public distribution system due to Covid-19. As reported by TOI on April 15, states are targeting to procure 40 million tonnes during 2020-21 marketing year (April to March), compared to around 35 million tonnes last year. Last year, up to April 24, procurement was estimated at 10.7 million tonnes, and purchases so far are nearly 60% of the year ago period although procurement was delayed by 15-20 days across states. Till Friday, 6.3 million tonnes of wheat has been procured with Punjab, MP, Haryana and UP taking the lead, government data accessed by TOI showed. Till Friday, total arrivals were estimated at 6.9 million tonnes, lower than last year, due to the staggered procurement plan that states have devised due to the lockdown to ensure that there are no crowds in the grain markets. While for the past few years, MP has been following the practice of sending SMS to farmers to bring their produce for selling, this time Punjab is also following the model. Sources said traditionally the three main wheat producing states — Punjab, MP and Haryana — usually finish procurement of wheat by April end or maximum by first week of May, although June 30 is the deadline for rabi marketing season (RMS). But this year procurement may continue in these states till May-end or even till the first week of June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govts-grain-buying-hits-top-gear-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75397439.cms||Dipak K Dash
April 27, 2020||Noida||Noida border passes only for Covid-19 doctors||NOIDA: Doctors, nurses and paramedics who are not associated with treatment of Covid patients will not be allowed to move between Noida and Delhi from Monday. The Noida administration has decided to stop issuing passes to doctors not involved with Covid duty and management. The move — latest among Noida’s measures to cut down travel between the two cities — evoked mixed response from medical professionals. Some backed the administration’s decisions, saying it would arrest the rate of positive cases in Noida. Others, however, insisted that it would hit emergency treatment in private hospitals in the two cities. Noida’s chief medical officer Deepak Ohri said the health department had already issued passes to most doctors involved with Covid duty. “Only those required for Covid-19 work will be allowed to cross over to the other side. Others will not be allowed to go. We have already issued passes to such medical professionals and doctors. There is no scope for confusion anymore,” Ohri said. Noida imposed stringent measures to cut down movement through its borders after it was found that at least 30 Covid patients had travelled to Delhi just days before they tested positive. A day after the Noida district magistrate issued clampdown orders on April 21, doctors and health workers started queuing up at the office of chief medical officer in Sector 39 for passes. According to officials, there are more than 2,000 MBBS doctors in the city, of whom 760 are registered with the Indian Medical Association. The responsibility of issuing passes initially lay with the police. However, the job was later transferred to the CMO’s office when the applications started increasing. A format was circulated among doctors to fill in details. They were required to mention the nature of their service, expertise, place of work, whether their hospital has been treating Covid patients or testing them, etc. “Those who were able to establish that they are involved with Covid-19 duty were issued passes. Others were denied. We need to take such bold decisions to keep the outbreak in check,” said NK Sharma, president of the Indian Medical Association (Noida). Doctors said the move not to allow non-Covid medical professionals to travel across the border would hit emergency care in both cities. “Already, most of the hospitals are working with half the manpower due to lockdown. This order will crumble the health infrastructure further. The number of doctors required for dealing with emergency cases is bound to go down,” said a doctor associated with a private hospital in east Delhi. Dr Nitin P Ghonghe, who works with Apollo Hospitals in Indraprastha, could get a pass on Friday. “The first day, policemen deployed at the border asked me to stay in Delhi instead of coming back home to Noida. Patients suffering from heart diseases, respiratory infections, cancer, Alzheimer’s, tuberculosis and other such diseases require constant care and counselling. Apart from emergency needs, their treatment is equally important,” said Ghonghe. His hospital is treating Covid patients. Told about the apprehension that emergency services were likely to get hit at private hospitals, Noida DM Suhas LY said, “Adequate health facilities and hospitals are available in Noida. People with medical emergency can get treatment within the city. Also, ambulances, be it private or a medical van, are being allowed to cross the border without any questions. The objective is to bring down movement of people and positive cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-stops-border-passes-to-doctors-not-on-covid-duty/articleshow/75396524.cms||Shalabh
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A wedding with just two cops as guests and a police gypsy for vidaai||NEW DELHI: When 27-year-old Kushal Walia, who lives in Govindpuri, got married to Pooja — the love of his life — on Saturday, his baraat included two police officers. The men in uniform — the only guests — escorted the groom and his parents from their house to Kalkaji’s Arya Samaj temple. The bride, hamstrung by the lockdown, did her mehendi and make-up on her own and wore her mother’s wedding saree. Once the wedding was conducted with everyone wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, the cops gifted the couple a chunni and got masks and sanitisers in return. The vidaai took place in a police gypsy. Kushal was to marry Pooja in Faridabad on April 25, but the families knew it wouldn’t be possible once the lockdown was extended. “We first thought we will postpone it but realised large gatherings wouldn’t be allowed for some time… so both the families decided to go for a simple wedding. But for that we needed permission and my father approached police who agreed to help us out,” Kushal said. The couple, like any other, had elaborate plans for their wedding, but told TOI it perhaps turned out better at the end because it was “simple and beautiful”. Similarly, in east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar, police provided a vehicle manned by an officer to a groom who wanted to travel to Usmanpur for his wedding on Sunday. The ACP even bore the marriage expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-a-wedding-with-just-two-cops-as-guests-and-a-police-gypsy-for-vidaai/articleshow/75397500.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Finding food just got harder for homeless in Chennai||CHENNAI: “We used to get food packets from two people living nearby every day at 10am. But today, nobody came,” said Rajalakshmi Murugan, a pavement dweller from Wall Tax Road. The four-day total lockdown will be yet another blow for the city’s homeless, who were already struggling for food and supplies. They depended on food donations largely, but the new restrictions bar volunteers from distributing food without fresh passes from the local authorities concerned. Rajalakshmi received a call from the volunteers saying they will not be able to give her food since authorities did not approve their request to distribute food yet. “Police stopped us when we were going to the people with food packets,” said one of the volunteers, who with her sister, has been feeding the homeless in Choolai. “When we explained that we were just going to give them food, they said no and asked us to return. They told us to get permission from the authorities and come back to distribute food. Though I placed a request with a local official, I have not received any reply yet. I hope we get a response soon so the people are not left hungry,” she said. Ravi, a pavement dweller from Triplicane, has been trying to find ways to survive the total lockdown since it was announced. Before the lockdown, he used to go to a nearby restaurant to get food or rummage through the garbage on days he can’t get any. But since the shutdown, he and seven others, were being fed by people in the neighbourhood. “We used to get lunch and dinner, or at least lunch. That was enough. But police told us that nobody can come out these four days,” he said. Several homeless people were found crowding in groups at KK Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Kodambakkam and Egmore areas, trying to stop almost all passersby thinking they had come to distribute food or give money. They also complained that they are unable to go to shelters since all are in full capacity. Social welfare department officials said they were trying to move many people to shelters. “We are accommodating them in community shelters that have space. But not everyone is willing to move because many are vendors and they want to continue to live on the streets to earn an income,” said a senior official from the department. The official said they have been working with the Greater Chennai Corporation to identify and relocate the homeless and mentally-ill people to shelters. “Since the lockdown began, we have relocated nearly 1 lakh people without homes to shelters and community halls across the state. We continue to going on rounds to identify more. But we have no space constraints and can open as many shelters as required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/finding-food-just-got-harder-for-our-homeless/articleshow/75396581.cms||Aditi R
April 27, 2020||Amaravati||Now is the time to strengthen public health infrastructure: Andhra CM Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Stating that strengthening the public healthcare system is the only way to combat diseases like Covid-19, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Sunday asked officials to put all renovation of government hospitals on the fast track. He said that work proposed under Naadu-Nedu scheme should be completed as per the target. Speaking to senior officials at a review meeting at the camp office, the chief minister directed them to continue screening all Covid-19 suspects. “Identifying positive cases is not only helping in containment of the virus and in providing treatment to patients, but is also helping devise future strategies on easing lockdown regulations,” observed the chief minister. The chief minister asked officials to continue to spread awareness about the disease as two cases of negligence were reported that resulted in a spike in the number of cases in Vijayawada. He said the government had decided to strengthen the public healthcare system much before to the outbreak of Covid-19 as they wanted to make AP ‘Arogyandhra Pradesh’ by making the public sector health system functional. The chief minister observed that negligence of the previous government has crippled the public health and education sectors in the last five years. “We have readied the blueprint for strengthening hospitals, from PHC to medical college attached to general hospital. Complete all the works as early as possible,” the chief minister directed. Jaganmohan Reddy expressed serious displeasure over the ostracism of Covid-19 patients and their kin. “Such discriminatory practices will divide the society. Educate and create awareness about extending support, love and care to the recovered patients,” he said. Patients are recovering due to the moral support extended by doctors and nurses in the hospital but reports of their being discriminated against upon reaching home are deeply disturbing, the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/now-is-the-time-to-strengthen-public-health-infra-cm-jagan/articleshow/75395208.cms||Samdani MN
April 27, 2020||Amaravati||Amit Shah speaks to CM on Covid-19 measures||AMARAVATI: Union home minister Amit Shah called chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy over the phone on Sunday and discussed the measures to be initiated to combat the spread of coronavirus post May 3, once the lockdown is lifted. Shah assessed the issue and strategies to be followed to contain the spread of the virus. Shah also enquired about the measures taken up by the state government after easing certain regulations in green zones since April 20. He reportedly asked the chief minister whether the state is prepared to tackle the situation if the lockdown is completely lifted. Shah’s call to the chief minister is significant as it comes a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to hold a discussion with chief ministers to discuss strategies to be pursued post lockdown. According to the official spokesperson of CMO, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy is believed to have said that Andhra Pradesh stands at the top of the table in screening Covid-19 suspects in the country. He said they are conducting 1,274 tests per million. He sought Shah’s intervention in bringing AP’s fishermen stranded in Gujarat. Jaganmohan Reddy explained that he has already requested Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman, the nodal minister to the state from the Union cabinet, to help the fishermen reach home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/amit-shah-speaks-to-cm-on-covid-19-measures/articleshow/75395217.cms||Samdani MN
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur police playing crucial role in breaking the coronavirus chain||GUNTUR: Police are playing a crucial role in Covid fight by tracing source of virus infection. The aggressive approach in rounding up of primary and secondary contacts of positive patients is keeping the virus spread under check in many instances. “Special teams consisting senior officers have been constituted to zero-in on not only the source of the virus but also the contacts of the suspected cases. Special teams are working overtime in tracing and tracking the virus spreaders,” said Guntur rural district Superintendent of Police (SP) Ch Vijaya Rao. “Unless, we work in a scientific way, it is difficult to break the virus chain. Our men are working with speed to catch the final contact in all possible cases,” said Vijaya Rao. Within minutes after getting the alert about the death of a cable network staffer in Narasaraopet due to Covid-19, the police rounded up nearly 300 people in Ramireddipeta, Varavakatta areas and sent them to quarantine. Their suspicion proved right when nine of them turned positive for Covid-19. The police then identified a few people with Covid symptoms at a private hospital. “We identified a home guard residing near the first victim. Along with his wife, 14 people in the hospital where he got treatment for cold were rounded up and tested positive. It is said that nearly 26 people in their families were infected and another 22 in their neighbourhood, taking the tally of positive cases in Nararaopet to 48,” said Vijaya Rao. Similarly, the police identified nearly 40 suspects in Nakirekallu. When the locals of Dachepalle initially resisted to move to the quarantine home, the SP deputed senior officials to the spot and prevailed upon them of the benefit of going under t quarantine. This helped contain the spread of the virus as another six people tested positive from the initial suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-playing-crucial-role-in-breaking-the-virus-chain/articleshow/75395235.cms||Samdani MN
April 27, 2020||Amaravati||No cuts for pensioners in May, employees to get 50% of salary||AMARAVATI: In a big relief to pensioners, the state government has decided to pay full pension to all retired employees in May. Even while continuing deferred payment of salaries to regular employees, the government has exempted pensioners from the bracket in view of their hardships. The government paid just 50 per cent of the pension amount to the retired staffers in April citing strained financial conditions. The state government also decided to pay full salaries to doctors, nurses, paramedical staff in the medical and health departments, police personnel and sanitation workers in municipal bodies and village panchayats. However, all other regular employees will get only 50 per cent of their wages for yet another month. Although chief minister Jagan assured employees’ union leaders that the deferred pay system would be followed only for one month, the government had decided to continue it for another month as there was no big change in the treasury’s revenues. In a GO issued on Sunday, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney said that the decision to continue the deferred payment of salaries and wages to regular employees had been taken as there was no big change in the health emergency situation since last month. “Since the circumstances prevailing since the issuance of the orders in the past have not materially altered, the government hereby orders that the deferred payment of salaries/wages/remuneration/ honorarium, as per the pattern prescribed in the previous GOs shall continue for the month of April 2020 payable in May 2020,” said chief secretary. Contract and outsourcing employees will get 90 per cent of their salaries. All India Service officers (IAS, IPS and IFS) will continue to get 40 per cent salary with 60 per cent deferment. Interestingly, there will be 100 per cent deferment of honorarium and salaries to all the elected public representatives and nominated chairpersons to the boards and corporations. As a result, chief minister, cabinet ministers, MLAs, MLCs and chairpersons of all the corporations, government advisors will not receive the honorarium and perks in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/no-cuts-for-pensioners-in-may-employees-to-get-50-of-salary/articleshow/75395251.cms||Samdani MN
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: No worshippers at mosques, no streetside feasting this Ramzan||MUMBAI: The muezzin’s azaan on loudspeakers at Minara Masjid near Mohammed Ali Road cuts through the eerie silence in the area. There are no worshippers making way for the evening namaz, which also announces breaking of the dawn-to-dusk roza or fast. Nobody is in a hurry to be home to savour iftar delicacies either. As the holy month entered the second day on Sunday, community leaders, clerics and food lovers cutting across communities who flocked to areas like Mohammed Ali Road to feast on the delicacies, said it’s a Ramzan unlike any other. “In earlier years, there wasn’t a single day through the month when I didn’t have guests joining me for iftar at home. This time, I can neither invite friends nor go to anyone’s place to break the fast,” said former MLA and Islam Gymkhana president, advocate Yusuf Abrahni. The endless street feasts that characterized Ramzan nights when people thronged roadside eateries to gorge on haleem, kebabs, payas and parathas or desserts like malpuas and aromatic firnis are only a nostalgia-inducing memory this year. “Every year, this month spelt boom time for business. Most of my clients were non-Muslims who waited for Ramzan. But due to the lockdown, we are only catering to some online orders and takeaways,” said Khaled Hakeem, who owns Noor Mohammedi Hotel near Bhendi Bazaar. At the nearby Shalimaar, its owner, Omair Shaikh, said a huge chunk of business during Ramzan came through catering orders for iftar and sehri parties. “Our parcel service with maintenance of social distancing is open, but business it nowhere near previous Ramzans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-worshippers-at-mosques-no-streetside-feasting-this-ramzan/articleshow/75397523.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Tobacco auctions to move to green zones||GUNTUR: Taking a serious view of the troubles of tobacco growers, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed district collectors of Prakasam and West Godavari to shift the auction platforms to nearby green zones so that operations can resume immediately. The decision comes as a relief when the deadlock over opening of auction platforms has pushed tobacco growers into deep waters. With all auction platforms, proposed to be opened, located in red zones, the board had once again deferred taking a decision. But the stalemate was set to prove costly as growers are likely to lose nearly 200 crore as the quality of leaf continues to deteriorate owing to rising mercury levels. In fact, the tobacco board had made an attempt to reopen the auction platforms twice in the last one week after the Centre relaxed the lockdown rules for the agriculture sector. However, the failure of the board officials to get clearances to handle the operations has stymied the auctions. Neither the chairman nor any official from the board met the state government authorities to resolve the issue of restrictions imposed on the movement of buyers, merchants and officials in the red zones. BJP MP GVL Narasimha Rao had appealed to board chairman Yadlapati Raghunatha Babu, also of BJP, and senior officials of the board to immediately launch the auctions to prevent another major crisis in the tobacco sector. The tobacco board manager (auctions) M Baburao on April 25 asked auction superintendents to take all measures to reopen the auction platforms at Tangutur-I, Tangutur-II, (Prakasam) Jangareddigudem-I and Jangareddigudem-II (West Godavari) from April 27. Surprisingly, the board made the attempt to resume the operations without resolving the regulations of lockdown as all the four-platforms are located in the red zones. “It is difficult for the tobacco growers to survive if the auctions are not resumed immediately,” said P S Murali Babu, general secretary, Federation of All India Farmer Association (FAIFA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-auctions-to-move-to-green-zones/articleshow/75395264.cms||Samdani MN
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Biryani man’ dies of Covid-19 in Guntur||GUNTUR: The report of the test results for Subhani, the ‘biryani man’ of Guntur, who died on Saturday evening and whose body was kept in the mortuary, came back positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The 52-year-old was rushed to Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur on Friday night after he complained of having trouble breathing. Subhani also had liver and heart ailments.  Subhani was advised to stay a quarantine facility after two of his neighbours tested positive for Covid-19 last week. A daily wage earner, Subhani started his hotel two decades ago that used to serve a khichdi-kebab breakfast to masons and other daily wage workers in the local chilli yard for just Rs 30. His business later turned into a biryani hotel. -Samdani MN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/biryani-man-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/75395278.cms||Samdani MN
April 27, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD’s timely lockdown prevented outbreak of Covid-19 among pilgrims||Covid-19 has unleashed an unprecedented crisis the world has never seen before. This is perhaps the first time in the history of man that the borders of all nations, states and districts are sealed to prevent the outbreak of this dangerous novel coronavirus. Covid-19 has impacted every single country in the world. While the unpreparedness of the developed nations was exposed by the coronavirus crisis, India continues to strongly fight back Covid-19 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who leads a family of 137 crore people, like a Vasudaika Kutumbham. The timely decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) to suspend the darshan for devotees at Tirumala prevented Covid-19 outbreak at Tirumala. The TTDP acted in time and closed the world renowned Tirumala temple for devotees on March 20, five days before the nationwide lockdown came into effect. With nearly 80,000 to one lakh devotees visiting the Tirumala temple from across the country and the world, it could have been disastrous if there were an outbreak of the virus in the temple city. This eventually would have had a cascading effect across the country. But the TTD management could prevent the outbreak of the novel coronavirus at Tirumala by initiating a number of precautionary measures even before the lockdown. This includes performance of Yagams to save the mankind from coronavirus. Seeking the divine intervention to save the mankind from the coronavirus global pandemic, TTD organized Srinivasa Veda Mantra Arogya Japa Yagnam from March 16 to 25 and Sri Srinivasa Shantyutsava sahita Dhanwantari maha yagam from March 28 to 30 at Tirumala. ''Vedaparayanam'' recital has been going on every single day at Tirumala from April 10 and it will be continued till the world is relieved of the deadly coronavirus. The TTD has immersed itself in the fight against Covid-19. Sri Venkateswara institute of medical sciences established the first Covid-19 testing lab in Andhra Pradesh. This continues to test samples received from across Andhra Pradesh. Sri Padmavathi medical college hospital has been converted into a state Covid-19 hospital and Sri Padmavathi nilayam at Tiruchanoor into a state government's quarantine facility. TTD trust board sanctioned Rs 19 crore towards the purchase of necessary medical equipment. The TTD has turned into a saviour for the poor during the nationwide lockdown, by distributing 1.4 lakh free food packets in Tirupati since March 28. It has also been distributing three tonnes of fodder to various goshalas in Tirupati, besides feeding 500 odd stray cattle and dogs. The village volunteers system, a brain-child of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, has come as a blessing not only for the people of the state but also for institutions like TTD. It is because of the strong network of village volunteers, all state government aid and welfare schemes are delivered at the doorsteps of people. The fact that several states have taken Andhra Pradesh as a role model to replicate village volunteer system stands testimony to the success of the local governance model. Though Tirumala temple remains closed for pilgrims, all the daily, weekly, monthly and annual festivals continue to be performed at the sacred abode of Lord Venkateswara as per the prescribed agamas, some of which are telecast live on SVBC. Through SVBC, devotees continue to stay connected to their ''Kula Deivam'' - the living God through Govinda Nama Smarana 24/7. While the whole world has come to a standstill due to Covid-19, only prayers can show us the light of a new beginning. Like it is rightly said ''Prayers can move mountains'', our earnest appeal to all devotees is to stay home and stay safe and make a silent prayer within the comfort of home for the universal well-being. Let us all recall what saint poet Tallapaka Annamacharya said ''Chedaneeka Brathikinche Sidda manthrama, Rogalanachi Rakshinche Divyaushadhama'', which means it is the supreme deity Lord Venkateswara, who alone can save us from any disaster and He is the divine medicine that can cure any critical illness and keep us safe. Let us all join chorus with Annamacharya and sing in praise of Lord Venkateswara to relieve the world of this novel coronavirus. (The author is the chairman of the TTD Board)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttds-timely-lockdown-prevented-outbreak-of-covid-19-among-pilgrims/articleshow/75395300.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Delhi||Brace for more rain on Monday and a cooler week ahead in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted a spell of light on Monday, with strong winds likely. A subsequent western disturbance is expected to bring rain on April 30 too, a Met official said. Delhiites woke up to a spell of light rain on Sunday with strong gusty winds, ranging between 40 and 50 km/ hr, in the afternoon as the mercury plummeted in the capital. Safdarjung, the city’s base station, recorded 0.4mm of rainfall till 8.30am. Another 2mm of rainfall was recorded till 5.30pm. Palam received the most rainfall overnight, with 8.6mm of rain till 8.30am and another 3.6mm in the next nine hours. Lodhi Road and Ayanagar stations received light rainfall. Met officials said the wind speed touched 50 km/hr at Palam around noon, with a speed of 40km/hr being recorded at Safdarjung. Similar gusty winds have been forecast for Monday as well Delhi’s maximum, which was 37.9 degrees Celsius on Saturday, fell to 31.4° Celsius on Sunday — seven notches below the normal for this time of the season. “A combination of a western disturbance and easterly winds has led to moisture and rain occurring in the region. Temperatures were already high and a cyclonic formation over Haryana on Saturday led to a spell of rain,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi. Srivastava said the temperature was unlikely to touch the 40-degree mark this week with another western disturbance likely to bring rain on April 30. “There is a good chance of rain occurring on Monday and then on April 30,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-brace-for-more-rain-on-monday-and-a-cooler-week-ahead/articleshow/75397525.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Curbs to be lifted only in rural areas, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday indicated that the lockdown in the worst-hit red zones, especially Mumbai and Pune, may be extended beyond May 3 while a few, relatively incident-free districts in rural areas could see easing of curbs to allow “economic activity to resume”. A final decision will be taken after May 3, he added. Some industries in certain districts have been allowed to restart, and more relaxations may be considered after April 30, Thackeray said in his address through social media, signalling plans to phase out restrictions based on gains made in containing the Covid-19 pandemic. Equally, concessions are likely to be made to enable crop procurement, distribution and delivery. “For farmers, we have restarted cotton procurement centres. We are looking at doorstep delivery of fruits… there will be no restriction on transport of agricultural commodities,” he added. About the uncertainty surrounding plans to lift the lockdown after May 3, he said, “We have gradually eased restrictions at some places. But in Mumbai, it led to crowds which we cannot afford. I will take a review of the rural parts where we cannot open district borders, but gradually can ease restrictions to allow economic activity to resume.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-curbs-to-be-lifted-only-in-rural-areas-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/75397535.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
April 27, 2020||Ranchi||E Singhbhum plans e-motivation sessions for cops||Jamshedpur: East Singhbhum police are exploring modalities to organise online motivational session to help cops cope with long hours of lockdown duty. SSP Anoop Birthare said mental fitness of the personnel is extremely important, they have begun exploring ways to arrange suc sessions. On April 18, a depressed havildar of the Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) had attempted suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon at JAP building in Gudabandha. Thogh he was reportedly frustrated due to long work hours, police refuted the claims and said a domestic issue was the reason for the suicide bid. Birthare said, “Under the current circumstances, social distancing is paramount. Hence, it is not possible for the personnel to sit under one roof for the proposed sessions. I have also asked all OCs to cooperate with their subordinates to ensure they can maintain cordial relations with their families in these tough times.” Besides, officers have been told to keep motivating their juniors by appreciating their dedication to the job. Police sources said a majority of the personnel are from outstation districts and being away from their families for long durations can be tough. Notably, East Singhbhum does not have single Covid-19 case so far and the district has been declared a green zone, allowing partial resumption of key business activities. A green zone status also means increase in the workload of the police, who apart from ensuring the lockown, have to keep a vigil to ascertain that all relaxation norms are followed. Additionally, with the holy month of Ramzan starting from Saturday, the patrolling duty of the police has further increased. A police jawan who is on a patrol van told TOI, “With the movement of vehicular traffic gradually resuming on the streets following the relaxation, it is necessary to see that people without authorisation are not on the streets. Moreover, footfall in the market areas has increased, necessitating enhanced vigilance to ensure that people are wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.” An official of a city-based yoga training school, Cosmic Yoga, said their organisation is ready to provide de-stressing session for cops. “In this tough time, we would like to impart online sessions to the cops to help them fight mental and physical stress,” said school director Priyanka Singh, who is a yoga instructor certified by the ministry of Ayush and holds a masters degree in yoga and naturopathy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-singhbhum-plans-e-motivation-sessions-for-cops/articleshow/75396852.cms||B Sridhar
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal doctor with Covid dies, another turns critical||KOLKATA: A 60-year-old doctor with the Bengal health department, who had earlier tested Covid-19-positive, died on Sunday, marking the first death in the state of a health official who had the disease, on a day the condition of a 65-year-old orthopaedic surgeon — also Covid-19-positive — was stated to be critical. There has, however, been no official word yet on whether Biplab Kanti Dasgupta died of Covid-19. The cause of death will be determined by the state’s Covid death audit committee, following “international protocol” in fixing cause, as earlier reported by TOI. The senior health official was in charge of the Central Medical Store, Sealdah, which supplies medicine, medical equipment and PPE to government-run health facilities throughout the state. He made a Facebook post on April 9, his last, and which has turned especially poignant in the wake of his death: “Trust God even if the answer is WAIT”. The 65-year-old orthopaedic surgeon, a resident of Ballygunge Phanri, had felt unwell and was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic with symptoms of Covid-19. His swab samples tested positive on April 14, and was shifted to Salt Lake’s AMRI Hospital. The doctor attends to patients at a few more private hospitals across the city. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has expressed condolences at Dasgupta’s death. “His sacrifice for the cause of ailing humanity will ever be in our hearts and will make our COVID warriors fight the deadly virus with even greater determination. My heartfelt condolence to Dr Dasgupta’s bereaved family members and colleagues,” she tweeted. The resident of Behala’s Haridevpur was initially admitted to the Beliaghata ID Hospital, where his swab samples tested positive. He was shifted to AMRI Hospital’s annexe building on April 18. He was put on ventilation support because he had respiratory distress. An AMRI Hospital source said Dasgupta expired at 1.20am. “The Covid-19-positive patient had been admitted on April 18 with respiratory distress and other co-morbidities,” the source added. Dasgupta’s co-morbidities included diabetes and hypertension, said sources. His widow is also Covid-19-positive, currently undergoing treatment. Another doctor in Behala, at whose private chamber Dasgupta had got himself checked before testing positive, has also been infected, said sources. Various doctors’ bodies — including IMA, Association of Health Service Doctors (AHSD), West Bengal Doctors’ Forum and Medical Service Centre — have expresses condolences at Dasgupta’s death. “What happened to him may happen with any of us healthcare workers in this Covid-19 scenario. But still our fight against Covid-19 will go on. Salute to Dr Biplab Kanti Dasgupta from other co-warriors for his brave fight. May his soul rest in peace. We are ready to stand beside his bereaved family,” said a release from doctors Suman Biswas, Sanjib Bandyopadhyay and K A Ahmed of the service doctors’ wing of IMA Bengal. Dasgputa had previously served as zonal leprosy officer in Murshidabad and CMOH, North Dinajpur.Also on Sunday, a nurse and an attendant of Marwari Relief Society hospital too tested positive on Sunday. The hospital has been shut for sanitization. Few other healthcare workers of the hospital has been taken for quarantine. Biplab Kanti Dasgupta was in-charge of the Central Medical Stores, at Seadlah, that stocks up medicine, medical equipment and PPEs that are being supplied to different government run health facilities in the state.Cause of death of his death however will be ascertained by the Covid death audit committee. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has already expresses her condolences through a tweet. Another Covid positive patient, a 34-year-old man from Garden Reach also died at the same hospital on Sunday. Like Dasgupta the patient was on ventilation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-doctor-with-covid-dies-another-turns-critical/articleshow/75397249.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||RAMZAN IN THE TIME OF LOCKDOWN: Staying home is biggest service we can do for our nation this Ramzan||The masjids are closed, iftar gatherings are banned and even hugging people is not allowed. It’s a ramzan like never before — Manawwar Ali Muqtasar, Dakhni humourist The road leading up to the iconic Charminar, otherwise milling with crowds during Ramzan, wears a deserted look due to the ongoing lockdown I first heard the word ‘quarantine’ from my father. Many would be surprised to know that an iconic landmark of Hyderabad — Koranti Dawakhana aka Correnti Hospital of Nallakunta — derives its name from the term. I was barely six or seven years old when my father regaled me with the story of how the hospital was the first isolation facility commissioned to combat a spate of communicable diseases that erupted in the aftermath of the Musi Floods in the early 20th century. Like most old Hyderabadis, I’ve grown up on stories of how patients would be treated in beds set up under makeshift tents in what was then the outskirts of the city. Who’d have expected that ‘quarantine’ would come back to haunt us over a hundred years later. I was born in Hussaini Alam locality of Charminar and lived there till 2011, before we moved to Kishan Bagh. In all my life, never have I seen Old City as deserted as it is today, especially during Ramzan. I certainly never imagined we’d be spend the month of Ramzan in lockdown. The mosques, which used to be brimming with people are closed, the prayers are all being offered at homes, iftar gatherings are banned, even hugging people isn’t allowed... it’s a Ramzan like never before. The coronavirus pandemic has left the whole world in disarray. Life seems to have done a somersault and there seems to be no end in sight. It is an unprecedented crisis no doubt, and it’s imperative that we get through it together. Staying at home and doing nothing is the biggest service we can do for our country this Ramzan, not just for ourselves but for our family and country as a whole during this holy month. A meme that a good friend of mine, RJ Mamta Narula, sent me really struck a chord. When someone asks a housewife what her husband does to give her a helping hand, she says, ‘Every evening he claps for me for five minutes...’ That’s all the motivation she needs (laughs). This is the time for us all to do whatever we can to egg each other on and get through these trying times. Insaniyat hi humara sabse bada dharam hai is waqt. In this holy month, let us all pledge to do tauba (penance) not just for ourselves, but for the well-being of all of mankind. Together, we will overcome Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramzan-in-the-time-of-lockdown-staying-home-is-biggest-service-we-can-do-for-our-nation-this-ramzan/articleshow/75397067.cms||Karthik Pasupulate
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||2 Sunderbans islands cut off after 3 cases in mainland||Kolkata: Panchayat officials of two remote islands in the Sunderbans archipelago — a Unesco world heritage site — have insulated themselves and stopped boat services to Kakdwip and the mainland, in a desperate attempt to stop the Covid-19 virus from crossing the waters and infecting the islanders. The decision followed news that three persons admitted at Kakdwip sub-divisional hospital had tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. “Three persons, a 72-year-old woman from Bakin-athapur, a 70-year-old man fom Ramnagar Rathtala and a 48-year-old man, have tested positive,” Sagar MLA Bankim Chandra Hazra said. Sagar PS officer-in-charge alerted the Ghoramara and Mousuni panchayat pradhans. Ghoramara has been in the spotlight over the threat it faces from sea level rise due to climate change. “We have been advised to travel to rural healthcare centres at Namkhana and Dwariknagar for medical emergency. Though the journeys will be longer and more arduous, we have no option,” said Ghoramara panchayat pradhan Sanjib Sagar. While paddy and vegatables are grown on the islands and they breed fish in ponds and catch them at sea, travel to the mainland is required to purchase edible oil, spices, medicines and other essential items. Both islands have stocks that will last a week. Residents of Mousuni island, that is less remote than Ghoramara, are so alarmed that Parvati Patra Mondal, 23, who delivered a baby at Kakdwip hospital on Saturday has been asked not to return till further notice. Her father-in-law, Susanta Mondal, 55, who had accompanied her has been asked to rent a house and stay there for now. Residents of these islands who battle cyclones many times a year and intuitively realise threats had in the initial stage of lockdown ensured proper quarantine of migrant labourers after they returned from Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Largescale migration from the Sunderbans had happened a decade ago after the islands were ravaged by Cyclone Aila in May 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-sunderbans-islands-cut-off-after-3-cases-in-mainland/articleshow/75397239.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata woman is part of Oxford univ vaccine team||OXFORD: A Kolkata woman is playing a crucial role in the Oxford University team trying to develop a vaccine against Covid-19, which could potentially end the pandemic. Chandra Datta, 34, who lives in Oxford, is working as a quality assurance manager at the university facility, which is manufacturing the anti-viral vector vaccine — ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 — which went to human trials last Thursday. If the vaccine passes those trials, it could be available for the public by September or October, she said. Chandra, who hails from Golf Gardens in Tollygunge, went to Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School and has a BTech in engineering and biotechnology at the Heritage Institute of Technology. She moved to the UK in 2009 to study for an MSc in bioscience (biotechnology) at Leeds University. She then worked in several roles before landing her plum job at Oxford, where she works at the university’s Cinical Biomanufacturing Facility, which manufactures viral vector vaccines for early-phase clinical trials all over the world, and is manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine developed at the Jenner Institute. Chandra oversees the quality assurance side of vaccine manufacturing, making sure procedures and methods are compliant, correcting any problems. “After I have checked all the paperwork, the quality professional does certification of the batch that he is happy for the vaccine to go to clinical trial. That happened on Wednesday with the Covid-19 vaccine. It was a big day. We had a big celebration. We all had wine and cake on Zoom together,” said Chandra, who is currently working from home. “It has been an amazing experience,” she said. “I have always worked in the pharmaceutical industry and I feel that making human life better is our goal. But I have never experienced anything like this before. It feels great and I think the whole world wants this vaccine so life can return to normality.” She had initially worked on the vaccine in secret because it was confidential, she revealed. “The last one month everyone has been really pressured, but we got it done very quickly. There has been a massive team effort,” she said. “I don’t work in distribution but from what I have heard, we are planning to start mass manufacture at the Serum Institute in Pune before the trial passes so that it can go to the market as soon as trial passes,” she said. “Vaccine development normally takes three to four years and we are trying to get this done in a few months. So far, we have made approximately 600 of the vaccines. We are in the process of manufacturing more. I think we can make 1,000 and then it will get mass-produced. They are looking into more manufacturing facilities in the UK which is not finalised yet,” she said. Back at their Golf Garden flat, proud parents Samir Kanti (65) and Kaberi Datta (58) were overjoyed with their daughter’s achievement and are praying for her success. “My daughter has always been extremely ambitious and hardworking. I wish success to the entire team and we are praying hard. It will mean a lot to humanity as a whole and I am proud that my daughter is associated with such a noble cause,” said father Samir Kanti Datta, vice-principal of Bhowanipore Education Society and the teacher-in-charge of the science department. He said Chandrabali had come home last December and had stayed for a couple of weeks. “That was the last time we met her. Then the world changed because of the virus and although initially I was extremely tensed about her, I realised the importance of her work and am truly a proud father.” The Oxford team plans to vaccinate 800 volunteers in the UK over the next month. If the trial is successful, they will approach the Government of Kenya for permission to evaluate it in Kenya. “I think the UK will be the first to have it, obviously, since it is a British invention. The vaccine will need to be given to the whole world if enough manufactured vaccines are available,” Chandra said. “Oxford is the best place to be for vaccine development. It is very inspiring and my school in Kolkata is one of the best schools. They really motivated us to be ambitious and goal-focused and my college convinced us that there was a future career in biotechnology.... Bengalis are known for being intelligent, so it must be in my genes. It must be the fish we eat!” she added. Samir said Kaberi were strictly following lockdown protocol and have managed home-delivery of staples — grocery to medicine — from two stores in the neighbourhood. “When we crave fish, our security guard fetches it from the market,” Samir said. (Additional inputs by Tamaghna Banerjee in Kolkata)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/south-kol-woman-in-oxford-sprint-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/75397255.cms||NAOMI CANTON
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Locked down with kids? Make the most of it with these cool art projects||Kids are fiddling with their gadgets all the time these days. Even those as young as one are adept at navigating their way around the various apps on the phone. With the lockdown, their screen time has only increased. Banning kids from using devices doesn’t really help either. So, finding creative distractions is the best solution. Artist Afza Tamkanat has found a novel way to make sure that her 13-month-old daughter Inara is not glued to the screen all day. “Every child is infinitely curious. They imitate and learn from their parents. So it is important for adults to set a good example. When she saw me painting, she crawled over to me and started dipping her fingers in paint and spilled it over my canvas. I was apprehensive at first but didn’t want to kill her curiosity. I started painting around what she had created and it gave both of us immense joy,” says Afza. She then decided to get a canvas and let Inara run free on it. “The lockdown gave us time to experiment and we wanted to see what she would create,” recounts Afza, adding, “This has become one of my favourite projects. We ensure that she is properly covered before she starts painting. My father, Fawad Tamkanat who is also an artist has taken an active part in setting up this special project for me and Inara. It is heartening to see her gravitate towards painting like I did as a child.” Afza watches as 13-month-old Inara weaves her paintbrush on a canvas Afza gives us a few ideas on how we can use this down time to encourage our tiny tots to try their hand at exploring their creative faculties while keeping them engaged with an art project instead of having them glued to their tablets and laptops. THINGS TO KEEP IN MIND WHILE PAINTING WITH KIDS If your child tends to colour outside the lines then do not stop them It’s better to stick to natural colours if your child has sensitive skin or has a tendency to put things in the mouth. Use coffee, turmeric water or beetroots and pomegranates that bleed their own colours Do not grade them on their work. Let their imagination run free USE VEGETABLES TO CREATE STILL LIFE ART PIECES OR TO CUSTOMISE YOUR OLD T-SHIRTS AND SCARVES Slice up vegetables like okra, capsicum or carve a potato using a cookie cutter into different shapes Dip these in paint to create patterns and flowers If you have fabrics like old scarves, T-shirts and pillow cases, paint them using the same technique. Before you know it, you will have a set of unique customised clothes DESIGN BOOKMARKS WITH FALLEN LEAVES Collect different kinds of leaves  Paint them with any colour and put the imprint on paper Cut out the leaf imprint and stick it on a piece of cardboard. You have an intricate bookmark to mark where you stopped a bedtime story PRODUCE ABSTRACT ART WITH OLD NEWSPAPERS The best part about abstract art is that there are no rules! To make one yourself, splash different colours on a canvas or paper While the paint is still wet, take a newspaper and crumple it. Put it on a corner of the canvas and use a roller or a bottle or any such item, and roll over the paper. This will leave impressions of the texture of the paper on the canvas. Repeat throughout the canvas You can create different textures using bubble wrap, net, leaves etc. CREATE BEAUTIFUL ART WITH COFFEE  Coffee dissolved in water makes for great homemade paint  Dip leaves and flowers in this coffee solution  Put the imprint on paper  Draw branches and stems  Painting is ready for display SET YOUR IMAGINATION FREE WITH COLLAGE ART  Pick out a scene or an object that you wish to recreate  Draw a rough outline of the object or scene you have picked  Tear newspapers and pages of magazines into tiny pieces. Do not use scissors  Let your child stick the pieces of paper within the outline you have drawn to create the object or scene||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locked-down-with-kids-make-the-most-of-it-with-these-cool-art-projects/articleshow/75397234.cms||Anwesha Paul
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||‘Wheels’ of justice(s): Judges drive cross-country to take up new posting||KOLKATA: If justice delayed, as they say, is justice denied, these judges have made sure that nothing — not even a locked-down country — could keep them from their new appointments. Since there’s no transport to be had now, justices Biswanath Somadder and Dipankar Datta — both with a strong connection with Calcutta High Court — have driven down a total of around 4000km to take up the post of Chief Justice, the former of Meghalaya HC, and the latter of Bombay HC. Justice Somadder was also acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court before being transferred to Allahabad High Court. He has now been elevated to the position of Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court. After receiving the order from President Ram Nath Kovind, he started the almost 800km journey from Allahabad for Kolkata on Friday. While his chauffeur drove part of the way, Justice Somadder took turns to ensure that the distance was covered in time. According to a source, he reached Kolkata on Saturday afternoon. After a stopover of just a few hours, he started for Shillong (a distance of 1100km) around 7.30pm. On Sunday evening, he started from Guwahati for the Meghalaya capital. Justice Datta also started for Mumbai from Kolkata (a distance of around 2,200km) on Saturday, accompanied by his son, with whom he is sharing driving duties to avoid exertion. He is scheduled to reach Mumbai sometime on Monday evening, and is expected to be sworn in as Chief Justice of Bombay HC on Tuesday. “Justice Datta was one of the seniormost judges of Calcutta High Court. He was elevated as permanent judge of Calcutta HC in 2006. Because of the lockdown, there’s no way to travel to Mumbai from Kolkata, which is why he decided to drive down,” said a person in the know. 20 to attend Meghalaya CJ swearing-inThe swearing-in of Justice Somadder as CJ of Meghalaya High Court, scheduled for 11am on Monday, will be a unique event. Following social distancing norms, only about 20 people, including Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, governor Tathagata Roy and Justice Sommader will be in attendance. Justice Sommader has instructed his staff to keep the number of invitees limited to 10, a source confirmed. He made these arrangements while travelling from Allahabad to Shillong by road over the last three days. Justice Datta is scheduled to take charge on Tuesday. Both Justice Somadder and Justice Datta are strictly adhering to all lockdown rules. Justice Somadder, who has been instrumental in setting up Calcutta HC’s circuit bench in Jalpaiguri, was also one of the seniormost judges of Allahabad HC, and may have taken over as its CJ in a year’s time. He was, however, nominated as CJ of Meghalaya HC by CJI S A Bobde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wheels-of-justices-judges-drive-cross-country-to-take-up-new-posting/articleshow/75397250.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘No dialysis centre can be shut for more than 24 hours’||MUMBAI: Dialysis centres cannot shut down operations for more than 24 hours if any of their staff test positive for Covid-19. Instead, they should function with the remaining unaffected staff. In a new protocol issued to dialysis clinics, the BMC has listed measures to ensure patients receive unhindered treatment and the risk factor of contracting Covid-19 is mitigated as well. The protocol for dialysis clinics has been drawn up based on suggestions by Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the task force formed by the state government. In case a staff member tests positive for coronavirus, the protocol suggests dialysis clinics/centres should be fumigated and thorough surface cleaning done with 1% sodium hypochlorite. However, the centre should not be closed for more than 24 hours. The protocol suggests all staff and patients who have not come in contact with the positive patient can continue dialysis at the centre. The protocol further states doctors, technicians and nurses exposed to the Covid-19 patient need not be quarantined or tested unless they develop symptoms if they have been wearing full personal protection equipment (PPE). If staff have come in contact with the positive patient and have been without PPE, they should be considered close contacts and quarantined. If they do not develop symptoms by the seventh day, they must rejoin work immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-no-dialysis-centre-can-be-shut-for-more-than-24-hours/articleshow/75397561.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||50 IRS officers face probe for unsolicited hike-tax call||NEW DELHI: An annoyed government distanced itself from controversial tax proposals such as a Covid-19 cess and a wealth tax on the rich from a group of revenue service officials, not just rejecting the suggestions but also ordering an enquiry against the officers who released the report on Sunday. The prompt rebuttal was meant to stop panic among taxpayers, who are already nervous about the future with incomes under stress. The Indian Revenue Service officers association also offered a clarification that the report did not represent the views of all officers. The “policy suggestions” titled ‘Fiscal Options and Response to Covid-19 Epidemic’ (FORCE) by 50 young IRS officers was shared on social media through the IRS association’s Twitter account late on Saturday evening with the full report. There were several other less controversial suggestions but the speculation over taxes clearly rattled the government which said the officers had violated service rules by releasing the report to the public. It quickly triggered a debate and by afternoon, government officials said there was no move to implement these measures nor was the report sought by the finance ministry or the PMO as was suggested by some comments on social media. “It is not the right time to suggest higher levies when the income of salaried and non-salaried individuals as well as businesses has been significantly hit by the pandemic,” said a senior officer. Sensing a controversy, the officers’ body too sought to distance itself from the report. “The paper FORCE by 50 young IRS officers suggesting policy measures had been forwarded by IRS association to Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) for consideration. It does not purport to represent the official views of the entire IRS, or the I-T department,” it tweeted. Finance ministry officials said the suggestions were “inappropriate” and the government had not asked for any report. They also said the report was contrary to the government’s move to provide support to people during these difficult times. The CBDT issued an official statement, announcing that an enquiry would be conducted against the officers were associated with the report. “It is unequivocally stated that CBDT never asked IRS association or these officers to prepare such a report. No permission was sought by the officers before going public with their personal views and suggestions on official matters, which is a violation of extant conduct rules. Necessary inquiry is being initiated in this matter,” it said. The young officers, who prepared the report, suggested that in times like these, the so called ‘super-rich’ had a higher obligation towards ensuring the larger public good. The paper recommended that this segment could be taxed through two alternative means, both of which could be imposed for a limited, fixed period of time. It backed raising the highest slab rate to 40% for total income levels above a minimum threshold of Rs 1 crore or re-introduction of wealth tax for those with a net wealth of Rs 5 crore or more. The policy paper had several suggestions and tax relief for sectors hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Administratively, the former will be simpler to implement. However, the revenue gain associated with both options should be worked out to see whether the gains attached with the latter option score better in terms of a cost-benefit analysis,” the paper suggested among a string of measures to raise revenues and provide relief to the economy. It said the additional revenue mop-up through either of the above steps was Rs 50,000 crore and this amount should be placed in a separate kitty, almost like an escrow account. The government could then identify 5-10 most crucial projects or schemes entailing significant expenditure, which were likely to have a decisive impact on reviving the economy. The costs attached with such projects would be worked out, and these projects should be listed on a government website, accessible to the entire public, the paper suggested. The paper also recommended several other measures such as a new tax saving scheme such as Covid Savings Certificates (similar to National Savings Certificates) to mobilise more funds as well as a new scheme for undisputed demand. It also backed the idea of reintroducing inheritance tax, which was in force in the country till 1985. For the healthcare sector, the paper recommended a complete tax holiday/tax break for the next three years for all corporates, firms and businesses operating in this segment. Watch 50 IRS officers face probe for unsolicited hike-tax call||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/50-irs-officers-face-probe-for-unsolicited-hike-tax-call/articleshow/75396769.cms||---
April 27, 2020||India||Covid-19: Pune's Serum Institute to ready 20-40m vaccine shots at Rs 1,000/dose by Sept-Oct||MUMBAI: Pune-based Serum Institute, credited with affordable and innovative therapies like pneumonia and dengue monoclonal vaccines, plans to price the proposed Covid vaccine at around Rs 1,000 per dose in India. Serum is one of the global manufacturers that is putting its weight behind an Oxford University-led consortium, which announced the start of human clinical trials on April 23 and is one of the first such projects to get underway globally. “We hope to start trials in India from May, with a few hundred patients, and expect to roll out the vaccine by September–October, if the trials are successful. We are planning to make the vaccine available at an affordable price of around Rs 1,000 in India, which will take into account costs (for us),” Serum Institute CEO and promoter Adar Poonawalla told TOI. The pricing in India, he said, is expected to be substantially lower than the global one as in the case of other vaccines like MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) which are available at over 10 times the India price in countries like the UK. “We are not waiting for the trials to get over in September in the UK, and then start production here. The decision — at our own risk and cost — has been solely taken to get a jump-start on manufacturing, to have enough doses available, if the clinical trials prove successful. We aim to manufacture four to five million doses per month for the first six months, following which, we might scale up to 10 million doses per month, based on the success of trials. We are looking to build it up to 20-40 million doses by September-October. If successful, we will make the product available in as many countries as possible including India,” he stated. The vaccine will be made at Serum’s existing facility in Pune. For this, it will be stopping the production of other vaccines, as its new plant, with an investment of about Rs 3,000 crore, will take a couple of years to come up. “We would have spent around $150 million, directly and indirectly, in this project. We hope the government will partner (with us) by stock-piling the vaccine. It will help us recover the cost,” Poonawalla said. Elaborating, he said that besides the capex of around $60 million on the new plant, there is also the lost opportunity cost of around $60 million per annum (on account of stopping production of other vaccines), cost of clinical trials, and production of the Covid vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-pune-co-plans-to-start-vaccine-production-next-month/articleshow/75396697.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 27, 2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi cases rise nearly 3-fold from last week’s average||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections in Delhi showed a major surge on Sunday, when the city reported 293 fresh cases after more than 10 days of relatively low figures, even as the worst-hit state, Maharashtra, registered a nearly 50% fall in new cases from Saturday’s record high numbers. This was Delhi’s second-highest count of fresh cases in a single day (after 356 on April 13) and nearly three times higher than the average number of daily cases in the past week, which was 105. More worryingly, while the earlier spike was caused by the outbreak linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregations, the fresh surge shows a sudden rise in local cases in the fifth week of lockdown. Maharashtra recorded 440 new cases, a major decline from 811 on Saturday, although Mumbai’s count remained high at 358 cases and 12 deaths. The national death on Sunday was 53, the second highest so far after 54 the previous day. At least 17 healthcare staffers were among those found positive for the virus in Delhi. “Six doctors, 11 nurses and at least two other staff tested positive for Covid-19 at Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini in northwest Delhi,” authorities said, adding that hospitals had become a major hotspot for Covid-19 transmission in the state. With this, India’s total Covid-19 count has reached 27,862. On the brighter side, the number of persons who have recovered from the disease in the country has now touched 6,105. This means that nearly 22% of coronavirus patients have now recovered. Gujarat continues to report a high number of daily cases, 230 on Sunday. The western state also recorded the second highest death count on Sunday with 18 more people succumbing to the virus. Maharashtra had the highest deaths at 19. Gujarat’s total death toll stands at 151, second to only Maharashtra, which has seen 342 deaths so far. All 18 deaths in Gujarat on Sunday were recorded from Ahmedabad, authorities said. “Of these, eight were caused primarily due to the Covid-19 infection whereas in 10 other cases, co-morbidity and high-risk factors were found to be responsible,” said Jayanti Ravi, Gujarat’s principal secretary (health & family welfare) said. In Maharashtra, Mumbai continues to be the worst affected. It recorded 358 new cases, 81% of new cases reported in the state, on Sunday and 12 deaths. Madhya Pradesh, which is another infection hotspot, crossed two grim Covid-19 milestones on Sunday – the 2,000th case and 100th death. With 145 new cases registered on Sunday, the state’s corona count reached 2,090, with Indore (1,176) accounting for 56% of it. Indore also had the bulk of Sunday’s new cases (91). MP has recorded a jump of 1,152 cases since April 15 – an average of over 100 a day. Uttar Pradesh recorded 81 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, pushing its overall tally to 1,877. The state also recorded three deaths and record discharge of 66 persons taking the total in the two categories to 30 and 327, respectively. Jharkhand recorded 15 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the biggest single-day spike in cases since the state recorded its first coronavirus case on March 31. The total state tally now stands at 82, of which 67 are active cases while 13 have recovered and two died during treatment. The rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in Bihar continued on Sunday with 23 more people testing positive for the virus. A total of 274 positive cases have been reported in the state so far. However, 56 patients, including 11 on Sunday, have been discharged from hospitals after treatment. But 216 cases still remained active in the state. Two patients died. Andhra Pradesh reported 81 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,097. Meanwhile, Telangana became the ninth state in India to breach the 1,000-mark for Covid-19 cases, 57 days after it announced the first coronavirus patient, after a software engineer tested positive. Odisha recorded three new positive cases taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 103.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-cases-rise-nearly-3-fold-from-last-weeks-average/articleshow/75396986.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Police, KMC back lockdown extension in micro-clusters||KOLKATA: The city police, KMC and the health department are working on a plan to continue with the dynamic containment model in all micro-clusters where Covid cases are reported for a fortnight more, even if lockdown norms are eased in non-affected zones. A central report on the district-wise prevalence of Covid cases in Bengal indicates that 47% of cases are from Kolkata. In addition to this, Kolkata, Howrah and North 24 Parganas account for 78.8% of the total Covid cases in Bengal, the Union health ministry data indicated. Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha has already indicated greater containment thrust in these three zones, which are throwing up more cases due to increased mobility and population density. Sources indicated that the state is also weighing in this plan for a fortnight-long containment strategy in these micro-clusters. “The spread of the containment zones will depend on the number of positive cases being reported and the possible spread,” an officer said. Police sources said lockdown measures across several containment zones were already showing the desired results. “Both Mudiali and Chetla Haat Road in the Chetla-Alipore belt had reported cases. The lockdown was implemented strictly here and people cooperated. There has been no fresh case in either of these zones for more than 10 days,” an officer said. “In north and central Kolkata, strict containment measures have been taken depending on fresh cases being reported across Madan Mohan Burman Street, Pathuriaghata, Armenian Street, Burtolla, Beniatola, PK Tagore Street, Hari Ghosh Street and Mondal Street — all lying between Posta and Jorabagan. And in the past three days, no new case has been reported,” the officer added. According to sources, Kolkata now has nearly 150 containment zones, Howrah has 60, North 24 Parganas has 40 and East Midnapore has five containment zones. These four districts fall within the Red Zone. Sources said there has been no report of new positive cases or suspects in nearly 10% of the containment zones. KMC officers said longer containment was necessary to stop the spread of the disease to new zones. Fifty new containment zones have been created in Kolkata in the past 10 days in places where cases have been reported. A KMC team is also keeping a close watch on some areas in the south which have so far remained safe from the virus attack.  “We are keeping vigil on some areas which have not been touched by the virus. We can’t let people from these areas get infected,” said a KMC official. Sources indicated the limited relaxations in the non-affected zones will include opening of shops, but salon, pubs, liquor shops, tea stalls, shopping malls and cinema halls will remain closed. Offices and factories may open, but they will have to work with a skeletal staff of 15% to 20% and in rotation. Public transport will not be allowed and local markets will have to follow strict social distancing and disinfection protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-kmc-back-lockdown-extension-in-micro-clusters/articleshow/75396474.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Now, focus on wholesale hubs at Posta, Koley markets||KOLKATA: After curtailing business hours of retail markets last week to prevent people from crowding, the administration has turned its focus on the two biggest wholesale hubs of essential commodities in the heart of the city — Posta and Koley markets. Traders at both places have welcomed the move, but, with social distancing restrictions impacting the supply chain, they also raised concerns over supply of vegetables and other staples. In south Kolkata, too, some wholesale markets have been shut while others have staggered timings, pushing up the prices of some vegetables. Crowded markets have emerged as a problem point for the administration, but shutting them down will disrupt the supply chain of essential commodities. According to cops, business hours in wholesale markets cannot be regulated as traders from different retail markets visit them early in the morning or in the evening after they finish work. Posta and Koley markets attract thousands from different parts of the state every day. The government cannot shut them down since they deal in essential commodities, but the crowds were defeating the purpose of a lockdown. For the past two days, cops have been meeting with the traders in both markets to discuss how to decongest the place, make masks mandatory, get individual traders to implement social distancing in their establishments and regulate the loading and unloading of trucks at night. From Wednesday, police have been deployed outside both places to check if social distancing is being followed and to penalize those not wearing masks. The merchants’ associations of both markets have assured cops of all help and have held meetings with the traders. Running business in Posta is trickier because it falls in the middle of a containment zone from where several Covid-19 cases have been reported in the past few days. “From the traders to labourers to drivers, everybody will have to wear masks when they are in the market. This has been conveyed to all our members. We are also distributing masks among the labourers and drivers in the market. Additionally, only one customer at a time will be allowed inside the shops,” said said Biswanath Agarwal, secretary of the Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association. At Koley Market in Sealdah, cops prosecuted several people on Wednesday evening for not wearing masks. “We have removed the vendors outside the market to decongest the place. The association will have to ensure that traders don’t violate social distancing norms,” said an officer. Several traders have requested cops to make arrangements for unloading of trucks late in the night when the entire area gets congested and social distancing norms are not followed. Of the three wholesale markets in Amtala, only one is operative, and one of the two wholesale markets in Keorapukur is closed. The wholesale market at Baghajatin is shut while the one at Bakeswar is operational twice a week. The wholesale market at Jinjira Bazar is now open from 8am to 11am. “However, transportation, loading and unloading has remained a major issue in bringing vegetables to local markets,” said Amiya Kashyapai, secretary, Barisha Vegetable Vendors’ Association. The curbs, traders said, have become counter-productive in some places with retailers crowding the open markets at the same time. “The number of retailers at the vegetable wholesale markets has increased due to the lockdown since that is the only means of earning left for unemployed daily wagers at present,” said Kamal Dey, president, West Bengal Vendors’ Association and member of the market taskforce constituted by the Bengal government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-focus-on-wholesale-hubs-at-posta-koley-mkts/articleshow/75396481.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Cops, civic body seal off south Duttabad||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar civic authorities and police are on an overdrive to restrict movement and conduct massive sanitizing in Duttabad, which falls under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area. One person was hospitalized from the zone with Covid-19 symptoms. Cops on Sunday sealed the entire south Duttabad neighborhood after one person from the zone was hospitalized with suspected Covid-19 symptoms. “All the shops and roads in the area have been closed and a total lockdown has been implemented. No one can roam around, enter or leave the neighborhood unless it is of extreme medical emergency,” said an officer of Bidhannagar south police station. Duttabad is situated bordering Salt Lake off EM Bypass with about 10,200 houses, which are mostly single-storied and have asbestos roofs. It is also a densely populated and predominantly slum area. Several Salt Lake households depend on people coming from Duttabad to do their daily household chores. Cops had already sealed an entry-exit point of Salt Lake crossing Duttabad on Saturday after they received complaints that a number of small shops, including the ones selling cigarettes and gutkhas, remained open for weeks. From Sunday morning, cops went around and asked people to follow the lockdown protocols. By noon, they also put up nakas on the other entry-exit points of Duttabad. Locals said there was a scare in the area a few weeks back when a woman, who worked as a help in Salt Lake, was sent to quarantine since the owner of the house where she worked, was hospitalized with Covid-19 symptoms. Nirmal Dutta, councilor of ward 38, under which a large part of Duttabad falls, said they have formed a ward committee and have taken up initiatives to hand over food and essentials to the residents. Dutta and his ward members have already intensified their sanitization drive across Duttabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-civic-body-seal-off-south-duttabad/articleshow/75396486.cms||Suman Chakraborti
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata takes e-way to buy gold on Akshay Tritiya||KOLKATA: Despite jewellery shops remaining closed during lockdown, gold market in city witnessed a surge in online bookings on Akshay Tritiya. Gold buying in Kolkata, although a lot muted compared to other years, continued online and city jewellers were swamped with inquiries. Almost 10,000 jewellers in and around Kolkata kept their shops closed on Akshay Tritiya — for the first time in past several decades. But they continued to receive client requests for online bookings or advance bookings, mainly for gold coins and bars. “None of the jewellers opened shop. But we are getting enquiries over phone. Some buyers decided to go online/advance booking of gold during Akshay Tritiya,” said Rupak Saha, zonal member of Gem and Jewellery Trade Council of India. The rallying gold price during the lockdown period has further strengthened buyer’s confidence in the yellow metal, which has appreciated by around 40% in past one year. On Sunday, 10-gram gold in Kolkata was priced between Rs 45,500-46,000, jewellers said. “The choppy markets have led investors to buying gold although economy is looking towards a grim uncertainty,” said Anarghya Uttiya Chowdury, director of Anjali Jewellers. In past couple of days, jewellers came with options for selling gold online. Senco Gold and Diamonds has witnessed 10-15% sales during the current week compared to last year. “We offered Rs 400 off on each gram of gold. Later, at the time of delivery if the price falls, we will pass that on to customers,” said Suvankar Sen, executive director the jewellery house. Most customers chose to buy or book coins and bars of gold. Some, who did choose jewellery from catalogues, paid partial amount to book items, which they would check out later at the store physically before buying, Jewellers said. Brands like Sawansukha used social media and entered the online sales platform only last evening keeping Akshay Tritiya in mind. But concerns were there about the pricing of gold, which baffled customers. “There is no physical gold in the market. The price is based on futures trading market. On a normal day price of physical gold is higher by Rs 2,000-2,200 (for 10gm),” said Bablu Dey of Swarnashilpo Banchao Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-takes-e-way-to-buy-gold-on-akshay-tritiya/articleshow/75396496.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Terrace gatherings in busy localities on cop radar||KOLKATA: The police have started urging residents of north and central Kolkata not to assemble on their terraces amid the lockdown restrictions after drone images revealed a large number of people mingling on the roofs of their apartment buildings. A lot of people in the containment zones of Burrabazar, Posta, Pathuriaghata, Muktarambabu Street, Bowbazar, College Street, CR Avenue and MG Road have started hanging out on their sprawling terraces due to stricter lockdown restrictions in their neighbourhoods. While many were found walking and exercising, others were seen playing board games sitting in close proximity. “Around 10 days ago, we were using drones to inspect lockdown compliance in various neighbourhoods when our personnel discovered that a lot of people were assembling on their terraces for evening walks and board games. Some were even found praying. We were not anticipating anything like this,” said an officer. For the past few days, cops have been going around these neighbourhoods to urge people to stay inside their homes instead of crowding their terraces. They have also requested people not to hold iftar gettogethers or offer prayers on the terrace during the month of Ramzan. Most buildings in central and north Kolkata are huge with sprawling terraces, which are spaces of community engagement. Residents in these neighbourhoods are known to assemble on their terraces for various activities — from fitness to cultural to leisure. Many residents TOI spoke to said that going to their terraces for some fresh air was the high point of their day after staying in lockdown for almost five weeks. “We are respecting the lockdown restrictions and not stepping out at all, but it is taking a toll on our mental and physical health. Visiting the terrace sometimes and meeting our neighbours or just speaking to somebody from a building across the lane helps a lot,” said Anil Pandey, a resident of Shiv Thakur Lane in Burrabazar. In several cities in Gujarat and Maharashtra, cops are using drones to keep tabs on rooftop mingling. In Kolkata, too, officers of Burrabazar, Posta, Jorasanko and Bowbazar police stations are trying to chalk out a strategy to prevent people from assembling on terraces. “We have started requesting people over the public address system. If the situation does not improve, we may have to take stricter actions because it defeats the purpose of the lockdown. In many buildings, there are more than 200 residents. Even if one-fourth of those start assembling on terraces, it may spell disaster,” said an officer of Posta police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/terrace-gatherings-in-busy-localities-on-cop-radar/articleshow/75396498.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana crosses 1,000 positive Covid-19 cases, strict lockdown to continue||HYDERABAD: Fifty-seven days after it reported the first coronavirus case, Telangana on Sunday became the ninth state in India to breach the 1000 mark for Covid-19 cases. On Sunday as the state reported 11 new positive cases, taking the tally to 1001, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao urged people to strictly follow lockdown guidelines for some more time to help tide over the crisis. The CM said that a clarity on the future course of action in Telangana would emerge after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with CMs on Monday. The state government will be meeting again on May 5 to decide whether to lift the lockdown on May 8 or continue for a few more weeks. “To guess anything about coronavirus is tricky as it is very unpredictable and there are many theories doing the rounds about the spread. So people must support the government’s efforts,” TRS working president KT Rama Rao also appealed. It was on March 1 that the state recorded its first case after a software engineer from Mahendra Hills who had returned from Bengaluru had tested positive for the virus, followed by several others within a span of days from various parts of the city. The total number of deaths stand at 25 and with another nine people recovering on Sunday, the total number of recovered people rose to 316. There are 660 people still under treatment in three hospitals, including Gandhi Hospital, which has taken 90% of the load. Analysis of the Covid-19 positive cases in Telangana by experts have revealed that 45% of patients are between 20 and 40 years. Twenty-five per cent is in the 20-30 age group, while children below five are at five per cent and children between 6 and10 years are at four per cent. Another 15% per cent are in the age group of 40-50 and 13% of patients are in the 51-60 age group. Med experts baffled as only 9% patients above 60 yrsOnly 9% of the patients are above 60 years, which has left many experts baffled as in countries suchas China and Italy it was the elderly who were primarily affected by the virus. While there have been a few cases such as that of a Suryapet woman from a pharmacy and a tribal girl from Adilabad contracting the virus from unknown sources, the state government has ruled out community spread. “Before community transmission, there is an extensive local transmission stage. In a few areas, it is this stage that is visible,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-crosses-1000-positive-covid-19-cases-strict-lockdown-to-continue/articleshow/75397613.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||With rations remaining elusive, labourers unsure of next meal in Karnataka||BENGALURU: “Have you brought any food for us?” That’s the question which greets anyone stepping into a migrant labourers’ colony near Nayandahalli junction on Mysuru Road. About 200 workers living in this colony are unaware of the government’s helpline for migrant labourers and the authorities’ delay in reaching out to them has left them to battle hunger on their own. TOI visited multiple migrant labourers’ camps to check if the affected are getting rations and food and found that in several places no official help had reached. There are about 200 migrant labourers, mostly from West Bengal and Bihar, living near Nayandahalli junction and they worked for a construction company. These labourers are getting meals twice a day due to some locals. But they are requesting for dry rations so that they can tide over many days. “I took a loan of Rs 8,000 and came here. I was expecting my salary in the first week of April but the lockdown was announced. For a few days, people from my place, who live here, provided food. But soon they too ran out of rations. Local Byatarayanapura police, with help of volunteers, are providing us cooked food, but we are always anxious about our next meal,” says Imtiyaz Ahmed, 22, from Uttar Pradesh. Subhash Yadav from Bihar says he was earning Rs 13,000 every month. “Every month I send Rs 10,000 to my parents and wife. Now, I don’t have much money for my survival and haven’t even asked them if they are in need of it. Food and groceries have become very costly,” he said. Another labourers’ camp in Buddhanagar near Electronics City houses over 500 people. Vinay, who is from Madhya Pradesh and lives in Buddhanagar camp, said with help from locals, he and some others called the migrant labourers’ helpline only to be told that they would verify and get back. “After two days, when we followed up, they said that they were still verifying,” he said. Reena Chowdhury, a social worker, said, “I personally contacted the labour department helpline on the need to provide food for migrant labourers. The department spent nearly three days verifying the request. There seems to be no sense of urgency. When people are starving, the on-ground response needs to be much more effective.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-rations-remaining-elusive-labourers-unsure-of-next-meal-in-karnataka/articleshow/75397605.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Doctor chooses patients over his own wedding||BENGALURU: Had all been well, orthopedician Dr Hari Charan L would have tied the knot in the second week of May. But he deferred the special occasion and decided to continue working in the Covid-19 ward at Victoria Hospital instead. The doctor’s selfless act has earned him appreciation from his peers, patients and policymakers, especially at a time when unscrupulous elements are mounting attacks on healthcare professionals, who are toiling to contain the spread of coronavirus. Dr Hari Charan, who took a break on April 24, will now be on a 14-day quarantine, the time when he was to be busy with his wedding preparations. His fiancé, a postgraduate student in anaesthesia at a private medical college in Bengaluru supports his views. She is also working in the Covid-19 ward of her medical college. Dr Hari Charan (in pic) said he had never thought he would get to work for patients with respiratory infection. “The emergency situation changed it all. I was posted in the ‘orange zone’ at the trauma care centre for 14 days. I will be tested for Covid-19 on the 13th day of my quarantine period. The government has provided accommodation for doctors at a hotel. The next posting will be decided only after the test,” he said. “I told my seniors to allow me some time to convince my parents. Initially, my family wasn’t willing to send me to work, given the kind of infection we are dealing with. They wanted me to quit my job and stay at home. I spoke to them and it worked,” said Dr Hari Charan. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-doctor-chooses-patients-over-his-own-wedding/articleshow/75397590.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Alert in Yadadri as trucker from Haryana, 58 more under lens||HYDERABAD: After a contact of a truck driver who transported gunny bags to the city from Haryana tested positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan, the driver and his assistant have been sent to a quarantine facility at Adibhatla in Ranga Reddy. Another 58 people from Yadadri-Bhongir district, including 13 workers who unloaded the gunny bags and their immediate contacts, are also in home quarantine. Till date, there have been no Covid-19 cases in Yadadri-Bhongir district. The truck from Haryana arrived around noon on Saturday at Valigonda market and 13 workers from neighbouring villages unloaded it. The truck driver and cleaner from Rajasthan then drove to Auto Nagar near Hayathnagar and waited for another load to return to Haryana or Rajasthan. “Around 5 pm, the truck driver received a phone call from health authorities in Rajasthan. He was informed that a villager who had travelled in his truck five days ago from Haryana to Rajasthan, had tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday,” a Rachakonda police officer said. Primary contacts also quarantinedThe Rajasthan authorities asked the driver and the cleaner to immediately approach local authorities and inform them about the development,” the police officer added. The driver and the cleaner approached Hayathanagr police and with the help of health and municipal officials in the area, they were soon shifted to a quarantine facility at Adibhatla. “On Sunday, we have identified 13 workers who unloaded the gunny bags and 45 of their immediate contacts, including family members from 15 villages in the district, have been placed under home quarantine,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/alert-in-yadadri-as-trucker-from-haryana-58-more-under-lens/articleshow/75397633.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Truck ferrying 68 from Madhya Pradesh intercepted in Bathinda||BATHINDA: Bathinda police on Sunday intercepted a truck carrying 68 persons, who were coming from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, to drop them off in various districts of Punjab. Those travelling in the truck were combine harvester operators and helpers stuck there for over a month due to nationwide lockdown. The driver has been arrested for violating the lockdown whereas those travelling in the truck have been sent to their home districts of Moga, Ludhiana, Amritsar and Tarn Taran in Punjab. How truck covered 600 km despite lockdown, police to probePolice came to know about the truck from some locals who saw the driver and his passengers fighting and intervened. Apparently, there was an altercation after the truck driver tried to drop some persons from Ludhiana on the outskirts of Bathinda on the Bathinda-Goniana road. One of the migrant workers told police that they had paid Rs 2,500 each to the truck driver, “We all work on combine harvesters and were stuck in MP. So, we together hired the truck to reach our places. The driver said he had the requisite pass to take them toPunjab and nobody stopped us on the way. However, once in Bathinda, the driver asked some persons to alight even though he had promised to drop everyone in their respective districts.” Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said they arranged vehicles to send the travellers to their respective districts, so that they could be sent in quarantine there. SSP Nanak Singh said, “A case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and under provisions of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the driver and owner of the truck. The driver has been taken into custody.” Police are also investigating how the truck carrying such a large number of people managed to reach Bathinda, nearly 600km from Gwalior, without being stopped on the way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/truck-ferrying-68-from-madhya-pradesh-intercepted-in-bathinda/articleshow/75397626.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Chenchus in Amrabad gallop back in time as horses turn saviours to get food home||HYDERABAD: Imagine getting sucked into a wormhole and tele-transported into a bygone era when humans depended on horses to carry people and ferry goods. With authorities suspending movement inside Telangana’s Amrabad tiger reserve to stop the spread of coronavirus among Chenchus, one of India’s most vulnerable tribes, they have in turn fallen back on horses to transport essentials as neither NGOs nor government officials are able to visit deep into forests to distribute ration. The horses were provided by the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) a few years ago to the tribals and now the inhabitants of Eerlapenta village of Lingala mandal are using 10-12 horses to ferry men and goods. Nearly 30 families residing in the tribal village are now coming out of the forest twice a week to collect essentials from the grameena cooperative cooperation (GCC) and taking them back on horseback to their hamlets some 20 km away. “The Chenchu tribe that resides in Eerlapenta have no other option but to travel on their horses to collect rice and other essentials items supplied by the state government,” said Chigurla Mallikarjun, primary contact of the Chenchus in Sarlapally, a hamlet located about 10 kilometers from Eerlapenta. “The Chenchus of this village go all the way to the GCC warehouse located in Appapur to collect rice which they eat mostly with the fish they catch from Krishna that flows along their village,” said Mallikarjun. ‘Our children join us when we go to collect forest produce, they learn to swim & fish’When not fishing or travelling to collect rice from the GCC warehouse, they continue to collect forest produce such as mahua (ippa) flowers, tendu (beedi), madipi ginjalu (seeds of sal tree), nannari root etc so that they can sell them in the weekly markets once the lockdown ends in May. “Our children come along with us when we go to collect forest produce or fishing. They learn how to swim, fish and help us in collecting forest produce,” said Chenchu Balaiah, a resident of Eerlapenta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chenchus-in-amrabad-gallop-back-in-time-as-horses-turn-saviours-to-get-food-home/articleshow/75397644.cms||Moulika.KV
April 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Shots fired, Mohali cops nab 4 gangsters from Panchkula||By: Piyush Sarna MOHALI/PANCHKULA: Acting on a tip-off, Mohali police have nabbed four gangsters after a raid was conducted at their hideout location in Panchkula. All the four accused have been identified as Harsimran alias Simu, Gurcharan alias Guna, Gurpreet and Dhruv Gupta. According to the police officials, a team of 11 cops of the Mohali police reached Panchkula’s Billa village around 6am after informing the Panchkula police. “We got a tip-off on Saturday evening and then planned accordingly to nab the gangsters. We went to the spot and smashed the door. Harsimran immediately opened fire at us. But, it didn’t harm us. They all then started running towards the rooftop to escape, but we had already sent our three officials for cover on the roof. When they reached the rooftop, Dhruv Gupta opened fire at the head constable, Rashpreet, on his left leg. We then had a tussle with them following which we took their weapons and then caught hold of them,” said Inspector Rajneesh Kumar, SHO, Phase VIII, who was wearing a bulletproof jacket. Head constable Rashpreet was rushed to the civil hospital in Panchkula from where he was referred to GMCH-32. “His condition is stable,” added the SHO. Sources revealed that Harsimran alias Simu, was linked with gangster Bhuppi Rana and was planning to make his own gang. “He is facing a case for attempt to murder in his hometown Naraingarh,” said sources. Gurcharan alias Guna is also wanted in an attempt to murder case in Naraingarh. According to sources, miscreants were living in a rented accommodation from the past one month since the beginning of the lockdown. “They were living in the house which was owned by one Johnny, who was already booked in a murder case in Haryana. They were getting out of money and were planning something else, but were stuck due to the lockdown,” added the source. A case under Sections 186, 188, 332, 353, 307, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Chandimandir police station. “They have been produced in the court and are under police remand for two days for further investigation,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shots-fired-mohali-cops-nab-4-gangsters-from-panchkula/articleshow/75397649.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chennai||Number of people discharged overtakes hospitalized in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu registered a welcome milestone in the fight against Covid-19 on Sunday when the number of people discharged from hospital crossed 1,000, leaving 865 under treatment. And, 13 districts have not recorded a fresh case for at least five days now. The Niligiris has not had anyone test positive for 15 days and Ranipet hasn’t reported a new case for the last 13 days. Krishnagiri retained its Covid-free record as the sample of a 43-year-old man tested negative. Pudukottai and Dharampuri have only one case each. Cases in Perambalur and Ariyalur have not exceeded single digits. Public health experts, however, warned that more testing was needed to conclude the rate of infection was slowing. Chennai, however, continued to report the most positive cases in the state, with 28 more on Sunday taking its tally to 523. The state as a whole recorded 64 more positive cases. A 42-year-old man, who died in an Otteri hospital on Saturday became victim number 24 in TN as his test results on Sunday were positive. He had been buried under Covid-19 protocol. “The numbers are large in Chennai because we are seeing clusters. Seven members of a family in Royapuram tested positive today,” said a senior health official. “One more person tested positive taking the count to 16 in a row of houses at Asirvathapuram in Pulianthope,” he said. With 60 patients discharged from various hospitals on Sunday, 1,020 people have been cured in TN. Five-member national team reviews TN’s preparednessThe five-member team from the national disaster management authority (NDMA) continued interactions to assess the state government’s preparedness to handle the pandemic. On Sunday, the multi-disciplinary team held a review with disaster management commissioner J Radhakrishnan and director of disaster management D Jaganathan. The Doctors Association for Society Equality, meanwhile, said interns and postgraduate students of the Madras Medical College working at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital were at risk of infection. “The college has closed down students’ hostel and asked all students to stay in quarantine. Only one PG student is running the admission for almost 24 hours. The management took swabs from all students but the results are kept confidential,” said Dr GR Ravindranth of the association. “Students and parents are anxious,” he said. Hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi later issued a press release stating one of the sanitary workers working at the PG men’s hostel tested positive. “The hostel has been vacated and all 102 inmates have been tested. Results of 100 students turned negative. We are awaiting results of other two samples,” she said. “Other PG students and interns are posted in different units. A third of the workforce is reserved as per protocol. This includes interns and PGs,” she said. So far 471 doctors and 363 nurses and paramedics have been tested for the viral infection, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/number-of-people-discharged-overtakes-hospitalized-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/75397648.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Can’t lift lockdown at once: Dushyant Chautala||CHANDIGARH: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday the nationwide lockdown implemented in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak will have to be lifted in a phased manner and added that no state is in favour of complete lifting of the curfew. He also ruled out allowing sale of liquor in the state before May 3. Dushyant said Haryana has done better arrangements as compared to the other states to deal with the pandemic, due to which the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state is better than the national average. As far as opening of liquor shops is concerned, he said, those would remain completely closed till May 3. In crisis, state governments should not only think about revenue but also cooperate with the central government, he said. He said in compliance with guidelines issued by Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), an initiative has been taken to bring industrial and economic activities in the state to normalcy in a phased manner, and online applications have been invited from industries to help them resume their operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cant-lift-lockdown-at-once-dushyant-chautala/articleshow/75397670.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||Bandra man serves khichdi to 300 every day||MUMBAI: Twice a day, once at noon and once at 7pm, Bandra resident Kirk Jacob waves to his eight-year-old daughter and wife and leaves to pick up boxes of piping hot khichdi. He doesn’t head home immediately afterwards though. Carrying three boxes that fill up the boot of his car, Jacob drives to Bandra station, stopping along the way, to make sure around 300 people are fed a hot meal before he and his family eat. This has been his routine for the last four weeks, and it beats ‘‘chilling at home and liking social media posts,” he says. But the self-effacing Jacob likes keeping his activity low-key. It is when close friends posted pictures of his helping hand, and he was contacted, did Jacob talk about how he wanted to make sure that those who could not move about or had no place to cook, had at least a ‘clean, warm, hardy meal’. The 40-something producer of advertising films and two friends had a video chat one day, after seeing migrants suffer. “We wanted to do something. People keep saying ‘ kuch karna hain’ (have to do something), we needed soldiers on the ground.” While two friends—and later a few more—chipped in with funds, Jacob called his cook who had left for his hometown before the lockdown. His cook offered the services of two of his brothers who were still in the city, and their catering kitchen in Khar. “I bought 20kg of rice, dal and other ingredients. With the khichdi, I set out to the station on the afternoon of March 30, as we didn’t know where to start,” he said. “Within 10 minutes, 125 meals had been handed out.” Jacob went back that night and the next day, for five days, before he saw that BMC was also giving food to people there. “I start at Carter Road, to Jogger’s Park, and then St Andrews. We decided on khichdi as it is universal and offers some sustenance,” he said. Near the police station, an officer pointed to a man and his dog, who hadn’t eaten in three days. In front of a bakery, Jacob finds an old man he thinks might have worked there. He ensures they are all fed. He makes sure people wait in a queue at safe distances. There are homeless people, labourers, auto drivers, children, and elderly from nearby shanties. “Some are stranded. Some have no gas, some are handicapped. Children are the most excited,” said Jacob. He says he can see the quiet gratitude—often there are no words needed or spoken. Another, at the St Andrews corner, broke into song to express his thanks. He told TOI that he may restructure the locations he visits, as the police had asked him to avoid Bandra station in view of the incident where hundreds of migrant workers had gathered there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-man-serves-khichdi-to-300-every-day/articleshow/75397680.cms||Swati Deshpande
April 27, 2020||Amritsar||Drone-based sanitisation begins in Mohali||MOHALI: In a novel initiative, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday launched drone-based sanitisation drive from Jagatpura village in Mohali on Sunday. The drive will soon be carried out in the entire state, officials said. After Jagatpura, aerial sanitisation was done in Green Enclave in Badmajra, Jujhar Nagar and Balongi areas of the district. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said sanitisation of densely-populated and slum areas is the top priority. Jagatpura had emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in the first week of April after surfacing of some cases there, but they all tested negative later. The health minister said the state government is making all efforts to combat Covid-19 and drones can play an important part in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/drone-based-sanitisation-begins-in-mohali/articleshow/75397700.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Drone-based sanitisation begins in Mohali||MOHALI: In a novel initiative, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday launched drone-based sanitisation drive from Jagatpura village in Mohali on Sunday. The drive will soon be carried out in the entire state, officials said. After Jagatpura, aerial sanitisation was done in Green Enclave in Badmajra, Jujhar Nagar and Balongi areas of the district. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said sanitisation of densely-populated and slum areas is the top priority. Jagatpura had emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in the first week of April after surfacing of some cases there, but they all tested negative later. The health minister said the state government is making all efforts to combat Covid-19 and drones can play an important part in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drone-based-sanitisation-begins-in-mohali/articleshow/75397695.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Drone-based sanitisation begins in Mohali||MOHALI: In a novel initiative, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday launched drone-based sanitisation drive from Jagatpura village in Mohali on Sunday. The drive will soon be carried out in the entire state, officials said. After Jagatpura, aerial sanitisation was done in Green Enclave in Badmajra, Jujhar Nagar and Balongi areas of the district. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said sanitisation of densely-populated and slum areas is the top priority. Jagatpura had emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in the first week of April after surfacing of some cases there, but they all tested negative later. The health minister said the state government is making all efforts to combat Covid-19 and drones can play an important part in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drone-based-sanitisation-begins-in-mohali/articleshow/75397699.cms||---
April 27, 2020||Thane||In Thane, coronavirus cases shift to congested areas||THANE: Seventeen new positive cases were reported from Thane on Sunday, taking the total tally of patients in the city to 226. The cases have seen a shift from upmarket localities to densely populated, middle-income enclaves, reveals a civic study. Data from TMC shows that densely populated Mumbra has reported the most cases at (42) till date, followed by the equally congested Lokmanya Nagar (31) and Uthalsar (30) cases. In comparison, Vartak Nagar ward that had the most cases till mid-April was restrained at 23 and Manpada-Majiwada had 22. Officials admitted that the cases were shifting towards dense localities and claimed contact transmission for the spread which was straining the administration and local netas to ensure total compliance to lockdown and prevent an outbreak in their areas. “Majority residents with an international travel history were identified and contained in time but few might have been infected and come in contact with others and spread the infection before being quarantined. We are working on a warfooting to trace high-risk contacts so that there is no further spread and ensuring lockdown in affected areas,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy civic commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/in-thane-coronavirus-cases-shift-to-congested-areas/articleshow/75397702.cms||Manoj Badgeri
April 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai, three districts in pan-India study to gauge community spread of Covid-19||MUMBAI: The city and three other districts in the state will be part of a pan-India seroprevalence study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to gauge the community spread of Covid-19. Samples from 10 randomly selected households from seven city wards will be collected on April 29 and 30 in the first phase. The study, across 85 districts from 25 states, will collect data from a mix of hotspots and less affected areas. Mumbai has been picked as a hotspot, while Beed, Parbhani and Nanded that have one positive case each, will represent less-affected regions. Sources said the surveillance will be carried out using rapid testing for which the kits are likely to arrive in a day or two. In Mumbai, hotspots under wards G-South, G- North, E, F-North, F-South and B are likely to be the sample collection sites. Around 40 samples will be collected from one ward from people above 18 years. “The results will have a bearing on the state’s decision on whether to continue with the lockdown, among other things,” said an official, adding that findings will also show if people have developed antibodies and present a picture of how big is the percentage of population that is exposed to the infection. The rapid testing kits will check for immunoglobulin M (IgM), the first antibody the body makes when it fights a new infection, and immunoglobulin G (IgG) that is found in the blood after repeated exposure. “While presence of IgM would mean the person has been recently infected, IgG would mean prolonged exposure,” said an expert. BMC has said the second round of the study will be carried out 15 days after the first phase. The next lot of samples will be taken two months later. The first round of tests will be crucial as it will help decide the course of action. “Besides throwing light on community transmission, such a study can also tell us about asymptomatic patients,” said Dr Sujata Baweja, head of microbiology, Sion hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-three-districts-in-pan-india-study-to-gauge-community-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/75397724.cms||Sumitra Debroy
