April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Single people make a beeline for quirky and bizarre online relationship courses in Bengaluru||Forced to remain indoors due to the ongoing lockdown, several people have taken up online courses to either upskill or follow a passion long forgotten. The result, has been a boom in online offerings varying from personal fitness training to music and theatre workshops, and skill development classes like gardening and cooking. Then there’s also the fraction of people who are keen on learning how to ace their relationship game before the lockdown ends. From getting over an ex to how to be relationship-ready before lockdown endsWhith more time on hand, a lot of the city’s singles are enrolling for courses in an effort to find a partner, at least after the lockdown. Content writer Nazia Javed* says, “I am in my late 30s. Evenings in Bengaluru were usually filled with activities with friends — be it watching a play, going to a concert or just chilling at a pub. Being alone at home during this lockdown has not been cool. It has made me realise why I should look for someone. I chose to try a course on getting over my ex, to begin with.” In the case of Ajay Krishnan*, who owns a travel start-up, friendships have been easy, but relationships have been a problem. “I find it hard to sustain a relationship, none have lasted beyond three months. With this time in hand, I decided to enroll in a course that promises to help people like me,” he reasons. ‘It’s all about introspection and growth’Priyanka Bharadwaj, who recently launched a course on learning to attract the right partner in 30 days, says, “These courses help people introspect, and, in a way, aid emotional growth. People are looking at investing time on themselves while they can. I think the lockdown has had a mixed impact on singles. While physical connection is important in dating, the lockdown actually has worked better for those who prefer to get to know someone before they meet. Participants have been finding creative ways to engage with their dates online.” (*Some names have been changed) Wanna change your relationship status? Courses promise to teach you these:  How to win your former lover back How to get over your ex How to impress on dating apps Essential oils for relationships Sun sign compatibility Relationship building after an affair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/single-people-make-a-beeline-for-quirky-and-bizarre-online-relationship-courses-in-bengaluru/articleshow/75413642.cms||Sunayana Suresh
April 28, 2020||Chandigarh||From ‘roohani dikkat’ to ‘meeting fiancee’, Chandigarh covidiots' funny excuses for curfew pass||CHANDIGARH: If 'request' calls from VIPs aren't enough in this pandemic and lockdown, the curfew e-pass office also has to deal with some covidiots whose excuses range from ‘roohani dikkat’ (being possessed) to ‘must meet fiancee’. The man who said he was possessed also said only his village ‘baba’ (witch doctor) in Uttar Pradesh could treat him. Asked why then his mother needed a pass, he said she too was bewitched. Whether the ghost was exorcised or not, the man was sure asked to disappear. A 27-year-old pass seeker, who must have seen the trick work in some romanctic movies, said he must travel all the way to Delhi to meet his fiancee. He said the curfew had delayed his marriage and he was desperate to see the girl once. The pass clerk dismissed the request with a curt reply: "I hate love stories." Another man who wanted the Delhi travel permit for a medical emergency almost got his way until the staff asked for hospital papers. He showed them an online note that read: "April Fool." Citing death case, a man from Uttar Pradesh tagged the body's photo with the application. No reason for doubt, except that seven more applicants had uploaded the same picture . The staff let them off with a warning. Their travel chances died with it. A businessman from one of the upscale sectors of Chandigarh applied for a pass for his mother and self, saying she had a dialysis due in a private hospital of Mohali. Two other sons of the woman had filed the same request. After verification, only one son and the mother received the pass. A senior UT official on the e-pass team said, "Of the 79,000 applications we received, we accepted only 10,200, only 300 of which remain valid now. The pass is one-time." Asked what action the office took against fraud applicants, he said, "We are too busy looking for genuine medical emergency cases." UT seek pass details from statesSince being declared a hotspot district, Chandigarh has asked Punjab, Haryana, the high court, and the municipal corporation for the details of all curfew passes they have issued. The MC issues the pass to essential service providers, the high court registrar and the states to their staff, while the Mohali and Panchkula district administrations to people who must travel withing the Tricity. UT administrator V P Singh Badnore has asked neighboring Mohali and Panchkula to follow the lockdown strictly. If people keep travelling for works and shopping, it will be difficult to to contain the infection. The procedureEvery request for curfew pass goes to the UT administration website. Along with particulars, the applicant must upload supportive documents. The applicant receives a message from the UT office that the details are being verified. After checking, the UT administration issues or rejects the e-pass and drops the applicant a message. The office is quick to issue a pass in case of medical emergency, cremation, last rites, and distribution of essential items. The facility was introduced on March 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/from-roohani-dikkat-to-meeting-fiancee-chandigarh-covidiots-funny-excuses-for-curfew-pass/articleshow/75416529.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
April 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Karmikara Sahayavani is lifeline for stranded Kannadigas outside Karnataka||MANGALURU: Hora Rajyagallali Dudiyuthiruva Karnataka Moolada Karmikara Sahayavanige Kare Madidakke Dhanayavada…. This recorded message greets one calling the helpline 080-22636800 that labour department launched for migrant labourers of Karnataka origin stranded outside on Monday. Launched by CM B S Yediyurappa in the presence of minister for labour Shivaram Hebbar, this helpline landed 250+ calls within 2 hours of its launch. Manned by 150 personnel working 24x7 in three shifts of 50 each, the helpline uses a software to categorise nature of requests. At the end of each shift, the data is culled out and passed on to senior IAS officer heading the labour department, who in turn route the requests to their peers to act on. Since the helpline is a call centre, one cannot expect an immediate solution, but every call will be acted on in utmost sincerity, a person manning the helpline told TOI. Mooted by minister for ports and fisheries and inland waterways Kota Shrinivas Poojari, the helpline is a touted as a contact point for labourers outside the state to tell their grievances to the government. Majority of the calls that the helpline received were from Pune and Mumbai and one of them was also from Delhi. A few calls that were requests for urgently required groceries was routed to the Anna Dasoha helpline, the call centre operator said. Exact import of the helpline will be known after 24-hours. Functioning from Karmika Bhavan, Poojari told TOI that Kannadigas are in a piquant situation in other neighbouring states as well as other parts of India. This dedicated help line will enable the government to know about their whereabouts and draw up plans to ensure their wellbeing. “We can bring their plight to attention of authorities concerned and provide them much needed relief,” Poojari said. P Mannivannan, labour secretary on this initiative said, “We have no numbers. That is why I started this helpline as per our minister's advice to know the spread and depth of the problems faced by the Karnataka labourers working outside Karnataka. In Goa itself we have more than 1.5 lakh Kannadigas." Poojari had initiated the idea of this helpline by writing a letter to the chief minister earlier last week and the same materialised on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karmikara-sahayavani-is-lifeline-for-stranded-kannadigas-outside-karnataka/articleshow/75416530.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
---||Business||Strategies For Malls To Engage Shoppers During Uncertain Times||Strategies for Malls to Engage Shoppers during uncertain timesThe offline retail landscape has never been a static one. But it has perhaps never been as subject to constantly shifting trends and events as it is now, especially with COVID-19 moving from the backdrop to a full-frontal assault on the industry. These unpredictable times are spurring retailers to learn, unlearn, and relearn what retail customer engagement should be in a world of instant, continuous connections. And malls will be part of these transformations.As more and more brands embrace direct-to-consumer initiatives thanks to the opportunities for personalized, just-in-time engagement, there is an urgent need for malls to redefine the consumer experience and create more compelling connections from offline to online, in order to stay relevant in these testing times.Curating the mall experienceMalls have certainly become far more interactive and immersive, with the addition of technology such as virtual reality, augmented reality, beacons, and more.All of these combines to give malls a unique advantage—the ability to curate its space, offerings, and interactions based on their consumer segments’ unique interests and purchase patterns. In the current scenario of reduced offline interactions, malls must consider moving towards an omnichannel approach to customer engagement.Towards this objective, it is important that malls integrate their data from all sources and channels to gather a holistic view of their consumers and identify opportunities to engage them in new experiences. They need to figure out when, where, how, and who to engage, both within and beyond their physical parameters. They need to invest in the right technology and innovative touchpoints, strategically guide consumers to the right experiences and expedite their ongoing shopper journeys, online or offline.Driving proactive, contextual, and targeted engagementTo continue to engage with the customer even in times of potentially prolonged uncertainty, malls need to tap into data related to their behavior, profiles, propensities, and more—in order to generate incentivized shopper traffic.Here are some tactics that malls can employ: Targeted “Hero” offers The days of cookie-cutter retail experiences are over, and the same goes for offers and product recommendations. Brands should harness audience insights over time to design hero offers, reward-based campaigns and target consumers with progressively more relevant offers to move them towards purchase. Leveraging AI for optimal engagement With the emergence of certain AI-powered solutions, malls will be able to derive the channel, time, and content propensities of their consumers over the course of interactions and campaigns across touchpoints.For example, for a particular set of target audience who is more active on Thursday mornings and on SMS, malls can optimize their campaigns by sending offers at the respective preferred time and channel. Moreover, with the power of AI, malls will be able to continuously refine such insights for their entire audience base to achieve even better results in the future. Tapping on consumer traffic insights The arrival of technology such as GPS, beacons, and NFC sensors has allowed malls to not only guide consumers but engage them in real-time based on their specific location and proximity. However, in times when malls are looking for ways to engage outside the store, past data from these touchpoints can serve to inform them of audience behavior. For example, if maximum walk-ins have been experienced over the last quarter on the first ten days of the month, malls can drive digital outreach around the same timeframe and expect better conversions. Unleashing the potential of social Social media presents unprecedented opportunities for brands to interact with existing consumers and reach new audiences. It is certainly important to invest in influencer marketing tactics and leverage platforms like Facebook and Instagram to deliver targeted ad campaigns and activate new audiences through look-alike targeting. Malls also need to strategize such communications in the context of their omnichannel marketing efforts.This means harnessing real-time audience insights on social to switch from paid channels to owned ones and refine the next steps in individual consumer journeys. Staying on the consumer’s radar Malls today cannot be satisfied with simply interacting with consumers, they need to stay on their consumers’ radar. They can harness attributes such as loyalty points to deliver content recommendations through the right channels to maintain brand presence, sustain consumer interests, and entice them to action with educational or entertaining content on relevant offerings.The future of consumer engagement for malls is real-time, individualized, and omnichannel. Every other industry is going through this momentous shift. The challenge is in adapting this approach to fit the constantly changing paradigm of realities. It is a transformation that demands being nimble and making significant investments on various types of resources but the rewards—continued relevance in a shifting retail landscape, optimal spend, increased engagement, and rising top-line growth—will be well worth it.To know more visit www.resulticks.com Media Contact: Manish Sharma, Chief Project Manager, 9818287188, manish.sharma@timesgroup.comDisclaimer: Content Produced by ET Edge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/strategies-for-malls-to-engage-shoppers-during-uncertain-times/articleshow/75417870.cms||---
April 28, 2020||India||Be ready to woo companies quitting China, PM Modi tells CMs||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while interacting with CMs on Monday, is learnt to have suggested that states should explore the possibility of attracting investments in view of the likelihood of many companies exiting from Chinese cities in the wake of the Covid-19 virus emerging from Wuhan. The PM suggested that states should be ready for such investments as India, with abundant manpower skill and an improved infrastructure, has the potential to become an alternative destination. “As you all know, several industries will be exploring options beyond China after the coronavirus crisis. We all should work on a comprehensive plan for possibility of investments in the states,” a source quoted Modi as telling the CMs. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe PM’s suggestion to the CMs to turn host to industries exploring options beyond China comes after his recent remarks that the country should become self-reliant to cope with the challenges like Covid-19 and marks a growing readiness to touch upon the Chinese links to the pandemic. While India, unlike US President Donald Trump and other global leaders, has refrained from using terms like “Wuhan virus” which have infuriated China and steered clear of WHO’s alleged subservience to Beijing, it has not been wary of touching up on the Chinese roots of the pandemic in public fora. Read AlsoCoronavirus: Centre, states wary of lifting curbs, graded easing on cardsThe sum of consultations PM Modi had with chief ministers on Monday, official sources said, was that most states wanted the lockdown to continue with some easing of curbs, depending on the situation in a particular area. Green zones may witness the piecemeal lifting of restrictions while toughThe government has also blocked the automatic route for FDI from nations which share land borders with India (read China), to which the neighbouring country had lodged objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/be-ready-to-woo-companies-quitting-china-pm-modi/articleshow/75418023.cms||---
April 28, 2020||India||‘Fake news’: ICMR trashes claim it overpaid for test kits||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research dismissed as “fake news” the charge that it had paid Rs 4,500 for Covid-19 test kits it sourced from China as a controversy of sorts erupted over alleged profiteering by suppliers of the device crucial for the fight against the pandemic. The ICMR also said it had paid no money for faulty kits procured from China. “This is fake news. Price range approved by ICMR is Rs 740-1,150 for RT-PCR and Rs 528-795 for rapid test. No test has been procured at Rs 4,500. Any Indian company wanting to supply at lower rates is welcome to contact ICMR or Ms Anu Nagar, JS Health Research (01123736222),” the ICMR tweeted. @Dr_Uditraj This is Fake News. Price range approved by ICMR is ₹740-1150 for RT-PCR and ₹528-795 for Rapid Test. No… https://t.co/1w9GGaFifF— ICMR (@ICMRDELHI) 1587959387000The response, unusually strong for a staid professional body, came after Congress’s Udit Raj put out a tweet levell ing the Rs 4,500-a-kit charge. The former MP based the allegation on another tweet alleging hefty profits being extracted by a Gujarat company even as he himself kept a safe distance from it. “This is being circulated on social media. It is difficult to ascertain the truth,” Raj had posted. Underlining that procurement decisions were made amid the cut-throat global scramble for the scarce test kits with various countries deploying “their full might, monetary and diplomatic, to acquire them”, the council said its first at tempt to procure rapid antibody kits did not elicit any response from the suppliers. However, in its second attempt — which got adequate response — it identified kits from two firms (Biomedemics and Wondfo), taking sensitivity and specificity into account. Both had the requisite international certifications, ICMR said. “For Wondfo, the evaluation committee got four bids and the corresponding quotes received were Rs 1,204, Rs 1,200, Rs 844 and Rs 600. Accordingly, the bid offer of Rs 600 was considered as L-1,” ICMR said in a statement. It said while it had tried to cut out the suppliers by trying to procure the kits directly from Wondfo in China through India’s consulate general, the effort came to naught because the Chinese firm refused to give any commitment with regard to logistics, insisted on 100% direct advance without offering any guarantee. Further, Wondfo refused to commit to timelines and quoted the rates in US dollars without any clause to factor in fluctuations in exchange rates, ICMR said. It was in this context that the council decided to go for Wondfo’s exclusive distributor in India for the kit, which quoted an all-inclusive price without any clause for advance, the body said. Emphasising that India needed to procure kits, it said, “Testing is one of the most crucial weapons to fight Covid-19 and ICMR is doing everything it can to ramp up testing. This requires procurement of kits and supplying them to states.” Watch Don't use China kits, return them back: ICMR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fake-news-icmr-trashes-claim-it-overpaid-for-test-kits/articleshow/75418138.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 28, 2020||Patna||5 more hospitals earmarked for tests||PATNA: As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to increase in Bihar, the health department is planning to start testing samples at five more hospitals in the state. Health department additional secretary Manoj Kumar said samples would also be tested at Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH)-Gaya, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH)-Bhagalpur, Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur Medical College and Hospital-Madhepura, Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences-Pawapuri and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH)-Patna. As of now, the Covid-19 samples are tested at Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS)-Patna, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences- Patna, Patna Medical College and Hospital, Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital and Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH)-Muzaffarpur. “So far, 18,000 people have been tested at these five centres. At least 1,200 to 1,500 people are tested in the state per day,” he said. Manoj added the department is also in the process of procuring automatic RNA machine for tests. “Once this machine becomes available, the manual testing through RNA extraction kit will be done away with. While it takes almost four hours to release reports of tests done through RNA extraction kit, the RNA machine will do the job in just two hours,” he said. Earlier on Sunday, chief minister Nitish Kumar had instructed the health department to ensure availability of ventilators, test kits, PPE kits, medicines and necessary equipment from all possible sources. “The state government will provide funds for all necessary items required for test and treatment of Covid-19 patients. There is no dearth of funds. The need of the hour is to increase the number of testing facilities in the state. The officials concerned should expedite contact tracing, sample collection and testing,” Nitish had said. There are three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state – NMCH-Patna, ANMMCH-Gaya and JLNMCH-Bhagalpur. There are 1,000 beds and 12 ventilators in JLNMCH, 544 beds and 18 ventilators in ANMCH and 800 beds and 20 ventilators in NMCH. Health minister Mangal Pandey said around 31,690 PPE kits, 4,20,795 ‘3-ply’ masks, 33,987 N-95 masks, 24,699 sanitizer bottles of 500ml each and 8,750 RNA extraction kits are available in the state. “We have placed orders for 10,000 more PPE kits. It is expected that the PPE kits will reach the state within a day or two,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-more-hospitals-earmarked-for-tests/articleshow/75414227.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 28, 2020||Mysuru||VTU asks colleges to appoint counsellors to help students||Mysuru: Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has instructed its affiliated colleges to open counselling centres to help students who might be feeling anxious and stressed out as all academic and placement activities have been disrupted due to lockdown. All colleges have been told to appoint counsellors who will closely monitor the mental wellbeing of students and be available to them to clear their doubts. A direction in this regard was issued by vice-chancellor Karisiddappa at a meeting with the principals of all engineering colleges through video conference. University registrar AS Deshpande and registrar (evaluation) Satish Annigeri also participated in the meeting. Over 3.5 lakh students are studying in 219 affiliated institutes of VTU, the state’s biggest university. “Students are confused due to Covid-19 situation . As they are at their homes and no friends around, there is a possibility that they are stressed out. We want the colleges to appoint expert counsellors who can help students to cope with challenges and stress,” Karisidddappa told TOI. “Many students pursing engineering course with educational loan. We don’t want any one to suffer from any kind of stress,” he added. Students have welcomed the move by the VTU. “The biggest question the final year students are facing is whether the companies that have chosen them in campus placement will honour their offer letters. Many things can’t be discussed with friends or parents. In such a situation counsellors will be very helpful,” said Rajath P, a final year student from an engineering college. Sulochana A , a career counsellor said, the VTU’s decision should be followed by the other universities and colleges also. “This is a testing time. Students need counsellors’ support to overcome their anxiety,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vtu-asks-colleges-to-appoint-counsellors-to-help-students/articleshow/75415179.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Patna||As trucks roll, ‘dhabas’ & repair shops open up||PATNA: Dhabas (roadside eateries) and vehicle repair shops dotting the state and national highways in Bihar have reopened following the state government’s permission adhering to the Centre’s decision to allow movement of goods through roadways. According to data available on the Union ministry of road transport and highways website, altogether 171 dhabas and vehicle repair shops in Bihar have got the nod to continue services amid lockdown. Of these 47 are on highways connecting Patna. The Union ministry has also created a page dedicated to information related to repair shops and dhabas across the state. Details, including name of the dhaba or repair shop, address, name of the owners and contact number are all available on the site. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said dhabas have been opened for the convenience of truck drivers ferrying the goods. “Tens of hundreds of drivers are involved in carrying essential goods via roadways and dhabas are extremely important for them as they do not have any other way of having a meal. These eateries are providing all facilities, including takeaway services for food and toilet facilities among others. Hygiene and social distancing norms have been issued to the dhaba-owners by the district administration,” said Agarwal, who is also the divisional commissioner of Patna. Patna DM Kumar Ravi has also issued a slew of directives for the dhabas to follow while resuming services. “Dhabas located on the highways at a distance of 10 kilometres from the city have only been directed to remain open,” he said. Dhaba owners are elated to resume work despite receiving almost 50% less customers. Nasib Sah, a dhaba owner near toll plaza in Didarganj, who resumed services on April 21, said, “I am receiving 25-30 customers on a daily basis, which is 50% less than what I used to receive before the lockdown was imposed but at least I am generating some income,” he said. Some dhaba owners, however, said they have shut their dhabas following heavy losses due to lack of customers. Rakesh Kumar, owner of a dhaba at NH 333, said he was forced to shut his dhaba again on Monday as he was receiving less than five customers every day. “Keeping the dhaba open means paying the workers, which is not possible for me right now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-trucks-roll-dhabas-repair-shops-open-up/articleshow/75414392.cms||Archi Rani
April 28, 2020||Patna||Tiger tracker makes VTR his home amid lockdown||PATNA: Even as many people in jobs are working from home owing to the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, the forest officers and guards are on their toes to prevent trespassers from entering the reserve area and keeping the animals safe. Mahesh Mahto (35), a tiger tracker in Shaktinala team posted at Bihar’s lone tiger reserve -- Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) — has not gone home ever since the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25. He, along with other 49 forest officials, are taking care of animals and stopping illegal movement of people to prevent poaching and possible spread of Covid-19. Mahto said on Monday that sighting of tigers in reserve area has increased because of no tourists nowadays. “We keep a track on the movement of tigers and other wild animals and their health. If anything goes wrong with any animal, we inform the range officer. VTR is home to a large number of wild animals, such as tigers, leopard and chital among others. Guarding them from poachers is our duty,” he said. “We get dry ration from the state government once a week. We cook ourselves and do our duty for more than eight hours per day and sleep in control room,” he added. With weak or no mobile phone network in the dense forests, internet and all kinds of entertainment are ruled out for these forest staff. Mahto said his wife Sona Devi and three kids -- Dharmendra (14), Sanu Kumari (8) and Dhanu Kumari (6) — are at home. “Most of the time, there is no network connectivity and it is impossible to make a video call. I talk to them over phone, when I go to the hilly areas. The villagers in my native place in Harnatar are very cooperative. I assure them that I would be back as soon as the lockdown is lifted,” he said. “Staying here in VTR is safe rather than going home and coming back again. In this way, I won’t get infected,” Mahto said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tiger-tracker-makes-vtr-his-home-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75414289.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 28, 2020||Surat||Fighting fit, Covid warrior doc wants to join duty in civil hospital||Surat: He returned home two days ago, battling the dreaded virus as a patient. Now, the doctor is rearing to go back to his duty at the Civil Hospital in Bharuch to fight his half-done battle with coronavirus. Dr Brijesh Narola, 28, a lone gynaecologist in the hospital has urged the authorities to allow him to join duty and serve patients requiring his services during lockdown. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 17 and after testing negative twice was discharged from the Jayaben Modi hospital on April 25. According to the protocol, a patient must remain under home quarantine for 14 days. However, Dr Narola, who has also offered to donate his plasma for the critical patients suffering from the infection, wants to return to his frontline duties in order to serve poor patients. Well-versed about the difficulties faced by the pregnant women during the lockdown, Dr Narola said, “I can’t wait for 14 days in home quarantine to get over. If a doctor remains in the house, who is going to treat the poor patients visiting the civil hospital! My wife is facing health issues as she is in the last days of her pregnancy. Being a gynaecologist, I give her advice on phone and suggest medicines. But the poor patients from rural areas have no other option but to visit the civil hospital.” Dr Narola, who had no symptoms of the virus, but attended to a pregnant security guard at the civil hospital on April 14. The security guard had tested positive for the virus on April 16. “I have dual purpose to rejoin duty. First is to regain confidence of my patients that I am fine and healthy and secondly to serve the poor patients, especially those from rural areas who require my services in the period of crisis,” he said. Dr Narola lives alone in Bharuch’s Zadeshwar area as in March, his wife, Sejal, had gone to her parental home in Surat’s Katargam area for her delivery which is due on May 15. “On an average about 15 patients visit the civil hospital during the lockdown. The hospital’s OPD was shut after seven staff members were tested positive for coronavirus. In the last few days, the hospital has been made operational and I am told that the patients are returning home in my absence.” A senior doctor at Civil hospital in Bharuch said on condition of anonymity: “We appreciate the spirit of the doctor, but we have to follow the protocols of home quarantine. Considering his appeal, we have sought permission from the higher authorities to get him back on duty as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fighting-fit-covid-warrior-doc-wants-to-join-duty-in-civil-hospital/articleshow/75416129.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Surat migrant workers start leaving for native today||Surat: “For last one month, I was desperately waiting for this day to move out of Surat and meet my family. Finally, we have been granted permission to travel to our home town in Uttar Pradesh in the private luxury bus,” says Ajit Singh, a migrant textile worker from Sachin, who is among 36 travelling to Siddharthnagar in Gaunda district in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. The district collector’s office has started issuing vehicle passes to the migrant workers who have arranged their own vehicles to travel to their home districts in other states. About four vehicle passes have been issued for Uttar Pradesh and Odisha states on Tuesday. Sarvesh Yadav, a migrant worker living in Pandesara, and hailing from Gaunda district in Uttar Pradesh said, “Though there is enough food to eat, but I was yearning to meet my daughters and wife. I can’t wait anymore to see their faces. We have been asked to board the bus on Tuesday morning, to reach Siddharthnagar on Wednesday afternoon.” Yadav added, “The lockdown is still there till May 3 and we will be reaching our home before that. We are ready to follow the quarantine rules in Uttar Pradesh before meeting our family members.” Official sources said that about 1,600 applications from the migrant workers have been uploaded on the district collector’s website and that they are waiting for clearance. The migrant workers will have to follow the quarantine rules in their home states. The vehicle pass is issued for the one-way travel and that the buses will have to return empty and report in the district collector’s office. A senior officer in the district administration said, “We are only issuing the vehicle pass and do not take the responsibility on whether they will be given entry into their home states or not. The first private bus carrying 36 migrant workers will leave from Surat’s Sachin on Tuesday morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-migrant-workers-start-leaving-for-native-today/articleshow/75416168.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Head constable of Limbayat police station tests positive||Surat: A head constable, Sanjay Patil (48) posted at the Limbayat police station tested positive for Covid-19 positive on Monday. Limbayat zone of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has been declared a red zone due to high number of cases being recorded on a daily basis. Patil, who was posted as police station officer in Limbayat police station recently, was earlier part of surveillance team and used to do patrolling duty. He is suspected to have come in contact with an SRP jawan who had tested positive recently. “Patil was very careful and took all precautions. After he developed fever, he went for check-up and tested positive,” said one of his colleagues. Limbayat police inspector V M Makwana said, “After the head constable tested positive, 34 cops were tested on Sunday for infection, but all turned out to be negative. Today 20 others have been tested and their results are awaited.” Meanwhile, samples of eight persons including police inspector from Salabatpura police station were collected on Sunday night after a murder accused, who was in their custody for five days, tested positive for the coronavirus. Chandkhan Pathan (22), a resident of Limbayat, was arrested on April 20 and was in custody of Salabatpura police station for Covid-19 test. Police were about to send him to Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ) when his report revealed he was infected with coronavirus. Pathan was admitted to New Civil Hospital (NCH). “We are yet to get the test report of the cops. Very few of them came in touch with Pathan, so there is no threat to other staff members of police station,” said M V Kikani, police inspector, Salabatpura police station. Besides Pathan, his brother Saddam, and his friend Mohammad Akhtar, were also arrested for their alleged involvement in a murder case. They were sent to LCJ on Sunday. But because Saddm had cold, he and Akhtar were sent to NCH on Monday by jail authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/head-constable-of-limbayat-police-station-tests-positive/articleshow/75416110.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Quarantine ends for 10K in Surat||Surat: As many as 10,452 people have successfully completed their mandatory 14-day quarantine period at home and other facilities in Surat city. Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that the completion of quarantine of so many people is a good sign and gives a ray of hope during this pandemic. “Now, 2,282 people are in quarantine,” he said. At Samras Hostel, the government quarantine centre, 195 Covid-19 patients joined hands to give a five-minute applause to the medical staff as a mark of gratitude for taking care of them. "This was a heart warming gesture from the patients. This gives positivity to everyone who is fighting against the virus,'' Pani said. Pani, meanwhile, added that the the red zones will be brought into orange zone only if not a single positive case is reported for 14 days. There are 26 red zones in the city at present. Also, if there are no positive case for another 14 days in the orange zone, they will be declared as green zones. Meanwhile, two more deaths were reported in the New Civil Hospital during the 24 hours ending Monday evening, taking the death toll to 19. Mumaddir Sidiqque, 45, a resident of Aman Apartment in Katargam’s Fulwadi localit, was admitted on April 25 but he developed severe respiratory problems. Another patient, Shamabi Shaik, 60, a resident of Azad Chowk in Limbayat had tested positive on April 25 and she succumbed due to the co-morbid conditions including diabetes and hypertension. Meanwhile, 30 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from the city on Monday, taking the tally of the positive cases to 543. Among those who tested positive is a 23-year-old man, Sanket Marathe, cashier at the counter of New Civil Hospital. He is resident of Gaurinagar in Pandesara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/quarantine-ends-for-10k-in-surat/articleshow/75416062.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Another 17-year-old Dang nurse tests +ve||Surat: A 17-year-old girl from Bhendmal village in Vaghai taluka of Dang district tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. With this the total positive cases in the district rose to two. After the fresh Covid-19 case detected in Neha Gavit, the district administration declared Bendamal village as a containment zone restricting movement of people in 7km periphery of the village. Health department has also carried out sanitisation in the village.“We have quarantined Gavit’s family members. We found that she was working as a nurse in a hospital in Mota Varachha area in Surat before returning to her native village on April 4. Her first report came negative for Covid-19. However, when she complained of cough again, she was tested for Covid-19 and this time her reports came positive,”said Dr N K Damor, collector, Dang. Earlier last week, a 19-year-old Preeti Kunvar, a Surat-returned nurse, had tested positive for Covid-19 in Dang district. Kunwar was a working in Kiran Hospital in Surat city before returning to her native village a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/another-17-year-old-dang-nurse-tests-ve/articleshow/75416073.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Business||Coming soon: New HR policy for WFH||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com Mumbai: After more than a month of national lockdown, both employers and employees have eased into a new way of working — work from home (WFH). With new learnings emerging, WFH, a concept that was otherwise shunned by many and adopted by few, has gained more acceptance and is expected to become the new norm even after restrictions are lifted. India Inc leaders and HR experts believe WFH is going to be the way forward for a large section of employees. This would, however, bring about a change in communication, employee-manager relations, ‘work time’ behaviour and would necessitate framing of new HR policies going forward. Nestle India CMD Suresh Narayanan said, “We will all be facing a new normal when this crisis is over. Ways of working are expected to evolve, as the long lockdown periods have dispelled many of the notions associated with effectiveness issues while working from home.” Even before the statewide and national restrictions were imposed on commutes, progressive organisations like Hindustan Unilever decided to move entire office-based staff onto a WFH platform, without providing a time frame as to when this would revert to the old way of working. RPG Enterprises chairman Harsh Goenka said, “Organisations are realising, with cost savings on real estate, there’s a need for hot-desking. The new work model will be vastly different from the old paradigm.” Goenka added that even after the lockdown is lifted, several employees may still have to work from home. “We may need to understand how seating arrangements would be made at offices. Even after restrictions are lifted, we would need to maintain social distancing in conference rooms, in canteens and everywhere in offices,” said Goenka. Randstad India MD & CEO Paul Dupuis said, “When people go back to work, it’s not going to be the same arrangement across organisations. Some could think of having alternate weekly shifts as a new work arrangement. There will also be employees who may have anxiety issues returning back to the office. Organisations may need to allow them to continue working from home.” While it appears to be certain that the post-Covid worklife would be different from what it used to be earlier, experts said this would require organisations to frame new HR policies to ensure a smooth shift to a new paradigm. Remote working is equal to a distant relation between an employee and an employer. That distance needs to be bridged by ‘over-communication’, said Shital Kakkar Mehra, a business etiquette and cross cultural coach, who believes WFH could lead to social isolation of employees. “We are used to greeting people at water coolers, coffee machines, elevators, parking lots, and have some quick chats. Social isolation could pose a mental health problem. After Covid, HR’s role will change dramatically in terms of engaging a workforce that is working remotely. They will have to ensure that teams stay connected through virtual lunch meets, for instance,” said Mehra. Accountability and ownership, too, will undergo a dramatic shift. Earlier, even if employees were at work, they may not have been as productive. They will now have to take up the ownership as productivity will be measured in black and white. Recently, an executive failed to show up for an internal digital meeting with team members. The reason: The executive had started taking siestas. Maintaining discipline is something most executives are talking about. “It’s important to maintain work hour timings and the duration in which you may be away at lunch or to attend to other personal tasks. However, each one may have their own peak productivity hour. Managers may need to respect that. Productivity may need to be redefined and based strictly on outcomes,” said Mehra. How will conflicts be resolved? Earlier, if an employee had an issue with his or her co-worker, they would walk across and talk it out. If unresolved, the matter would be escalated. “When you meet someone face-to-face, you can sense the body language. Those conversations may be difficult to execute digitally. One may now choose to either live with such conflicts or push it under a carpet, given the technological barriers. On the other hand, what we always wanted to say, but couldn’t muster the courage, may now be possible, hiding behind the tech barrier,” said Mehra. In an office environment, usually a manager could get called in by a senior for a feedback session. Stress on articulation was important, but so was body language. “There will be more transparency in a digitally connected world. Informal chats too would now be in a written form. The language may have to become more polished. It will also serve as written proof of what a manager asked of his team members,” said Mehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coming-soon-new-hr-policy-for-wfh/articleshow/75416617.cms||Namrata Singh
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||10 beds for transpersons reserved at Covid-19 hospital in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The transgender community’s long-standing demand for separate treatment facilities in hospitals has got a response during the coronavirus crisis — the health department has kept 10 beds reserved for the community members at the government’s Covid hospital, MR Bangur Hospital (MRBH). The move has come as a relief for the community, which often faces harassment while seeking medical care, especially in government-run health facilities. While four beds each have been earmarked in the male and female wards at the isolation facilities for severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) or suspected cases, one bed each has been kept separately in the two wards for treatment if anyone from the community tests positive to the infection. “When I was approached with the proposal, I spoke with the chief minister who asked to make the arrangements immediately,” minister of state for health and family welfare Chandrima Bhattacharya told TOI. The matter was taken up with the health department officials and MRBH authority, after which it was decided that transwoman patients will be admitted to the female ward while transman patients will be treated in the male ward. “Within three days of proposing the arrangement, Bhattacharya got things done. We wish such an arrangement is made in district hospitals, too,” said Ranjita Sinha of Association of Transgenders/Hijaras in Bengal (ATHB). “This will instil a sense of security in our community members when they seek treatment. Otherwise, they might sit at home being scared of visiting a hospital because of the bitter experiences. Even if one community member is affected and hesitates to come to a hospital, it will endanger the containment plans,” added Sinha. Sinha, a transwoman, has started disseminating information about the facility through NGOs and social networking groups. Currently, around 60,000 transgenders in the state are enrolled with community-based organizations, but the number, activists say, is higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-beds-for-transpersons-reserved-at-covid-hosp/articleshow/75416735.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 28, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Doctors ask Patnaites to take extra precautions||PATNA: A drop in temperature and rise in humidity along with a few spells of showers during the last couple of days have led to a surge in cases of viral infections among Patnaites. Health experts caution that people with cold, cough, asthma, flu and allergies are at a higher risk of Covid-19 infection. Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Rajeev Anand told this newspaper on Monday, “As of now, there is no evidence that a change in weather plays any role in spreading coronavirus. However, it survives for a longer time in cold and humid conditions.” He added, “A plunge in temperature has made people more vulnerable, especially those with a weaker immunity.” Urging Patnaites to “take extra precautions when the weather is cold”, physician Dr Diwakar Tejaswi pointed out, “Temperature variations have activated different types of viruses and led to a rise in various health ailments. The tissues of people with flu, cold, cough and influenza often get inflamed, making them more susceptible to the Covid-19 infection.” Meanwhile, weather experts have claimed that the prevailing system will prevail till Wednesday. “The prevailing weather system, which involves thunderstorm, lightning or even hailstorm during the peak summer season, is termed as Nor’Wester or ‘Kalbaishakhi’ and is expected to prevail over eastern parts of the state till April 29,” an official at the Patna Meteorological Centre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-ask-patnaites-to-take-extra-precautions/articleshow/75414347.cms||Archi Rani
April 28, 2020||Business||Coming soon: New HR policy for work from home||MUMBAI: After more than a month of national lockdown, both employers and employees have eased into a new way of working — work from home (WFH). With new learnings emerging, WFH, a concept that was otherwise shunned by many and adopted by few, has gained more acceptance and is expected to become the new norm even after restrictions are lifted. India Inc leaders and HR experts believe WFH is going to be the way forward for a large section of employees. This would, however, bring about a change in communication, employee-manager relations, ‘work time’ behaviour and would necessitate framing of new HR policies going forward. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesNestle India chairman and managing director Suresh Narayanan said, “We will all be facing a new normal when this crisis is over. Ways of working are expected to evolve, as the long lockdown periods have dispelled many of the notions associated with effectiveness issues while working from home.” Even before the statewide and national restrictions were imposed on commutes, progressive organisations like Hindustan Unilever decided to move entire office-based staff onto a WFH platform, without providing a time frame as to when this would revert to the old way of working. RPG Enterprises chairman Harsh Goenka said, “Organisations are realising, with cost savings on real estate, there’s a need for hot-desking. The new work model will be vastly different from the old paradigm.” Goenka added that even after the lockdown is lifted, several employees may still have to work from home. “We may need to understand how seating arrangements would be made at offices. Even after restrictions are lifted, we would need to maintain social distancing in conference rooms, in canteens and everywhere in offices,” said Goenka. Randstad India managing director & CEO Paul Dupuis said, “When people go back to work, it’s not going to be the same arrangement across organisations. Some could think of having alternate weekly shifts as a new work arrangement. There will also be employees who may have anxiety issues returning back to the office. Organisations may need to allow them to continue working from home.” While it appears to be certain that the post-Covid worklife would be different from what it used to be earlier, experts said this would require organisations to frame new HR policies to ensure a smooth shift to a new paradigm. Remote working is equal to a distant relation between an employee and an employer. That distance needs to be bridged by ‘over-communication’, said Shital Kakkar Mehra, a business etiquette and cross cultural coach, who believes WFH could lead to social isolation of employees. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified news“We are used to greeting people at water coolers, coffee machines, elevators, parking lots, and have some quick chats. Social isolation could pose a mental health problem. After Covid, HR’s role will change dramatically in terms of engaging a workforce that is working remotely. They will have to ensure that teams stay connected through virtual lunch meets, for instance,” said Mehra. Accountability and ownership, too, will undergo a dramatic shift. Earlier, even if employees were at work, they may not have been as productive. They will now have to take up the ownership as productivity will be measured in black and white. Recently, an executive failed to show up for an internal digital meeting with team members. The reason: The executive had started taking siestas. Maintaining discipline is something most executives are talking about. “It’s important to maintain work hour timings and the duration in which you may be away at lunch or to attend to other personal tasks. However, each one may have their own peak productivity hour. Managers may need to respect that. Productivity may need to be redefined and based strictly on outcomes,” said Mehra. How will conflicts be resolved? Earlier, if an employee had an issue with his or her co-worker, they would walk across and talk it out. If unresolved, the matter would be escalated. “When you meet someone face-to-face, you can sense the body language. Those conversations may be difficult to execute digitally. One may now choose to either live with such conflicts or push it under a carpet, given the technological barriers. On the other hand, what we always wanted to say, but couldn’t muster the courage, may now be possible, hiding behind the tech barrier,” said Mehra. In an office environment, usually a manager could get called in by a senior for a feedback session. Stress on articulation was important, but so was body language. “There will be more transparency in a digitally connected world. Informal chats too would now be in a written form. The language may have to become more polished. It will also serve as written proof of what a manager asked of his team members,” said Mehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coming-soon-new-hr-policy-for-wfh/articleshow/75416611.cms||Namrata Singh
April 28, 2020||Patna||Rising Covid cases in Jamalpur big challenge for Munger administration||PATNA: The rising number of coronavirus cases in Jamalpur subdivision is posing a big challenge for the Munger district administration. The highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state have been so far been reported from Munger. On Monday itself, 22 fresh cases were reported, taking the district tally to 103. However, one of them died earlier and 11 others recovered. Majority of the positive cases in Sadar Bazar area got infected from a 60-year-old man who had returned home after attending a religious congregation at Biharsharif in Nalanda district. That apart, it’s a double shocker for majority of the residents of Sadar Bazar, which is a stone’s throw from Jamalpur railway junction. “Earlier we bore the brunt of the ganglords and now the coronavirus,” said a retired railway employee, Vijoy Anand. Sadar Bazar used to hum with activities as a large number of people worked in the railway workshop at Jamalpur, hardly 8km from Munger district headquarters town. Markets remained open till late evening. It had become a centre of attraction for people belonging to affluent Marwari community. “But that was in late 90s. Poor law and order situation and spurt in criminal activities forced many affluent families either to shift their businesses to other states or sell of their properties due to fear of being eliminated,” recalled Dev Jyoti, who owns a medical store. He said almost a similar situation is prevailing in the locality these days. “We have virtually been pushed to the brink of starvation due to prolonged lockdown to check the Covid spread,” said Ganga Prasad, a cloth merchant. The rising number of positive cases has put the senior police and administrative officers into a tizzy. DIG (Munger range) Manu Maharaaj said, “We have intensified screening of Covid suspects in the areas falling under Jamalpur Nagar Parishad.” The DIG attributed the rise in the positive cases to intensive door-to-door screening by the health department personnel. “The chain links have been ascertained and the localities identified. We hope we will succeed in containing it,” he said over phone. On Sunday, police personnel also staged a flag march in the sensitive localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rising-covid-cases-in-jamalpur-big-challenge-for-munger-administration/articleshow/75414366.cms||Ramashankar
April 28, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 lockdown: ‘Distribution of pulses begins in four districts of Bihar’||PATNA: The free distribution of pulses started in four districts of the state four days back. The Centre had announced it for the ration card holders from April to June due to coronavirus pandemic and consequent lockdown. The first four districts where 1kg pulse distribution has been started are Kaimur, Rohtas, Buxar and Katihar, food and consumer protection department secretary Pankaj Kumar Pal said on Monday. “The distribution will also start in two other districts on Wednesday. Gradually, all the remaining districts will also be covered, as per the supply of pulses from NAFED. The process has already been put in motion,” Pal said, adding that there was no problem as to the distribution of rice from the PDS shops. “We place our demand to Food Corporation of India (FCI) through the required process. The state’s requirement is being fulfilled. There is no problem,” Pal said. It has been learnt that the process has also been started to provide ration cards to the other deserving persons. For this, a survey work has already been started. “Those without rations card will get it after proper verification and processing of data, which would take some time,” a source said. Earlier last month, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the Centre would provide free 5kg of rice or wheat and 1kg of pulses to the ration card holders from public distribution system (PDS) shops for three months to tide over the lockdown crisis on the food front. CM Nitish Kumar had also announced Rs1,000 to each ration card holding family as assistance. The state has 13.36 lakh ration card holders. Earlier, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had clarified that NAFED could not start supply of pulses, because trucks and rail rakes were not available. Further, NAFED also faced the problem in the milling of pulses. He also assured the ration card holders that they would get 3kg of pulses due for April, May and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/distribution-of-pulses-begins-in-four-districts/articleshow/75414342.cms||Abhay Singh
April 28, 2020||Patna||Woman constable among 3 cops test positive||PATNA: At least three police personnel, including a young woman constable, of Kaimur district have tested positive for Covid19 much to the concern of the state police top brass. Kaimur SP Dilnawaz Ahmad confirmed that three cops—an assistant sub-inspector and two constables—have tested positive. The 80,000-odd strong state police force got its first corona positive case on April 25 when the 28-year-old woman cop tested positive. She had resumed duty at the Bhabua police lines on April 23 after her return from Begusarai where she was stranded due to the nationwide lockdown. As she had exhausted her sanctioned leave, she reported for duty at the nearby Bhagwanpur police station (Begusarai district) on the directions of the police headquarters. “Her swab was sent for test and she was asked to stay in quarantine instead of the police lines. The test report came on April 25 evening and she was found positive. Later the test reports of two others cops—an ASI and a constable, aged about 34 years and 48 years—were also found positive,” the SP said. Begusarai SP Awakash Kumar revealed that the Kaimur woman constable, who is a native of Birpur block in Begusarai district, had performed her duty at the Bhaganpur police station from April 1 and April 8. She was then assigned at South Bihar Gramin Bank at Naula where she was deployed from April 9 to April 21. On April 22, the constable left for her place of posting at Bhabua in Kaimur district in a police vehicle. “We received information about her being tested positive for Covid19 from our counterparts in Kaimur where she was posted. The police swung into action and asked the senior officials of the bank to prepare a list of the visitors from April 9 to April 21,” the SP said. Kaimur SP, however, said it was yet to be ascertained from where she contracted the virus in Begusarai or Bhabua (Kaimur). During preliminary investigation it came to light that she had travelled in two different trains to reach Begusarai from Bhabua after being granted leave ahead of Holi. Begusarai sadar hospital superintendent Dr Anand Sharma said the woman constable’s father, a home guard, is deputed as a security guard at the hospital. Her father’s sample along with 17 other security personnel have been collected for test. Besides, samples of 10 family members of the female cop have also been sent for test, the SP added. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma said the woman constable’s village has been sealed. Around 40 policemen have been deployed at altogether five entry and exit points to check the movement of people. A senior bank officer said altogether 1,411 people had visited the bank during the constable’s 13-day stay. “As she used to help women account holders fill up withdrawal slips, it’s difficult to fathom how many people she came in contact with,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-constable-among-3-cops-test-positive/articleshow/75414266.cms||Ramashankar
April 28, 2020||Hubballi||Lockdown turns profitable for KMF’s Dharwad unit||Hubballi: Lockdown has become synonymous with loss for thousands of people associated with small, medium and micro industries. However, the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) is certainly not one of them. The cooperative has registered a sound profit across its various branches, and the KMF unit in Dharwad has certainly had the rub of green in this trying period. The Dharwad District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd (DAMUL), which collects and supplies milk to Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag and Uttara Kannada districts, has, thanks to the state government’s decision to supply milk to slum-dwellers free of cost, been selling 25,000 litres more than it was during the lockdown. Consequently, this has translated into a daily profit of Rs 9 lakh per day. The Dharwad unit of KMF collected, prior to the lockdown coming into force, 2.1 lakh litres from dairy farmers across the four districts under its jurisdiction. Although there were those who feared that the closure of restaurants and hotels might impact its revenue, since these establishments accounted for the sale of nearly 10,000 litres per day. However, the government’s decision to supply milk free of cost to those in slums has not merely offset the loss, but helped the cooperative turn a healthy profit. DAMUL president Basavaraj Arabgond said, “Chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s timely decision to collect milk from KMF to supply to those in slums meant that we were selling more than we did before the lockdown. The state government is procuring milk from KMF for Rs 37 per litre, and giving it away for free.” KMF purchases milk from dairy farmers at Rs 24.25 per litre of standard 3.5% fat and 8.5% SNF milk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lockdown-turns-profitable-for-kmfs-dharwad-unit/articleshow/75414330.cms||J Abbas Mulla
April 28, 2020||Mysuru||PDO ferries those in need of medical attention to hospitals in his car||Mysuru: The deeds of many Good Samaritans, many of whom are bureaucrats and senior government servants, in this trying period have shown the world the nobility that is inherent in all humanity. Hardanahalli gram panchayat development officer (PDO) MC Mahadevaswamy is one such bureaucrat who has distinguished himself by answering the call of duty, and lending a much-needed helping hand to residents in distress. Mahadevaswamy, who has not been home to Malkundi village in Nanjangud taluk in Mysuru, has stayed put in Haradanahalli – another village in the same taluk – since the lockdown came into force. With Nanjangud turning into a Covid-19 hotspot fairly soon after the lockdown was announced, the residents of Hardanahalli have been struggling to make visits to the hospital. And it is here that Mahadevaswamy has risen to the occasion: The PDO has been ferrying villagers in need of medical attention to and from hospitals. Although it has been more than a month since he has seen his wife and two sons, Mahadevaswamy does not regret his decision to stay in Hardanahalli. “This village is 40km from Nanjangud town, and it is a very distant place that is close to the forest. Owing to the lockdown, the bypass street that connects Hardanahalli to Mysuru Road is closed, which means that those in need of medical attention first have to go to Nanjangud and subsequently visit Mysuru, if the need arises. Many residents do not own vehicles by which they can travel, which is why I decided to take them in my car to hospitals,” Mahadevaswamy told TOI. The PDO said that he prioritised taking the elderly and women to hospitals. In addition to ensuring that the villagers receive medical attention, Mahadevaswamy has, along with the assistance of 10 volunteers, been supplying medicines to the residents. “We visit all the houses, and collect a list of medicines that the members in the family need. We visit pharmacies in Nanjangud, HD Kote and Mysuru and ensure that all of them receive the medicines. For those without any money, we give them medicines for free,” said Mahadevaswamy, who, with the help of the gram panchayat members ensured the supply of food kits to the families of more than 3,000 specially-abled and poor people. “I am not going back home to my family till May 3,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pdo-ferries-those-in-need-of-medical-attention-to-hospitals-in-his-car/articleshow/75415600.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Helpline launched for Karnataka labourers stranded across India||Mangaluru: In less than two hours after it was launched on Monday by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa in the presence of labour minister Shivaram Hebbar, the Karnataka Moolada Karmikara Sahayavani (helpline for Karnataka labourers) registered a whopping 250 calls from various parts of the country. The 24x7 helpline, 080-22636800, which is being manned by 150 people with 50 operating in three shifts, was launched to reach out to Karnataka labourers stranded across the country and in need of aid to return home. An in-built software classifies and categorises all the requests based on the nature of assistance sought by the callers. At the end of each shift, this data is passed on to the senior IAS officers in the labour department. One of the employees manning the helpline told TOI, “The set-up is similar to that of a call centre so those reaching out to us cannot expect an immediate solution. However, each call will be attended to sincerely.” The helpline is the brainchild of minister for ports, fisheries and inland waterways Kota Shrinivas Poojari, who wanted a single operational centre that labourers from Karnataka could reach out and air their grievances to. The operator said that, most of the labourers who had dialled the helpline were from Pune and Mumbai. “In some cases, calls seeking assistance to get groceries were routed to the Anna Dasoha helpline,” he added. Poojari told TOI that the impact of the helpline would be known after a day. The helpline is being operated out of Karmika Bhavan, he said. “This dedicated helpline will tell us where our labourers are stranded, and assist us in chalking out plans to ensure their wellbeing. We will be able to bring their plight to the attention of the authorities in other states as well,” Poojari told TOI. ‘1.5 lakh K’taka labourers in Goa alone’ We started this helpline since we did not have the exact number of labourers from Karnataka stranded across the country nor do we know the kind of problems they are facing owing to the lockdown. In Goa alone, there are more than 1.5 lakh labourers from our state. -P Manivannan | Secretary, Karnataka Labour Department||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/helpline-launched-for-karnataka-labourers-stranded-across-india/articleshow/75415758.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 28, 2020||Patna||Contacts of corona +ve migrant worker being traced: Gaya DM||GAYA: Tracing the contacts of a Covid-19 positive migrant worker and the potential recipients of the infection is proving to be a challenging task for Gaya district officials. Sources said the more problematic is the anonymity of the truck driver and cleaner of the medicine-laden truck, who brought the migrant worker from Delhi to Bihar. In his statement, the migrant worker, while identifying his Delhi employer, the co- workers, a fellow traveller from Islampur in Nalanda and members of the joint family in whose contact he came, remained clueless about the identity of the truck driver or cleaner, their cellphone numbers, points of loading in Delhi and unloading in Ranchi and vehicle’s registration number. The migrant worker, presently undergoing level II treatment in the Covid special ward at Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and Hospital, also could not reveal any detail about the driver of the three-wheeler, who accommodated him in the vegetable-laden auto and brought him to Rafiganj, Aurangabad from the GT Road. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, however, said apart from the two drivers, others who came in contact with the migrant worker have been identified and quarantined. They include the members of the infected man’s joint family and eight men, who shared accommodation with him in the Tekari Raj School quarantine centre. According to the DM, there was no report of the infected worker having come in contact with any other villager except his own family. According to ANMMCH superintendent Dr Vijay Krishna Prasad altogether 11 Covid-19 positive patients were undergoing level II treatment at the hospital. “None of the admitted patient required ICU care or ventilator support,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-contacts-of-corona-ve-migrant-worker-being-traced/articleshow/75414412.cms||Abdul Qadir
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Longer wait, fewer tables, masks: Dining out to be a changed, quick affair after lockdown||KOLKATA: Dining out is set to be a halting experience post lockdown, with screening of guests at restaurant entrances, fewer seats to maintain social distancing and a longer waiting time for tables. Orders will now have to be placed quickly to reduce interaction with waiters and everyone must carry a mask, according to a set of instructions issued for restaurants, bars and nightclubs across Kolkata by the Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI). While the instructions were greeted by restaurants, they felt the directives, coupled with the Covid-19 fear that could persist for several months after the lockdown is lifted, will lead to an extended lean period. Restaurants will be operating at 35%-40% less than their capacity to maintain distance between tables, which will lead to an automatic drop in footfall, according to HRAEI secretary Sudesh Poddar. “Some tables will have to be removed to maintain at least 1.5m to 2m distance between them. Even though it will be mandatory for all staffers to wear masks and gloves, guests will be advised to place orders quickly to reduce interaction time. Waiting time for food will also have to be brought down to ensure that more people can get in. But all these measures will result in a drastic drop in footfall — by around 70% — across all restaurants,” Poddar added. Once restaurants are allowed to open, temperature check will be mandatory at the entrances. If a guest has a temperature more than 98.6°F, he or she will be directed to the nearest medical facility. If a guest is not carrying a mask, it will be the restaurants’ or night clubs’ responsibility to provide one. Guests will be advised to wear masks even inside the restaurant till food is served. “The initial period could be difficult and it will take some time to get used to the new arrangements. For us, the major difference would be a longer waiting time for guests. We will try to neutralize it by shortening the waiting time for food. Our kitchen will be instructed to get cracking the moment an order is placed,” said Nitin Kothari, owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat on Park Street. Some restaurants are planning to livestream their cooking on TV screens to gain customers’ confidence. It will help dispel doubts about cooking hygiene, felt Poddar, who is planning to introduce streaming in his restaurant Song Hai. “The quicker the lockdown ends, the better. But we will not be taking chances,” said Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/longer-wait-fewer-tables-masks-dining-out-to-be-a-changed-quick-affair-after-lockdown/articleshow/75416700.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
April 28, 2020||Surat||Cop branded Covid carrier, thrashed by neighbour||Surat: In yet another instance of Covid phobics tormenting frontline coronavirus warriors, a traffic policeman living in Puna area was attacked by a neighbour who feared that the cop would infect the entire society. The cop Virendrasinh Rambhai’s wife was also subjected to mental harassment the neighbours for nearly three weeks.The tensions came to a boil after the accused neighbour Prathmesh Patel barged into the cop’s house and asked his wife to vacate.“Patel went to Virendrasinh’s house and picked up a fight with his wife. He allegedly pulled the woman’s hand and asked her to vacate the house. Later in the day, when Virendrasinh went to take up the issue with Patel after returning from duty, the latter allegedly attacked him,” said an official from Puna police station. Virendrasinh lives with his wife in a rented house in JT Nagar on Aai Mata Road. Patel, who is into import-export business, and his family members, had been passing comments at his wife for the last 20 days saying that her husband would be spread coronavirus in the society. Whenever she went to the compound behind our house, they used to take a dig at her saying that her husband was the only person going out of the society daily and he would infect others. The cop said in his complaint that the nasty comments often led to arguments between his wife and neighbours.On Monday, police arrested Patel and booked his wife Kinjal and their friend Vipul Korat under IPC sections pertaining to physical assault and harassment. Kinjal and Vipul are yet to be arrested. Patel was produced in a court which released him on bail.Virendrasinh said that his landlord, however, had no issues with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cop-branded-covid-carrier-thrashed-by-neighbour/articleshow/75416155.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||FOSTTA demands date extension for TDS payment||Surat: Textile traders in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market in the city have urged Union finance ministry to extend the due date of payment of tax deducted at source (TDS) and Goods and Services Tax (GST) for March until May 3.The Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman stating that the due date for TDS payment for March is April 30 and for filing GSTR 3B return is April 20. Due to extended lockdown period until May 3, commercial establishments are closed and that it is not possible for the traders to pay TDS and GST for the month of March.FOSTTA office-bearers stated that the central government has waived off late fee for filing of TDS return up to June 30, but interest of 0.75% will be charged if the tax is paid late. In such circumstances, the traders will have to bear huge losses for late filing of TDS and GST return.FOSTTA secretary Champalal Bothra said, “Textile markets are located in red zone in the city and that the markets won’t be operational until May 3. Hence, it is not possible for the traders to pay TDS and file GST 3B return. We have urged the central government to extend the filing dates and demanded that the interest of 0.75% on late filing be waived off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fostta-demands-date-extension-for-tds-payment/articleshow/75416210.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Two quack doctors nabbed from Gujarat's Ankleshwar||SURAT: At a time when most private clinics and nursing homes are shut during lockdown, quack practitioners are making hay, literally. Two persons were arrested from Ankleshwar town, who tried to dupe poor people by offering to treat them. Indranil alias Rahul Dinesh Biswas, 24, a resident of Chandal Chowkdy at Gadkhol in Ankleshwar was operating a clinic from a small shop in RK Nagar in Gadkhol. Cops raided his clinic on Monday when he was checking a few patients and seized medicines, injections etc worth Rs 9,900. Cops pounced on another quack doctor, Kamal Kumar Patel, 54, from his ‘clinic’ in Ansar market in Bhadkodra in Ankleshwar town on Monday. Here too cops seized medicines and medical equipment to the tune of Rs 1,500 from the spot. Ankleshwar town police had received information about the quacks operating in the town without any degree or licence. Further inquiry revealed that the accused had been operating their ‘clinics’ for the past one month. Police sources said that the raids were conducted in the presence of the Taluka Health Officer (THO), Dr Dinesh Vasava. Police inspector, OP Sisodiya said, “Majority of the clinics in Ankleshwar are closed and the accused were taking advantage to earn some quick money by duping poor patients. The medicines seized from the quack duo are the over-the-counter medicines available in medical stores relating to minor disease like cough, cold and fever among others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-quack-doctors-nabbed-from-ankleshwar/articleshow/75416092.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Business||Birla MF realigns Jharkhand bonds’ value||MUMBAI: Aditya Birla Mutual Fund has realigned the value of its holdings in Jharkhand Road Projects Implementation Co held in two of its debt funds — Medium Term Plan and Dynamic Bond Fund. As a result, the NAV of its Medium Term Plan fell by 4.5%, while that of Dynamic Bond Fund by 1.5% as of Friday’s close, the fund house said. On April 27, TOI had reported that Birla MF had realigned the valuation of some of its bond holdings in two of its debt funds. It took this decision to ensure that the changed values are in conformity with the valuation suggested by two agencies, Crisil and ICRA. The value of the Jharkhand asset was reassessed at 50% of its original from 75% earlier, although it’s a standard asset with regular debt servicing and annuity payments, a spokesperson said. There was no haircut to the holdings, the spokesperson added. The Jharkhand project is an annuity project, for which the state government provides annual budgetary support and annuities are received in a timely manner, a note by the fund house on its various debt securities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/birla-mf-realigns-jharkhand-bonds-value/articleshow/75416661.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Patna||Over 5 per cent rise in cybercrime cases during lockdown: EOU SP||PATNA: There has been 5-7% increase in cybercrime cases, mostly related to hacking social media accounts and duping people, during the lockdown period, Economic Offences Unit (EOU) SP Prantosh Kumar Das said. “Hacking Facebook accounts, sending friend requests and then demanding money from acquaintances is the latest modus operandi of the cyber criminals. The cybercrime and social media monitoring units across the state have already been alerted about the new trend,” Das said. EOU is the nodal agency to deal with the cybercrime complaints in Bihar. Das said on an average 10-12 complaints of cybercrime were received through the cybercrime.gov.in portal every month. In addition, 40-45 similar complaints were forwarded to the state cybercrime cell by the district police per month. “As people are stranded in different states due to nationwide lockdown, it becomes easier for the fraudsters to convince the acquaintances of the hacked Facebook account holders. Money is sought through different modes to avoid detection. There have been instances when the help was sought after chatting,” he said. Retired IPS officer Suresh Kumar Bhardwaj’s wife Sadhana Bhardwaj was the latest victim of cyber criminals. Sadhana lodged a complaint with Rupaspur police station in Patna on April 22 about tampering with her social media account. She also shared the picture of the fraud. Sadhana came to know about her Facebook account hacking when she received an email on April 21, demanding money from a few friends citing lockdown as the reason for financial crisis. Sadhana’s is not an isolated case. A similar incident happened with one Sanjay Singh, who lodged his complaint with Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma through WhatsApp last week. One of Singh’s relatives was duped of Rs5,000 by the time he came to know about the fraud. Earlier, a block development officer in East Champaran district lodged a complaint of his Facebook account hacking. “Don’t accept friend’s request as my Facebook account has been hacked,” the BDO informed his Facebook friends. Besides, incidents related to ATM fraud and duping people by sending fake messages using social media accounts have also been reported. A retired IG-ranked officer was recently duped of Rs2.50 lakh in the name of providing a flat in New Delhi through DDA. He later reported the matter to the cybercrime cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-5-rise-in-cybercrime-cases-during-lockdown-sp/articleshow/75414395.cms||Ramashankar
April 28, 2020||Patna||East Central Railway resumes work on key infra projects||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has resumed works on its rail infrastructure building and important construction projects at different places after relaxation in the nationwide lockdown guidelines since April 22. Railways intends to carry on rail infrastructure building projects in the state, following strictly social distancing guidelines and other safety measures during the lockdown period. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said on Monday that railways has started its infrastructure development work after getting permission from the district magistrates (DMs) concerned and got “work permit” passes issued to the railway engineers and staff monitoring the work at the sites. “Railways has also ensured availability of adequate number of masks and sanitizers for the staff working at the sites,” he said, adding thermal screening has become mandatory for each staff from safety point of view. According to the CPRO, though ECR has cancelled all its 274 mail and express and 389 other passenger trains due to lockdown since March 25, railways has intensively carried out track maintenance, overhead electric wires (OHE) repair, bridge and signal maintenance work on almost each important route of the ECR’s five divisions during the ongoing lockdown period. “Following standard operating procedure (SOP), the ECR has restarted yard remodelling work at Kiul and Lakhisarai stations. This work is important as Howrah-Jhajha-Patna Junction-Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction mainline route needs proper maintenance in summer and immediate increase in the line capacity to run passenger trains smoothly after the lockdown on this route. Railways has also taken up platform surface maintenance work at the Kiul and Lakhisarai stations,” he said, adding the railways has now expedited road overbridge (ROB) construction work at Lakhisarai. “Railways has started another road overbridge (ROB) construction work at Manpur near Gaya, while track doubling work on the Ramana-Singhrauli (160km) and Keraila Road-Shaktinagar (32km) routes has been going on in full swing to complete the project in time,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-resumes-work-on-key-infra-projects/articleshow/75414311.cms||Kumod Verma
April 28, 2020||Patna||Create job opportunities for workers, says Bihar CM||PATNA: Principal secretary of state’s panchayati raj department Amrit Lal Meena informed CM Nitish Kumar on Monday that work on providing piped water connection to every household under the Mukhya Mantri Gram Payjal Nischay Yojana (MMGPNY) has been completed in 40,881 of the targeted 58,612 wards in the rural areas of the state. “The rest of the 17,731 wards will be covered by June 15,” he said. Meena was giving the details of his department’s schemes at a meeting called by the CM to review ongoing projects under the ‘Saat Nischay’ programme of the state government. The CM also reviewed the progress of schemes launched recently to provide employment to the workers who have returned home from other states following the lockdown. Contacted over phone, Meena told TOI that around 80 lakh houses in 40,881 rural wards have so far been given piped water connectivity under the scheme. The CM also reviewed progress of Gramin Gali-Nali Pakkikaran Yojana. Meena informed the CM that around 2,800 new schemes have been started after certain relaxation in the lockdown. “Around 10,000 workers have been provided employment opportunities. All these 2,800 new schemes will be completed by June 30,” Meena told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/create-job-opportunities-for-workers-says-nitish/articleshow/75414244.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi’s corona mystery: How eight cops got infected?||VARANASI: Senior officials of the district administration, police and health department are grappling to solve the mystery of how eight policemen who tested Covid-19 positive got infected. SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary suspects that passive contact with the Pitarkunda trader who had coronavirus might be the source of infection. Officials confirmed that initially the Varanasi Municipal Corporation outpost’s in-charge had tested positive after which cops staying in barrack of this outpost of Sigra police station developed symptoms. “The investigation in this matter so far has brought some facts to light. The VMC outpost in-charge had gone to collect details of the infected trader of Pitarkunda from the private hospital in Mahmoorganj where he had gone to seek treatment before getting referred to BHU. We suspect the outpost in-charge got infected during this work,” the SSP said. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma is focusing on minimising the distribution of cooked food packet through police stations and outposts to reduce risk for his frontline warriors. The district administration has started finalising a strategy to take away the burden of cooked food packet distribution off police personnel since it exposes them to large number of people who crowd police stations and outposts. Officials started an area wise survey to find out people who need grocery and those who still need cooked food, so that distribution of cooked food packets from police stations and outposts is minimised. DM Sharma said, “Around 35,000 food packets are being distributed in the district per day. Of them, 90% food packets are being distributed through police stations. We have identified the pockets from where people were coming to collect food packets and will now start providing groceries to them instead. Many needy have been shifted to shelter homes set up by VMC. However, despite these initiatives the demand for food packets has not come down.” Last Saturday, seven policemen, including the VMC outpost in-charge, three head constables and three constables had tested positive. On Sunday, one more constable was found infected while five more cops of the outpost are quarantined. DM and SSP had visited the Sigra and Dashaswamedh police stations on Sunday and ordered screening of all policemen posted there. SSP confirmed that 270 police personnel were examined on Sunday by health officials while samples of cops with even faint symptoms were sent for test. Besides, counselling of police personnel has also been started in view of increasing stress among them. “Several counsellors have been roped in with the help of different agencies to counsel policemen through video conferencing or teleconferencing. Many cops talked to psychotherapists on Monday,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashis-corona-mystery-how-8-cops-got-infected/articleshow/75414434.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 28, 2020||Business||No call yet on monetising fiscal deficit: RBI governor||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das has indicated that the fiscal deficit target of 3.5% will be breached this year, but he said that no view has been formed on the central bank monetising the deficit by purchasing government bonds. The governor added that, while there was a need for the government to support the economy through a fiscal package, it has to be balanced with a sustainable level of fiscal deficit that is consistent with macroeconomic and financial stability. In an interview to a news agency, the first since the Covid lockdown began, Das said that the central bank was in battle-ready mode and ensuring funds flow to NBFCs and microfinance institutions was an issue that was very much “on RBI’s table”. He pointed out that the RBI had permitted banks to extend a repayment moratorium to all borrowers, including NBFCs. Denying that the RBI has purchased government bonds in auctions, Das said the central bank had different tools at its disposal. “We are dealing with a pandemic superimposed on a slowdown. The response has to be a coordinated one, with all arms of public policy as well as other stakeholders in the economy pulling together and working in close cooperation,” said Das. The governor said that there should be a plan to exit the fiscal stimulus package. “The mantra of coming out of the ‘chakravyuh’ has to also be thought through very carefully and be factored in when entering the ‘chakravyuh’,” said Das. He was referencing former RBI governor D Subbarao’s quote, wherein he referred to an expansionary policy as a ‘chakravyuh’ battle formation, which was more difficult to exit than enter. On the likelihood of the government monetising its deficit, Das said, “We will deal with it keeping in view the operational realities, the need to preserve the strength of the RBI’s balance sheet and, most importantly, the goal of macroeconomic stability, our primary mandate.” “The 3.5% fiscal deficit target for this year will be very challenging to meet. As regards, how much it will exceed and how much the government will spend, that will depend on the view taken by the government, with regard to what kind of support measures can be taken that produce maximum impact,” said Das. On the foreign exchange front, Das said that he did not rule out the possibility of inflows picking up. “That can also happen with so much of liquidity in the advanced economies, it will naturally spill over to economies like India, which have strong macroeconomic fundamentals,” said Das. The governor also indicated that the dependence of foreign investors on rating agencies has diminished due to the information boom. “Rating agencies do influence some foreign investors who follow their own methods of indexation where there is application of ratings for investment. But, by and large, foreign investors in the last several years have exhibited their trust on the Indian economy irrespective of the rating upgrade or downgrade,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-call-yet-on-monetising-fisc-deficit-rbi-guv/articleshow/75416746.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Business||SP to offload $1 billion assets, sells KKR $204 million solar business||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group, India’s largest privately held enterprise, plans to sell $1 billion worth of green energy and other infrastructure assets to augment its balance sheet. On Monday, it sold five solar units in India to PE major KKR for $204 million. Several strategic and financial investors, including from China, have shown interest in SP’s residual power plants in India, Bangladesh and Egypt as well as in its ports and road assets. The portfolio monetisation is aimed at reducing its Rs 30,300-crore debt. SP’s financial woes came to the fore last year when it had sought time to repay loans it owed to one of the group companies. In the last six months, SP has reduced its liabilities by over Rs 600 crore and the planned asset sales are to accelerate its pace of debt reduction. It has finalised a buyer for its solar unit in Egypt and is in talks with a couple of international investors to sell the gas-fuelled power plant in Bangladesh, people familiar with the matter said. The 154-year-old SP Group, which has operations in 70 countries and a revenue of $7 billion, plans to enhance liquidity as capital-raising has become extremely challenging following the Covid-19 pandemic, which has upended businesses and financial markets. The deal with KKR will reduce SP’s debt further by over Rs 1,000 crore. KKR, which plans to build a renewable energy portfolio in India, is looking for more acquisitions in this space but it is unclear if it is interested in SP’s remaining solar assets in the country. Globally, KKR has invested over $12 billion in renewable energy assets. The SP Group, which has constructed iconic structures like the RBI building in Mumbai, is owned by Pallonji Mistry, who has a net worth of $12 billion, according to Forbes. Much of this net worth comes from the nonagenarian’s 18.4% holding in Tata Sons. SP is currently locked in a legal battle with Tata Sons after the latter removed Mistry’s younger son from the chairman’s position. SP hopes to close some of the asset sales, including two road projects, this fiscal. But the minority stake divestment in its two port terminals will take more time, people quoted earlier said. They also added that the sale of the water purifier business, which is under Eureka Forbes, will happen next fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sp-to-offload-1bn-assets-sells-kkr-204m-solar-biz/articleshow/75416778.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 28, 2020||Business||Sebi cuts broker turnover fee by 50%||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Monday reduced broker turnover fee by 50% of the existing structure from June 2020 till March 2021. The cut will be passed on to investors. Sebi also reduced filing fees on offer documents for IPOs, rights offers and buy-backs by 50% of the existing rates for June to December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-cuts-broker-turnover-fee-by-50/articleshow/75416605.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Over 6,000 calls seeking medical emergency passes in Dakshina Kannada district during lockdown||Mangaluru: In the five weeks that the lockdown has been in force across the country, dealing with medical emergencies has, by far been one problem that citizens have had particular difficulty dealing with. In Mangaluru, a statistic lends some perspective on the extent to which the lockdown has made getting timely medical help hard. The smart city command and control centre, operating out of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) office has, in the past five weeks, received 6,000 calls from distressed citizens seeking medical emergency passes. Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (Muda) commissioner Dinesh Kumar GT said that the centre received around 700 to 1,000 calls each day. Dinesh Kumar, who heads the control centre, said that, while calls seeking medical emergency passes was the clear leader in terms of the number of calls the centre received, stranded migrant labourers came in second. “Although a majority of those seeking medical passes are from Mangaluru, around 15 to 20% of those calling us are from other taluks. These passes are mostly issued to those in need of dialysis, for pregnant women and other patients in need of immediate medical attention,” Dinesh Kumar told TOI. Calls from migrant labourers, he said, had spiked following Karnataka government’s announcement that arrangements would be made for their safe return home. “Many of them have also been asking for food kits. On average, we receive around 100 to 120 calls from labourers asking for food,” said Dinesh Kumar, who intimates the labour department on distribution of food kits to those in need. The control room functions round the clock and has 35 people working in three shifts. With as many as 10 lines, and those attending calls ensure that the citizens’ grievances are redressed as soon as possible. Revision of the terms of the lockdown and issuance of new directions by the government mean that the staff need to be equipped in responding to these changes. The traffic for calls is highest from 7am to 12pm, and from 4pm to 10pm. Dinesh Kumar said that, on many occasions, responding to calls from migrant labourers from Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, who seek food kits, personnel of the labour department had been importuned by these stranded people for help returning home. “Unfortunately, this is not possible under the current circumstances. We also receive calls wherein people seek passes for inter-district travel and this can be issued only if the deputy commissioner or superintendent of police authorities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/over-6000-calls-seeking-medical-emergency-passes-in-dakshina-kannada-district-during-lockdown/articleshow/75416149.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 28, 2020||Hubballi||Now, mutton and chicken on wheels in Hubballi||Hubballi: There is good news for non-vegetarians in the city as they need not go outside their houses to get mutton or chicken from Tuesday. To make the lockdown more effective in the state, Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Board, in collaboration with civic authorities, had started a ‘Meat on Wheels’ concept in seven districts in mid-April. This has been extended to Hubballi on Monday. It has already been launched in Bengaluru, Tumkur, Chitradurga, Mandya, Mysuru and Chikkaballapur. According to Dr G M Nagaraj, deputy director, Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Board, nearly 170 SC/ST beneficiaries had been given vehicles to sell non-vegetarian food. Now these vehicles are not being used due to the lockdown. “So we are using these specially designed vehicles with stainless steel body and fitted with various things like freezers, refrigerator, gas stove, cylinder, generator and other things to provide mutton and chicken at doorsteps. The vehicles will supply raw meat and chicken till the lockdown is over. Various corporations including BBMP are keen to utilise these vehicles now. Based on the decision taken by the corporation, the price of the mutton will be fixed between Rs 550 to 700. Suresh Itnal, commissioner, HDMC, said to make people stick to lockdown norms, they are providing meat and chicken at the doorsteps in Hubballi. Later, it will be introduced in Dharwad too, he said. Dr Sunil Kumar Sheelavanthmath, assistant director of the board in Dharwad, said the prices of mutton and chicken would be fixed by civic authorities. In Hubballi, the mutton price is fixed at Rs 650 and chicken at Rs 180. Those in the vehicles have been asked to maintain social distancing and follow all hygiene instructions including wearing gloves etc. Those already trained at Meat Research Institute, Hyderabad, will operate these vehicles, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/now-mutton-and-chicken-on-wheels-in-hubballi/articleshow/75415023.cms||J Abbas Mulla
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Community in Godhra ensures fruits at affordable prices for Ramzan month||Vadodara: Profiteering and overcharging people during calamities or even during festivals is a common sight, but that is not the case in Godhra this Ramzan. In several areas of the town, fruits are being provided at rates much below the market price.Fruits had started being sold at a premium in some places both due to the Covid-19 situation and the beginning of Ramzan. Most persons from the minority community end their fast by consuming fruits and only later have a heavy meal.With several areas in Godhra under containment due to Covid-19 cases and many residents of minority community dominated areas struggling to earn a living due to the lockdown, concerns were being expressed regarding them being able to afford fruits and other material to break their fast.Some community members took up the onus of ensuring that not only do the residents get fruits at affordable rates, but also get them without venturing out of their homes for a long period. The residents have to book their orders in advance and it is either delivered to their residences or they have to pick their parcels from a designated spot.The prices may make anybody envious. The group is selling watermelons at Rs 10 a kg, grapes at Rs 35 per kg, bananas at Rs 10 per kg, sapota (chickoo) for Rs 30/kg and muskmelon for Rs 15/kg.On Monday, around 755 families ordered fruits from the service started by the community. Around 3,300kg fruit was distributed on this day. On Friday, around 600 families had ordered fruit from the service.Imran Tottal, a resident of Godhra, said that every year fruits used to be sold at prices higher than the regular price due to high demand. “This year we are getting them even cheaper than last year. I have ordered eight kilogram fruits,” he said.Siddiq Patel who ordered 5.5kg fruits said that members of the community had identified wholesalers who were willing to provide fruits at a cheap rate. “The community is also appealing for social distancing and other precautions in its messages for selling fruits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/community-in-godhra-ensures-fruits-at-affordable-prices-for-ramzan-month/articleshow/75415563.cms||Sachin Sharma
April 28, 2020||Mangaluru||80-year-old woman, son test positive in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Two primary contacts of the septuagenarian woman (P-432), who passed away on April 23, have tested positive for Covid-19, becoming the first two patients reported from the limits of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC). The 80-year-old woman and her 45-year old son are residents of Kulashekara. She was undergoing treatment in First Neuro Hospital at Padil where P-432, the second Covid-19 victim of the district and a stroke patient, was admitted for treatment. Kulashekara has already been demarcated a buffer zone of the containment area due to the death of P-432. Gayathri Nayak, deputy director, district urban development cell, said the latest cases -- for which Kakkebettu, Shaktinagara and Padavu villages have been declared containment area -- will push the buffer zone deeper into the heart of MCC limits. The earlier cases were reported from Padil on the outskirts of Mangaluru city and Bantwal taluk. Padil, Kasba village and Narikombu gram panchayat have already been sealed. Officials said the process of tracing the primary and secondary contacts of the mother-son duo has been initiated. The state bulletin has designated the 20th and 21st cases P-506 and P-507. They were in the same shared room as P-432. P-501, one of the three cases to be reported on Sunday, was working as a helper in the room where P-432 and P-507 were admitted. The total number of positive cases recorded in Dakshina Kannada has now gone up to 21. There are seven active cases and 12 patients have been discharged so far. The district saw two coronavirus deaths in P-432 and P-390 on April 19 and 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/80-year-old-woman-son-test-positive-in-mangaluru/articleshow/75416034.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Doctors and health workers too fall victim to Covid-19||PATNA: With 10 government health workers, including two doctors, testing positive for coronavirus in the state so far, the health department is on its toes to fight the pandemic. Three employees of a private hospital in Patna and four of another private hospital in Munger as well as an ambulance driver have also been tested positive for Covid-19 so far. A 55-year-old doctor in charge of Biharsharif primary health centre in Nalanda was the first doctor to test positive for Covid-19 on April 19. The doctor had collected samples of a man who was later tested positive for the virus. “This doctor has recovered. He was discharged from the hospital on Sunday,” said Nalanda district magistrate Yogendra Singh. Sources said 25 close contacts of the doctor, mostly his relatives, later contracted the virus. Apart from the doctor, an ambulance driver in Nalanda, who had carried Covid-19 positive people, also tested positive for the virus on April 24. A postgraduate student of Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur was also tested positive for Covid-19 on April 22. JLNMCH superintendent Dr R C Mandal said, “He is 33-year-old PG student and lived on the hospital campus. After experiencing sore throat, he came for test and was later found positive for the virus. The PG student is on course to recovery.” Apart from these doctors, seven paramedical staff of two private hospitals had tested positive. Three of them are employees of a private hospital on Bypass Road in Patna – a nurse, a staff involved in dialysis and a ward boy. Four employees of a private hospital in Munger were also tested positive in the last week of March. “They were paramedical staff and all of them have recovered,” said Munger DM Rajesh Meena. All these seven private hospital staff had come in contact with a Munger man, who was suffering from kidney problem and later died on March 21. His samples came positive for coronavirus after death. State health department additional secretary Manoj Kumar said, “There is a set protocol for health workers which they have to follow. All of them have been trained in this regard. For example, those collecting samples or involved in treatment have been told about protective gear they are supposed to use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-health-workers-too-fall-victim-to-covid-19/articleshow/75414370.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 28, 2020||Patna||Six new cases add to woes of Patnaites||PATNA: Panic gripped the residents of Patna after six new cases were reported from densely populated residential areas of the district on Monday. With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state capital has gone up to 39, including the five who have recovered. Two cases were detected in Machhli Gali at Raja Bazar on Monday and one case each in New Patliputra Colony, near BPSC office on Bailey Road and Phulwarisharif. A two-year-old boy from Naubatpur was also tested positive for Covid-19. The kid was undergoing treatment at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS). Patna DM Kumar Ravi said three victims – two from Machhli Gali and one from Phulwarisharif – are the housekeeping staff of Patna airport. “They are contacts of a Khajpura resident, who was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 25. This man also worked at the airport and others who tested positive on Monday are his contacts. The 23-year-old man from Patliputra Colony, who was tested positive for the virus, had returned from New Delhi on March 16,” the DM said. He added that the number of containment zones in the city will increase following detection of new cases. The two-year-old child from Naubatpur is the sixth patient to have tested positive for the virus from IGIMS so far. Meanwhile, detection of fresh cases has created a panic-like situation in the city. Raja Bazaar resident Khushboo said, “Machhli Gali is very close to my house. My family is quite worried following detection of corona cases in the locality. Add to this the corona positive cases recorded in Khajpura, which is also within 3km radius of my house, and the worries get bigger.” Patliputra resident Aditi Mishra, who is currently in Delhi, said she is worried about the well-being of her parents back home. Ravi Kumar, a resident of Rajvanshi Nagar, said detection of a Covid-19 positive case near BPSC office has set alarm bells ringing in the area. “As a vegetable vendor has been tested positive, we have decided not to make any physical contact with vegetable vendors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-new-cases-add-to-woes-of-patnaites/articleshow/75414300.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 28, 2020||Mysuru||Cop’s wife hangs herself after killing daughter||Mysuru: The wife of a constable attached to the police control room allegedly committed suicide after killing her five-year-old daughter in the police quarters in Hebbal, north Mysuru. Harish found his wife Vidyashree, 30, and daughter Chinmayi, 5, hanging after returning home at 9am on Monday. He had left for work on Sunday evening. Police said the homemaker may have strangled her daughter with a sari in the night before hanging herself to the ceiling fan. DCP (law and order) A N Prakash Gowda said she left a death note, holding no one responsible for the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-wife-hangs-herself-after-killing-daughter/articleshow/75413322.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Patna||Efforts on to reduce number of red zones in Bihar: Health secretary Sanjay Kumar||PATNA: There are six ‘red zone’ districts in the state under the Central coding system and the health department has taken several measures to contain the coronavirus spread and convert these districts into orange and then green zones, principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said on Monday. PM Narendra Modi apparently called for a lockdown exit plan in each state based on colour coding of districts as per fall in Covid-19 cases. Sanjay told TOI on Monday that only Siwan, Nalanda, Patna, Munger, Rohtas and Buxar districts were under red zone category. He said that as per the Union ministry of health and family welfare guidelines, districts with more than 25 active cases come under red zone. The red zone category districts with no fresh positive cases in the last 14 days come under orange category. Those districts having no positive cases in the 14 days are put in the green zone category. Sources said more than 40 containment zones have been identified in the state so far based on Covid-19 positive cases from the respective areas. Bihar State Health Society executive director Manoj Kumar said a slew of measures, including aggressive testing and contact tracing, are being taken to curb the Covid-19 spread in the state. “Depending upon the increase or decrease in the number of cases, the containment zones have been divided into red, orange and green. The red zones, that have the most number of increasing cases, are put under special surveillance and huge number of corona suspects are tested. It is not possible to curb the spread without aggressive testing,” he said. “The districts that have been converted from red to orange zones with only a few cases in the past with no further increase in the number of positive are also under surveillance in order to convert them into green zone,” Manoj said. According to another senior health department official, the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in last few days has been directly proportional to the expedited and targeted testing for the virus. “The infection has been increasing in several districts. We are little behind in the process of testing. Now that we are doing it in a very targeted manner, more cases are coming forth,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/efforts-on-to-reduce-number-of-red-zones-in-bihar/articleshow/75414264.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 83,000 complete their home quarantine period||Kolhapur: A report from the district administration on Monday stated that over 82,000 people from Kolhapur, who had returned from Mumbai and Pune during the Covid-19 outbreak, have completed their 14-day quarantine period. The report added that as many as 85,480 people had come back to Kolhapur from various cities. Of these 83,154 have completed their home quarantine period, while the remaining 3,326 are still to complete the two-week isolation period. The report also stated that the district had a total of 820 citizens with international travel history and they too have completed their 14-day quarantine period. In Kolhapur district till Monday, as many as 1,593 throat swab samples were tested, of which 1,333 have tested negative and 11 tested positive. The result of 131 samples is still pending, while 40 have been rejected. So far, as many as three positive patients have recovered from the respiratory disease. Meanwhile, the district administration has canceled the licences of as many as nine fair price grocery shops owing to the complaints from the beneficiaries. Four of these shops are in Kolhapur city, while three are from Aajara taluka. The remaining two are from Shirol and Bhudargad talukas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-83000-complete-their-home-quarantine-period/articleshow/75415083.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||Family refuses to accept body of Covid-19 victim||PALANPUR: Banaskantha health workers and hospital staff of Palanpur Civil Hospital were forced to perform the burial of a 65-year-old woman who succumbed to coronavirus infection on Monday. Dr Jawahar Chandani, civil surgeon at the hospital, told TOI that the woman from Bhagal village, seven km from Palanpur, was brought here by her family members on April 23 and she tested positive the next day. Hers is the first death due to Covid-19 in Banaskantha. Dr Chandani said that the hospital made several calls to her family members to take her body for last rites and burial. “We were aghast when they refused to claim the body and told us to perform her burial. They were just not willing to come and no amount of convincing helped.” Banaskantha had registered 28 positive cases of Covid-19 of which one has died and a five-year-old boy discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/family-refuses-to-accept-body-of-covid-victim/articleshow/75415098.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Varanasi||Role of Veda, yoga in Covid fight discussed||VARANASI: A seven-day international webinar on ‘Role of Alternative & Complementary Therapies to Combat Covid-19: AN Integrative Approach,’ jointly organized by National Service Scheme (NSS) and Yoga and Naturopathy Education Centre, Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith in association with faculty of ayurveda, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University commenced from Monday. In his inaugural address, UP minister for AYUSH Dharam Singh Sainee thanked the front line workers handling the pandemic and continuously monitoring the situation. Head of department of Veda & coordinator Vaidik Vigyan Kendra, BHU Prof Upendra Kumar Tripathi spoke about Covid-19 management in the light of veda. Former chairman, department of yoga studies HPU, Shimla, Prof GD Sharma and Chancellor of Swami Vivekanand Yoga Anusandhan Sansthan, Bengaluru, Padma Shri Prof HR Nagendra talked about asanas to strengthen immunity. Dkirector of Inter University Centre for Teacher Education Prof BK Tripathi spoke about ancient Indian knowledge. Spiritual leader and founder of the Art of Living and the International Association for Human Values, Shri Shri Ravi Shankar spoke about importance of spiritual healing. MGKV VC Prof TN Singh said that India has a rich tradition of various healing modalities. The convener Dr KK Singh highlighted the ancient Indian practices and role of youth in tackling the pandemic. Many others including Dr. Kashinath G. Metri from Central University of Rajasthan, Wing Commander NJ Reddy, founder of Yoga Prana Vidya, Tamil Nadu also took part in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/role-of-veda-yoga-in-covid-fight-discussed/articleshow/75414466.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Lockdown forces many to sell vegetables to earn a living||LUDHIANA: Left with no savings to feed his family, Vijay Pal, 42, who had been selling Bhelpuri for the last 22 years, has now taken to vegetable vending. Following the slapping of lockdown, neither he could go out to sell Bhelpuri, nor were there any takers for the stuff. His son also goes with him for selling vegetables. A resident of New Sant Nagar here, Vijay said, “What will I do if I will not sell vegetables? I have wife and four children, and if I will not work then who will give them food? I tried the helpline numbers issued by the government, but nothing worked for me.” He said five days back, he started selling vegetables, as he was left with only Rs 1,000 which he invested to buy vegetables from a supplier. “I am earning Rs 100-150 daily now…at least we will not sleep hungry.” The story of 45-year-old Mohd Ehjaz is no different. He used to do embroidery work on clothes at a shop in Model Town and earned Rs 12,000 a month. But, now that the shop is closed, he does not have many options. Narrating his problem, he said, “We are a family of four and reside in Dhakka Colony. Since April 24, I am selling fruits. Even to buy fruits from supplier, I had to borrow Rs 3,000 from somebody, and till today (Sunday), I haven’t been able to save anything. I am hoping against hope that perhaps in the coming days, I will have some money to buy necessary items for my family members.” Ravi Kumar and Sunny used to deliver vegetables to vendors in an auto until the lockdown, but now they can’t do that. So, they managed a rehri from somebody and started selling onions and potato. Ravi Kumar, a resident of Haibowal, said for the past one month, he has been selling only onions and potatoes because other vegetables are perishable but these two sustain for couple of days. His friend Sunny said, “We are daily wagers and we have to work daily to feed out families. We don’t know when the situation will become normal, so we have switched to rehri and selling in streets.” Similar is the tale of a mobile shop owner-turned-vegetables vendor. A resident of Ashok Nagar, Prince Narang is delivering vegetables in his locality after receiving orders over phone. “There was already a slump in mobile industry and this coronavirus sent it the nosiness in ICU. After 10 days of lockdown, I had started home delivery of vegetables, because one needs money.” He said he is not making much profit, as he is selling at genuine market rates to retain the customers. After all, I need to bring food for his parents, wife, two kids and a brother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-forces-many-to-sell-vegetables-to-earn-a-living/articleshow/75415122.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Maids face uncertain future due to lockdown, association asks for monetary help||Kolhapur: Due to extended lockdown in the country, many city maids find themselves jobless and have to rely on government-provided ration for their survival. Ratna Shinde, who has been working at her employer’s residence for the last seven years, was suddenly asked not to come before the lockdown. She was given a half-a-month salary, which she spent at the start of lockdown on groceries. “I live in a rented house. I could not pay the rent. My husband too is out of work since lockdown. I don't know whether I will be called back to work. From June onwards, the school will also start and I have to pay the fees for my children. Sitting idle for more than a month is a frustrating experience,” said Ratna. She added that some of her friends are doing small jobs once a week, where they have to prepare summer snacks and clean the garden. There are over 10,000 maids registered with the administration. The prime minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray have appealed the employers to look after their maids humanely and take care of them during the lockdown. However, very few are providing rations and money to their maids to buy daily needs. Since most of them leave alone or have no relatives they have to pass the days in a lot of pain. Sushila Yadav, president of the Gharelu Molkarin Sanghatana (housemaid association) said that they have written to the state government to provide a livelihood grant of Rs 2000 to each of the registered maids. “The government has approved the same amount to construction workers. Many are not likely to get their work back soon. What they will do then? We are trying to arrange the essentials for the maids, however, we too have limitations. Without government support, no one will be able to stay out for the work for a longer time." Yadav said that since the lockdown no maids are not allowed to enter societies. While some welfare associations have decided to let the maids do other works by maintaining physical distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maids-face-uncertain-future-due-to-lockdown-association-asks-for-monetary-help/articleshow/75415116.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Amarpura man, Jagraon boy test positive again||Ludhiana: A 24-year-old resident of Amarpura and a 15-year-old boy of Chowkiman village, Jagraon tehsil, again tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening.Earlier, the man was confirmed to have contracted the virus on April 6 and the boy on April 8.They were admitted to the civil hospital’s Covid-19 wing isolation ward.The man is the son of the city’s first Covid-19 casualty, a 43-year-old woman who had died on March 30 at Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital.While tracing her contacts, her son’s throat swab was first taken on March 31 and it had tested negative. His samples were again taken and after five days, he tested positive. On April 24, his samples were sent for test for the third time. He has also tested positive for hepatitis B. In the second case, the minor is the nephew of a 55-year-old resident of Chowkiman village who had tested positive on April 4. The two along with three others from the district had gone to Delhi to attend Tablighi Jamaat from March 17 to 19. His two uncles had recovered from Covid-19 on April 22 and April 26.Senior medical officer Dr Geeta Kataria said, “They both have again tested positive. Their samples will now be sent for test after five days. If they test negative, another test will be conducted after 24 hours. Two consecutive negative reports would mean they have cured and could be discharged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/amarpura-man-jagraon-boy-test-positive-again/articleshow/75415111.cms||Mehak Jain
April 28, 2020||Varanasi||Roza kits distributed to poor Muslim families||VARANASI: Many organisations as well as individuals have come forward to help poor families of Muslim community observing roza during the holy month of Ramzan by providing them ration kits. A social organization Vishal Bharat Sansthan, on Monday, started the supply of a ‘potali’ (packet) containing rice, flour, pulses, gram, khajoor, besan, oil and papad for those observing roza. VBS founder Rajiv Srivastava said that the packets are being distributed among 500 families of Muslim community. Similarly, MLC Ashok Dhawan, after consulting district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, also arranged 1,200 packets for the poor weaver families. In view of the increasing demand, the number of packets would be increased to 6,000. Each large packet contains 10 kg flour, 2kg besan, 2kg gram, and 2kg pea, while small packet contains 2kg sugar, 1/2kg khajoor and 1/2 kg tea. Meanwhile, on the behalf of Bunkar Biradarana Tanzeem Baisee Committee, Haji Abdul Kalam Ansari handed over a cheque of Rs 1.50 lakh to the DM for UP Covid fund. Besides, the masks prepared with the cut-piece clothes by the women were also presented on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/roza-kits-distributed-to-poor-muslim-families/articleshow/75414505.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||330+ requests from locals stuck abroad||Ludhiana: The district administration has received more than 330 requests from its citizens who are stuck abroad and wish to return.On Sunday evening, the administration had issued a statement, saying the Punjab government has sought information about residents, including students, who were abroad and wished to return to India. It added that they could contact the district administration with relevant details.Officials said by Monday evening, around 330 persons made requests and of these, maximum came from Canada, followed by Australia, the USA and Singapore. The officials said there were also many requests from countries like the UK and Italy where thousands of cases of Covid-19 have been reported. They said the number of such requests would increase in the next few days. Additional deputy commissioner (development) Amrit Singh said these people need to upload their details on the Google form at the link https://forms.gle/QNMdKDHVk6PCK8DV7. These would then be sent to the state government for necessary action.Officer on special duty (OSD) to chief minister Ankit Bansal said after the details were collected by the deputy commissioners of various districts, these would be sent to the chief minister’s office (CMO). “The chief minister will take up the cases with the ministry of external affairs, which will contact the respective embassies. We are working to bring back all residents of Punjab stuck abroad,” the OSD added. An NRI Sabha representative said the government must make all-out efforts. “Many people abroad are facing financial problems and sufferings. The government should bring them back so that they can at least be with their families. However, they must be screened before being allowed to their native places,” said Apinder Singh Sodhi of NRI Sabha in Ludhiana. He added that there were 600 registered members with the sabha from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/330-requests-from-locals-stuck-abroad/articleshow/75415107.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Authorities scratch heads over data breach||Kannur: Authorities remain clueless as questions are being raised about the potential misuse of information following the suspected breach of data of a few people who recovered from Covid-19 in Kannur and Kasaragod. Though the police have initiated a probe into the incident in Kasaragod, they are still in darkness as to how the data got leaked, resulting in some people calling some of the recovered patients. On Monday morning, certain details of the recovered patients in the containment zones allegedly appeared on Google Maps for a short period. The matter came to light when some of the recovered people in Kasaragod said they got calls from a number. When they tried to call back the same number it was not accessible and the message was, ‘You may not make calls to the dialed number’. The calls were made on April 21 and 22 from 8045701100 and people in Kasaragod said they were spoken to in broken Malayalam and then in Hindi. They said the caller asked details including their dates of arrival in India, when they tested positive and when the recovered, besides their passport details. “The TrueCaller showed the caller ID as Aarogya Setu, which is the central government’s Covid tracking app, but the phone showed it as spam. Many of my acquaintances also said they also got the call and we suspect some foul play, and we are worried how our details got leaked,” said a person from Anangoor, who tested positive for Coivde-19 earlier and was discharged later. The issue of data popping up on Google Maps was also reported from Kannur. The affected people are worried that such data would be misused by some vested interests. District medical officer (DMO) in Kasaragod, Dr AV Ramdas, has filed a police complaint. “Since the data is saved in different platforms, from Covid Tracker at panchayat level to Aarogya Setu, we are not in a position to tell from where it got leaked, but we have alerted everybody not to share any details to anyone who calls them,” he said. When contacted, the special branch DSP Sunilkumar M said the investigation is on with the support of Cybercell but at this point, they could not tell if there was any data breach. Meanwhile, Kannur district collector TV Subhash said the data must be secure, in all the platforms, including the mobile app created by the police. “Though we cannot assert if the data got leaked, we have to make sure whatever data is saved in different platforms are secure and there is no leakage that might affect the individuals concerned,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/authorities-scratch-heads-over-data-breach/articleshow/75415136.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Students from Kota screened, recommended home quarantine||Ludhiana: 25 students from Kota who entered Ludhiana were screened at the flu corner of the civil hospital on Monday evening. 28 students who belonged to Punjab had been boarded in a bus, of which one of Hoshiarpur and two of Dhanuala were dropped on way back. Dr Geeta Kataria, senior medical officer, said, “After screening, the students were dropped back by the transportation facilities provided by the administration. All have been recommended home quarantine for 14 days and if any symptoms occur, they were told to report at the flu corner of the civil hospital.” “Prior to this, we have screened as many as 150 migrant labourers from UP and 56 devotees of Nanded from Maharashtra on Sunday.” 20-year-old Prakash Kumar from Hariya village, Uppla tehsil said, “The institute never arranged any such facility for us as we were not living in any hostel. But later after concerns were raised, they had to arrange meals for us. A few days back, UP government called back their students, following which we also raised the issue with our government and they decided to send a bus.” Ashish Kumar (20), who is preparing for IIT-JEE since last June at Kota, said, “We were dicey and tense as we were always doubtful on the workers who used to cook for us.We never knew whether they were cooking for us by taking preventive measures. We wanted to go back home desperately as all students from all over India had gone back to their states.” Alisha Dhir hailing from New Hargobindnagar had joined the institute last year on May 24. She said, “All students had gone to their native places and the remaining started feeling depressed as we were quarantined and now again we have been recommended home quarantine but I am glad that I will be with my family now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/students-from-kota-screened-recommended-home-quarantine/articleshow/75416324.cms||Mehak Jain
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Adequate tankers to make more trips to meet citizens’ demand for water||Kolhapur: Anticipating the rush among citizens to draw water from the tankers, the civic administration has directed the officials of the water supply department to deploy more tankers and increase the frequency of the trips. The A, C and D wards of the city are going to face water cuts on Tuesday and likely on Wednesday as well. The Balinga pumping station will remain shut to carry the repair works of the damaged valve of the rising main pipeline, through which huge quantity of water is getting lost. It is for the first time during the lockdown that the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to snap water supply. It has ensured regular and uninterrupted supply of water to citizens during the last one month. Municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti held a meeting with the officials of the hydraulics department and directed them to exercise caution especially in the slum areas. “We want the citizens to maintain social distancing. Otherwise, the infection might spread and we will have more Covid-19 cases. We don’t want this to happen while we have successfully managed to stop the spread of the virus,” said Kalshetti. “I have asked the staff to stay on ground. They have been told to deploy the water tankers and fill the tanks in the residential societies as early as possible. More water is being released to the taps so that people can store sufficient amount of water. The number of trips made by the water tankers will be increased. We will ensure that the tanker reaches a particular area as soon as the locals place the demand.” The KMC has already appointed one officer for each of the 44 slums in the city and have local ward-level committees in place. They have been asked not to ensure that the citizens dont rush while they step out to draw water from the tankers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/adequate-tankers-to-make-more-trips-to-meet-citizens-demand-for-water/articleshow/75415147.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer police seize gutkha, tobacco worth Rs 11 lakh||Ajmer: The city police on Monday seized gutkha worth Rs 11 lakh and Rs 7 lakh cash from the house of one Vinay Prasad Sahu (54), a native of Bihar and currently residing in Ganesh Guwari of Panchsheel area, and arrested him. Police have completely banned the sale of gutkha and tobacco as people, after chewing them, spit on the roads thereby increasing the dangers of Covid-19 infection. A special team under DSP Priyanka Raghvanshi was formed to crack down on sale and supply of gutkha and tobacco. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-police-seize-gutkha-tobacco-worth-rs-11-lakh/articleshow/75416973.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||This marriage had only 3 persons from either side||LUDHIANA: In yet another low-profile marriage in times of Covid-19, a man from Mallewal village of Sahnewal in the district got married to a woman from Nawanshahr in a simple ceremony. The village panchayat congratulated them by gifting them a cake. Groom Baldev Singh said on Sunday, he got married to Kuldeep Kaur, after taking permission from the respective administrations. He said only three persons, including his parents Surinderpal Singh and mother Swaran Kaur, and driver Amarjit Singh of the same village, accompanied him to Nawanshahr for the wedding. The marriage was solemnised at a local gurdwara and only three members attended the ceremony from the bride’s family, too. According to the groom’s family members, Baldev, who worked in Kuwait, had done BA and got engaged to Kuldeep, who did IELTS after Class XII, four months ago. At the time of engagement, the marriage was fixed for this date. Village sarpanch Dharminder Singh said at the time of getting permission for the marriage, he had assured authorities that only a few persons would go with the groom. Around 4am on Sunday, when the groom left for Nawanshahr, he saw that only three members accompanied him, he said. “When they returned, I called them to my office before they went home and honoured them for keeping the promise made to the authorities. We decided to get them a cake as a token of thanks,” said the sarpanch, adding, “As markets are closed due to curfew, an acquaintance, Harwinder Singh, who knows how to make cake, made it at home.” The groom’s father is a panch. Simranjeet Singh Dhillon of Youth Akali Dal said, “It is appreciable. The SGPC has been stressing on simple marriages. Such a ceremony should be followed even under normal circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-marriage-had-only-3-persons-from-either-side/articleshow/75415141.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang extorts money from suppliers at veggie market||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Sunday booked four persons for extorting money from suppliers visiting the vegetable market, near Jalandhar Bypass.The accused would allegedly introduce themselves as Mandi Board workers and vegetable market contractors to squeeze money. Jodhewal police station SHO inspector Parmod Kumar said, “The accused would stand at the entrance of the vegetable market, charge Rs 20 from each vegetable supplier and issue them a slip that had Mandi Board written on it. However, it bore no signature or a stamp.” The accused were also letting vehicles enter the market in violation of the orders of deputy commissioner Pradeep Agarwal.“When a police team reached the market, the accused managed to make good their escape. We have registered a case against them. It is being probed if an official of the Mandi Board was involved in it,” the SHO added. The FIR has been lodged against Sanjeev Nona, Raju, Jeevan Ram and their accomplice, who is yet to be identified, under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 188 (orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-extorts-money-from-suppliers-at-veggie-market/articleshow/75415131.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Varanasi||BHU lab asked to test samples from hotspots on priority||VARANASI: Concerned over delay in finalising the deadline to lift restrictions from hotspot areas where no new cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the last 15 days, the district administration held a meeting with BHU laboratory authorities on Monday to prioritise testing of samples collected from these areas. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “Madanpura, Bajardiha, Lohta and Gangapur were declared hotspots on April 4 after detection of Covid-19 positive cases. Except Madanpura, no further cases were found in Lohta and Bajardiha. In Gangapur also both family members of Kolkata trader, who had died on April 3 after which his test report confirmed him positive next day, had returned home on getting cured at district hospital.” “In follow-up action, many samples from areas like Bajardiha, Lohta and Gangapur had been collected and sent for laboratory test. When the progress in testing of all the samples sent to BHU lab was checked on Monday morning, it was found that reports of those samples are still awaited,” he said. “Despite releasing test reports in bulk on Saturday and Sunday by BHU lab, test report of over 250 samples including those collected from hotspots of the districts had not arrived. In view of it a team of officials had been sent to hold meeting with BHU laboratory,” said DM. The DM further said during this meeting, the BHU laboratory authorities were asked to conduct test of the samples collected from hotspot areas of Varanasi on priority. He said that as the number of areas with positive cases was rising, lab authorities were asked to pay special attention towards the samples sent from here. He expressed the hope that as the BHU lab has also started pool testing, it is expected that all backlog would be cleared very soon. Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and IG Varanasi range VS Mina took stock of the arrangements made in Arjunpur village after it was made the eighth hotspot of the district on Sunday night when two labourers ho returned from Kolkata were diagnosed as infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-lab-asked-to-test-samples-from-hotspots-on-priority/articleshow/75414525.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jawan’s body reaches his Alwar village||Jaipur: Mortal remains of the army jawan who shot himself fatally in Kashmir were brought to Jaipur on Monday. The body was taken to his native village Berka in Alwar district. The jawan accidentally shot himself while he was cleaning his service rifle. The 35-year-old was posted in the Jat regiment in the valley.Havaldar Rakesh Jat (35) was posted in an infantry regiment in J&K and hailed from Berka village in Kathumar tehsil of Alwar district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jawans-body-reaches-his-alwar-village/articleshow/75416976.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||12,000 Bihar students stuck in Kota wait for Nitish Kumar's nod||KOTA: Despite repeated appeals to Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government to take them back, fate of nearly 12,000 students from stuck in Kota still hangs in balance as over 22,000 students from nine states and four Union Territories have already left for their respective states, mostly state government-owned buses, in the last 10 days. Students from Bihar have taken to various kinds of protests through various media platforms demanding the Nitish Kumar-led government to take them back, but no positive response has been received so far. Meanwhile, a tweet by the chief minister of West Bengal on Monday morning on her official twitter handle @MamataOfficial has brought relief to West Bengal students stuck in Kota. “I am personally overseeing this & we will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that everyone gets possible help. The initiation has already started and all students from Bengal stuck in Kota would begin their journey back soon,” Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Monday morning. Students of Bihar stuck in Kota can leave for their hometowns by private taxis with the travel passes issued by Kota administration, but the fare is too high for the students to afford, Nitesh Sharma, an official of Allen Career Institute, said. Hundreds of coaching students from Bihar were on a hunger strike demanding their return late in the evening in Kota. Kota police have registered a case against hostel owners for allowing students to gather and protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12k-bihar-students-stuck-in-kota-wait-for-nitish-nod/articleshow/75416987.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Officers, soldiers back in Jaisalmer after B’lore training||Jaisalmer: Army officers and jawans from Bengaluru reached Jaisalmer and Barmer in army buses from Jodhpur on Monday morning. A special military train with 204 army personnel on board which started from Bengaluru arrived at Jodhpur railway station on Sunday afternoon.The army jawans and officers are from different units deployed in Jaisalmer, Barmer and other parts of Rajasthan. They had gone for training earlier and have now come back via special train. Now army buses from Jaisalmer and other areas will reach Jodhpur to pick up the army personnel. All necessary arrangements at the Jodhpur station with respect to reception, segregat ion, disinfection and transportation till place of duty have bene organised by the Indian Army.Army sources said that in the prevailing scenario, a special military train was organised to move army personnel who have completed their professional courses at army training establishments. They will reach their units where they are deployed. The army ensured that all personnel had undergone the mandatory quarantine period and social distancing was adhered to throughout the journey.Army sources said that a total of 950 jawans and officers were participating in different training programmes in Bengaluru, Belgaum and Secunderabad. The personnel were unable to reach their basic units after the training got over. On army’s request, a special train was sent by the Indian Railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officers-soldiers-back-in-jaisalmer-after-blore-training/articleshow/75416979.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Varanasi||Drug wholesalers unwilling to reopen market till all reports come negative||VARANASI: The Saptsagar wholesale medicine market shut for three days by the district administration after a trader tested positive for novel coronavirus is unlikely to reopen on Tuesday and senior officials were holding parleys with wholesalers to resume supplies to east UP districts latest by Wednesday. The traders as well as the Chemist and Druggist Welfare Association are, however, in no mood to reopen the market till the reports of all the contacts of the infected trader come negative. The district administration had ordered closure of Saptsagar medicine wholesale market for three days from April 25, while Marahauli area where the infected trader lives was declared seventh hotspot of the district. The closure of market for three days has badly hit supplies to east UP districts. Officials in districts like Ballia asked local chemists to procure necessary stock from wholesalers in Deoria and Gorakhpur to avoid crisis. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI, “The union of traders had been asked to give a plan to avoid crowding in market and to provide a roster for some shops to open on rotation basis. They have given some proposals and supplies to neighbouring districts will resume on same lines.” “The traders are likely to make necessary arrangements by Tuesday and if all goes as per the plan, supplies from this market will be restored latest by Wednesday,” Sharma added. Traders’ association president Manoj Khanna said, “Traders, their employees and people in Saptsagar area are in panic. They want to wait till report of the infected trader’s staff, family and contacts arrive. The association also wants reopening of market if all reports are clear.” “The average daily trade of the 514 outlets in Saptsagar market is above Rs 10 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/drug-wholesalers-unwilling-to-reopen-market-till-all-reports-come-negative/articleshow/75414544.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||J&K residents gather at DC office, fill forms for return||tnnLudhiana: A large number of Jammu and Kashmir residents stuck in Ludhiana and surrounding areas gathered at the deputy commissioner’s office with requests to return home. Students and traders from J&K stranded in the city and the neighbouring towns of Raikot and Jagraon are yet to leave, as there is uncertainty whether they will be allowed beyond Lakhanpur in Kathua, which shares border with Pathankot district of Punjab. “We are nearly 230 persons, mostly from Kupwara district of Kashmir and into shawl trade. Many of us had come in last September to sell shawls during winter and were to leave around March 21. As we were preparing to leave, the government imposed lockdown,” said 21-year-old Jahangir Ahmed Mir of Kenyal Ramhall in Kupwara. He, along with his 60-year-old father Abdul Ahad Mir and uncle Abdul Aziz Mir, has been living in Iqbal Ganj Chowk. “I had applied for a curfew pass online on April 22, but didn’t get it. On Monday, I reapplied and am waiting for a response. Earlier, the authorities were not allowing people to go beyond Lakhanpur and would put them at a quarantine centre there, but now we have heard that they are allowing.”He added that most of the persons stuck here lived in Iqbal Ganj Chowk, Neem Waala Chowk and near bus stand.The gathering said they had gone to the Ludhiana DC’s office at 10am and later their representatives met the officials, who gave them forms to fill. They added that they submitted the forms and returned to their rented accommodations by 4pm. Abdul Ahad said his wife was ill and his three children, two sons and a daughter, at home were too young to look after her. “They also are worried about us,” he added. The J&K residents said the district administration should facilitate their return, just like Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan governments were doing.Nazir Ahmed of Kupwara said their acquaintances stuck in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan have reached home and the Punjab government should also help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jk-residents-gather-at-dc-office-fill-forms-for-return/articleshow/75415151.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli: District administration awaits report from Mumbai’s LTMC hospital||Kolhapur: The Sangli district administration has asked the Mumbai-based Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College and General Hospital (LTMC) to submit a report regarding a lapse that led to 30 people attending the funeral of a Covid-19 positive patient. The 35-year-old patient had passed away on April 18 in Mumbai due to cardiac arrest, and his throat swab sample report mentioning he was Covid-19 positive came on April 22. The 30 people, all residents of Kheradi Wangi village, attended the man’s funeral at the same village on April 18. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary told TOI, "We have asked the LTMC to submit a report on whether the patient was Covid-19 positive, and if he was positive, then what led to the lapse." Chaudhary said that they are awaiting the report from the LTMC. "Once it arrives, we will take a decision whether to re-test the swab samples of the 30 people who are now under institutional quarantine facility at Kadegaon town," he said. "Since the report of all 30 came negative in the first test and the possibility of contracting contagion increases after 7 days of the exposure, we might as well have to re-do the tests. However, we need to check if the hospital is sure about their report or not," he added. The district collector said the report they are going to file to the divisional commissioner office is also on hold as they are awaiting LTMC’s response. "Still, we have verbally have discussed the matter with the divisional commissioner office," he said. Notably, according to Sangli district administration, it was family members who contacted the Mumbai-based Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College and General Hospital for the report of their deceased kin. When the family was told that the deceased was Covid-19 positive and they alerted the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-district-administration-awaits-report-from-mumbais-ltmc-hospital/articleshow/75415166.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||When cops, residents stood up for ‘Main Bhi Harjeet Singh’||Ludhiana: To stand in solidarity with all frontline corona warriors and oppose attack on them, city residents, including children, participated in a campaign named ‘Main Bhi Harjeet Singh’ on Monday Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and other police personnel wore the badges having sub inspector ‘Harjeet Singh’ written on it to stand up against the attacks on corona warriors. Harjeet’s hand had been chopped off by some Nihangs in Patiala when he tried to stop them from breaking curfew norms. On Monday morning, Agarwal, along with other senior officials, initiated the campaign at Bharat Nagar Chowk with placards in their hands, on which was written ‘Main Bhi Harjeet Singh’ and ‘Main Bhi Punjab Police’. A march was also conducted by DCP traffic Sukhpal Singh Brar. Moreover, on Monday afternoon, the police personnel also showered flowers on doctors outside the office of police commissioner to pay gratitude to PGIMER doctors and medical staff, who administrated treatment to Harjeet Singh and other Covid-19 patients. Besides, the Ludhiana police have also launched a frame for Facebook users to use it in their Facebook profile pictures with name of SI Harjeet Singh to join the campaign. Along with cops, some city residents, including youngsters and children, too made cards of ‘Main Bhi Harjeet Singh’. A resident of Janpath Estate, Rimpy Thapar, along with his children Bhumi Thapar and Rohnish Thapar, circulated their pictures carrying placard of ‘Main Bhi Harjeet Singh’. Some youngsters and children, Pooja (21), Nancy (15), Mayank Arora (5), Mehak (10), Angel (5) and Shivam (12) of Kailash Nagar, came out of their houses with placards and stood on road while maintaining social distance. Pooja said, “It is time to show unity and also respect towards the frontline warriors who are working selflessly. Therefore, I along with neighbourhood children, planned to join the campaign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/when-cops-residents-stood-up-for-main-bhi-harjeet-singh/articleshow/75416333.cms||Payal Dhawan
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: This Ramzan, Muslims donate Zakat to NGOs||HYDERABAD: Preserving the age-old tradition of giving Zakat, Muslims across the city are distributing essentials to those in need and making donations to charitable trusts during the lockdown, as a form of obligatory religious. “This year, we have decided to donate Zakat to the poor families through charitable trusts or NGOs that can identify those in need during the lockdown,” Mohammad Zubbair, a resident of Tolichowki told TOI. Many people are also giving the money earmarked for their annual Iftar parties to the poor Muslim. “We have decided to donate the money that we earlier used to spend to organise Iftar. We realized that there are several families who are struggling to make ends meet due to the lockdown,” said Farhan Ahmed, a resident of Banjara Hills. A survey was also conducted by an NGO to help people make informed choices while donating Zakat. The survey, conducted in Old City by the Helping Hand Foundation, showed that 63% of Muslims in the city are below the poverty line, while other 37% are financially stable and 2% are elite families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-ramzan-muslims-donate-zakat-to-ngos/articleshow/75416994.cms||Moulika.KV
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||11-yr-old girl raped in Ajmer district||Ajmer: An 11-year-old girl was abducted and raped in Kekeri town of the district when her family was sleeping in the field to safeguard crop. The girl was found one kilometre from the spot. The girl was referred to Ajmer and police is investigating the matter. The farmer’s family had gone to the field to safeguard the crop from cattle. After dinner they slept on the field. When the girl’s mother got up at 3am she found her daughter missing. The family began looking for her and found her one kilometre away. The girl told them that she had been abducted an unidentified man and raped. the family then approached Kekeri police. Police said that an FIR has been registered and they are looking for the accused. The survivor has been referred to JLN Hospital, Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-yr-old-girl-raped-in-ajmer-district/articleshow/75416988.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||NCW writes to DGP on gangrape in Sawai Madhopur shelter home||JAIPUR: The National Commission for Women (NCW) has written to Rajasthan DGP Bhupendra Singh about the alleged gangrape of a woman in a village school, which was turned into a temporary shelter home, in Sawai Madhopur on Thursday. The commission has asked the DGP to punish the culprits and the erring police officials. NCW has asked Singh to ensure safety and security of women in the state. A 40-year-old woman was gangraped allegedly by three youths in Sawai Madhopur’s Batoda police station area on Thursday night. She registered a case on Friday morning. The police arrested the three accused within few hours thereafter. The woman, in her statement, had said she had been stuck for a month in Sawai Madhopur due to lockdown. She decided to walk down to her rented residence in Jaipur but lost way. She found herself in a village where she was made to stay alone in a government school by villagers even though the local officials said no, as the school was vacant, sources said. Police claimed that the accused who are in their 20s probably found that the woman was staying alone in the school and decided to assault her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ncw-writes-to-dgp-on-gangrape-in-sawai-madhopur-shelter-home/articleshow/75416991.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||7 more test positive, woman dies||Vadodara: Seven persons tested positive even as an elderly woman died due to Covid-19 in Vadodara. Much to the relief of the officials, no new areas were affected by the viral outbreak. Six of the fresh cases were reported from the Nagarwada, while one was from the Wadi area of the city. While Nagarwada has emerged as the epicentre of Covid-19, Wadi has also seen cases in the past. With the fresh cases, the Covid-19 tally in the city increased to 248.  Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that 148 samples were tested since last Thursday evening. The north zone remained the worst affected area in the city with 203 positive cases so far. The east zone of VMC is second amongst the four zone with 21 cases including one on Monday. Most of the cases are from the Wadi area. The woman who died on Monday has been identified as Faridabanu Saiyed (50) from the Mehboobpura locality in Navapura. She died at the SSG Hospital on Monday morning. She was the fourteenth victim of the disease. Those admitted in the hospitals include four who are on oxygen while four others who are on ventilators or BiPAP machines. The condition of the remaining 166 patients is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/7-more-test-positive-woman-dies/articleshow/75415693.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Varanasi||Prefer UP labourers in projects: Minister||VARANASI: UP minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari asked the officials to ensure that labourers from UP are preferred to be engaged in construction work. While reviewing the construction work restarted at Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) project site on Monday, Tiwari said, “To meet the challenges generated by COVID-19 lockdown the Yogi Adityanath government in state has decided to generate employment for 15 lakhs labourers. Major projects, in which works can be done by ensuring proper social distancing, have been restarted for the same reasons. In view of it labourers of state should be preferred at all those sites, where works are restarted.” The officials at KV Dham project site informed the minister that 500 more labourers are needed to ensure progress in the construction works with desired pace. The minister asked the officials to arrange the labourers from UP districts and also to see that all works is carried out following the norms of social distancing and safety measures only. Following the decision of state government to restart construction work on major projects by issuing permission on cases to case basis for generating employment to labourers and people of poor class, the work of KV Dham project had also been started on April 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/prefer-up-labourers-in-projects-min/articleshow/75414555.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 89% of Covid-19 cases from three districts||AHMEDABAD: Three districts of Gujarat — Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara — have 89% of total Covid-19 positive cases in Gujarat, according to state health department officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Monday said that Ahmedabad has recorded 65% of Gujarat’s total cases, followed by 16% by Surat and 8% by Vadodara. “Other 27 districts have reported 11% of cases. Three districts namely Amreli, Junagadh and Devbhoomi Dwarka have not reported any positive case so far,” she said. Analysis of the cases on Monday evening reveal that out of 27 districts with 11% cases, 15 have five or less active cases. The active cases are defined by reducing the deaths and discharged patients from the total number of positive cases recorded. These districts include Porbandar, Morbi and Jamnagar (0 cases), Gir Somnath, Sabarkantha, Tapi and Surendranagar (1 case each), Kutch and Dangs (2 cases each), Dahod and Navsari (3 cases each), Valsad (4 cases), Patan, Mehsana and Kheda (5 cases each). Ravi on Monday evening said that out of 3,548 total positive cases, 162 patients have died and 394 have got discharged. Out of 2,992 patients in hospital or Covid-19 care centre, 31 are on ventilators. After a row over the missing district-wise test details from the state Covid-19 dashboard, Ravi said that the data entry operation had resulted in the lack of update. “The website has been updated with latest figures,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/89-of-covid-19-cases-from-three-districts/articleshow/75418728.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: 89% of Covid-19 cases from three districts||AHMEDABAD: Three districts of Gujarat — Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara — have 89% of total Covid-19 positive cases in Gujarat, according to state health department officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Monday said that Ahmedabad has recorded 65% of Gujarat’s total cases, followed by 16% by Surat and 8% by Vadodara. “Other 27 districts have reported 11% of cases. Three districts namely Amreli, Junagadh and Devbhoomi Dwarka have not reported any positive case so far,” she said. Analysis of the cases on Monday evening reveal that out of 27 districts with 11% cases, 15 have five or less active cases. The active cases are defined by reducing the deaths and discharged patients from the total number of positive cases recorded. These districts include Porbandar, Morbi and Jamnagar (0 cases), Gir Somnath, Sabarkantha, Tapi and Surendranagar (1 case each), Kutch and Dangs (2 cases each), Dahod and Navsari (3 cases each), Valsad (4 cases), Patan, Mehsana and Kheda (5 cases each). Ravi on Monday evening said that out of 3,548 total positive cases, 162 patients have died and 394 have got discharged. Out of 2,992 patients in hospital or Covid-19 care centre, 31 are on ventilators. After a row over the missing district-wise test details from the state Covid-19 dashboard, Ravi said that the data entry operation had resulted in the lack of update. “The website has been updated with latest figures,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/89-of-covid-19-cases-from-three-districts/articleshow/75418729.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: 89% of Covid-19 cases from three districts||AHMEDABAD: Three districts of Gujarat — Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara — have 89% of total Covid-19 positive cases in Gujarat, according to state health department officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Monday said that Ahmedabad has recorded 65% of Gujarat’s total cases, followed by 16% by Surat and 8% by Vadodara. “Other 27 districts have reported 11% of cases. Three districts namely Amreli, Junagadh and Devbhoomi Dwarka have not reported any positive case so far,” she said. Analysis of the cases on Monday evening reveal that out of 27 districts with 11% cases, 15 have five or less active cases. The active cases are defined by reducing the deaths and discharged patients from the total number of positive cases recorded. These districts include Porbandar, Morbi and Jamnagar (0 cases), Gir Somnath, Sabarkantha, Tapi and Surendranagar (1 case each), Kutch and Dangs (2 cases each), Dahod and Navsari (3 cases each), Valsad (4 cases), Patan, Mehsana and Kheda (5 cases each). Ravi on Monday evening said that out of 3,548 total positive cases, 162 patients have died and 394 have got discharged. Out of 2,992 patients in hospital or Covid-19 care centre, 31 are on ventilators. After a row over the missing district-wise test details from the state Covid-19 dashboard, Ravi said that the data entry operation had resulted in the lack of update. “The website has been updated with latest figures,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/89-of-covid-19-cases-from-three-districts/articleshow/75418727.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Aurangabad||29 new cases registered in city, tally now 82 in district||Aurangabad: The Covid-19 tally on Monday with as many as 29 new cases being confirmed. The total tally in the district rose to 82. The cases detected included 12 from Town Hall in Noor Colony, 13 from Qile Ark, two from Asifiya Colony, one from Kala Darwaza, and one from Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey issued a press release stating that the increase in cases is a result of an increase in testing. “We are testing more suspects than ever. Now, our contact mapping has improved and our team is able to trace people as early as possible. All the fresh cases were already in quarantine,” Pandey said. Pandey added that if these people were not tested for coronavirus, they would have been moving in the society as asymptomatic carriers. However, the health department ensured that they are placed in quarantine and being tested. Out of the 12 cases from Noor Colony five are children and below the age of ten. All of them are from the same family. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old woman from Qile Ark area died while undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday afternoon, taking the death toll to six in the city. According to GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar, the elderly woman was brought to the hospital on April 24 with pneumonitis, diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroidism. “Her throat swab was collected on April 25 and she was diagnosed with Covid-19 on the same day. Her condition remained critical all through the treatment and she passed away at 12.30 pm on Monday,” Yelikar said. Nodal officer at GMCH Arvind Gaikwad said that the cause of women’s death is bilateral pneumonitis with acute respiratory distress syndrome due to Covid-19. “She also had diabetes mellitus type 2 with diabetic nephropathy hypertension ischemic heart disease with hypothyroidism. The AMC is still investigating the source of her infection,” he said. Of the 13 cases reported from Qile Ark is a 65-year-old woman who was admitted to GMCH with right lower pneumonia with diabetes mellitus on April 25. Gaikwad said that she doesn’t have any history of travel but she is a resident of the area which has turned into a hotspot. The remaining two cases are contacts of confirmed cases. The case reported from Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura is of a 16-year-old boy who tested positive for the contagion on Monday. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) medical officer Meghna Jogdand on Monday said that ten localities are currently marked as containment zones. “81 teams are conducting door-to-door surveys in these areas. 22,058 people in 4,583 houses have been screened to identify persons with any Covid-19 like symptoms, travel history, or contact history,” she said. As many as 420 high-risk contacts of confirmed cases have been kept in institutional quarantine by the AMC. Meanwhile, a 17-year-old boy from Baijipura who was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection on April 14 was discharged from district civil hospital on Monday after he tested negative for two consecutive tests. His stepmother, who was detected with the infection two days later, continues to be under treatment at the same hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/29-new-cases-registered-in-city-tally-now-82-in-district/articleshow/75415200.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: 2 more test positive while 2 recover||Kolhapur: While two Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday after their second test also came out negative, two patients were added to the tally after testing positive for the respiratory disease in Satara. With the latest positive cases, the number of patients suffering from Covid-19 in Satara district has gone up to 35. However, with recovery of seven patients the number of active cases is 28. The medical staff at the Satara district hospital clapped and cheered the patients on their way out. Both the patients thanked the staff for their continuous care and support during their stay at the hospital. Amod Gadikar, district civil surgeon (Satara), said the latest two positive cases are the close contacts of an earlier patient who is being treated at Karad-based Krishna Medical College. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said that they are working on tracing the high-risk contacts of the latest positive patients and citizens should cooperate with them. Meanwhile, as many as 98 throat swab samples tested negative in Satara with most of them being of the close contacts of the earlier positive patients. A report from the district health department stated that 32 from Krantisinh Nana Patil General Hospital (Satara civil hospital), 9 from Krishna Medical College (Karad) 43 from sub-district hospital in Karad and 14 from Rural hospital in Koregaon have tested negative. Also, on Monday, as many as 13 suspected patients were admitted to the isolation wards of Krishna Medical College and Satara civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-2-more-test-positive-while-2-recover/articleshow/75415212.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 89% of Covid-19 cases from three districts||AHMEDABAD: Three districts of Gujarat — Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara — have 89% of total Covid-19 positive cases in Gujarat, according to state health department officials. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), on Monday said that Ahmedabad has recorded 65% of Gujarat’s total cases, followed by 16% by Surat and 8% by Vadodara. “Other 27 districts have reported 11% of cases. Three districts namely Amreli, Junagadh and Devbhoomi Dwarka have not reported any positive case so far,” she said. Analysis of the cases on Monday evening reveal that out of 27 districts with 11% cases, 15 have five or less active cases. The active cases are defined by reducing the deaths and discharged patients from the total number of positive cases recorded. These districts include Porbandar, Morbi and Jamnagar (0 cases), Gir Somnath, Sabarkantha, Tapi and Surendranagar (1 case each), Kutch and Dangs (2 cases each), Dahod and Navsari (3 cases each), Valsad (4 cases), Patan, Mehsana and Kheda (5 cases each). Ravi on Monday evening said that out of 3,548 total positive cases, 162 patients have died and 394 have got discharged. Out of 2,992 patients in hospital or Covid-19 care centre, 31 are on ventilators. After a row over the missing district-wise test details from the state Covid-19 dashboard, Ravi said that the data entry operation had resulted in the lack of update. “The website has been updated with latest figures,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/89-of-covid-19-cases-from-three-districts/articleshow/75416365.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Working from homes, CGST officials dispose refunds worth Rs 96.74 crore||LUDHIANA: In a bid to give relief to businessmen who are facing huge financial crunch due to the lockdown, officials of central GST (CGST) commissionerate have processed GST refunds to the tunes of Rs 96.74 crore despite the office remaining closed. This has been made possible as the officials and staff of CGST have been working from their homes ever since the lockdown started. In another development the department has cleared the backlog of the pending RFD01 (online filing) refunds cases and as on date only 131 refunds are pending, which are more than 30 days old. Already equipped with the e-office system, the CGST offices in some cities, including Ludhiana, had been turned paperless some time back but in order to make it possible for its officials to work remotely from home. Giving more information, Ashutosh Baranwal, principal commissioner, CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, said, “Though our office is already paperless and we have been working via e-office system in our offices for the past one year, ever since the lockdown started we were faced with the problem of not being able to access this system from our homes as it runs on internet. Besides, there are several other issues due to which it was not secure to access them from non-office locations. But thanks to the relentless work of our Directorate of Systems, New Delhi, their teams ensured it that we have safe access of the e-office system from our homes and work is not disrupted or delayed. We are also making sure that officials working from home do not face any issue with regard to internet connectivity or be it anything else which may hamper the official work.” Baranwal added, “As on April 26, there are only 131 refunds pending at the Ludhiana CGST commissionerate level, of which in 96 cases show-cause notices have been issued, in 16 cases there are technical glitches like bank validation failures, while 19 cases are under process. From March 23 till April 24, a total of 725 refund claims have processed by us during this lockdown period, for a total amount of Rs 96.74 crore.” He said, “During the same period, we received 343 new refund claims from assesses, which involved Rs 52.36 crore. As GST refunds have a stipulated time limit of 60 days for disposal, our commissionerate has disposed of all GST refund claims pending for more than 30 days, so as to help the trade in the time of this corona pandemic. Only Refunds, where some clarifications, supporting documents have been sought or where there is technical glitch are pending. 138 such refund claims have been taken up on highest priority for resolution of technical glitches and for their early disposal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/working-from-homes-cgst-officials-dispose-refunds-worth-rs-96-74cr/articleshow/75416343.cms||Mohit Behl
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Curfew in Udaipur’s Sukher area after nurse tests positive||UDAIPUR: Prohibitory orders were imposed in the entire area under Sukher police station of the city on Monday evening after a 55-year-old nurse of the government MB Hospital tested positive for Covid-19. The nurse lives in Panna Vihar in the New Bhupalpura area and had been working in the corona ward for past 15 days, sources said. Medical and the police department swung into action as the report was confirmed and the complete area was sealed by putting up barricades. Ambulances rushed to the colony to take the family members of the nurse to quarantine facility. More than 40 medical and nursing staff were sent to several colonies in the area who conducted door-to-door survey to collect data. People were strictly advised not to get out of their homes. The medical department prepared a list of all those people who had come in contact with the nurse at the workplace as well as neighbourhood. “People are not being allowed to come out of their homes. Business outlets and markets will remain closed till the prohibitory order remains effective,” ASP city Gopal Swaroop Mewara informed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/curfew-in-udaipurs-sukher-area-after-nurse-tests-positive/articleshow/75416995.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Agra||After Priyanka, Akhilesh Yadav now tweets support for Agra mayor, asks UP govt to ‘wake up’ about Covid-19 crisis||AGRA: A day after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi tweeted support for Agra’s BJP mayor Naveen Jain who urged UP CM Yogi Adityanath to “save Agra from becoming another Wuhan”, former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav asked the state government to “wake up”. “According to Mayor, the much touted Agra model of chief minister has failed and will make Agra, Wuhan (China). No testing, no medicines and private hospitals for other diseases, no life-saving kits and now mismanagement of quarantine centres is proving deadly. Wake up government,” Yadav tweeted. A total of 384 cases of coronavirus were reported in Agra till Monday. While ten people have died, 52 were treated and discharged. The number of active cases is 322. In his letter to the CM, the mayor had said, “Testing of people at quarantine centres does not take place for days together. Patients suffering from renal problems and other diseases have been dying as there is no arrangement for their treatment. The situation is very serious. Nursing homes are not ready to admit expectant mothers. Family members of Covid-19 patients are forced to wait for many days to get tested. People of Agra are in a state of panic. Due to the inefficiency of the officials, people are cursing the BJP government and public representatives. There is a lot of anger among the common people.” In his letter, Jain had said, "I am writing this letter with a very sad mind that my Agra is going through a phase of excessive problems. The need is to take bold decision to save Agra, where the situation has become very serious. Hence, with folded hands, I am praying you to please save my Agra, please save it." The letter written by the Agra Mayor was also tweeted by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday. The Congress leader had also said that transparency and testing were important to contain coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-priyanka-akhilesh-now-tweets-support-for-agra-mayor-asks-up-govt-to-wake-up-about-covid-crisis/articleshow/75415242.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Must shrink case growth rate to 5%: Nehra||Ahmedabad: The AMC plans to bring down the current active Covid-19 case growth rate of 10% in the city to 5% by May 3. Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said on Monday that an active case growth rate of 5% will ensure that the situation in the city was under control. On Monday, with addition of 142 new cases the city had 1,854 active cases as against 1,712 cases on Sunday, showing an active case growth rate of 8.24%. Nehra emphasized that the public will need to follow the Covid protocol for a few months after lockdown is lifted. For the next few months, everyone will have to ensure they are wearing masks or have covered their mouth and nose with cloth when stepping outdoors, Nehra said. “After lockdown is lifted, hand washing, sanitizers and masks should be made a part of life, as they will be essential for the next two to three months from May 3,” Nehra said. Stressing that following the norms for battling Covid-19 need to be kept up, Nehra added, “Once lockdown ends, shopkeepers and business establishments will have to follow the Covid protocol to keep a check on infections. Customers too will have to ensure they avoid groups. People will have to practice self-restraint for the next two months,” he said. Shopkeepers will have to ensure they have sanitizers at their shops and customers sanitize their hands before touching anything, Nehra said. Nehra said that as part of the strategy to control the spread of Covid-19, the AMC is planning to get strict with those who spit on road, and increase surveillance. The corporation has already decided on a fine ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 for spitting in public. The commissioner also cautioned that even after lockdown is lifted, cars should not carry more than two persons and two-wheelers should carry single riders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/must-shrink-case-growth-rate-to-5-nehra/articleshow/75416363.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid-19 contacts will now be tested after 5 to 14 days, says CMHO||BHOPAL: In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic, health department has changed its strategy of immediate testing of the traced contacts, as an early negative report gives a false sense of security to the suspect, said Bhopal’s chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari.Close contacts of a Covid-19 patient, will now be tested after a gap of 5 to 14 days, said CMHO. According to additional director general, ICMR, Dr GS Toteja, diagnosis of Covid-19 infection is RT- PCR test of throat and/or nasal swab, which detects virus at an early stage. As per the new guidelines, asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day 5 and day 14 of coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient. Dr Tiwari reiterated that all other ICMR guidelines for those who came in close contact with a positive patient, however, remain the same. It includes home quarantine or institution quarantine for family and close contacts, he added. Replying to query over delay in testing and instances of close contacts including family members of a positive patient not being tested even after patient’s death, the CMHO said, “We would take immediate measures if such instances are reported.” Bhopal has reported over 400 Covid-19 cases. The disease is characterised in its most severe form by acute immune responses that render the patient susceptible to cytokine release syndrome and acute respiratory distress. Current estimates of the incubation period of COVID range from 2-14 days. Most common symptoms include fever, fatigue, dry cough and breathing difficulty. Upper respiratory tract symptoms including sore throat, rhinorrhoea, and gastrointestinal symptoms like diarrhoea and nausea/ vomiting are seen in about 20 per cent cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-contacts-will-now-be-tested-after-5-to-14-days-cmho/articleshow/75415248.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Varanasi||300 buses to ferry students stuck in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: On the directives of the state government, the district authorities on Monday announced that around 300 buses would be plied to send stranded students of coaching institutes in the city to their home towns. District authorities said that students would be able to get buses for their respective districts in two phases. Under the first phase, buses for students willing to go to Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Chandauli, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Chitrakoot would be deployed at two different locations on Monday night (9 pm to 12 midnight) and Tuesday morning (8 am) These buses would be parked at three spots for departure to different destinations. Students have been advised to carry their college, school or institution’s Identity Cards to take seats in buses. The authorities have also issued helpline numbers 0532-2641577 and 0532-2641578 and 7458825340. In second phase, buses would be plied for other districts on April 29. Students have also been advised to wear masks and follow social distancing norms strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/300-buses-to-ferry-students-stuck-in-city/articleshow/75414626.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nashik||2 held for assaulting police constable, rash driving||Nashik: Gangapur police on Sunday arrested two people on charges of assaulting a public servant along with other sections of the Motor Vehicles Act. Both the suspects — Sagar Jadhav (24) and Motiram Shevre (20) — are residents of Cidco area. According to police, at 5pm, the suspect duo arrived at a checkpoint that was being manned by constable Nikhil Salve. “The duo asked the constable to let them pass, but the latter demanded to see a pass issued by the administration. Following this, one of the youths informed the constable that he was a public representative and showed an outdated identity card issued by the state government,” a police officer said. “The constable then grew suspicious and demanded to check the car. This is when the suspects pushed him and tried to flee in the vehicle. In the process, they also knocked down a person at Mahindra Circle and rammed into a government vehicle,” he added. The police finally reached the spot and found 25 cans of beer in the car. They have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and under sections of Maharashtra Vehicle Act and Maharashtra Prohibition Act. On Monday, the suspects were produced before a city court that remanded them in three-day police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-held-for-assaulting-police-constable-rash-driving/articleshow/75415245.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Going abroad for studies: Some say will rethink, while others they will defer plans||Ludhiana: Due to coronavirus, there are so many sectors which are being affected and one of them is immigration. The parents who wanted to send their children to foreign countries to study or help them settle there are now not ready to send them even a tourist visa. Aman Khurana, a student of Dugri, said, “I don’t know it’s a decision taken by God, maybe as I was going to have my IELTS exam day after the lockdown started. I was ready for it as I wanted to go out and explore a new world of opportunities. But before I was able to give exam the lockdown started and I was not able to give the exam. Now, after what is happening in the world I think it’s better not to leave my parents as I feel scared from inside what would have happened if I was in any other country or what would have been my condition there.” “At first, following the trend I agreed to send my son abroad for further studies because of the opportunities there, but after Covid-19, I will not send my child abroad as right now I feel scared to send my child abroad, even on a tourist visa. But if the conditions improve, maybe after two-three years I will send him abroad,” said Raj Kumar, a businessman, Gill village. Sanskriti Verma, who is currently doing bachelors in journalism and mass communication from PCTE, Baddowal, said, “I always wished to go abroad for higher studies as soon as I finished schooling. But my parents wished for me to complete graduation here and then move abroad, so that I can be more responsible and independent by then.” “A few days back while having a conversation with my parents, I proposed the idea of doing a masters in journalism from The University of Melbourne. And to my shock, they said no while giving the reason of the current global situation. My mom said they wanted me to be safe and healthy.” Looking at the situations in many countries around the world, India has still been safe. I too understand their concern and have decided to stay in the country because the pandemic isn’t ending soon and will continue to live in people’s mind even when it ends.” Anu Verma, Sanskriti’s mother, said, “As a parent, I want my child to be safe, healthy and happy. Of course, moving abroad will help my child become independent and responsible but considering the global situation of the pandemic, the infected count is much more in other countries than India. And I won’t send my child keeping in view how fast the virus has spread in nations. India is safe than abroad and there are abundant opportunities in the country itself. I would suggest other parents too to think upon their decision as a number of Indian students are already stuck abroad and now they wish to be back as soon as they can.” Dr Harmanjot Kaur, dentist, Dugri The migratory phase of Indian students to foreign countries for pursuing higher studies has come to a halt because of the pandemic. Many student visas have been put on hold as the airlines are completely shut down. Presently, it is important to stay home but definitely students with plans of overseas education are at a loss, even money-wise Karan Sharma , Punjab College Of Technical education, Badhowal The pandemic has affected the whole world, so how can the immigration sector can remain unaffected. As per Indian parents’ thinking, many of them won’t allow their children now to move abroad for study or work. But as talking about my parents, they still want me to settle abroad because of long term plans, opportunities and career Yuvraj, private employee, Ghumar Mandi This is not the right time to migrate anywhere due to the ongoing outbreak of the pandemic. Undoubtedly, parents of many students may have given a lot of money to the immigration departments for their children's migration. But I will like to put life over everything. Although the money has gone, as well the chance to see the fruits of one’s efforts but life of our children is much more important||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/going-abroad-for-studies-some-say-will-rethink-while-others-they-will-defer-plans/articleshow/75416345.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Scarcity-hit areas around A’bad likely to get water from MIDC||Aurangabad: Several areas in the city and the outskirts, which reel under water scarcity especially during summer every year, may receive water from Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) following the failure of the civic administration in making the necessary arrangements.Following complaints of discrepancies in water supply pouring in from the affected areas, district guardian minister Subhash Desai on Monday held a virtual joint meeting with MIDC authorities and officials of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to address the issue.Desai has ordered MIDC to consider the proposal of supplying water to the affected residential areas in Aurangabad, including the gunthewari areas in the city, stated an official release issued by the state publicity department.If the MIDC accepts the proposal, it might spare the citizens in the affected areas the burden of stepping out of their homes and breaking social distancing norms amid the ongoing lockdown. Desai, who is also the minister for industries, expressed his dissatisfaction over parts of Aurangabad facing water scarcity despite the Jayakwadi dam, that supplies water to parts of Marathwada, having sufficient storage.When contacted, executive engineer for Aurangabad MIDC Bhushan Harshe said that the details of the virtual meeting chaired by Desai was yet to be shared by state-level authorities. On the proposal of distributing water to areas in the city, he said that MIDC was already supplying water to around 14 gram panchayats in and around Aurangabad, including Bajaj Nagar in Waluj. “We will act if any instructions regarding supplying water to residential areas in Aurangabad come from the state government,” said Harshe.Notably, the proposal of seeking help from MIDC for addressing water issues of the city is being discussed amid excess delay in executing the proposed multi-crore water pipeline project for Aurangabad. While the earlier proposal of the project was scrapped following controversy over its revenue model among other issues, the proposal drafted afresh is also facing alleged inordinate delays. Aurangabad deputy mayor Rajendra Janjal said that there was nothing wrong in seeking the interim help of MIDC in ensuring smooth supply of water to different part of the city till the proposed multi-crore project gets executed. “The MIDC already has its water distribution network in Aurangabad and water from it can be sourced to overcome the water scarcity in some areas. Apparently, there is no cost involved in raising the infrastructure as the MIDC already has its pipeline in certain areas of the city,” said Janjal. On the alleged delay in execution the new water supply project for the city, the deputy mayor said that the code of conduct associated with elections and other hurdles stood as obstacles in the speedy implementation of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scarcity-hit-areas-around-abad-likely-to-get-water-from-midc/articleshow/75415227.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ajmer||Over 1.5 lakh labourers will return to Ajmer division||AJMER: Over 1.5 lakh migrant labourers will return to Ajmer division from different parts of the country, official estimates say. There are around 2 lakh migrant labourers stuck in the division and are waiting to return to their homes. Looking at the mood of the central government on sending back migrant labourers to their homes, divisional commissioner of Ajmer division L N Meena on Monday directed the district collectors of Ajmer, Bhilwara, Nagaur and Tonk to make preparations as per the guidelines, create more quarantine facilities and ensure that lockdown rules are not flouted. Though there are no official figures released by the administration, sources said a large number of labourers are stuck in Maharashtra and Gujarat. Meena also asked the district collectors to keep medical teams ready for screening every migrant returning home and make arangements for their quarantine. Sources said over 2 lakh labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Odisha are stuck in Ajmer division and most of them are in Bhilwara district. In Ajmer, there are about 60,000 labourers from different states and therefore on Monday roadways buses have been sent to Beawar on standby if the central government allows transporting of labourers to different states. Sources said this is a sensitive situation as migrant labourers will return home in large numbers. If the district administrations fail to keep labourers isolated, then there are chances of the vurus spreading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-1-5-lakh-labourers-will-return-to-ajmer-division/articleshow/75417000.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hubballi||Six months pregnant, but this doctor is attending to other carrying women||Yadgir: She is six months pregnant, but that has not deterred Dr Vrunda from ministering to women to ensure a safe childbirth in Yadgir district. The sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kalaburagi district has meant that many emergency cases are being referred to government hospitals in Yadgir, and Dr Vrunda, an anaesthesiologist, has been unflinchingly attending to women undergoing Caesarean operations. Vrunda disregarded the advice of a few fellow doctors, who pointed to the hectic workload that she was likely to be tasked with under the circumstances. However, the doughty doctor insisted on performing her duties pointing out that her service was indispensable to the government at this hour. Vrunda’s husband, Dr Ramagouda too has put himself and his skills at the disposal of the government, heading the Yadgir district’s designated Covid-19 hospital, which has been set up at a building of a medical college cum hospital, which is yet to commence operations. A modest Vrunda, however, said she that there was no need to lionise what she was doing. “I am a doctor, and I am dutybound to attend to my patients. If I shirk my responsibility because I have an excuse, it will not make me a good doctor. I had prepared myself mentally to work in the Covid-19 emergency wards if the government had asked me. When I was studying postgraduation in Gujarat, I had worked with H1N1-affected patients,” she said. Dr Vrunda is on call round-the-clock, all seven days of the week. “The number of C-section cases we are dealing with has risen exponentially. There are days when I have to work a few hours in the morning, evening and night as well,” said DrVrunda, pointing to the lockdown in Kalaburagi and the surge of patients at the Raichur hospitals, which necessitated doctors to work unusually long hours.“Since most private hospitals are shut, we are receiving more patients than usual. We are of course, working with all the safety gear – N-95 masks, gloves, et al. We are also keeping a safe distance at the hospitals from one another,” Dr Vrunda, who is, at the moment estranged from her husband since Dr Ramagouda, who collects throat swabs is in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/six-months-pregnant-but-this-doctor-is-attending-to-other-carrying-women/articleshow/75415257.cms||Shreyas HS
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Lady with twins tests +ve, hospital staff quarantined||Kolhapur: A woman, who delivered twins earlier last week was tested positive on Sunday, she is being treated at the Solapur civil hospital. One of the infants has passed away while other is recuperating at paediatrics hospital in Solapur. According to the reports, 47 staff members of the Pandharpur private hospital and few relatives and ten doctors, who came in contact with her have been quarantined. After the woman was identified positive, the new patients’ admission and diagnosis at the private hospital has been kept on hold. The swab sample testing of all the people will be done after five days later this week. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline on postnatal management, it is unknown whether newborns with Covid-19 are at increased risk for severe complications. “Transmission after birth via infectious respiratory secretions is a concern. Facilities should consider temporarily separating the mother who has confirmed Covid-19 from her baby until the mother’s transmission-based precautions are discontinued.” Four more positive Meanwhile in Solapur four more Covid-19 positive cases were registered on Monday. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 65 at Solapur district. The number of cases active are 60, said Milind Shambharkar, district collector, Solapur. He said that till Monday, as many as 1,280 samples have been sent for testing, of which 1,075 have been received. In it, 65 were found to be positive, while the rest were negative. He said that the district administration is taking every precaution and the citizens should cooperate in the survey and other precautionary measures. (With inputs from Suryakant Asabe, Solapur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lady-with-twins-tests-ve-hospital-staff-quarantined/articleshow/75415274.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nashik||Pulse oximeter to be used to check police personnel||Nashik: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Malegaon, with even State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel getting infected, the Nashik rural police has decided to make use of pulse oximeter, which is a device to check the oxygen saturation in the blood.Superintendent of police Arti Singh said, “Coronavirus causes the oxygen saturation in the blood to reduce, but often the patient is not aware. The symptoms appear when the oxygen saturation drops significantly and the patient becomes critical. The device will be useful in checking the oxygen saturation level in our personnel for necessary measures.”Singh said that initially, four-five SRPF personnel from Hingoli had tested Covid-19 positive. Later, four more from the same district got infected. This is another measure by the rural police to safeguard the personnel on bandobast duty.There are seven SRPF companies, from various parts of the state, on Covid-related bandobast duties.“Due to the vast spread of Covid-19 in Malegaon, we are taking various steps to ensure that the police personnel on duty do not catch the infection. We are conducting regular medical check-ups of all the personnel on duty in Malegoan. The personnel have been given hydroxychloroquine tablets, vitamin-C tablets and have also been provided with personal protection equipment (PPE) including masks, gloves, hand sanitisers etc.The lodging area for the police personnel is also sanitized on a regular basis. Their clothes also go to the laundry, added Singh.Route march by rural police in Malegaon The Nashik rural police conducted a route march in Malegaon to in a bid to instil confidence among the residents.The route march was conducted in seven to eight Covid-19 hotspots. SP Arti Singh said law-abiding citizens can always approach the police for any problem they face.SP Arti Singh, additional SP of Malegaon Sandeep Ghuge and other senior officers participated in the march along with approximately 70 personnel of the rural police and SRPF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pulse-oximeter-to-be-used-to-check-police-personnel/articleshow/75415300.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||300 workers from Guj reach Dungarpur, Udaipur||Udaipur: Around three hundred migrant workers arrived in some 80 vehicles at Ratanpur-Gujarat border on Monday. The workers were screened and segregated as per their home districts and later sent to their respective villages in buses arranged by the government. “In the first phase, we are receiving migrant workers who had registered themselves for arrival from non-hotspot areas of Gujarat. More than 50 doctors and 200 nursing staff have been deployed for 24 hours in three shifts to screen the people,” collector Kanaram told TOI. “The workers have been given food packets, which are also being sanitised. These are the persons who had been kept in 14-day quarantine at their respective stations and hence, we wont keep them in shelter homes but they would be sent home through buses and would be kept in home quarantine for next 14 days,” ADM Krishna Pal Singh Chouhan said. Some 2,500 persons are expected to arrive from Gujarat as per the registration data and the figures could increase as more people who are stranded in other cities of Gujarat are also registering themselves to reach Rajasthan. “Such stranded people can register themselves on helpline numbers or through e-mitras and they would be registered by their respective administration,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/300-workers-from-guj-reach-dungarpur-udaipur/articleshow/75417021.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Zoo goes in for the kill to keep its 20 big cats fed||NEW DELHI: To feed its 20 big cats, the National Zoological Park on Mathura Road is slaughtering two-three buffaloes on its premises after the Ghazipur abattoir shut down following the Covid lockdown. The staff source buffaloes from nearby villages. The zoo cannot substitute red meat with, say, chicken because this will leave the felines protein deficient and cause ailments in the long run. The staffers themselves bring dry fodder too from the mandis to the meet the nutritional demands of the herbivores in the zoo. A Delhi zoo official said while contractors earlier procured both the dry feed and the red meat and chicken, the staff now has to go out with officials and collect the necessary items from different mandis. The whole exercise can take 6-8 hours each day. The contractors carrying out the slaughter in the zoo are assisted by a veterinary officer to identify buffaloes from villages in proximity. The bovines are butchered at a special area on the complex created for this purpose. Delhi zoo recently requested East Delhi Municipal Corporation for permission for live slaughter on the zoological park premises. An EDMC official said permission was quickly granted given the zoo’s difficulties in procuring meat. Dr Suneesh Buxy, director of Delhi zoo, said the 20 big cats require close to 300kg of meat each day. When the slaughter house in Ghazipur shut down for the pendency of the lockdown, the zoo stared at a nutritional crisis, but it managed to get timely permission from the municipal corporation to slaughter animals within the zoological park itself. “We created a sanitised and secure location to butcher the buffalos,” Buxy explained. “Our staff oversees the process of acquiring them, with each animal being first inspected by our veterinary staff before the contractors carry out the slaughtering.” He said there was no problem in meeting the dry fodder and chicken demand. A zoo official involved in the collection said that all food items were first sanitised and treated before being fed to the animals and birds. Bio-security measures are being adhered to before the feed is released for distribution in the different enclosures. “The procurement process takes several hours, while slaughtering is a different task that can take a couple of hours too. We have to pick up officials from various localities before heading to the mandi. There is a considerable risk involved, but we are ensuring each animal is fed well and is getting the proper diet,” said the official. He said there was surplus chicken supply, but this could not be fed to the big felines because of health precautions. “Red meat is the healthiest diet for them,” the official asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/zoo-goes-in-for-the-kill-to-keep-its-20-big-cats-fed/articleshow/75417017.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 28, 2020||Allahabad||Lockdown spurs cops into action in virtual world||PRAYAGRAJ: Cops are not only enforcing lockdown on the streets, but are also busy in the virtual world fighting against cyber fraudsters, who are taking this period as an opportunity to siphon off money from people’s bank accounts. A total of eight cases of cyber frauds were registered between the lockdown period from March 23 to April 23. The police have not only managed to redeposit the amount worth Rs 1.95 lakh into the accounts of victims (account holders) concerned, but also held Rs 56,000 after blocking the accounts of fraudsters. SP (Crime) Ashutosh Mishra said, “During the lockdown month (From March 23 to April 23) the sleuths of crime branch/cyber cell have managed to redeposit Rs 1.95 that had been debited from the account of victims.Majority of the victims had preferred online shopping and lodged complaints with cyber cell after getting duped.” “As as soon we get information from victims about fraud, we sent email to e-commerce payment system, providing them ID and appealing to block or roll back the amount to the person (account holder) concerned in case of fraud,” said the SP adding, “some payment groups ask to lodge complaint on dispute form and this is taking time to return the money to victims.” The sleuths of cyber cell after tracking the route of transaction approached financial institutions concerned and get the gateway — mode of the transaction of amount from one group/company to another — blocked. He added, “Cyber cell had also held the transactions amounting to Rs 56,000 and blocked at least 40 wallets. More than 40 cyber frauds were registered with the crime branch during the lockdown period from March 23 to April 23.” The latest modus operandi is that scamsters call up and ensure that a specially designed app is downloaded on the victim’s smartphone, which then steals sensitive bank information. However, banks have already started issuing advisories to customers in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lockdown-spurs-cops-into-action-in-virtual-world/articleshow/75414637.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||SVP almost full, cases being referred to Civil||Ahmedabad: Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (SVP) Hospital in the city is almost fully utilized for treating Covid-19 patients, said municipal chief Vijay Nehra on Sunday. The capacity of SVP hospital was increased from 500 to 1,000 six days ago. Majority of the patients are now being referred to the Civil Hospital. SVP has 642 active and 150 suspected cases, who are under treatment there, said Nehra. According to Nehra, the city has so far reported 2,364 cases, of which 2,045 are active cases. In all, 107 persons lost their lives because of Covid-19 in the city and 212 have been discharged, he said. Of the 2,045 active cases from Ahmedabad, 1,811 are stable and 28 are on ventilators. On Monday evening, 15 persons were removed off ventilators. The total number was 43 on Monday morning. He said of the active cases, 699 are at SVP hospital, 634 at Samras hostel, 634 at Civil Hospital and 14 at HCG, 16 at Sterling Hospital and 16 are at the Covid Care centre in a hotel on SG Highway. Total 32 persons are undergoing treatment at Haj House. On testing, Nehra said that the city has so far tested 21,745 patients, of which 18,006 were through active surveillance. Also, 1,957 patients were tested with rapid anti-body test. Of these, 13 were tested positive for corona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svp-almost-full-cases-being-referred-to-civil/articleshow/75416367.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: JSS feeds 8,000 twice a day||HYDERABAD: Around 800 members of Jana Seva Sangh (JSS), a social organisation based in the city, are working relentlessly to feed the migrant labourers, daily wage workers and others in need during the lockdown. JSS president Paramananda Sharma said they have members working round-the-clock. The members provide food, shelter, medicines, etc. JSS is arranging two meals a day for almost 8,000 people per day. Senior IPS officer VK Singh is the driving force behind the group. Sharma said, “We have been asking migrant workers to stay wherever they are and reach us if they need any support.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jss-feeds-8000-twice-a-day/articleshow/75417012.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Survey to identify workers who want to go home begins||JAIPUR: The district administration has begun identification of migrant workers in Jaipur’s industrial areas to be sent to their home states. Of the 1,459 workers who are staying in the district’s shelter homes, most want to go home. The migrant labourers can register themselves by calling 1800-180-6127, by logging on to emitra.rajasthan.gov.in, by accessing rajcovidinfo app on mobile phones, or by visiting an e-mitra kiosk. “Data collection has already begun. After online registration, once we receive the data base, we will take appropriate action on the basis of the data collected. The labourers from different states will be segregated,” said additional district magistrate -IV Ashok Kumar. “The workers staying in the shelter homes will be moved now. Moreover, directions have been issued to conduct a survey in industrial areas, including RIICO-owned areas and private areas, of the labourers who are willing to go to their home states. The survey will be done by RIICO and district industries. After that, we have been instructed to arrange buses and facilitate their movement,” said Jaipur SDM Yugantar Sharma. The Jaipur sub-division administration had initially engaged nearly 25 labourers, staying at the shelter homes, in various industrial works but the process has stalled for now. The migrant workers have been employed in various factories including battery manufacturing units, textile factories and others. “They will also be engaged in making masks and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits. Of the 693 who are there at the shelter homes now, most of them are unwilling to stay back,” he said. An official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Most of the labour-oriented industries in Rajasthan are running because of the workers from other states like Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The state government wants the industries to run. Now, if they leave the state, how will the industries run? Moreover, if they go to their home states, will they get jobs there? These are questions that need to be asked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/survey-to-identify-workers-who-want-to-go-home-begins/articleshow/75417009.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Fire in whole sale veg market, no loss of life||Ludhiana: A major tragedy was averted on Sunday night when a fire incident occurred in the wholesale vegetable market located near Bahadurke Road. The fire was doused by the timely action of the fire department. It being a Sunday, the market was closed due to which the commission agents and workers were not present in the market and therefore any loss of life was averted. Though a large number of plastic crates got burned in the fire but the reason of the fire is still unclear. The fire department had a tough time in the operation as the highly inflammable plastic crates had caught fire, which led to the emission of huge smoke and this made the containment of the fire difficult. Giving more information, SN Sharma, fire station officer, who supervised the entire operation said, “Around 10.10pm we got information about the fire incident and we immediately dispatched two fire tenders for the spot. Upon reaching the market, our teams started the operation, though they faced difficulty due to huge smoke emitting from the plastic crates which had caught fire. But we were able to contain the fire in time and stopped it from spreading any further.” Sharma added, “The number of crates burnt in the fire and the reason of the fire are still unknown but had this incident occurred on some working day, it would have caused more damage and some precious lives too would have been lost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fire-in-whole-sale-veg-market-no-loss-of-life/articleshow/75416350.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||8 SVP doctors quarantined||Ahmedabad: After eight LG Hospital doctors tested positive for Covid-19, it is now turn of the doctors and staff of the SVP Hospital, which had nearly 800 patients. After a doctor of emergency medicine tested positive, eight other doctors have been quarantined. The news about the eight doctors has created a flutter in the medical fraternity. However, paramedical staff who were in contact with the doctor have still not been quarantined. SVP Hospital has 699 active Covid-19 patients and 150 suspected patients. On Saturday, the hospital had 477 active patients. Doctors of SVP Hospital had posted a note on social media demanding that the authorities quarantine doctors who came in contact with doctor who tested positive. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra confirmed that eight SVP doctors had been quarantined. After the social media post, contract tracing was taken up. A senior doctor said that since the doctors had raised the issue only they were checked but the paramedical staff were not checked or quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-svp-doctors-quarantined/articleshow/75416361.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP: 60-year-old Covid warrior tests positive after working with infected medical student||BHOPAL: A 60-year-old Ayush doctor, with a predisposed high-risk medical condition, was assigned to carry out door-to-door health checks and distribute medicines in Covid-19-19 hotspots and eventually contracted coronavirus. On April 9, he assisted a Gandhi Medical College (GMC) post-graduate student working in Sultania hospital after she tested positive for Covid-19-19. Thirteen days later, the Ayush medical officer, Dr Rizwan Saleem Ansari, also tested positive for Covid-19-19. He lives in the same apartment behind Sultania hospital as the Covid-19-19 patient. Four people tested positive in the same apartment, including a Sultania hospital nurse. Both the government workers in emergency service were asked to report for work by their respective departments, despite coming in close contact with a Covid-19-19 patient. Both are undergoing treatment in a private medical college. “Since I was aware of coming in close contact with Covid-19 patient, I got my sample tested. I got the test conducted on April 16. On April 22, I was on duty when I got a call confirming I am Covid-19-19 positive,” said Dr Ansari. However, between April 9 to 22, when he tested positive, Dr Ansari was told to report for work. His sample was taken on April 16, seven days after coming in contact with the Covid-19 patient. In order to get more medical staff and doctors, the Madhya Pradesh health department has offered a package of Rs 1.25 lakh per month for MD doctors, PG Diploma Rs 1.10 lakh per month, MBBS Rs 60,000, AYUSH Rs 25,000, staff nurse Rs 20,000 and ANM Rs 12,000 per month. “We were issued one N95 masks when we went into the field. Since then, more supplies were hard to come by. We wore single-layer masks, which were available at a premium. Better protection should be provided to Ayush doctors too,” said Dr Ansari, who wants to return to work when he is declared fit. Dr Ansari’s condition is stable. He took Unani medicine to counter the first symptoms of Covid-19-19. Joshanda is an ancient multi-ingredient alternative remedy for the treatment of acute upper respiratory diseases such as the common cold, sore throat, sneezing, rhinitis and flu-associated fever, he said. “We go door to door and provide homeopathic medication. It is administrated to boost immunity and recommended by AYUSH department,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/elderly-ayush-doc-contracts-covid-19-while-working-with-med-student-who-tested-ve/articleshow/75415297.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jodhpur||10,000 Punjab, MP workers stuck in Jaisalmer homebound in buses||JAISALMER: The process of sending back migrant labourers of different states stuck in Jaisalmer district during lockdown started from Monday. These labourers had come here for harvesting crops in the canal area. There are around 20,000 labourers stuck in the district. On Monday, around 10,000 labourers of Punjab and Madhya Pradesh were sent back to their states through 190 buses. The Punjab government had sent 60 buses to bring back labourers, whereas 130 buses were arranged by the Rajasthan government in which labourers of Madhya Pradesh were sent. The district administration had made proper arrangements and police too had made strict security arrangements. Around 35,000 labourers who had come from different states and from many parts of Rajasthan for harvesting crops in Jaisalmer district were caught in the lockdown. District collector Namit Mehta said after directions from the state government, the process was started to send back labourers from Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra and other states from Monday. In the first phase, around 10,000 labourers were sent on Monday, including 3,000 of Punjab and around 7,000 labourers of Madhya Pradesh. Around 8,000 labourers of Madhya Pradesh and 2,000 labourers of other states are still here. Once the buses return, these labourers will be sent to their states. Mehta said the buses departed from Mohangarh, Nachna, Nehdai, Sutharwala Mandi, Ramgarh etc in Jaisalmer district. All the migrants were allowed to board the buses only after medical screening and sanitsing of buses. SP Kiran Kang said strict security arrangements were in place while sending these buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/10000-punjab-mp-workers-stuck-in-jaisalmer-homebound-in-buses/articleshow/75425767.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Aurangabad||5 more SRPF jawans from Hingoli test positive||Aurangabad: The number of Covid-19 cases across the Marathwada region continued to rise in the past 24 hours. In Hingoli, six new cases were detected. In Latur’s Udgir village, three from the same family tested positive on Monday. Meanwhile, in Nanded, a 44-year-old man with travel history tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. Five state reserve police force (SRPF) jawans at Hingoli, who had been posted at Malegaon, were confirmed as Covid-19 patients on Monday. Another person, a close contact of one of the SRPF jawans, also tested positive in the evening. Earlier, on April 21, six jawans from Hingoli SRPF had tested positive, while on April 25 another jawan from Jalna was confirmed. All 12 the jawans have been admitted to the isolation ward of Hingoli district civil hospital. According to a release issued by district civil surgeon Kishor Prasad Shrivas, the throat swab sample reports from the lab at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad, came on Monday and confirmed the presence of coronavirus. “These men were placed in the quarantine centre at the SRPF camp. Three of these jawans were moved to the isolation ward at the district civil hospital after they developed cough, cold and fever on April 23, while the remaining two were brought to the hospital on Saturday,” Shrivas said. Hingoli SRPF’s company of 107 jawans was posted at Malegaon in Nashik, while another company of 84 jawans was posted in Mumbai. Both the companies reached their camp on April 20 and their throat swab samples were collected and sent for testing. In addition, the district health authorities had already quarantined 95 people who are close contacts of these jawans. Their throat swab samples were sent for testing to Aurangabad GMCH. Reports of 28 samples were received on Monday of which 27 were negative, while one was positive. The person who tested positive is now under treatment at the district civil hospital. With this, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Hingoli has reached 13. Latur : 3 family members of deceased test positive In Latur’s Udgir village, three persons of the same family tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, Vilasrao Deshmukh Government Medical and Science Institute dean Girish Thakur said. They are all family members of a 70-year-old woman who was diagnosed with the virus on Saturday. The elderly woman had died the same day. The woman had diabetes, hypertension and other co-morbidities. After her death, the health machinery started screening the suspects and 26 throat swab samples of suspected patients were sent to the VDGMSI. The lab became operational on Sunday and this was the first batch of testing done there. On Monday, three swabs tested positive. Man who returned from Punjab infected In Nanded, a 44-year-old man with travel history tested positive on Sunday. He has been admitted to Shankarrao Chavan Government Medical College and Hospital, Nanded. He is stable. The man is a driver and had returned from Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-more-srpf-jawans-from-hingoli-test-positive/articleshow/75415295.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Despite uncertainty, colleges, universities busy scouting students||CHENNAI: With uncertainty hanging over entrance exams and admission schedule in times of Covid-19, some deemed universities and engineering colleges have started canvassing for admissions, offering fee waivers and scholarships if parents book seats in advance. Parents have to pay anywhere from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 depending on the institute to book seats in advance. Parents from Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and other districts have been receiving calls and messages from consultancies and engineering colleges with attractive offers. “Dear parents, admissions for BTech/BPharm/Arts online booking started. Book your seats online...” read one such message from a reputed university. Another message, from a consultancy, read, “Only few scholarship seats left. Talk to our expert....” When TOI contacted a number provided in a message, the person on the other end introduced herself as an admission officer from a reputed deemed university, and advised us to book a seat before the Class XII results are out. “If you are confident that the student will clear the exam, book a seat,” she said and started giving fee details. Fees for BTech Computer Science course is Rs 2.5 lakh, she said, adding, “Due to Covid-19 lockdown, the entrance test is also doubtful.” She also warned that seats may fill up later. “By paying Rs 25,000, you can book the seat and can make rest of the payment after the board results.” The officer also gave bank account details to which the payment should be made and the documents needed. When TOI contacted another number, a person claimed to represent a consultancy and said he could get 50% scholarship in a private university near Chennai. “The fees is Rs 1.6 lakh. But, we can get up to 50% scholarship. You need to pay Rs 10,000 as advance,” he said. To book a seat in a leading deemed university, the person demanded Rs 50,000 and said admissions under management quota can be made without taking the entrance test. “We are receiving calls from many students due to the confusion surrounding the start of next academic year,” he added. Some parents wondered how their numbers were accessed by the colleges and consultancies. “Engineering colleges and deemed universities gather contact numbers in many ways. Some approach schools directly while others collect data while organising competitions for school students. Some colleges are using faculty members and hand them contact numbers to canvass the students,” a faculty member from a deemed university said. The colleges do make attractive offers, say schools. “Colleges are giving fee waiver, scholarship and other offers. Parents who received such calls and messages are approaching the school. We have told them to visit the colleges after the lockdown before taking any decision,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School. “Many engineering colleges asked for contact numbers of Class XII students and we refused to give them the details. But they manage to get the numbers from some other sources, like school education department,” he added. When contacted, an official from a deemed university said the universities are shut due to the lockdown and that their staff were not working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-uncertainty-colleges-univs-busy-scouting-students/articleshow/75416368.cms||A Ragu Raman
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gopalnagar becomes hotspot||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, Gopalnagar, a busy locality in Memnagar lobbed back into limelight with 15 Covid19 positive cases from a single market street, including provision store owners and vegetable vendors and those selling nick-knacks. It was this locality in 2017 which reported one of India’s first cases of Aedes Aegypti mosquito borne Zika virus case. “We are not new to health surveillance, so when a health team of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) came we all agreed to undergo Covid-19 tests,” says Naresh Thakor who sells packaged snacks on Gopalnagar streets. “There are roughly 9,200 households in Gopalnagar locality, but a number of societies in the nearby vicinity depends on Gopalnagar market for vegetables, milk and day-to-day provisions. Markets on the Gopalnagar streets open around 5:30 am and long queues are seen each morning. Contact tracing is a big task here,” says a senior AMC official. The only silver line is that close to 35% of the chawl and locality in Gopalnagar are mostly migrant labourers who at the moment have gone back to their natives ahead of the lockdown. The AMC is yet to take a call on whether to cluster quarantine the area at the moment. Senior government staffers too live in the vicinity. It was on Saturday that a team of AMC health workers had taken samples here as part of their campaign of scanning ‘super spreaders’ , especially vendors. “Right now we have been only tracing the contacts of the Covid19 positive patients. Since the issue is a bit complex here we will take a day before we decide to cluster contain the area,” says the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gopalnagar-becomes-hotspot/articleshow/75416353.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Allahabad||Cops log in Twitter-verse to check fake news on pandemic||PRAYAGRAJ: Panic ensued in the city after a fake post about a policeman and a driver posted at Karma police outpost testing positive for Covid-19 went viral on social media on Sunday. The post had claimed that the entire staff of the outpost had been made to undergo thermal screening. It was only after Prayagraj police quashed the news on its Twitter handle that many in the city heaved a sigh of relief. Sunday’s incident is one of the many instances in the recent past when city police have taken to Twitter to bust myths and fake news related to the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. On April 25, police used its official Twitter handle to dispel rumours about three more Covid-19 patients being reported in Naini. A five-member team of police’s social media cell has been keeping an eye on rumourmongering and fake messages being circulated on various social media platforms ever since the lockdown was enforced on March 23. SSP (Prayagraj) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said, “We have been keeping a strict watch on social media platforms and those trying to spread rumours have been booked under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code.” The SSP said that police were duly replying to queries posted by Prayagraj residents on its Twitter handle. Police cybercell has so far questioned over 30 people for allegedly spreading rumours on social media during the lockdown. A few social media groups are being closely watched round the clock, said sources. Police also arrested 20 persons and registered 47 FIRs in connection. Over 200 people have also been issued warnings against sharing fake news. Police sources said that most of the fake news were mostly about the spread of Covid-19 and rumours about a new containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cops-log-in-twitter-verse-to-check-fake-news-on-pandemic/articleshow/75414657.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Police to return seized motorcycles from May 4||Kolhapur: People whose motorcycles had been seized by the police during the lockdown can breathe a sigh of relief as the cops have decided to start releasing the two-wheelers from May 4. Kolhapur city traffic branch officials, who said that they would start returning the motorcycles to the owners from May 4, added that the police they may charge a nominal fine of Rs 300 before returning each vehicle. Also, owners will have to produce the original documents of the motorcycles. The police will return the vehicles only after verifying these documents. Since March 24, the Kolhapur police have seized more than 8,000 two-wheelers from people who were found roaming about on the roads without valid reasons. Vasant Babar, police inspector in-charge of the city traffic department, said, “In Kolhapur city alone, we have seized as many 3,500 motorcycles. These vehicles have been kept at the police headquarters, Kasaba Bawada, Jain Boarding, Chitradurg math, Shahaji college and on the premises of city traffic office.” “We will start returning the motorcycles to the owners from May 4. Every day, we will return 500 motorcycles. We have marked numbers on every motorcycle and have asked the owners of the first 500 bikes to come to our office on May 4. They have been asked to come with the original documents. After carefully scrutinising the documents, we will hand over the motorcycles with a nominal fine of Rs 300,” he said. “The motorcycle owners have been asked to abide by social distance norms and not to gather in crowds at our office. We have asked them to come to the office only if they have valid documents. We will take up the cases of those not having valid documents after we return all the other motorcycles,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-to-return-seized-motorcycles-from-may-4/articleshow/75415316.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||10,000 Punjab, MP workers stuck in Jaisalmer homebound in buses||JAISALMER: The process of sending back migrant labourers of different states stuck in Jaisalmer district during lockdown started from Monday. These labourers had come here for harvesting crops in the canal area. There are around 20,000 labourers stuck in the district. On Monday, around 10,000 labourers of Punjab and Madhya Pradesh were sent back to their states through 190 buses. The Punjab government had sent 60 buses to bring back labourers, whereas 130 buses were arranged by the Rajasthan government in which labourers of Madhya Pradesh were sent. The district administration had made proper arrangements and police too had made strict security arrangements. Around 35,000 labourers who had come from different states and from many parts of Rajasthan for harvesting crops in Jaisalmer district were caught in the lockdown. District collector Namit Mehta said after directions from the state government, the process was started to send back labourers from Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra and other states from Monday. In the first phase, around 10,000 labourers were sent on Monday, including 3,000 of Punjab and around 7,000 labourers of Madhya Pradesh. Around 8,000 labourers of Madhya Pradesh and 2,000 labourers of other states are still here. Once the buses return, these labourers will be sent to their states. Mehta said the buses departed from Mohangarh, Nachna, Nehdai, Sutharwala Mandi, Ramgarh etc in Jaisalmer district. All the migrants were allowed to board the buses only after medical screening and sanitsing of buses. SP Kiran Kang said strict security arrangements were in place while sending these buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10000-punjab-mp-workers-stuck-in-jaisalmer-homebound-in-buses/articleshow/75417032.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Rain, hailstorm likely in parts of Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Isolated areas in many parts of Marathwada are likely to witness unseasonal rain accompanied by gusty wind and hailstorm in the next 24 hours, a weather advisory issued by the Parbhani-based Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University has said. Barring Aurangabad and Jalna, the remaining six districts — Beed, Osmanabad, Latur, Parbhani, Hingoli and Nanded — are likely to face adverse weather conditions, it said. The forecast, if comes true, will add to the worries of the farming community, which is already bearing the brunt of the lockdown. Farmer activist Jayaji Suryawanshi said the crops harvested during the recentl Rabi season have been stored with farmers due to the lockdown. “Despite assurance from the government, the market conditions are still grim and farmers have stocked their produce, anticipating poor prices for their harvested crops. Such crops could get exposed to the rain due to the adverse weather conditions,” he said. Soybean, sorghum, maize, chickpea and cotton are some of the crops cultivated in Marathwada during the Rabi season and are stored with many farmers in make-shift arrangements during the lockdown. The adverse weather condition could also harm mango cultivation in Marathwada as certain belt from the region is traditionally known as grower of Kesar mangoes among other varieties. Many raw mangoes on trees fell due to the gusty winds, causing losses to farmers. As per the IMD, the temperatures have slightly gone down in Aurangabad city due to partly cloudy skies observed intermittently. According to official data, the city reported a maximum of 38.4 degrees celsius and minimum of 24.7 degrees on Monday. While the maximum temperature was below normal range by one unit, the minimum above normal by one unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rain-hailstorm-likely-in-parts-of-marathwada/articleshow/75415319.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu’s next big opportunity knocking on realty door||CHENNAI: A decision by the Tamil Nadu government in the late 1990s to construct the Tidel Park, eventually led to the emergence of Chennai’s IT corridor. Today high-rise residential apartments vie for a view with large IT parks, which employ thousands of engineering graduates among others. The real estate and property development industry in Tamil Nadu is yet again staring at such a big development opportunity not just for a stretch of road, but the entire state. TN’s next leap of growth could, however, be largely driven by China - as countries, struck by the coronavirus threat and their dependence on the dragon nation, want to take their business investments to other territories. While Vietnam and Thailand and India emerge as alternatives, Tamil Nadu could immensely gain if it moves forward to grab the opportunity. "Increasing diversification is happening with countries wanting to move away from China. Tamil Nadu government is proactive and Chennai could become the hub in attracting these new investments in labour intensive industries and segments like manufacturing, warehousing and logistics," says Siva Krishnan, regional managing director, Tamil Nadu and India head, residential services, JLL. With improved infrastructure, Tamil Nadu and especially Chennai could outdo Bengaluru and Hyderabad as the new industrial investments hub with increased employment and higher demand for residential and commercial real estate. "Overseas companies are looking beyond China and Tamil Nadu should grab the opportunity. States like Punjab are considering forming a special task force to cater to this emerging opportunity and Tamil Nadu cannot be seen lagging," says Padam Dugar, president, Credai Chennai and CMD, Dugar Housing. "But stamp duty and registration charges at 11% are the highest in India. While the industry has been demanding to lower this to below or around 5%, Tamil Nadu should be proactive and lower these charges to 2% for at least a fixed period, say for the rest of this fiscal (up to March 2021) to attract these investments," Dugar says. While those could be the long-term developments, the real estate industry will do well to address the immediate concerns of the market even as it dusts its way out of this Covid-19 conundrum. Suddenly the large apartment complexes may look less attractive, as residents have realised their individual homes are the safest. While smaller housing projects could be the focus, individual homes too could become the preferred option, thereby leading to sprawling suburbs not just in Chennai, but in cities like Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy as well. "The work-from-home culture, whose efficiency has been validated especially during the lockdown, will obviate the need for employees to live in the city and close to their offices. This is likely to encourage many to consider moving to less congested suburbs for more spacious and affordable homes and a better quality of life," says Sajid Sathak, managing director, Inno Group. Sensing that WFH could take off in a big way, developers in cities like Mumbai are talking about providing a ‘corner office’ in residential apartments. "Small companies could have a relook at the size of office space they need. While they prefer a small office for a core team to function, other employees could be asked to WFH and trends like these could mean a new design for homes," says a property consultant. "The industry will return to the basics, with more focus on location, direction and the way individual housing units are designed and built. People may want even a common wash area on each floor of a building," says T Chitty Babu, chairman and CEO, Akshaya. Though real estate is a segment which can start work as soon as the lockdown is lifted, provided the raw material is available at the site, availability of labour could be an issue. "A large chunk of workers from other states are stuck at the sites. We are providing them food or dry ration and some salary. Most workers would want to go back once travel restrictions are eased. Re-mobilizing them later will be a problem as nearly 20 lakh such workers are involved in the construction industry across Tamil Nadu," says A Ramasamy, executive director, Elite Constructions. State governments could have done well to use the guest workers to finish ongoing infrastructure projects. "With little public movement, this would have been the best time to complete infrastructure projects and it would have been a win-win situation for the government and contractors. Work on infrastructure projects could have been carried on while maintaining social distancing and other safety norms," says Sriram Raju, executive director, Shriram EPC, which focuses on government projects. Moving forward, there could be a lot more emphasis on healthcare facilities. "Tamil Nadu has a good healthcare system. Of course, there is a lot of scope for improvement. Requirement of housing for lower and middle class will be a key issue to be addressed in urban areas. While climate change could throw up more viruses, we need to also address issues like water and pollution — the other health concerns in cities," says Raj Cherubal, CEO, Chennai Smart City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-next-big-opportunity-knocking-on-realty-door/articleshow/75417037.cms||D Govardan
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Senior Congress leader Badruddin Shaikh given a silent send off||AHMEDABAD: Senior Congress leader Badruddin Shaikh, who breathed his last on Sunday night, was given a quiet burial in the presence of his son-in-law and a few of his close workers in the wee hours of Monday morning. His wife Famida Khatun, who is on oxygen and also undergoing Covid-19 treatment at SVP Hospital, is not aware of the demise. Danilimda is one of the Covid-19 hotspots in Ahmedabad. Dariapur MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh said, “It was after the death of Badruddin that his son-in-law Samir Shaikh decided that he should be given a quiet burial as it was not possible to take the body home. He was afraid that if the burial was conducted in the morning, it would draw a big crowd, which the family wanted to avoid.” Samir, when contacted, said, “My mother-in-law is on oxygen and hence, we thought it appropriate not to inform her. I wonder when she comes out and reaches home what will be her reaction. We are also not able to figure out how we will be able to tell her.” Samir added, “On Monday, a fake video was being circulated where a lady and her daughter were going close to a dead body claiming it to be that of Shaikh. However, this video is of the day time and we had carried out the burial when the darkness was still there.” Samir said, “After Badruddin tested positive there were rumours that the entire family was positive but he and his wife tested negative and Famida’s test was performed after two days of Badruddin’s admission. She then tested positive and was admitted to the SVP Hospital.” Samir bemoaned the fact that a person like Badruddin, who was always among the people and used to run to them for any help, had to be given a silent burial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/badruddin-shaikh-given-a-silent-send-off/articleshow/75416377.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Business||Shriram Transport Finance provides moratorium for borrowers||Chennai: Truck lender, Shriram Transport Finance has provided moratorium to its borrowers as part of its Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to mitigate the impact on its stakeholders. The Company in a statement to exchanges said, “It is closely monitoring its liquidity position and has focused on cost-rationalization and reduction of overheads to conserve its cash resources. It said it wasnt resorting to any salary cuts for its employees.The company has constituted a Quick Response Team to facilitate review of BCP, and its employees are working from home during the nation-wide lockdown.For employees, e-learning and training programs are arranged to enhance employee knowledge, efficiency and effectiveness.The Company’s IT team provides enhanced support for digital connectivity with a secured VPN connection and antivirus configuration has been done for all work from home users.Digital collections of EMIs of loans from customers are encouraged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shriram-transport-finance-provides-moratorium-for-borrowers/articleshow/75413896.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Corbett, Rajaji to remain shut even after May 3 as per NTCA order||Dehradun: The wait of wildlife enthusiasts to visit Corbett or Rajaji tiger reserves is most likely to get prolonged as the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has directed officials of all 50 tiger reserves across the country to suspend tourism activities until "further notice". In an order issued on April 20, the NTCA directed officials of tiger reserves to halt tourism activities as the virus has “anthropozoonotic character” which means that the disease can be transmitted from animals to humans. The directions state that the move will help in containment of coronavirus. The order, signed by the assistant inspector general (AIG) of NTCA, was sent out to the chief wildlife wardens of all tiger range states. The order reads, “In light of the extended lockdown for containment of coronavirus in the country and limited knowledge of the virus itself vis-à-vis its human community transmission besides transmission from humans to animals, it is advised to keep all tourism activities suspended in tiger reserves under your jurisdiction till further orders.” The order will hit Uttarakhand forest department severely as it may lose tourism revenue of almost Rs 1.5 crore that it earns from Corbett and Rajaji tiger reserves. Around 7,500 advance bookings of CTR have already been cancelled since March 18. “There would be economic consequences of the move but it is an important decision for safeguarding the health of wildlife. Thus, we will not be opening the tiger reserve until further orders,” Rahul, director of Corbett Tiger Reserve, told TOI. Similarly, the RTR may suffer an estimated loss of Rs 20 lakh per month due to the move. The reserve usually receives at least 10,000 visitors during peak tourist months of May, June, and December. The director of Rajaji said the order has also asked the authorities of the reserves to stay “vigilant” even though tourist activities are suspended. “The order states that there should be no let-up in protection operations to thwart any possible attempts of poaching and habitat destruction of wildlife. Therefore, we have doubled our staff and are actively patrolling the reserve now,” said Amit Verma, director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-rajaji-to-remain-shut-even-after-may-3-as-per-ntca-order/articleshow/75415341.cms||Shivani Azad
April 28, 2020||Agra||With 12 fresh cases of Covid-19, Agra tally is 384||AGRA: At least 12 fresh cases of novel coronavirus surfaced in Agra on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 384. Out of these, five cases are relating to the family of an excise department employee who was tested positive on April 23 while one of the cases is related to a sanitation worker of SN Medical College. A vegetable wholesaler was also among them. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the 12 new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation ward. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health checkup on all these people.” The localities from where the new cases surfaced on Monday include Namner, Bagh Mujjafar Khan, Shahganj, Belanganj, Kedar Nagar and Baluganj. According to the health department, out of the 327 cases which have surfaced in Agra, at least 104 are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. 92 cases are linked to a private hospital on the National Highway 2. Another, 25 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic. 58 cases are related to health care workers and their contacts. While 26 cases are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts. Meanwhile, five more Covid-19 patients were declared cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. “So far 54 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. The area in the vicinity of the places where the infected people were staying is being sanitized. 14 spots have been completely neutralized. 30 active hostspots are being closely monitored. We are doing massive sampling in these areas to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine,” the CMO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/with-12-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-agra-tally-is-384/articleshow/75415327.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Despite Covid risk, dentists handling all emergencies||Nagpur: Routine dental care has taken a hit as dentists are at the highest risk of Covid-19 virus infection because of heavy aerosol creation in all dental procedures. Yet, government and private dental hospitals and clinics continue to alleviate pain of patients reporting traumatic dental injuries and swelling due to pulpal infection (decaying tooth). Being a material driven therapy, private practitioners are feeling the heat of financial overheads which they are yet to pass on to the patients. Dentists are taking down complete patient history and details, including address and phone numbers, before attending to them. Planned surgeries and routine check-ups have been completely suspended while on-call and WhatsApp services are used before allowing patients to visit OPDs. Government Dental College and Hospital (GDCH) dean Dr Mangesh Phadnaik said that social distancing is being maintained for the first time. “Disinfectant are being sprayed in entire college and hospitals. Sanitizers have been provided everywhere. Barriers such as caps, masks, gloves are used. Patients will be screened before examination when we get thermal guns in a day or two,” he said. GDCH and other big dental hospitals have departments of surgery, paediatric dentistry, endodontics, periodontics, oral medicine, oral pathology, public health dentistry, orthodontics and oral pathology. Emergency cases of broken tooth, abscess, ulcer, swelling, white patch, mouth not opening, damaged appliance and sinus are attended at a designated area to control movement of patients. Dr Phadnaik said the area and objects touched by emergency patients are immediately sanitized. “Minor operation theatre procedures too are being done,” he said. The dean said around 80 patients are daily treated while other times the GDCH alone sees over 300 cases. He said routine dental care such as teeth profile axis, fitting new tooth, spots on tooth, alignment, planned procedures and non-emergency, denture fitting are not advisable at the moment. “Emergency X-ray is done, if needed,” he said. Besides GDCH, dental OPD is running at IGGMCH while a couple of private hospitals are functioning with limited staff for emergencies. “Private clinics reference too are being taken on case-to-case but medicine is prescribed as far as possible,” Dr Phadnaik said and added that people too are avoiding visits on their own. Dr Ritesh Kalaskar, professor and HoD, Paediatric and Preventive Dentistry, said that traumatic dental injuries and swelling due to pulpal infection have been commonly reported problems in children during this lockdown period. Cases of trauma in children are mainly due to closure of schools and outdoor activities. Indian Dental Association (IDA) Nagpur president Dr Girish Bhutada said dentists are taking utmost care in emergencies. “We all are taking history and treating our patients as per ICMR guidelines. We are avoiding a few treatments to reduce the virus load in the operatory,” he said. IDA Nagpur secretary Dr Poonam Hudiya said, “We are pained at not being able to fully help our patients. Dealing with emergencies, we are keeping record of complete history of patients.” Dr Hudiya said the lockdown has dented a financial cost on dentists too. “Safety kits too have added to our operational costs. Already, dentists are struggling to pay EMIs for loans taken to set up their clinics,” she said. “We appeal to the government to provide us PPE kits and other necessary equipment,” Dr Bhutada said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-covid-risk-dentists-handling-all-emergencies/articleshow/75416389.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||10 new Covid cases in Anand, total 64||Vadodara/ Anand: With addition of 10 more cases, tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Anand district reached 64 on Monday. In Khambhat alone, the number of positive cases touched 47 with nine new cases recorded from Aling crossroads area, Markai Wado area, Kumarwado-Chitariwado, Rana chakla, Dantar wado, Akbarpura and Badamiya pole on Monday. All these areas are located near to Aling crossroads area which has already been declared as a containment zone. These new positive cases include four men and five women, in the age group of 19 to 65 years. In Umreth, the total number of positive cases reached nine as a 59-year-old man from Vohravad area tested positive. The day also witnessed two recoveries as 35-year-old Jitendra Rana and 21-year-old Nisha Rana, both residents of Datar Wado area of Khambhat were discharged from Anand general hospital as their repeat test came negative of COVID-19. While the number of positive cases has reached 64 in Anand district; with 16 patients getting discharged and three deaths, there are 45 active patients in the district. Of these, 19 are being treated at civil hospital, Anand; 18 at Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad; six at Khambhat general hospital. One patient each are being treated at N D Desai Hospital, Nadiad and S V P Hospital, Ahmedabad. One patient is on ventilator since last 48 hours while three other patients are on oxygen support. Condition of 41 other patients is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/10-new-covid-cases-in-anand-total-64/articleshow/75415727.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Agra||Agra UP Dial 112 constable shoots wife dead in Firozabad, escapes with 3 daughters||AGRA: A UP police constable of the 2005 batch, currently posted with the UP Dial 112 unit in Agra, shot and killed his wife in neighbouring Firozabad district. The accused, Yatendra Kumar Yadav, went absconding afterwards with his three minor daughters — Akansha (10), Aarti (7) and Anya (5). According to Firozabad police, Yatendra pumped four bullets into wife Saroj’s body at the couple’s residence in Awas Vikas Colony of Shikohabad. Originally from Awapura village under Kurah police in Mainpuri district, the accused joined the UP Dial 112 unit just a month back, after he was shunted to Police Lines for six months following an FIR against him in Mathura district, in an alleged case of kidnapping of a woman to compel her into marriage. The woman later gave a statement in favour of the constable, at which, the departmental inquiry was called off. SP (rural) Rajesh Kumar said, “The accused had an extramarital affair with the Mathura-based woman. Prima facie, it seems, the accused was putting pressure on the victim to sell their house, so that he could use the money to marry the Mathura woman and settle down with her.” The newly-constructed house is registered in the name of the wife Saroj. The entire property is estimated to be worth around Rs 40-45 lakh. “There were multiple superficial injury marks on the woman’s body, suggesting the accused had tortured her before shooting her dead. Saroj’s parents claimed Yatendra often used to assault and mentally harass their daughter. Several of our teams are working on the case to track down the accused and the three kids,” added the SP (rural). Saroj’s father Ramprakash said, “Since Saturday, we were trying to contact Saroj. For the last few months, she was in deep distress, as Yatendra wanted to marry the Mathura woman. On Sunday night, Yatendra called to say Saroj was lying dead in a pool of blood.” According to sources, Saroj’s parents contacted local police who visited the victim’s house but found it locked from outside. On Monday, the parents visited the house with local police and found the body lying inside. Rajesh Kumar said, “We still don’t know when Saroj was shot dead. We are waiting for the autopsy report. Probably, Yatendra killed her on Sunday.” Yogendra Pal, the officer in-charge of Agra Dial 112, said, “Yatendra completed his last duty at 8 pm on Saturday night. On Sunday, he was absent without leave.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-up-dial-112-constable-shoots-wife-dead-in-firozabad-escapes-with-3-daughters/articleshow/75415362.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 28, 2020||Nashik||Police conduct decoy operations to test personnel on checkpost duty||Nashik: The city police have started conducting decoy operations at nakabandi points to ensure that the police personnel and volunteers deployed are not allowing motorists to cross the said points. There are a total of 86 points in the city where checkposts have been set up by the police. A team of police personnel carries out the decoy operation at a randomly-selected nakabandi point and reports the findings to senior police officers. The personnel, travelling by private two-wheelers or cars, offer various excuses to the personnel at the checkpoints, so that they are allowed to cross. Sometimes money is offered to check if the personnel budge and fall into the trap. A senior police officer said that on Sunday, at 10 pm, a decoy operation was conducted at the Pimpalgaon Bahula sealing point on Trimbak Road to check if the police personnel deployed were allowing the motorists to cross the nakabandi point. Police inspector Seetaram Kolhe, of the crime branch, monitored the proceedings from distance and sent a decoy team comprising special police officer Rajendra Pawar, a resident Manish Raghuwanshi and two others in a multi-utility vehicle (MUV). The decoy team gave many excuses to the Satpur police personnel but they did not let the MUV pass through the point. They also made a special mention of PSI Satish Patil, ASI Prabhakar Sapkal, head constable Muktar Khan Pathan, police naiks Ramakant Siddhapure and Seetaram Vaire all from the Satpur police station. The police said that the two volunteers at the nakabandi point also did their duty perfectly and did not succumb to the pressure put by the decoy team. Police officials from the city police commisisonerate said that such operations are conducted from time to time at various points in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-conduct-decoy-operations-to-test-personnel-on-checkpost-duty/articleshow/75415330.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 28, 2020||Kanpur||Two psychologists for counselling coronavirus patients||KANPUR: The state government has deployed two psychologists in the city for counselling of Covid-19 patients. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari said on Monday both the psychologists—Sunidha Madhesia (Mob no. 8957347053 and Sudhanshu Prakash Mishra (Mobile no. 9451363488) from Unicef, can be contacted for medical advice and for telecounselling.  The administration inspected the hotspots and also conducted an aerial survey through drones and patrolled the roads to enforce lockdown. The administration ensured the residents of the hotspot areas that the door-to-door delivery of essential commodities would continue in their areas. Nodal officer Nitin Ramesh Gokarn along with an another official visited Chakarpur Mandi on Monday morning and asked police to enforce social distancing rule effectively. .The two officers also visited the community kitchen in Sachendi and inspected cooking of food. Meanwhile, CMO, Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla at a media briefing refuted the news telecast by some media houses that as many as 53 madarassa students were found infected. Terming the news as fake, the CMO said that the reporter might have included the old cases with the newly found cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-psychologists-for-counselling-corona-patients/articleshow/75414748.cms||Anant Chandak
April 28, 2020||Aurangabad||80 buses leave for Punjab with Sikh pilgrims stuck in Nanded||AURANGABAD: The 80 luxury buses sent by the Punjab government left with the Sikh pilgrims stranded in Nanded on Monday. The buses were escorted by the Punjab police personnel and transport officials. The pilgrims are expected to reach 14 destinations in Punjab in four days. Most of the pilgrims had come to attend the Hola Mohalla festival in Nanded. They had been stranded in the city for about a month and had been staying at the yatri niwas. “They were all eager to return home as the harvest season has started,” said Gurmeet Singh Mahajan, the gurdwara board member on Monday. “The pilgrims were provided with free accommodation and medical assistance,” he said. On Monday, the first batch of pilgrims started around 4.30 pm. It took at least four hours to see all of them off, board secretary Ravinder Singh Bungai said, and added that the pilgrims would reach Punjab in four days after crossing four states — Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. The Takhat Sachkhand Shri Hazur Abchalnagar Sahib, the main gurdwara of Nanded, is one of the four high seats of authority for the Sikhs and it attracts lakhs of pilgrims every year from across the world. Gurdwara president Bhupinder Singh Minhas, superintendent Gurvinder Singh Wadhva and all the gurdwara board members had been supervising the arrangements for the pilgrims return to their homes, said Ravinder Singh Modi, a senior gurdwara board functionary. Bungai told TOI that nearly 4,000 pilgrims, mainly from Punjab, had been stranded in Nanded since the lockdown began. About 1,000 pilgrims were sent home earlier in three groups. They have already reached their destinations. He said Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur as well as Nanded guardian minister Ashok Chavan and the MP Pratap Chikhlikar, apart from religious leaders, made efforts to ensure that the remaining pilgrims reach their homes safely. The Punjab CM had sent 80 buses to pick up the pilgrims, Bungai said. He was all praise for Jagjit, alias Jaggu Khurana of Khurana Travels, who had earlier provided buses from his fleet to transport the pilgrims on a no-profit basis. Khurana’s services continued till the Punjab CM sent the 80 buses, Bungai said. Sant Baba Narinder Singhji and Sant Baba Balwinder Singhji of the Dera Sant Baba Nidhan Singhji, Nagina Ghat, flagged off the buses on Monday Incidentally, Nanded has reported two positive Covid-19 cases, and one of those detected a day earlier had a travel history to Punjab. However, none of the stranded pilgrims was reported positive, said Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/80-buses-leave-for-punjab-with-sikh-pilgrims-stuck-in-nanded/articleshow/75415390.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
April 28, 2020||Allahabad||Man who drove Covid-19 patients tests negative||PRAYAGRAJ: The man who drove two youths, who were diagnosed with novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in the city, from Mumbai to Prayagraj tested negative for the infection on Monday. On Friday, two daily wage labourers working in Mumbai tested positive for novel coronavirus in the city. The two were cousins who had set off for Prayagraj on April 19 to attend a family member’s funeral. They had been issued e-passes for the purpose. The duo had hired a driver who hailed from Kaundhiyara and reached their hometown — Kapari village in Shankargarh area — on April 22. Health department officials collected the 25-year-old’s swab sample on Sunday night for testing. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “After the two youths from Kapari village tested positive for the Covid-19 on Friday last, around 300 teams of medical professionals started doing rounds of Kapari village to collect data who the youths’ came in contact with and their travel history.” “The village in Shankagarh has been declared a hotspot and is being sanitised. The health department is conducting a medical examination of over 4,000 families living in the locality,” Sahai added. “A group of 191 persons who had came in contact with the infected youths has been quarantined in four guest houses in the city. Their samples would be collected after April 30,” he added. The two youths had also visited several places in Kapari village after returning from Mumbai along with a friend. On Saturday, around 50 cops and administrative staff posted at Kaundhiyara police station were quarantined as the youths’ friend had also visited the thana. A 37-year-old man from Shivkuti area also tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday. The man had travelled in a train coach along with another Covid-19 positive patient. The three patients are currently undergoing treatment at Covid-19 Level One Hospital in Kotwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-who-drove-covid-19-patients-tests-negative/articleshow/75414724.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nashik||Trainee doctor, 5 others test positive in district||Nashik: A 27-year-old trainee doctor, who was directly involved in treating Covid-19 patients, and four high-risk contacts of a coronavirus patient from Yeola taluka have tested positive in Nashik district for the contagion. Meanwhile, the results of 440 samples — except one person from Malegaon who tested positive — came negative. Including the Malegaon patient, six individuals tested positive in the district. The district now has 148 Covid positive patients, 124 of whom are from Malegaon. The doctor who tested positive and hails from Surgana is a resident of Vrundavan Nagar of Mhasrul in Nashik city limits and the NMC sealed the area. “One of the doctors in our team has tested positive for Covid-19. There are chances that anyone can commit a mistake inadvertently and contract the disease,” civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale told TOI on Monday. Sources in the NMC health departent said that three teams of health officials conducted door-to-door survey of 72 houses, covering a population of 272. One high-risk contact was traced during the survey and isolated in the hospital. “A swab sample of the high-risk contact has been sent for testing.” The authorities in the civil hospital, meanwhile, urged all the medical staff and officials to remind themselves about the standard procedures to be followed and protective measures taken while treating Covid patients. “The entire staff has been given training in how to handle the coronavirus cases. We remind them to follow safety measures,” said a health official. Four patients discharged in Malegaon Four Covid-positive patients recovered in Malegaon and discharged, taking the total numbers recoveries to seven so far in the town. Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, district collector Suraj Mandhare, superintendent of police Arti Singh, assistant civil surgeon Hitesh Mahale were present at the time of discharge of the four patients. “This is a good sign that patients are being discharged on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya and Ramzaan. People should come forth and reveal health issues so that they can be treated quickly,” said Dada Bhuse. “Twenty-seven other patients have recovered and are likely to be discharged in a couple of days. The efforts gone into treating the patients are yielding results and we will see a wave of patients being discharged from hospital,” said Mandhare. The four patients who recovered include a 46-year-old man from Kamalpura and another 53-year-old man from Mominpura, both of whom had tested positive on April 7. The others discharge are a 27-year-old man from Mahevi Nagar and a 50-year-old woman from Nayapura, both of whom had tested positive on April 8 The patients were all praise for Dr Mahale for taking personal care of the elderly patients. Mandhare handed over a letter of appreciation to the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trainee-doctor-5-others-test-positive-in-district/articleshow/75415384.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Behind the veil, it’s a raw deal for sanitary workers in Chennai||CHENNAI: They were showered with flowers and praise multiple times during the lockdown. But there’s little going in their favour behind the scenes. Greater Chennai Corporation’s 20,000-plus workforce of conservancy and healthcare workers are the frontline warriors in the battle against Covid-19, but their anxiety varies right from contracting the infection to even the daily supply of food. For instance, in GCC limits at least 10 workers including conservancy, domestic breeding checker (DBC) and door-to-door survey workers have tested positive for the virus. However, GCC is yet to officially announce how many have been tested and the methodology. “We have tested around 500,” Madhusudhan Reddy, joint commissioner (health) of the civic body, told TOI. Health department sources say across the state, around 60-70 frontline workers in local bodies have tested positive. “There should be greater transparency,” said Babu Manikraj, president of a GCC workers union, affiliated to the DMK. Several complaints have also come up pertaining to the food supplied to the 18,000 conservancy workers in the city. Everyday, the civic body has made a budgetary allocation of Rs 20 lakh so that all the conservancy workers in the city get good food at least twice a day and Rs 100 has to be spent on every worker. This includes permanent, temporary, those employed under National Urbal Livelihood Mission (NULM) and the DBC workers. Of them, 20% of workers are considered to be absent each day. However, multiple reports from areas across the city show that conservancy workers are being taken for a ride. For instance, in many zones, the workers are asked to have their breakfast and lunch at Amma canteens, where food is free. “We sweep the roads without breakfast under the hot sun. How can we walk up to Amma canteens which is a km away,” said a conservancy worker in zone 9, Teynampet. On Monday, workers circulated videos of a hotel in Tondiarpet (zone 4), where food for them was packed by the hotel staff not wearing gloves or mask. Courtesy, a tie-up with the local GCC officials. C Srinivasulu, general secretary of the red flag union of GCC workers, said only in Manali zone was Rs 100 spent on every worker, that too only for a week. “We have raised these complaints with senior officials,” he said. Reddy told TOI that such complaints would be taken up and rectified immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/behind-the-veil-its-a-raw-deal-for-sanitary-workers/articleshow/75416382.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Meeting of civic panels to be held online||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has has decided to conduct the meetings of its various panels through video conferencing. Ever since the lockdown has been imposed the meetings of the various civic panels, including the standing, transport and women and child welfare committees, are not taking place. Each panel has around 16 members and they cannot be accommodated in the existing meeting halls considering the physical distancing rules. A couple of days ago an urgent meeting of the standing committee was called by inviting only six members. The meeting was called to clear all the proposals related to management of Covid-19. Proposals like releasing of funds to develop Covid-19-related infrastructure at KMC's Dwarkanath Kotnis Isolation Hospital and buying four new tractors fitted with the spraying machines for carrying out the disinfection drive were cleared during the meeting. Since the meeting is also attended by officials from various departments it is not possible to maintain physical distancing in the limited space. Sandip Kawale, chairman of the standing committee said, "We have found that there is a need for regular meetings for each committee to get the ideas and proposals approved. Some of the proposals suggested by the administration requires the sanctioning of the committee. The administration has been asked to set up the infrastructure to hold the meetings online. We have learned that it is already being done by many other civic bodies, governments and administration." Kawale said that the number of corporators required for maintaining quorum is six. The next meeting is scheduled for Friday and the lockdown will still be into effect. Also, there are reports doing rounds claiming that the lockdown in the state is likely to be extended. "Monsoon is just a month away and we have to ensure all the preparations are in place. However without our inputs the preparations will not be complete. The online meetings with the officials by staying at home will help us provide the necessary inputs," Kawale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/meeting-of-civic-panels-to-be-held-online/articleshow/75415367.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||With no flights, 8 Myanmar TJs to stay put at MLA Hostel||Nagpur: Eight Myanmar-based Tablighi Jamaatis (TJs) who have been quarantined at the MLA hostel since April 3 will stay there, as there is no other place they can be sent, said district collector Ravindra Thakare. Traced and quarantined following orders of the Ministry of Home Affairs, all eight had tested negative and were supposed to be discharged after 14 days, i.e. on April 17. “There are no international flights, so where will they go during the ongoing lockdown. I have decided to keep them there for some time until there is clarity on the matter,” the collector said. The Myanmar TJs — four men and four women, were booked by Tehsil police for violating Foreigners Act and the visa conditions by undertaking religious preachings while being in India on a tourist visa. After the offence was registered, however, all eight were quarantined at MLA hostel. Meanwhile, Tehsil police were investigating the case and are now preparing to file a charge sheet before court. “The investigation in the case is almost complete and we will be submitting a charge sheet in the coming four to five days,” said senior police inspector of Tehsil police station. All the eight Myanmar citizens were camping in the city since March 7. While the women were living at local contacts’ homes, the men were living in mosques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-no-flights-8-myanmar-tjs-to-stay-put-at-mla-hostel/articleshow/75416414.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kanpur||Hindu man donates blood to save Muslim kidney patient when relatives back off||KANPUR: When relatives of Shahana Begum (55), a kidney patient, backed off when she was in dire need of blood transfusion, citing coronavirus lockdown, a Hindu man from the city chose humanity over religion for a noble cause. Abhimanyu Gupta (35), a lawyer and social activist, and a resident of Cantt area, received a call from Shahana’s Farrukhabad-based son Shaizy, who requested him to help save his mother’s life as she had to undergo dialysis and was in dire need of two units of blood. Setting a perfect example of religious harmony and humanity, Abhimanyu donated blood to save the life of the Muslim woman without giving a second thought. On late Sunday night, Abhimanyu, who is socially active and popular on social media, received a call about a Muslim woman with Army background in need of blood. “I got a call from woman’s son Shaizy who requested me to help arrange blood for his ailing mother. Next morning, I tried to find donors, but could not find any. No donors were available, so finally, I decided to donate the blood myself,” Abhimanyu told TOI. He immediately rushed to Seven Air Force hospital where Shahana was to undergo dialysis. “We had tears in our eyes, when even few of my relatives refused to donate blood to my mother at the last moment, and there was almost no hope left,” said Shaizy. “That’s when someone suggested that we should try to contact Kanpur-based lawyer-cum social activist Abhimanyu Gupta,” he added. “I had almost lost all hopes when this man came as Allah’s farishta (God’s angel) amid the lockdown,” said Shahana. “If I get an opportunity in my life, I will not hesitate to donate blood but also even my organ to save a person from different religion,” she said. The act of Abhimanyu earned praise on social media. “The example of humanity and brotherhood he has presented is commendable,” said a social media user in his post. Ever since nationwide lockdown was announced last month, Abhimanyu has been helping those in distress due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/hindu-man-donates-blood-to-save-muslim-kidney-patient-when-relatives-back-off/articleshow/75414815.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 28, 2020||Kanpur||No Covid-19 case in Ghatampur in last three weeks||KANPUR: Due to active cooperation of officers, the infected persons and local residents, the Ghatampur town in Kanpur Nagar district has not recorded any new coronavirus case in the last three weeks though the township was in red zone with two hotspots. Two secondary cases, which were in contact with the Jamaatis, were found negative in the second report. According to authorities, out of several Jamaatis nabbed by the police in Baripal town of the tehsil, three of them were found to be coronavirus infected. A father and son of Ghatampur , who had come in contact with them, were found positive on April 4. The officials declared Katra, Pachkhura, Hafizpur, Kaziana, Sheikhwada, Shivpuri West and Baripal town as hotspots, they said.  Executive officer of Ghatampur nagarpalika Umesh Kumar is getting the area cleaned and sanitized three times in a day besides spreading anti-larva medicines in drains and fogging in hotspot areas. The health department after conducting door-to-door survey through Asha workers, ANMs and paramedical staff, identified the primary and secondary contacts and people who had returned from foreign countries. Dr Kailash Chandra of Ghatampur community health centre told mediapersons that that he had received information about four foreigners returnees who were home quarantined. “In the beginning, three Jamaatis and two of their contacts were found infected. Later, 124 samples were tested and luckily none found corona positive”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-covid-19-case-in-ghatampur-in-last-3-weeks/articleshow/75414783.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
April 28, 2020||Agra||BDO faces axe for poor upkeep of Agra quarantine centre||AGRA: A day after a video purportedly showing poor and unhygienic conditions at a quarantine centre in Agra went viral, the UP government on Monday recommended suspension of the block development officer (BDO), who was responsible for its maintenance and operations. Principal secretary (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar, who has been posted in Agra to implement the government’s containment measures, told TOI, “BDO Manish Verma was found responsible for the poor maintenance of the centre in an inquiry conducted by chief development officer (CDO) J Reebha. The report is being sent to the government recommending strict action against him.” As reported in these columns on Monday, the video which went viral on social media on Sunday showed people in the quarantine centre collecting food and water bottles from under the locked gates of the quarantine facility at Sikandra. A man in protective gear was purportedly tossing biscuit packets and inmates inside the centre were picking them up. He said, “I along with the ADG (Agra zone) visited the quarantine centre on Monday to streamline the facilities there.” The official added that responsibilities have been fixed and Madhu Saxena, the director (medical care) of UP directorate of medical and health services, and Dr Sanjeev Yadav from Moradabad will look into quarantine protocol and other medical issues. Additional director general (Agra zone) Ajay Anand said, “From now on, an administrative and a police official will visit quarantine centres across the city every day to check facilities; so that no such complaints are there in the future.” “We have instructed all the field officers to enforce the lockdown, which is very much required to contain spread of infection. Our main focus is in the containment zones, from where the infection can spread,” he added. According to the Agra administration, there are 21 active quarantine centres in the district, housing about 800 inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bdo-faces-axe-for-poor-upkeep-of-agra-quarantine-centre/articleshow/75415406.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 28, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH to release stipend of junior doctors after two months||Aurangabad: Deprived of their monthly stipend for two months, resident doctors at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) heaved a sigh of relief after the administration assured them that they would receive their allowances on Tuesday. The GMCH has around 450 postgraduate medical students. These PG students work in the hospital as resident doctors and receive a monthly stipend of Rs 54,000 from the state government. After the outbreak of the pandemic, the junior doctors were put at the frontline in Covid-19 control and management. The GMCH has been designated as the dedicated Covid hospital as it is the only government-run tertiary care centre in Aurangabad. However, the last time that the doctors received their stipend was in February. Some even claimed that they received their last stipend in January. The junior doctors claimed that the GMCH has not paid their stipend for the last two months. Many doctors working at the hospitals are natives of places outside Aurangabad. They are facing a lot of difficulties as they have to support their families back home. According to sources, the GMCH could not clear their payments as its annual budget was not approved.When asked about the non-payment of stipend to the junior doctors, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said that the file to approve the release of their stipends was signed on Monday. “They will receive their stipend by Tuesday,” she said.Earlier this month, the resident doctors had stopped work for a few hours after they were asked to work in the emergency services and in the Covid-19 ward without proper protective gear. The issue was resolved after GMCH administration assured to provide them masks and protective gear wherever required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-to-release-stipend-of-junior-doctors-after-two-months/articleshow/75415419.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Locals alert admin about Iran returnee, test reports awaited||Kolhapur: One Islampur resident, who was brought back from Iran, has been placed in quarantine after returning home from the military isolation facility in Rajasthan. He was among a group of people from western Maharashtra, who had travelled to Iran and were brought back by Indian government. After their return, they were placed in a quarantine facility in Jaisalmer in Rajasthan. Some of them were brought back to Maharashtra after the quarantine period ended through military transport vehicle on Saturday. The Islampur resident was dropped at his home, before dropping a few others in Kolhapur. One Kolhapur resident, who was among this group, has now tested positive for the coronavirus infection. Though the Islampur resident stayed at his home, after the locals found about his arrival, they called up local authorities. Krishnat Pingle, deputy superintendent of police from Islampur, confirmed that one person, who was dropped off by the military at Islampur, has been placed in quarantine. "After locals told us about the arrival of the person, we took him to the hospital and then put him under quarantine facility. We have appealed the locals to tell us if there are more such people, who have recently returned," said Pingle. From Monday, local civic authorities have called for total lockdown. They claimed that the measure of total lockdown has been taken to ensure that no person from the nearby villages, where covid-19 patients have been reported do not enter the town. The Sangli and Kolhapur district administrations are accessing details from Rajasthan government about the travellers from the respective district and number of people actually discharged from quarantine. A batch of over 230 travellers, who had been to Iran were bought to rajasthan by a defence airoplane. They were tested there and one Kolhapur resident tested positive. He was put under treatment and after recovering, he and others were taken by a military vehicle to their hometown. When they returned, relatives of the people from Kolhapur district informed the local authorities. Those who had returned from Kolhapur were Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil hospital, where one of them tested positive and the remaining tested negative. The officials said all of them have been placed in isolation. A senior Kolhapur district health official said that the swab sample of the covid positive person has been sent to Miraj based laboratory for further confirmation and the test results are awaited. Still some infection exists to the lungs of the covid positive person and he is undergoing further treatment, the authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/locals-alert-admin-about-iran-returnee-test-reports-awaited/articleshow/75415403.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Samras Hostel videos claim mismanagement||Ahmedabad: In yet another video of Samras Hostel — a Covid-19 care centre — several people are seen standing at the reception counter on the ground floor without following the social-distancing rules. Some of the patients had even removed their masks while some were seen moving around without wearing masks. This is not the first time that such videos have gone viral on social networking sites, highlighting mismanagement by the authorities and carelessness of the patients. In the past, a video had surfaced where the patients were seen playing cricket. On Monday, two videos went viral. In one of them, the patients were in a queue at the reception counter, probably to get water or food. However, the authorities were not available for their comments. The video clearly shows the patients standing very closely. An officer refusing to be quoted said that there is lack of discipline among the patients. “When a food trolley is sent on any floor, people come out and start snatching the packets,” he claimed. The second video claims that the morning breakfast is served at 10am and food is served at 2pm and there is no fixed time for the dinner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/samras-hostel-videos-claim-mismanagement/articleshow/75416407.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Agra||With 7 cases, Aligarh shows sharp spike in Covid-19 cases||AGRA: In a highest single-day rise of Covid patients in Aligarh, seven fresh cases were recorded on Monday taking the total number of such cases in the district to 23. According to health officials, two minor boys, aged eight and 13 years, tested positive for coronavirus along with five others, including a woman. The Usmanpada and Niveri areas of the city were subsequently declared “hotspot” as a majority of the cases were reported from there. Now, only health workers, sanitisation workers and those rendering essential services will be allowed in the containment zones. Talking with TOI, chief development officer (CDO) Anunaya Jha said that four cases were reported from Qureshian area, two from Usmanpara and one from Jangalgadhi. All the patients have been admitted to hospital. Jha said their contacts are being traced and will be quarantined at the designated centres. District magistrate C B Singh said, “Following lockdown rules is the only way to contain the spread of this infection." He added that AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) has been declared as L2 Covid hospital now. “L1 hospitals cater to non-critical Covid-19 patients, while L2 and L3 deal with more complicated and critical cases, respectively,” said Singh. Meanwhile, JNMC has also started helplines for people facing cardiac problems and Gynae related issue. “patients suffering from cardiac issues can make brief calls or send whatsapp messages on the helpline number, 7599050505, while the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology can answer the queries of patients on helpline numbers, 9719287391 and 9887430520,” said JNMC officials||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/with-7-cases-aligarh-shows-sharp-spike-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75415442.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nashik||Around 3,000 apply to be part of anti-Covid force in Nandurbar||Nashik: The call from Nandurbar district collector Rajendra Bharud, requesting people to join the anti-Covid force (ACF) has evoked good response with around 3,000 people, including teachers and NCC cadets, submitting their applications.“People from all walks of life are coming forward to contribute for the social help at a time when the administration needs it the most to fight the spread of Covid-19 amid the lockdown,” Bharud said.The collector thanked all the people for showing their readiness in helping the society in the time of crisis. "There were two reasons for making the appeal. First, actual shortage of staff and second is automatic transfer of responsibility to fight against Covid-19 from the government to common man and individual as well," another senior district administration official said. "When the volunteers registered for the cause, they actually were aware and ready to contribute to help the government. This further meant that all these people would start following the best prevention practices," he added.The official also pointed out that there are 1,600 police personnel in the district of which 300 were either on leave, unwell, or have illnesses owing to which they cannot be on the field.The district — with a population of around 20 lakh — also has large number of roads connected to neighbouring districts and states. "Practically it would not be easy for the police to remain present at every point and check infiltration. Due to this we recently started Village Defence Force (VDF) that comprises locals," the official said.The VDFs are being used only to man the borders, whereas the ACF will be used for things like providing help and guarding containment zones, spreading the information about Covid-19, setting up of skits that would take the message of cleanliness to the people, among others.The volunteers will be provided specific instructions and duty assignment by the local Block Development Officers and police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/around-3000-apply-to-be-part-of-anti-covid-force-in-nandurbar/articleshow/75415467.cms||Abhilash Botekar
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lincoln Pharma gets Gujarat FDCA nod to make hydroxychloroquine||Ahmedabad: City-based Lincoln Pharmaceuticals on Monday said the company has received approval from the Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) to manufacture hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) among other drugs used to fight Covid-19.The company also received the state regulator’s permission to manufacture HCQ sulphate. Lincoln Pharma will manufacture varied dosages of these drugs at its Khatraj plant in Ahmedabad. HCQ is used to treatment of Covid-19 patients. After the necessary approvals from the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT), the company also intends to export these products.“We have all the necessary infrastructure at our state-of-the-art manufacturing facility at Khatraj, and look to expedite commercial production of the approved drugs at the earliest,” said Mahendra Patel, MD, Lincoln Pharmaceuticals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lincoln-pharma-gets-gujarat-fdca-nod-to-make-hydroxychloroquine/articleshow/75416514.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kanpur||GSVM to get one RT-PCR machine soon||KANPUR: Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial medical college (GSVM) will soon get one RT-PCR machine to examine coronavirus samples. According to sources, following an appeal made by district magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari urging people and business houses to come forward and contribute financially in the anti-corona campaign, the management of Neyveli Lignite Corporation, under its social responsibility fund, provided machine to the medical college. At present, GSVM medical college has two machines for the testing coronavirus samples. Dr Prashant Tripathi, nodal officer, multi-disciplinary unit of GSVM medical college, confirmed that the college would soon get one more RT-PCR machine. With the new machine, the capacity to test samples would increase, he said. Meanwhile, nodal officer Nitin Ramesh Gokarn has also underlined the need to increase capacity of sample collection, their examination and contact tracing. “Leaving a person free after collecting his/her sample is quite risky as the process being adopted so far has given dangerous results and increased infected persons”, he said. Now, we have to adopt the scientific approach for successful testing of samples with zero risk, he added. He has asked the officials to increase the number of teams for tracing contacts. “The medical college is at present testing around 200-250 samples per day, and there is a need to test more suspected cases. The authorities have been asked to install one more machine in the medical college so that 700-1000 samples could be tested there per day”, the nodal officer said. District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari has also stressed on increasing the collection and capacity of testing samples at a review meeting held at UHM on Sunday evening. He has asked the officials to increase number of teams for contact tracing so that the last person who had come in contact with the infected person could be traced and treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gsvm-to-get-one-rt-pcr-machine-soon/articleshow/75414892.cms||Anant Chandak
April 28, 2020||Kanpur||12 more test positive, Kanpur’s tally rises to 197||KANPUR: As many as 12 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district in the last twenty-four hours, taking the total number of cases to 197. Meanwhile, five Covid-19 suspects died during treatment at the ICU of Covid-19 hospital of Lala Lajpat Rai hospital since late Sunday night. Their corona report is yet to come in. Seven positive cases were reported on late Sunday night, and five on Monday. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Ashok Shukla said all positive cases were reported from hotspot areas and had already been shifted to the isolation ward of Covid hospital. He said, “On Monday, the health department received sample report of 148 cases from Covid-19 lab of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College, of which five cases were reported positive. All three cases were from Mannapurwa, Babupurwa and Gadariya Mohal, which had been declared as hotspot.” Dr Shukla with regard to five Covid -19 suspects death, said, “The five suspects were admitted to the Covid-19 hospital of LLR hospital earlier. When their condition deteriorated, they were shifted to ICU and were undergoing treatment, but they died. Their test report is awaited.” Their bodies have been sealed and will be handed to their family members as per Covid 19 protocol. “Protocol would also be followed during their last rites,” CMO added. To recall, the city had reported its first case on March 23 when a 70-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus, a few days after his arrival from the US. As per the officials, 18 of them have been cured and discharged and three others have died, leaving the number of active cases at 177. Likwise, a man related to Tablighi Jamaat, has tested positive for coronavirus, the second confirmed case in Unnao, a health department official said on Monday. The second case comes from Anand Nagar locality of Unnao. “First positive case was reported from Qila locality of Unnao about two weeks ago,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/12-more-test-positive-citys-tally-rises-to-197/articleshow/75414850.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||8 discharged but 2 dads still in hosp with +ve daughters||Nagpur: Two persons, one each from Khamla and Jaripatka, have continued to stay with their daughters (who are still positive) at Covid-19 Isolation Ward of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) despite they themselves having got rid of the disease and recommended for discharge 17 days ago. Meanwhile, eight other patients were discharged from IGGMCH and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday.These two fathers and their daughters have now completed a month at Isolation ward which is highest days so far for any patient in the district.IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande said, “We will again take samples of two girls on Tuesday. They have continued to test positive. We took opinion of Mumbai expert Dr Om Shrivastav who suggested us to take samples after six days. He also suggested us to give multi-vitamin and zinc tablets to the two girls along with a lot of water for maintaining hydration,” he said.The person from Khamla is manager in the shop of businessman and one from Jaripatka is the assistant. Businessman and manager had gone to New Delhi for purchasing goods and got infected. Businessman tested positive on March 25 and manager and assistant on March 26. Daughters of two persons tested positive on March 27. Three more members of assistant’s family also tested positive. Of 11 from this chain, seven have been discharged within 15 days.On April 11, these two had tested negative and were recommended discharge. But since their minor daughters were still positive, they chose to stay in hospital. The two girls are also reportedly taking some ayurvedic medicines.Six persons including four Jabalpur’s Tablighi Jamaatis (TJs), one resident each of Satranjipura and Kamptee were discharged from IGGMCH. Two girls from Satranjipura were discharged from GMCH.Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel said, “Three more Jabalpur TJs are likely to be discharged on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-discharged-but-2-dads-still-in-hosp-with-ve-daughters/articleshow/75416418.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Helpline gets 28,000 calls in 8 hours||Jaipur: The state govrnment-run helpline number 18001806127 for migrant workers in the state received 28,000 calls in just 8 hours (From 8am till 4pm) on Monday.The helpline will be used to collect information such as age of migrant workers, their location and numbers who are keen on returning. The number was made operational in less than 24 hours by the Covid-19 IT war room. “It’s just been a day and we are yet to set up a live dashboard. In the coming days, we will able to receive more calls to assist migrant workers,” said Tapan Kumar, an official at the department of information and technology. Highest number of calls are coming from Maharashtra and Gujarat. The helpline number was announced by CM Ashok Gehlot on Saturday evening.Over 60 operators are handling the calls from home at present as they were given less than a day to start operations. They will work from the war room from Tuesday or Wednesday onwards in three shifts. “The migrants are expected to share vital information like their present location, district, state along their district in Rajasthan. Also, the number of persons age wise,” said Kumar.The information will be tabulated district and state wise. Thereafter, the state will approach the respective states for permission and roll out buses as per requirement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/helpline-gets-28000-calls-in-8-hours/articleshow/75417090.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Spurt in poaching amid lockdown, 50kg bush meat seized in Allapalli||Nagpur: Several cases of poaching, illicit tree felling and sand smuggling from forest areas in the past one month indicates a spurt in such activities during the lockdown. On Sunday, Allapalli (Gadchiroli) forest officials seized 50 kg meat of chital, nilgai and wild boar that was being dried in reserve forest compartment number 71. The officials also seized arms including bows and arrows, utensils, empty rice sacks, rope net, knives and other material used to kill the animals, three cell phones, and 29 bicycles of the accused in nearby nullah. Pieces of skin of chital and nilgai were also found at the spot. With people indoors due to lockdown, poachers are having a good time. However, Allapalli deputy conservator (DyCF) CR Tambe said, “Prima facie this case has nothing to with lockdown. It seems to be a case of traditional community hunting. Many locals dry meat in this tribal district as an alternative food source during rains.” “I don’t think non-availability of food is the reason for killing wild animals. Apart from distribution of food kits by social workers, government is supplying enough grains from PDS shops,” Tambe added. “Taking advantage of lockdown, private contractors are rampantly felling teak trees. In Chimur, teak worth Rs 15 lakh was felled and dumped near Jamgaon on April 12. Four other similar incidents happened in the area during the same period. Besides, smuggling of sand from forest areas is also rampant. We have urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to take action against those involved,” said Kawdu Lohkare, president, Environment Protection Committee, Chimur. “A day before a leopard got caught in a steel trap laid by poachers in Khairi in Paratwada range, which is a serious issue. During last month, several incidents of poaching have been reported in newspapers. Setting up of jaw trap is a wake-up call. There are sensitive areas like Ghatladki (Amravati) and Sironcha (Gadchiroli), where department needs to focus more during lockdown,” said Kishor Rithe, president, Satpuda Foundation. Though forest officials say the spurt in poaching has nothing to do with lockdown and the trap in Khairi was for herbivores, it is a fact that with most people indoors and streets deserted, poachers have been active. “The forest department needs to strengthen its intelligence and local community connect to know whereabouts of unknown people in forest,” said conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar. “In the initial phase of lockdown we saw number of alerts going up dramatically but they tapered off. Some were about poaching but others were mostly illicit felling, sand mining and fishing. In the last 37 days, we received about 45 alerts in Central India,” said Nitin Desai, Central India director, Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spurt-in-poaching-amid-lockdown-50kg-bush-meat-seized-in-allapalli/articleshow/75416445.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 28, 2020||Chennai||You will have to queue up to get on to trains at Egmore, Central||CHENNAI: In just more than a week, when the lockdown is expected to be lifted and train services likely to resume, people will have to reach stations early and continue to maintain social distancings. In Chennai, Southern Railway has begun pasting stickers on the floor in front of ticket counters and on platforms at MGR Central and Egmore to specify spots for people to stand farther from one another to prevent crowdings. The authorities are not sure about when the trains can start in a full-fledged manner, but have begun making preparations at the various stations to ensure the rules are not flouted. At Egmore railway station, yellow stickers have been pasted in front of ticket counters. On the platforms, yellow and white lines are to ensure people will be able to stand in a queue to board the train. Similar work is going on at MGR Central, said a senior railway official. “Stickers have been pasted on platform 3 and work is going on at other platforms. Social distancing will be a key precaution. There is also a discussion on posting staff at the exits to spray sanitizers on the hands of people who walk out of the railway stations,” he added. For a long time, even before the lockdown began, Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel have been ensuring that people form a queue to board unreserved compartments of express trains at Egmore railway station as people were jostling to get in. A similar queue system is likely to be introduced for people to board reserved coaches if there is crowding. Railway authorities are discussing ways to prevent crowding inside the two main railway stations. On a usual day, platforms of Central and Egmore railway stations are packed with hundreds of people waiting to board trains while the waiting area and concourse is crammed with several transit passengers waiting for connecting trains. Now, all staff inside stations will wear masks and gloves. Sources said it was unlikely that railways will start scheduled trains soon after lockdown is lifted. “There will be several passengers and visitors inside the stations at a time because scheduled trains depart and arrive back to back. In all probability, special trains will be introduced to begin with at staggered timings so that there will not be much people inside a station,” he added. Officials are also thinking of ways to ensure social distancing inside coaches which may be a huge task as all berths on most trains have been sold out already for travel in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/you-will-have-to-queue-up-to-get-on-to-trains-at-egmore-central/articleshow/75416433.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Orthopaedic surgeon with Covid-19 dies, second doctor death in 2 days||KOLKATA: Orthopaedic surgeon Sisir Mandal (69), who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at AMRI Hospital on Monday evening. A day earlier, Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, assistant director health services (equipment and stores), died after he contracted the novel coronavirus. The state government has started scouting for a hospital for the treatment of frontline Covid-19 warriors exclusively. So far, more than 60 healthcare workers in Bengal have tested positive, most of whom have been undergoing treatment, with some being cured and discharged. Associated with Belle Vue Clinic for more than four decades, Mandal was admitted to the hospital two weeks ago and shifted to AMRI a day after he tested positive. He suffered a steady deterioration over the past one week in the course of which, he suffered a cardiac arrest and went into coma. Mandal suffered multi-organ failure and was put on ventilation but he could not be revived. “This is a pandemic and healthcare workers fighting the battle upfront are at the risk of getting infected. That is why we feel the need for an exclusive facility for treating doctors, nurses and paramedics who are contracting the virus while performing their duty,” said a Swasthya Bhawan official. Sources said that once the hospital is finalised, the unit will run with manpower and expertise support from SSKM Hospital. The hospital has been already been told to keep a pool of doctors, including senior faculty members, ready to be deputed at the exclusive facility. While recently earmarking ILS Hospital in Salt Lake and Ohio Hospital in New Town as Covid-treatment facilities, the government had initially planned to keep the New Town unit for health workers. A series of talks followed between health officials and IPGMER officials, who were even told to prepare a medical team to be deputed in New Town. “The plan was to designate the New Town hospital exclusively for healthcare workers. A team from SSKM was supposed to be roped in. But the number of beds there is too few,” said a health official. According to a source, the hospital has only 100 beds and the number will go down even further if distancing has to be maintained. A few days ago, Medical College and Hospital junior doctors had complained their colleagues, who had tested positive, were not being given enough medical attention. “Keeping the morale of these young doctors high is important as they are the frontline warriors. We are looking for an alternative,” said another health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/orthopaedic-surgeon-with-covid-dies-2nd-doctor-death-in-2-days/articleshow/75416553.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 28, 2020||Kanpur||59-year-old woman first coronavirus positive case in Jhansi||JHANSI: In city’s first case, 59-year-old woman was reported coronavirus positive on Monday. She resides in the congested and thickly populated Orcha Gate area in the old city. While the woman has been admitted to Jhansi Medical College, her entire family has been put into isolation. Apart from this, samples of 27 persons including three doctors whom she had contacted recently have been sent for testing. The news has come as a blow for the locals as the city had no case till now and the administration had kept a tight vigil throughout the lockdown period. The infected woman, who has no travel history, was ill for the past few days and was getting herself treated by private doctors. When after showing three different doctors, she did not get any relief, she got admitted in medical college on Saturday. Here after seeing her symptoms, her sample was tested for COVID-19 which came positive on Monday. She has no recent travel history and as a result doctors are finding it difficult to trace the contacts. The administration has sealed the entire area asking everyone to stay inside. Twelve medical teams have been constituted to screen every person of 300 houses in the locality. On the other hand the husband of the woman along with their daughter, son, son-in -law and grandson has been put in isolation. DM Jhansi Andra Vamsi said, “The entire area has been sealed and we are getting medical screening done of each and every person in the locality. Those who will be found suspected, will be tested for coronavirus. As of now, no travel history of the woman has come up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/59-year-old-woman-first-corona-positive-case-in-jhansi/articleshow/75414919.cms||Arindam Ghosh
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Khedawala discharged, to donate plasma||Ahmedabad: Imran Khedawala, the Congress MLA from Khadia-Jamalpur who was admitted to hospital on April 14 after he tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged on Monday. He has decided to donate plasma to treat other Covid patients. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said this gesture of Khedawala would motivate many other patients. A plasma therapy trial is under way, with the study titled ‘Phase-II open label randomised control trial to access the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit Covid-19 associated complications in moderate disease’. Khedawala said, “As soon as I was told about the discharge I decided that this Ramzan, after my recovery I should help others patients who may need the plasma.” Khedawala said it was unfortunate that his fellow Congressman Badruddin Shaikh died on the very day he was discharged. Khedawala said, “I have also asking my people to come out. There are people who are sick and have fever for five to six days and are not getting admitted as they are afraid. Through video calls, I callen on the people of Jamalpur, Behrampura, Danilimda, Kalupur and other areas to come forward and get themselves treated if they have fever and cough,” said Khedawala He said that he had never been admitted to hospital before but was satisfied with the treatment at SVP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/khedawala-discharged-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/75416519.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Pune metro work resumes on Paud Road with safety measures in place||PUNE: A month after progress on the Pune Metro rail project in the city came to a halt, work resumed in some stretches of Paud Road on Monday. Officials of the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) said this will extended, in a phased manner, to other sections in the city, including the riverbed portion. MahaMetro said work was taken up as per a state government order issued on April 23, which allowed Metro work to restart after ensuring social distancing norms and other preconditions. “We are resuming work according to the order issued by the state chief secretary. The state government has issued revised guidelines about the measures to be taken for containment of Covid-19 while starting such work. Subsequently, a letter has also been issued by the state urban development department about resuming work,” a MahaMetro official said. MahaMetro is developing two lines in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, both split into four sections. The 16.59km-long Line 1, connecting PCMC to Swargate, will be an elevated0underground hybrid. The first 11.57km, from PCMC to Range Hills, will be elevated, after which the Metro will go underground — near the College of Agriculture — till Swargate. Work on the elevated section is nearly completed till Dapodi, while tunnel-boring machines had started the tunnel excavations for the underground route in December. MahaMetro had also initiated trials runs on a 5km stretch of the elevated line, between the Sant Tukaramnagar and Phugewadi stations, earlier this year. The elevated stretch will have nine stations, while five stations will be underground. The other line, 14.67km long, will connect Vanaz and Ramwadi and will be completely elevated, with 16 stations. Work on the Vanaz, Anandnagar and Ideal Colony stations is well under way. “The state government’s order says that Metro work can be resumed. We have accordingly informed the PMC and shared with them a detailed working plan,” Hemant Sonawane, general manager (PR) of MahaMetro, said. “We have shared the government order with the contractors and instructed them about following the guidelines. The contractors have prepared work resumption plans in view of the contagion. The workforce will follow these plans,” he added. According to MahaMetro data, over 2,800 workers who stay in transit camps at Metro sites have been trained on the precautions they are expected to take. The workers will arrive at the work sites in buses. They have been told to maintain social distancing and hygiene. The work on priority sections and at the riverfront will start first, with the authorities eyeing a June completion for work on the riverbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-work-resumes-on-paud-rd-with-safety-measures-in-place/articleshow/75417661.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Palace on Wheels routes may be tweaked to attract desi tourists||JAIPUR: With sourcing markets in Europe in disarray due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Rajasthan government finds it prudent to focus on domestic market. At a meeting on reviving the sector, tourism minister Vishvendra Singh sought suggestions from various stakeholders to lay out a strategy which can be implemented once the lockdown is lifted. The minister said while an aggressive marketing strategy will be rolled out to lure domestic tourists, development of new circuits will have to be worked on focusing on spiritual, wildlife and adventure tourism. There was a suggestion to attract tourists to Palace on Wheels, which currently caters to the demand of foreign tourists. “Currently, about 98% of the occupancy comes from foreign tourists. But a new strategy needs to chalked out so that the luxury train can also be marketed to the domestic tourists. Their itinerary should also be changed accordingly,” said a participant. Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari, who is also the Member of the Parliament Consultative Committee of Tourism, said the industry needs to be supported so that revival becomes less painful. “The hotel industry currently pays fixed prices for electricity, which needs to be removed and they should be allowed to pay on the actual consumption. Besides being declared as an industry, the hospitality sector is charged commercial rates. They should be allowed to pay at industrial rates,” said the MP. On a suggestion made by internationally acclaimed Kalbeliya dancer Gulabo, the minister replied that crafts persons and folk performers need to be looked after during these times and a package will be rolled out for them as well. Officials of the department said they are working on a financial assistance package to help artists’ community who have been deprived of livelihood opportunities because of the Covid-19 pandemic. For the past two years, the domestic tourism mart has been cancelled after its inaugural edition. But since the focus has been shifted to domestic segment, the exhibition is all likely to take place. The minister seemed to agree with the assessment that the mart should happen this year after the lockdown is lifted and normalcy returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/palace-on-wheels-routes-may-be-tweaked-to-attract-desi-tourists/articleshow/75417095.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nashik||NGO serves Shiv Bhojan thalis for Rs 5 each at Bhagur||Nashik: An NGO, Zep Bharari Foundation, has started serving 200 Shiv Bhojan thali sat Rs 5 to the poor people in Nashik district’s Bhagur town from Sunday. Zep Bharari Foundation has started cooking and distributing the food in the facility of International Sports Centre. Prerana Balkwade, the director of the foundation, said “We have been distributing food to the poor people every day but due to financial constrain it was becoming difficult for us. I discussed the issues with the food and civil supply minister Chhagan Bhujbal and he advised me to begin Shiv Bhojan thali in my area. I am grateful to him for the idea. With the Bhagur Municipal Corporation’s support, we are serving the thalis.” Bhagur is a small town where residents of 35 nearby villages come to trade their vegetables and grains. On Sunday, only 95 people had come as many were unaware about it. But on the next day, 180 people benefited through the Shiv Bhojan thali, according to the data collected on the mobile application. “There are many people who had come from different places and settled here. They do not have ration cards, hence cannot benefit from the government’s scheme of grocery distribution. These people cannot afford a gas cylinder or oil, spices and other necessary items to cook food as they do not have any source of income,” Balkwade added. As per the government norms, the food includes two chapatis, pulses, vegetable and rice which is usually enough for a person for one time. “Sometimes that people ask for extra chapatis. Although, it is not in the scheme, we keep extra chapatis prepared for them on our behalf as we can only serve one meal per day,” said Balkwade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ngo-serves-shiv-bhojan-thalis-for-rs-5-each-at-bhagur/articleshow/75415513.cms||pragya jain
April 28, 2020||Business||FMCG struggles with distribution||BENGALURU: Labour shortage is still leading to patchy supply of FMCG products to retailers and kirana stores a month into the lockdown, though there has been some improvement in manufacturing. On an average, distributors service about 300-400 kirana stores, some as many as 800. But the lack of manpower means they have not been able to service them properly. “The problem is the last mile distribution. Each distributor will typically have 15 people who would be servicing about five mini trucks. Each truck would have a driver, one guy to take the order, and one to load and unload. The situation is such that out of those 15, five are migrants who have gone back, five are not coming, and the rest are afraid to go out and take orders,” said Mayank Shah, Parle Products category head. That has led to store owners and large chain retailers devising unique ways to get stocks. Spencer’s Retail and More are sending their own trucks to suppliers to get the products. In many cases, distributors are asking store owners to pre-book their orders over phone so that they can come and collect it rather than queuing up. “The supply chain was initially so broken and you were starting so low, that anything was an improvement,” said Devendra Chawla, CEO of Spencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket. “On our part, we made sure that the turnaround time for the trucks were reduced to two hours by tracking them. In the last 8-9 days, things have got better; if 20-25% products were available 10-15 days back, now it is 50-60 %.” Krishnarao Buddha of Parle Snacks said even if they were to produce, transporting is sometimes challenging as many drivers are not willing to come. “Even If my products reach the depot, I don’t have enough loaders and unloaders. The same is the case with distributors,” he said. On the manufacturing side, biscuit makers like Britannia and Parle say they have been able to ramp up production in the last two weeks. They are operating at 65% and 45% capacity respectively. The numbers were close to 30% two weeks into the lockdown. “About 50% of labourers have gone back and we are doing with the remaining. In some cases we are hiring people looking out for jobs, mainly contractual labour whom we can put in the packaging departments which require relatively unskilled labour,” said Shah of Parle Products Britannia managing director (MD) Varun Berry said he was surprised that in spite of companies providing all the necessary requirements to maintain social distancing and opportunity to work, people are not getting back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fmcg-struggles-with-distribution/articleshow/75416456.cms||Avik Das
April 28, 2020||Pune||3 cops with Covid-19 in hospital, 100 colleagues in quarantine||Pune: At least 100 police personnel posted at a centrally located police station in Pune city were on Monday sent to either institutional or home quarantine as a precautionary measure after three of their colleagues tested positive for Covid-19, recently. All the quarantined personnel are believed to have come in contact with the three positive patients, a senior police officer said. Their swab samples have been collected for analysis and the reports are awaited, said a senior police officer. The three policemen, who tested positive a week ago, along with their family members, have been admitted to hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The 100 policemen will be allowed to resume their duties only after their test reports are received, the officer said. Meanwhile, the police station and the police chowkies under its jurisdiction were sealed on Monday morning for disinfection and sanitisation. “The police station and its chowkies were closed for about five to six hours on Monday,” the officer said. The police station has sought manpower from other police stations and the crime branch for routine work and for bandobast duty. Adequate manpower has been provided to the police station for check point duties and bandobast in the red zone areas under the police station. The jurisdiction of this police station includes market places, hospitals, a large number of old wadas and four slum pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-cops-with-covid-19-in-hospital-100-colleagues-in-quarantine/articleshow/75417668.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Court: Can’t stop toll collection on national highways across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has dismissed a PIL to restrain the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) from collecting toll across the state during Covid-19 lockdown. Reiterating the settled legal position that toll fees are not a source of revenue for the state but are compensatory in nature and is collected to reimburse the amount spent on construction of roads, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice M Nirmal Kumar issued dismissed a PIL filed by V Munikrishnan. The PIL petitioner, who is into agricultural operations, said that on account of the nationwide lockdown, the NHAI took a fair decision to stop toll collection for 21 days, which has now been further extended till May 3. However, taking advantage of the announcement made by the government to lift certain restrictions from April 20, particularly for free movement of essential commodities, NHAI has started levying toll once again, that too at an increased rate, he said. “On account of the hike in collection of toll fee, prices of essential items have increased,” his counsel E Sathiyaraj said. Opposing the plea, assistant solicitor-general G Karthikeyan submitted that since the levy of toll is having a statutory backing in the form of the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, it is open to NHAI to collect toll. The nature of the fee casts a corresponding obligation upon the NHAI to maintain roads properly and ensure free flow of traffic, he added. Recording the submission, the bench relied on a division bench order of the court and said it had been a well settled legal position that collection of toll could not be construed as source of revenue for the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-cant-stop-toll-collection-on-national-highways/articleshow/75416454.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Dad’s SOS call from Mumbai saves woman assaulted in Chennai||CHENNAI: The crime against women and children unit of the city police on Sunday rescued a woman from her local guardian in Vepery, after they received a SOS call from her father from Mumbai on Sunday evening. The local guardian was torturing her, the father told police. The woman, in her mid-20s, had been staying in a house arranged by Rayan Agarwal for nearly four years. He had been helping the Mumbai native settle in. She lost her job recently and continued to stay in the house, which is believed to have led to the fight. Her father, who made a call to the police control room from Mumbai, told the personnel that since the lockdown began, the guardian had been physically assaulting his daughter. “I came to know of it only recently. At 2am on Sunday, he hit her on the face, injured her fingers and even stamped,” the father told the control room operator, urging them to rescue his daughter. The police working on the case said there was no sexual assault but Rayan Agarwal had physically abused the woman whenever an argument broke out. The all women police station of Vepery tracked and secured Agarwal. The victim was taken to the one-stop center run by department of social welfare in Anna Nagar and given counselling. Police have requested women and children in distress to contact police by dialing 1091 and 1098 in case of any emergency. The Crime Against Women and Children unit of the city police has seen seven cases of domestic abuse of women and seven cases of sexual abuse of children during the lockdown. In the last 34 days, 549 domestic abuse calls were received by the police control room and women’s helpline (1091).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dads-sos-call-from-mumbai-saves-woman-assaulted-in-city/articleshow/75416467.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Throwing caution to the wind, hundreds gather at ration shops in Kondhwa||Pune: Ration shops in Kondhwa were swarmed by people holding saffron cards since the early hours of Monday, in violation of the social distancing norms. The ration shops received the supplies after a month and were allowed to open only on Sunday. There are around 25,000 saffron card holders in Kondhwa with an annual income of Rs 15,000 to 1 lakh. They will be given wheat at Rs 8/kg and rice at Rs 12/kg. Senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police said, “We have told nine ration shops to stay open between 8am and 8pm. They have been told to issue coupons to 100 to 150 consumers, while ensuring social distancing among people. Shops can also go for micro-level planning like giving time slots to consumers to avoid overcrowding.” PMC corporator Sainath Babar said, “We have appealed to the district administration to extend the facility to people from other states not having saffron cards in larger public interest.” Activist Tanaji Lonkar said large number of people from slums, lower middle class societies and tenants were thronging the ration shops for purchasing food grains at cheaper rate, flouting social distancing norm. An official from the department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs said, “We have received 57.33 metric tonnes of wheat and 38.19 metric tonnes of rice from the state government. We have distributed the ration to 760 ration shops in Pune. The shops have started distributing the ration from April 25.” Salim Mulla , a local resident, said the government had ensured that CCTV cameras were installed at ration shops and its employees from other departments were monitoring the functioning of the shops to ensure that only the needy benefited from the scheme. Ration shopowner Datta Shinde said, “The quality of rice and wheat stock received is good. Apart from saffron card holders, the government has also extended the facility to people above the poverty line. We are attending 150 consumers during the day.” Activist and MNS member Rohan Gaikwad said there were no complaints related to the quality of rice and wheat. In queue since 4am Similar situation prevailed near Paud Phata flyover on Karve Road where hundreds of residents of the nearby slums gathered at the ration shop from 6am on Monday for the supplies. Laxmibai Ovhal (72) of Kalewadi slum was found sitting at the roadside awaiting her turn. Having reached the shop around 6am, she said, “It has been 12 hours since I came here. I only went home to have lunch and one of my family members came and sat here to reserve the spot. Month-end has approached and we are out of ration. Hence, it is is necessary for us to get a token and the ration,” she said. Kamal Sathe (62) was also in the queue since 6am. “We have to spend a full day to get one-month of ration. We have to wait our turns and are not even sure whether we would get the foodgrain today,” she said. Some people had been in queue since 4am on Monday, ration shopowner K T Dangi told TOI. (With inputs from Shyam Sonar & Neha Madan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/throwing-caution-to-the-wind-hundreds-gather-at-ration-shops-in-kondhwa/articleshow/75417675.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Empty pockets and hungry bellies: One meal a day luxury for Rohingyas in Chennai||CHENNAI: Nearly a hundred people from the Rohingya community, who are living in a camp in Kelambakkam, are surviving on barely a meal a day because of the extended lockdown. They got by doing odd jobs or working as dailywagers and have lost their livelihoods since. “It has been three weeks since I earned a paise,” said Ashadullah, who repairs cycles for a living. He came to the shelter in 2018 with his wife and three children from a camp in Jammu and Kashmir. “My wife and I eat little, I don’t eat mostly these days. We need to save the little food we have for our children. They are too young and need food,” he said. More than 20 families from the community reside at the cyclone shelter at Kelambakkam and a majority of them are women and children. Most of the men were involved in small businesses, many dealt scrap metal while a few had set up cycle repair sheds or worked as cooks in stalls and restaurants. Anwar Sadique, who used to work in a local food stall, is now struggling to feed his family. “Since the curfew was announced, we have had no job or money. The stall owner gave me Rs 300 when the curfew was announced but that didn’t last long, given the cost of vegetables and ration. I have asked a few people to lend me some money, but everyone seem to be going through a hard time themselves,” he said. “A pawnbroker we approached asked us for gold or some property to pledge. But we have nothing with us,” said Ashadullah. It’s been more than four years since the families moved to this shelter. Since then, the people were occasionally supported by local groups and religious organisations for food and ration. However, the lockdown has shut all avenues. “The donations stopped a while ago, but we hoped that someone would come forward and donate at least dry ration, since we had requested a couple of people. But nobody has come forward to help,” said Minara. Her husband repaired cycles. “Sometimes, our neighbours give us something. We are living only on handouts. My husband has been trying to get some income by doing some odd job so he can feed us. We don’t know what we will do for the days left, we have to take each day as it comes,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/empty-pockets-hungry-bellies-one-meal-a-day-luxury-for-rohingyas-in-city/articleshow/75416486.cms||Aditi R
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Plasma patient is still critical, placed face down to boost his oxygen intake||MUMBAI: More than 48 hours after the city’s first patient was administered plasma therapy, his condition continued to be critical on Monday, although there were hints of marginal improvement on a few clinical parameters. Doctors at Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital turned to prone positioning—placing the patient face down—which seemed to increase oxygen supply to his lungs. The 53-year-old, who had come to the hospital with a positive report on April 20, went on a ventilator after developing acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The man has been on life support for six days now and doctors maintained his condition was “very critical”. He was transfused the first dose of 200ml plasma from a recovered patient on Saturday night. “He is still very critical at the moment. We wanted to give him some more plasma but thought we would watch his condition for a day,” said Dr V Ravishankar, COO, Lilavati. “We will have to give it some time to know whether plasma therapy has worked. From newer antivirals and antibiotics, we are trying everything possible to save him. We tried prone positioning as well. His oxygenation improved to some extent in the prone position,” said Dr Ravishankar. Flipping the patients, or placing them on their stomach, said doctors, opens up parts of the lungs which were otherwise struggling to get oxygen. Intensivist Dr Pravin Amin said in cases of severe ARDS, prone positioning is frequently applied in the ICUs, adding it worked during the H1N1 pandemic as well. “It has been around for a few years but requires a fair bit of skill and attention. At least six to seven people are needed to do it even as one person has to ensure that the tube going to the patient’s lung is not affected,” he said. Dr Rahul Pandit, intensivist at Fortis Hospital, said they have tried prone positioning even with hypoxic patients or those with lower oxygen levels. Meanwhile, BMC authorities said so far they have had four plasma donors. “We are encouraging more patients to donate,” said an official from BYL Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/plasma-patient-is-still-critical-placed-face-down-to-boost-his-oxygen-intake/articleshow/75416492.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||City-origin researcher leads hunt for novel cure||Ahmedabad: As scientists across the locked down world attempt to target coronavirus, an Ahmedabad-origin researcher in the US is leading the effort to lock out the virus from the human body. The popular image of the Covid-19 virus as a sphere with protruding spikes has caught the public imagination. It’s also now public knowledge that these spikes interact with human cells, latch on, and multiply to infect the host. A team at University of Idaho has decided open an new front in the war on Covid. If one compares the virus to a key and the human cell to a lock, the team has decided to shield the keyhole on the lock so that the key doesn’t fit! At the forefront of the research is Dr Jagdish Patel, research assistant professor at the university. Patel completed schooling in Ahmedabad and his family lives in the city. He is a molecular modelling specialist and his research focus is on developing and applying computational simulation methodologies to understand protein sequence-structure-function relationship and protein-drug interaction in biomolecular systems. He is also researching drug molecules to prevent Ebola. “Apart from myself, the team at the university that’s working to develop a cure for Covid-19 includes virologist Dr Paul Rowley and evolutionary biologist Dr James Van Levuven,” said Patel. “We have received immediate funding support of $100,000 from National Science Foundation EPSCoR grant issued to University of Idaho Professor Marty Ytreberg.” Patel said that their inspiration to target the human cell instead of the novel coronavirus came from success of this strategy in the development of a HIV drug. The team said that the spikes of Covid-19 virus interact with ACE2 receptor present on the outer surface of human cells in lungs, heart, kidneys, intestines and arteries. The receptors are responsible for lowering blood pressure. “The attachment of the spike protein to ACE2 begins the infection process by which the virus transfers genetic material to the cell,” said Patel. “Our approach is to provide a shield — a drug for the ACE2 receptor so that the spike protein cannot attach.” Patel went on to say: “ACE2 is also the preferred receptor for the SARS virus. Thus, this drug can also work in future epidemics involving a virus using the ACE2 receptor.” The team members at the university said that viruses can rapidly evolve at drug-binding sites to render antiviral drugs ineffective. The team’s strategy to overcome this is to prevent viral entry using inhibitors that can block viral attachment by targeting human cell receptor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-origin-researcher-leads-hunt-for-novel-cure/articleshow/75416502.cms||Parth Shastri
April 28, 2020||Indore||Low on ration, daily wagers brace for days of hunger||INDORE: The ongoing lockdown seems to have brought utmost shortage of food grains for residents living in slums. Daily wage labourers are worst-affected having no alternate arrangements, but, to wait for delivery of ration or food packets by public representatives or Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC). TOI on Monday visited colonies in several areas like Bhagirathpura, Banganga and Kulkarni Ka Bhatta, where number of daily wage earners is comparatively high, and spoke to residents, who claimed to be running out of food following extension of the lockdown. While IMC officials claimed to have ensured supply of food grain packets for free in most of the slums in city, residents have a different story to tell altogether. Some borrowed ration from their neighbours or relatives, others were just relying on food they received through public distribution scheme. “I called at helpline number for so many times and also received a confirmation about delivery of ration packets. I received a message that my request has been attended. But, I haven’t received ration till date ever since the lockdown was enforced,” complained Rajesh Shrivas, a daily wage worker of Bhagirathpura. “What else am I going to do? If I don’t get the supply despite making requests on several occasion,” he rued. Most of the residents were found running out of ration. “The residents come out of their homes whenever they see a vehicle coming in the area with ration packets. While ration packets are meant to be handed over to those who called at helpline number, others just indulge in an argument with IMC staff,” said a police constable deployed in the area. The civic body staff engaged in delivery of ration packets on basis of request calls are also scared to visit slums. “It becomes difficult for us as residents gather in large number and make it difficult to hand over packets to their actual recipients. We can’t just let them come and grab ration packets on their own. So we have to stop the distribution work, and wait till others leave the area,” said Vinod Pandey, a bill collector of IMC. Indore divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi, however, claimed that ration packets were in sufficient numbers and such cases would be rare in which a needy family was deprived of the packets. “Genuine calls are filtered through a team of executives engaged at the helpline centre and on basis of which ration packets are distributed among needy residents with help of IMC zonal staff,” Tripathi said. IMC claims to have distributed more than 3.80 lakh ration packets and 10.50 lakh food packets among needy people. 24,000 food grains packets and 45,000 cooked food packets are distributed among needy and homeless people daily, said IMC additional commissioner Sandeep Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/low-on-ration-daily-wagers-brace-for-days-of-hunger/articleshow/75416475.cms||Ashok Kumar
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Controlling damage by cutting corners||CHENNAI: As a consequence of the lockdown, almost all economic activities have come to a grinding halt and the government revenue is shrinking. While the government has to tide over the difficulties and hardships faced by stakeholders and provide a safety net for industries and workers, at the same time it has to work to rejuvenate the crashing economy. Going forward, the economy needs a package that will first cushion the shock and then help the economy to recover. A move in the right path is the recently announced relief package and liquidity and credit back facility by the Union government and RBI. Since cutting corners is a necessity, in government establishments, savings may be effected in ‘establishment-costs’ in Centre, states and PSUs and the same may be channelised for Covid-19 control/relief operations. It is on these lines that the Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced the withholding of dearness allowance, following the Centre’s April 23 order. Though tough, the other cuts that can be brought in are the various allowances to higher officials and leave travel allowance facilities. The Central Election Commission’s decision to cut 30% of salary of CEC and other Election Commissioners’ salary and Kerala government’s decision to cut one month salary are pointers to the other departments and state administration. In the private sector, the government, through an executive order, could direct companies to spend CSR money on corona control as well. At present, the daily wage earners need the government’s financial support the most, the authorities must grant them a monthly financial payment now so that they can sustain themselves till they return to work. Hardest hit in this pandemic are the MSMEs that form 90% of the businesses in the country. The sector is the largest job provider with more than 120 million employees. The government has to encourage this sector with either tax holiday for a year or at least 50% tax rebate for one year. This can help the firms to ensure liquidity and prevent mass unemployment. The only way forward is to cut government spending and focus on core areas of the economy and society. The government’s budgeted capital expenditure for FY2020-21 is more than `4 lakh crore. A relook at the capital expenditure and identifying areas where it can be brought down by 50%, will go a long way in charting out monetary solutions. The budget had estimated `30 lakh crore as expenditure among 44 ministries. Reducing the allocation by at least 8%-10% would bring it down to at least `3 lakh crore. The virus outbreak has given a fresh perspective on priorities. The total value of 52 defence offset contracts, including the previous ones, stands at $11.79 billion. A re-thinking is required on these projects, including the bullet train project with a capital outlay of `1.10 lakh crore. The government may also think of issuing government bonds to meet the deficit in revenue and to finance healthcare. Past lessons could also help tide over the crisis. Notifications may be issued for fixing maximum retail price for essential commodities, as was done during the Emergency in 1975. India needs an immediate relief package of around `6 lakh crore and some hard decisions could help us brave the economic crash together. (By M Francis. The writer is retired chief accounts officer, Mormugao Port Trust, ministry of shipping)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/controlling-damage-by-cutting-corners/articleshow/75417114.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Three days on, Karnataka govt sends mixed signals on opening of shops||BENGALURU: It’s been three days since the Centre issued guidelines allowing states to decide on opening neighbourhood shops selling non-essential commodities, but Karnataka is yet to take final call, reportedly due to lack of consensus in the government. An officer who is part of the Covid-19 taskforce said: “While some ministers are in favour of opening the shops, others feel it would lead to movement of more people and spike in number of positive cases.” Following the Centre’s directive, Karnataka chief secretary TM Vijay Bhasakar on Saturday said they would issue an order on Sunday or Monday. The state has to issue a separate order to implement the relaxation. The government has now decided to maintain status quo on the restrictions till May 3. The Centre had allowed reopening of registered shops and those outside municipalities from Saturday, provided they operated with 50 per cent staff and ensured social distancing. In urban areas, only standalone shops located in residential areas are allowed to sell non-essential items. “All shops of states and Union territories —including those in residential complexes and market complexes—outside the limits of municipal corporations” have been exempted from the Centre’s revised lockdown guidelines. Shops in multi-brand and single-brand malls are not included. Shop owners confused The delay in issuing the order and lack of clarity on what qualifies as a neighbourhood or standalone store gave way to confusion and chaos across the state as many people started reopening shops in non-Covid areas. However, they were forced by police to shut shops within hours. “I went to my shop in the afternoon but police did not allow me to open,” said Venkatesh who runs a readymade garment shop in Basaveshwaranagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-dilly-dallies-on-opening-neighbourhood-shops/articleshow/75416504.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Indore||29 medicos to face action for not reporting on duty||INDORE: District administration on Monday wrote to deputy inspector general (DIG, police) asking him to take legal action against 29 medical professionals of two private hospitals for refusing to report for duty. Collector Manish Singh said, doctors and paramedical staff of all the hospitals have been asked to resume/continue their services to treat patients and help prevent Covid spread. On violation of the order, they all have been informed about strict action under the law. Despite sending notices and even approaching absent medicos, some are still not reporting. Two days ago, proposed action against 13 members of Shalby Hospital staff was taken and on Monday, the collector wrote to DIG to take action against 27 members of Choithram and Gokuldas Hospital. As per the collector, doctors and paramedical staff are bound to serve Covid-19 patients under National Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and denial of instructions are punishable offence under IPC. Singh has urged the DIG to take action against 12 members of paramedical staff of Choithram and 17 employees of Gokuldas Hospital. District administration also allowed 50 Uber taxis to be operated as ambulance to serve people. As per collector’s order, all taxi-turned-ambulance of Uber will be used by following all protocols including sanitizing vehicles while the driver and other employees have been asked to use gloves, masks, caps and sanitizer. On April 17, the district administration had first roped in 50 private taxies to be used as ambulance. While launching the service, Singh had put the taxi-turned-ambulance mainly to shift patients from the hospitals of green category (treating non-COVID patients) to yellow category (meant for patients with mild symptoms) while the service was also meant to be available for the people, who have to visit hospital for consultation of treatment but have no arrangement of transportation. The district administration’s step to rope in private taxies as ambulance came after people complained of not getting treatment on time due to unavailability of ambulance. Deaths had also been reported in such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/29-medicos-to-face-action-for-not-reporting-on-duty/articleshow/75416487.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Fasting, praying and shopping for essentials||Pune: It's a trying time for many Muslim families observing Ramzan. They cannot just stay put at home and pray. They have to step out and complete shopping for essentials within the two-hour window between 10am and 12noon when the curfew is relaxed. "Standing in a queue in this heat to buy essentials is a pain for us as we are on a fast," said a woman shopping for some vegetables. "Rather than being at home, we have to move from one place to another for our daily needs," said another woman accompanying her. Firoz Shaikh, a resident of Kondhwa Budruk, said that he is unable to rest after the morning Sehri (the meal consumed before fasting) as he has to hit the road before the shops open. "The month of Ramzan is about peace, being with family and praying. However, it isn’t the case this time. Last week, I and my wife went to buy essentials but ended up standing in different queues for more than an hour. We couldn’t buy much," he said. Ashfaque Sayed, a Salunke Vihar Road resident fasting with his son, said that the two-hour slot was creating utter chaos. "The authorities should consider having two slots -- one in the morning and another in the evening. I looked around for dates, but could not find them in my area. The same can be said about Rooh-Afza, which is preferred by those fasting," he said. A NIBM Road resident said, "I have told my wife not to fast this time. The hunt for essentials has tired her and fasting for the whole month will make her unwell. On Sunday, it took me an hour-and-a-half to buy some meat and eggs. My son and I went to different shops so that we could get all that we were looking for." Zaheer Ahmed Shaikh, a small-time businessman who lives on NIBM Road, said that the number of items offered for the Sehri in the morning and Iftaar have reduced due to lack of availability. "Until two days ago, all fruit stalls were closed. But we are lucky to able to buy some fruits. We have decided to restrict ourselves to a few food items so that we do not have to step out every day," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fasting-praying-and-shopping-for-essentials/articleshow/75417684.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Proud yet worried, say the families of Covid warriors||A 60-year-old doctor with the Bengal health department, who had earlier tested Covid-19-positive, died on Sunday, marking the first death in the state of a health official who had the disease, on a day the condition of a 65-year-old orthopaedic surgeon - also Covid-19-positive - was stated to be critical. A 53-year-old head constable attached to Mumbai Police protection branch died from coronavirus early on Sunday at a Navi Mumbai hospital. Bishwabijoy.Mitra@timesgroup.com As frontline workers - including healthcare professionals and cops - continue to put their lives at risk in the war against COVID-19, many of them are succumbing to the virus. However, there is no end to the anxieties of their families and well-wishers who can't seem to decide what worries them more - the fate of their beloved sons, daughters, husbands and wives fighting the pandemic or the brutality, stigma and public outrage displayed against them in various parts of the country. We speak to the proud families of a few Covid warriors to know how they are coping with the stress and uncertainty. Here's what they have to say… ‘Violence against police bothers me more than coronavirus’ Nilima Das (name changed on request), wife of a sub-inspector at a south Kolkata police station  My restlessness knows no bounds ever since my husband’s patrolling duty started. Being out on the streets makes him highly susceptible to the virus, but nothing doing. When he has a night duty, I spend the entire night reading books or surfing social media. I just cannot sleep. But more than the coronavirus, what bothers me is the violence police are being subjected to. Earlier, our neighbours and relatives would often seek help from my husband for various things. But now they have started avoiding us because he is vulnerable to infection. I don't know why they don't even call up to find out how we are doing. ‘My husband and I have stopped sleeping in the same room’ Jayanti Nandi, social worker and wife of Dr Raja Dhar, head of pulmonology department at a private hospital My husband and I have stopped sleeping in the same room ever since his hospital started getting COVID-19 positive cases. He also sits on a separate couch when he’s at home with us. Whenever he is on duty, I find it very difficult to keep my calm and take my mind off the latest developments on the pandemic. I’m pained to see how this has started straining relationships. Two of my domestic helps refused to continue working with us on knowing that Raja often comes in contact of corona patients. I would have anyway asked them to stop coming but it feels bad to see them avoiding us after sharing such a friendly bond. However, we want Raja to carry out his professional duties with all his dedication and honesty. This is not the time for our warriors to choose the easy way out and stay at home. The nation needs them to be on the frontline. ‘Attacks on medics on corona duty are giving me sleepless nights’ Priyanka Singh, mother of a doctor on COVID-19 duty at a government hospital in Kolkata Initially, I wasn’t too apprehensive because my daughter is a doctor and knows best about how to keep herself protected. But the rampant attacks on medical professionals on corona duty in several parts of the country have given me sleepless nights. I call her ten times a day to check if she is alright. Since I am away from her in Dhanbad, voice calls are not always enough, so I request her for video calls at times. I’m facing the most terrible predicament of my life. On one hand, the mother wants her to be safe and come back home. On the other hand, I realise how crucial her job is at this point, and I don't want her to neglect it at any cost. When she had signed up for the profession, she also signed up for all these risks that come along, and I am proud of whatever she is doing today. ‘My husband locks himself up so that our son can’t go near him’ Lipi Mondal, wife of a Kolkata Police traffic sergeant I understand that being a policeman, my husband’s work demands him to face adverse situations. But this time, he is fighting an unknown, sudden enemy. If the virus wasn’t bad enough, there are some localities where people have no respect for the police. These days, I can’t stop feeling anxious when he is out there. Since he can’t take calls on duty, I end up watching news channels to make sure I’m aware of any mishaps taking place in the city. Not just that, I’ve started panicking so much about hygiene that I end up taking showers up to six times a day. I have never been so afraid in my life. For our seven-year old son, Aatrayo, his father is a superhero. He looks forward to talking to his dad for hours when he is back from duty. But ever since this pandemic was declared, my husband has stopped going close to him. He comes back, takes bath in front of the main gate, enters the house and locks himself up in his room so that Aatrayo can’t go near him. ‘I’m a proud wife of a cop who risks his life to save others’ Mahua Chatterjee, wife of a senior traffic police officer in HowrahBack in 2008 and 2009, my husband was posted in some of the most politically tense regions in Bengal. That used to scare me but not as much as the current situation. Ever since the lockdown started, he comes home once in three days and confines himself to his room. He is very strict about maintaining a physical distance from every member of the house. And when he is not here, all I do is panic. I can’t seem to concentrate on any household chores. Even our children are not allowed to go close to their father. But despite everything, the fact that my husband is risking his life everyday so that hundreds of people can stay safe, makes me a really proud wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/proud-yet-worried-say-the-families-of-covid-warriors/articleshow/75416532.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
April 28, 2020||Nashik||Lectures at Godaghat stand cancelled||Nashik: The annual lectures at Godhaghat stands cancelled amid the Covid-19 outbreak, said the organisers on Monday. Vasant Vyakhyanmala, Nashik has been organising month-long lectures from the past 98 years, which was very popular among the people across the state. Shrikant Beni president of Vasant Vyakhyanmala said, “It is almost a century-old tradition that we organise these lectures. Although it was organised for the first time in 1905 but is being continued since 1922. Thousands of people used to come here to attend the lectures. But since the nation is going through testing times, it is not possible to organise the event this year.” The annual event used to take place from May 1 to May 31. The speakers used to speak on contemporary topics and bring awareness among the audience. “Various national leaders and celebrities have given their speeches on this platform. Motilal and Jawaharlal Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi, Vinoba Bhave, Balasaheb Thackeray are few of the names,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lectures-at-godaghat-stand-cancelled/articleshow/75415541.cms||pragya jain
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||1,000 state buses on standby to ferry migrant labourers||Jaipur: At least 1,000 buses of Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) have been kept on standby to bring migrant workers from various states. Police and district administrations in Jaisalmer, Jalore, Dunrgarpur and Bharatpur have also set up checkposts and arranged for the spraying of disinfectants at the posts from where the buses will bring migrant workers. RSRTC officials in Jaipur asked their depot managers to arrange for adequate staff so that these buses can operated smoothly. “District collectors are in touch with depot managers. At least 1,000 buses are on standby and more will be provided if needed,” said CMD RSRTC Naveen Jain said on Monday.According to the RSRTC sources, at least 150 buses are going from Kota and Jhalawar to bring migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh. “At least 100 buses have been provided to Jaisalmer, 100 to Jalore and nearly 100 to Dungarpur. Likewise, at least 50 buses have been provided to Bharatpur for bringing migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh,” said a senior officer of RSRTC. After the migrant workers board the buses while coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, RSRTC will segregate and send passengers to their native places. “The next step will be to identify the final destination of these migrant workers. There is a possibility that migrant workers coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh will be from various parts of Rajasthan. So, there is also a plan to drop them to their final destination,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1000-state-buses-on-standby-to-ferry-migrant-labourers/articleshow/75417129.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mobile unit: GoI team impressed||Ahmedabad: A mobile collection unit was the centre of attraction for the inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) which has been camping in the state. The team which visited the eastern part was shown the mobile collection unit where the staff inside the unit would collect swabs without even coming in contact with the patients. In the process, the patient himself would pack the swab in the kit and then put it in the box which was then collected by the staff in the van. The Union government had decided to send IMCT to assess the “serious” Covid-19 situation in emerging hotspots of Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat. The team has been in Ahmedabad for the last two days. After seeing the mobile unit, the team inquired about the number of such mobile units. The team was informed that one unit was ready, while other two would soon be put in use. Apart from preparedness, the IMCT also evaluated the lockdown scenario in the Walled City and other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mobile-unit-goi-team-impressed/articleshow/75416505.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Indore||Local channels relay study material for school students||INDORE: Students of state board in Indore district can now get their study material through their local cable television during evening time. School education department (Indore branch) has tied up with some local cable operators to relay study material for high school students free of cost. The study material, which includes videos, charts, tables and text prepared by master trainers and experts for subjects taught in class 9-12, is broadcast by local channels from 4-6 pm daily. The material is sent from Bhopal head office of the department to all districts, which is then forwarded to cable operators as well. “The department has been trying to make certain that students, especially those of higher secondary classes, don’t incur any loss in studies due to lockdown,” school education department joint director Manish Verma said. “The department has already got three local channels to broadcast study material. A period of half an hour will be given for each class on a daily basis and students have been given time table too,” additional district project coordinator, Narendra Jain. The schools are already running WhatsApp groups wherein all study material for students of all classes is posted regularly. Considering that not all parents of students are on Whatsapp, the department has been exploring other media to disseminate the study material. To ensure education material was reaching students, the department has instructed schools to constantly monitor the process. The teachers have also been instructed to take feedback from five teachers and five students by calling them, on daily basis. “They have to solve issues of students too on regular basis via phone calls,” Jain said. Along with study material, the department has also asked cable operators to show movies like Taare Zameen Pe, Mission Mangal, Dangal, Bhag Milkha Bhag, Chak De India, to ensure children don’t miss out on entertainment during weekends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/local-channels-relay-study-material-for-school-students/articleshow/75416491.cms||Laveena Francis
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||1,000 state buses on standby to ferry migrant labourers||JAIPUR: At least 1,000 buses of Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) have been kept on standby to bring migrant workers from various states. Police and district administrations in Jaisalmer, Jalore, Dunrgarpur and Bharatpur have also set up checkposts and arranged for the spraying of disinfectants at the posts from where the buses will bring migrant workers. RSRTC officials in Jaipur asked their depot managers to arrange for adequate staff so that these buses can operated smoothly. “District collectors are in touch with depot managers. At least 1,000 buses are on standby and more will be provided if needed,” said CMD RSRTC Naveen Jain said on Monday. According to the RSRTC sources, at least 150 buses are going from Kota and Jhalawar to bring migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh. “At least 100 buses have been provided to Jaisalmer, 100 to Jalore and nearly 100 to Dungarpur. Likewise, at least 50 buses have been provided to Bharatpur for bringing migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh,” said a senior officer of RSRTC.  After the migrant workers board the buses while coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, RSRTC will segregate and send passengers to their native places. “The next step will be to identify the final destination of these migrant workers. There is a possibility that migrant workers coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh will be from various parts of Rajasthan. So, there is also a plan to drop them to their final destination,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1000-state-buses-on-standby-to-ferry-migrant-labourers/articleshow/75417126.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 projection is right, collective efforts can curb cases||The administration has projected that number of coronavirus cases in next 10 days during peak of Covid-19 can be 75,801 in Vidarbha. Noted HIV specialist in city Major Dr Milind Bhrushundi said collective efforts of people, police and administration can reduce this number. Do you agree with the Covid projections? Yes. I think this it’s very methodologically done statistical projection. They have considered all possibilities like post-lockdown behaviour of people. I think, this is highest number of patients our region can have as the administration has considered the worst condition in this projection. We can reduce this number considerably. How can we reduce the number of patients? It’s collective effort of administration, police and public. So far, the municipal commissioner and his team has done fabulous job in contact tracing and contamination. Now, it’s up to people. In case lockdown gets some relaxation or lifted partially in unaffected areas, it’s up to the people of these localities to restrict the spread of coronavirus. They must follow social distancing, wear masks and report to doctors if anyone of them develop symptoms. Administration claims it has all infrastructure and beds to deal with projected number of patients. So, should we go for lockdown relaxation? Administration may have beds and machines as per the projected number of patients but what about doctors? Men behind machines are most important and number of doctors is very limited. Moreover, we can have only young doctors at Covid hospitals as seniors are not allowed. If projected numbers of patients get admitted in hospitals, they may infect doctors and health workers too. Hence, it’s our responsibility to take utmost care and follow social distancing, masks and hand hygiene as new normal. Don’t you think projected number of 75k-plus is scary for common people? Not at all. Looking at our population and its density, this number is very less. An average Indian, without lockdown, can infect 800 people around him in 14 days. Even in lockdown, one patient can infect 2.5 people on an average. So, these numbers are realistic. But, to cheer all of us, I can share with you a data driven estimation of end-date of Covid-19 done at Singapore University. As per this study, Covid-19 will end in India by May 24. So, there is no need to get scared. Just follow the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-projection-is-right-collective-efforts-can-curb-cases/articleshow/75416498.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 28, 2020||Business||Walmart Labs will hire 2,800 in India this year||Bengaluru: Here’s a business that’s planning aggressive hiring despite the coronavirus pandemic — Walmart Labs India, a major tech arm of the $524-billion retailer Walmart. Over the rest of this year, it plans to hire about 800 people in its new centre in Chennai, and recruit 2,000 in its centre in Bengaluru, which already has some 3,500 people. In Chennai, where it leased a 250,000 sqft facility from RMZ earlier this year, it has openings for data engineers who will be part of Walmart’s global data organisation (GDO), which is building machine learning, data science, and visualisation platforms. The group also develops analytical products for verticals like marketing, finance, supply chain, pricing, customer and HR. The plan is to gradually ramp up the Chennai centre to 2,000 people over the next two years, sources told TOI. An e-mail to Walmart Labs asking about its plans did not elicit a response till the time of going to press. Walmart, and rival Amazon, are two companies that have seen their share prices rising through much of this pandemic, as customers shift to more affordable products, to online buying, and eat out less. Since its inception in Bengaluru in 2008, Walmart Labs India has built cross-disciplinary teams engaged in cutting edge engineering, product development and data sciences. Its India engineers have helped build the tech stack for the US supply chain, they have been developing tech solutions for Mexico’s e-commerce platform. They are reimagining in-store and online shopping experiences, making them more seamless for millions of daily shoppers. Each week, Walmart has 260 million customers visiting 11,698 stores across 28 countries; it has e-commerce websites in 11 countries. It employs 2.3 million people. Walmart’s technology behind NextDay delivery was built in partnership with teams in India, San Francisco and Bentonville. The India labs team has been instrumental in developing Optima, a solution that uses algorithms to generate optimised in-store pick walks for grocery orders. It solution has significantly reduced the total time taken and distance travelled by store associates to pick up orders from the shop floor. The team has developed several IoT solutions. For example, a temperature fluctuation in a US store can trigger an alert in Bengaluru, which then allows teams here to take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/walmart-labs-will-hire-2800-in-india-this-year/articleshow/75416495.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Trains to follow isolation norms even after lockdown||JAIPUR: Even after the lockdown is lifted, railway stations and trains will have to follow certain guidelines to maintain social distancing at least for 90 days to start with. Sources said the North Western Railway (NWR) was awaiting for final directions from the railway board. Authorities said many new practices including no issue of waitlisted tickets, hiked prices of platform tickets, no allotment of middle berths and things like thermal screening and sanitising are likely to be introduced. According to sources, the railway board has been taking suggestions from various zones and its officers to know what measures can be put in place to ensure social distancing even after lockdown is over. NWR sources said even after lockdown, railways will follow a protocol to ensure no overcrowding and social distancing. Rajasthan has two railway zones — West Central Railway (covering Kota, Bharatpur, Jhalawar and Baran) and NWR (covering other districts) — where officers have not ruled out possibility of restrictions by Indian railways. “There is a possibility that no waiting list tickets will be allotted to ensure there is no spilling over of passengers inside train. Also, there could be provision that no middle berth would be allotted. Also, platform ticket prices would be increased to an extent that people will avoid walking into railway just like that. The number of halt stations for various trains will also be curtailed,” said a senior officer of NWR. Officers of NWR said they were not aware of any such developments so far. “Let’s wait for the directions from the rail ministry before commenting on it. As of now, we are supposed to be under lockdown where there is no movement of passengers trains,” said an officer. However, officers did not rule out that things like use of sanitizers, disinfectants and thermal screening to be in practice for at least 90 days after the lockdown is withdrawn. Passenger services were halted on March 25 when a 21-day countrywide lockdown came into effect to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trains-to-follow-isolation-norms-even-after-lockdown/articleshow/75417133.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 28, 2020||Pune||Cops to check cleanliness in public toilet||Pune: The city police now have the added responsibility of checking the cleanliness in public toilets in the slum pockets, besides enforcing the lockdown rules. The beat marshals inspect the public toilets twice a day to check for cleanliness. If found unclean, they summon the Pune Municipal Corporation’s conservancy staffers and get it sanitised to contain the spread of the contagion among the slum dwellers in Dais Plot, Gultekdi, Kasewadi-Bhavani Peth, Mangalwar Peth, Yerawada, Shivajinagar and Parvati. “No one is being allowed to come near the PMC staffers while they are cleaning the toilets,” a senior police officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-to-check-cleanliness-in-public-toilet/articleshow/75417692.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Man hurt in brawl over barricading of colony road||Pune: Police booked 11 people after a man suffered severe injuries in a brawl on Saturday night at a residential colony in Nigdi over the barricading of a road as one of its residents tested positive for the coronavirus contagion. Rohit Tathe (24), whose one of the relatives had barricaded the road, lodged an FIR on Sunday. An officer from the Nigdi police said Tathe’s relative on Saturday had barricaded the road. “Four of the 11 people booked had objected to it. They had heated arguments with Tathe’s relative and abused him despite the latter telling them that the road was closed for the safety of all,” the officer said. The officer said four men brandishing sharp weapons barged into the victim’s house with seven others late in the night and started attacking everyone in the house. “They severely assaulted Tathe’s cousin, beat up the complainant, three women of the family and a neighbour,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-hurt-in-brawl-over-barricading-of-colony-road/articleshow/75417697.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Business||Biocon’s CMD among top 20 pharma execs||Bengaluru: Biocon founder and chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw has been named among the world’s top 20 inspirational leaders in the biopharmaceutical field by The Medicine Maker, a publication that focuses on new drug development and the people behind them. Mazumdar-Shaw now has been recognised for her contribution to the world of medicine as an entrepreneur and innovative business leader since 2015. The Medicine Maker ‘Power List 20 for 2020’ celebrates great minds who have brought the world innovation in small molecules, biopharmaceuticals and advanced medicine. “It’s indeed an honour to be featured on the ‘Medicine Maker Power List’ alongside G V Prasad and other remarkable and inspirational individuals...,” Mazumdar-Shaw said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/biocons-cmd-among-top-20-pharma-execs/articleshow/75416511.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||ZP recruits 188 doctors to boost rural healthcare||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad has completed the process for recruitment of 188 medical professionals with BAMS degrees at 96 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) across 13 tehsils of the district last week. These doctors will join as community health officers (CHOs) at different sub centres across the district. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, zilla parishad, told TOI, "We have filled all the vacancies of CHOs now. They will join the centres in the coming weeks. This will help us to strengthen our activities and provide healthcare in rural areas. They will play a major role in carrying out health survey and monitor the health of senior citizens and comorbid patients." The ZP is also going to temporarily recruit about 225 paramedics as reserve staff to deal with the current situation, he said. "We are going to recruit those who have completed certificate courses in this field. Paramedics like nurses, ICU assistants and technicians will be recruited on a temporary basis as there are no vacancies for these posts. They will receive a monthly stipend. The hiring process is already on. We have identified colleges and institution from where we will hire people," Prasad added. The district administration has already signed a memorandum of understanding with all major private hospitals across the district. "Our endeavour is to provide para medic staffers to these hospitals. This will help us to provide better health care," Prasad said. District health officer Bhagwan Pawar said that the CHOs will work in tandem with the primary health centres (PHC). "We have less than 10 vacancies for doctors at the PHCs in the district. The newly-recruited doctors will help us in implementing our plans and coordinating with grampanchayats, municipal council, Asha workers etc," Pawar added. A senior ZP official said that the district administration has planned to set up one or two-bed intensive care units at PHCs. "We need adequate inventory as well as required doctors and assistance. Such units can only be set up at those centres located at towns or tehsils where they can get assurance from private doctors as well. It will not be possible to run ICUs in remote areas," said a doctor from the ZP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-recruits-188-doctors-to-boost-rural-healthcare/articleshow/75417705.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Bootleggers use pvt security guards’ uniform to fox cops||edited, 360 words, GFX with Sanjay Pune: From hiding liquor bottles in milk vans or under heaps of vegetables to carrying them in vehicles flashing “essential services” tags, bootleggers have been adopting a slew of smart tricks to make some money during the lockdown. Their latest ploy is to camouflage as private security guards to sneak into the city through the police check posts with the liquor collected from illegal dens and bootleggers on the outskirts, or even a bit beyond. For the bootleggers, the fastest moving product is the country and illicit liquor that sells fast in the slums and that too for a premium. A security guard from the Sutardara slums in Kothrud, who did not wish to reveal his identity, told TOI that several alcoholics, including some of his colleagues, have found a new source of income during the lockdown. “Liquor shops are closed and many people are ready to take any risk or pay any price to get a bottle of their choice. The bootleggers often borrow uniform from the security guards they know and get into the action,” he said. “They purchase country-made liquor available in pouches from illegal outlets outside the city and hide them under vegetables. Around 7 in the morning, the policemen at the check points are not that strict. During such hours, the bootleggers try to fox the police by sporting the security guards’ uniform and sneak into the city,” he said. “These men sell the pouches at higher rates — like they charge Rs100, or even more, for a quantity usually available for Rs30. Tobacco pouches are also being sold for Rs60 a piece, six-time higher than the original price,” the guard said. An officer from the Pune crime branch said they were keeping a close watch at all the check points. “We seized foreign liquor worth Rs8.84 lakh from a restaurant in Koregaon Park last week. On Sunday, we arrested a liquor shop owner from Wanowrie for selling alcohol from his bungalow. We seized foreign liquor worth Rs58,000 from his house,” the officer said. The Kothrud police also arrested milkman transporting liquor in cans. “We will intensify our actions at all check points,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bootleggers-use-pvt-security-guards-uniform-to-fox-cops/articleshow/75417711.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Jobless stranded migrants find new workplace in city shelter homes||Nagpur: Jobless stranded migrants facing trouble in making ends meet due to the lockdown have found a new workplace — city’s shelter homes. Though this has helped them make use of their skills, the effort has also brought a sense of self-worth and make best use of the available time. Yet, while appreciating the civic body’s efforts, most want to head home once the lockdown is over or whenever they are allowed to go home. Many of the 1,438 labourers are earning a livelihood by making masks, bird houses and learning assembly of solar panels while living in shelter homes. “After the lockdown was extended, we decided to provide jobs to the stranded migrants at our shelter homes. We are allocating jobs after identifying the skills of stranded migrants. We provided stitching of masks to women migrants at a shelter home at Agrasen Bhavan, while many have been undergoing training to assemble solar panels,” deputy municipal commissioner (social welfare department) Ranjana Lade told TOI. “When lockdown 2.0 started, we thought that they must be facing economic crisis, so we decided to give them work based on their skills,” Lade said. After assessing their skills, the NMC organized various workshops at shelter homes. Social activist Neerja Pathaniya said volunteers from her group like Neha Patel and Jalpesh Katkoria, who were helping the civic body in monitoring shelter homes, too are playing an active role in this crisis. Pathaniya and her team are providing jobs of making paper bags, bird house, weaving sarees, assembling solar panels etc to the migrants. Rajasthani women at Tuli Public School shelter home, which is being monitored by Pathaniya, are engaged in creative work of stitching beads in sarees. “Migrants from Madhya Pradesh’s Seoni and other male members from Tuli Public School are busy making paper bags, which will be sold to medicine shop owners,” said Patel. Migrants staying at Government Polytechnic are getting training in assembling solar panels. Some members are being given training to make bird house, said Pathaniya. “The NMC is taking care of our needs. I am very thankful to them for helping us. While in shelter homes, we are being given jobs now. We are earning enough here but we still want to return to our homes,” said a group of women stitching masks and staying at Agrasen Bhavan. To a query, Patel said we are providing training of those works that require minimal skills and resources. “Apart from these works, the NMC’s social welfare department is also planning for campus selection of the tranded migrants for unskilled works, etc,” said Lade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jobless-stranded-migrants-find-new-workplace-in-city-shelter-homes/articleshow/75416535.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 28, 2020||Nashik||Availability of raw material a big concern for factories resuming ops||Nashik/Kolhapur: Factories across the state are gradually restarting operations in the MIDC areas, but the availability of raw materials remains a concern. Some industries are assessing how long they will be able to operate with their available stocks.In Nashik, a large automobile company, which has three plants, has got the MIDC’s permission but is assessing the availability of materials from vendors.“There are over 1,200 small and medium units, which are directly or indirectly connected with the automobile firm in Nashik. These units will not start unless this automobile company starts operations,” said Manish Rawal, a senior member of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA).Sanjay Shete, the president of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce, said, “Till date, 56 industries have initiated the process of starting their units in the Five Star MIDC and Gokul Shirgaon MIDC areas. They have started the cleaning and repairing the machines. They have started assessment of the raw material stocks and the number of days they can operate.”“We started work with the available raw material and are transporting our workers on KMT buses. We have stocks to run the factory for more than two weeks,” said an industrialist running a foundry in Kolhapur.A cotton mill owner said: “We have started production of cloth, but most of our products are sold outside Maharashtra. We hope the government will give some relaxations to reach the markets.”“We have sought permission from the government to start operations, but are in a fix. We supply finished products to the industrial units in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas. We will have to wait till the industries there start operations,” said another industrialist from Five Star MIDC area.In Nashik, 1,600 units, including SMEs and nearly a dozen large industries, have started work so far, said Nitin Gavli, Nashik regional officer, MIDC. About 400 more are likely to work soon. Most of the industries here are unwilling to transport workers by buses as it is not feasible they said. “We talked to state industry minister Subhash Desai on Monday and urged him to allow workers to use two-wheelers or four-wheelers. Desai has also assured us that he will look into the issue and give some relaxation,” said NIMA secretary-general Tushar Chavan.“We have 800 workers and 500 of them are residing in a colony adjacent to our factory in Sinnar. We have started operations with these 500 workers,” said a senior official from a mega-industry located near Igatpuri. “Most of the workers want to go to their native places for a few weeks once the lockdown is over. We can’t stop them, but this may affect manufacturing,” he added.Kolhapur collector Daulat Desai has issued instructions to all the government officials and police department to increase surveillance and ensure all precautions are taken. “The government has given permission to the industries to start operations. As a result, transport activities are likely to increase. It is our duty to ensure that the transporters follow the social distancing norms while carrying goods. Only three persons, including the driver, are allowed to travel in one vehicle,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/availability-of-raw-material-a-big-concern-for-factories-resuming-ops/articleshow/75415626.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Wholesale onion prices rise by Rs 50 to stabilise at Rs 900/quintal||NASHIK: The average wholesale onion price at the Lasalgaon APMC recorded a marginal rise of Rs 50 per quintal to Rs 900 per quintal on Monday. The wholesale prices have stabilised between Rs 850 and Rs 950 per quintal at the APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, for the past few days. According to APMC officials, a drop in the demand has pushed the wholesale prices below the Rs 1,000 per quintal mark. “The demand for onions in domestic markets is expected to drop further in view of Ramzan as Muslim brothers refraining from eating it during the fasting month and instead prefer fruits an dry fruits,” said APMC officials. The APMC officials said the wholesale prices at Lasalgaon may increase by Rs 200 per quintal to if the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) starts procuring it. Lasalgaon APMC has started auction in sacks for the past two-three weeks due to shortage of labourers. It is, however, planning to start auction of loose onions in the market shortly. “We have called a meeting of traders on Thursday to take a decision on resuming auction of loose onions at Lasalgaon. The meeting was expected to be held on Monday but did not happend because most of the big traders are out of town due to some official works,” said APMC officials. “Nafed wants us to start auction of loose onions as it wants to start procurement of the produce,” said APMC officials. The Centre has directed the Nafed to procure 50,000 tonnes of onions to create a buffer stock considering the possibile scarcity between July and September. Nafed has plans to complete the procurement by the end of May. Meanwhile, the minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices at Lasalgaon were recorded at Rs 450 and Rs 990 per quintal respectively on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wholesale-onion-prices-rise-by-rs-50-to-stabilise-at-rs-900/quintal/articleshow/75415589.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 28, 2020||Business||Flipkart invests Rs 1,300cr into PhonePe||Bengaluru: PhonePehas received a capital infusion of close to Rs 1,300 crore from Flipkart, according to Paper.vc, a business intelligence firm. The capital infusion, which took place in two tranches, comes at a time when most businesses are cutting down on new investments due to challenges thrown by the coronavirus. On top of that, WhatsApp, whose parent firm Facebook just invested $5.7 billion in Jio Platforms, might emerge as a new challenger to PhonePe on the e-payments network of Unified Payments Interface (UPI), which also counts biggies like Google Pay, Paytm and Amazon Pay. The capital allocation happened on April 18 and April 21. A source close to PhonePe confirmed it has received about Rs 213 crore already. “Rest of the capital should follow as overall capital commitment is larger,” this person said. A PhonePe spokesperson did not immediately respond to TOI’s queries. The new capital coming in PhonePe right now is of importance as it held multiple rounds of talks with large investors last year to raise external capital. Among the investors, China’s Tencent has been one of the biggest names it has been in talks with. Now, under the new government rules, such Chinese investment would require the government’s approval, which digital companies fear may stretch the process longer. PhonePe has been looking at a valuation of $7-8 billion. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the company was clocking about 20 million daily transactions and went through one of its worst crises when Yes Bank, its banking partner for UPI, was placed under a moratorium. It has since then moved its users to ICICI Bank and is in talks with multiple other banks. UPI payment volumes were down by 25% earlier this month, while other e-payment instruments have also slowed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-invests-rs-1300cr-into-phonepe/articleshow/75416551.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Nine health workers among 86 new cases, UP tally at 1,963||LUCKNOW: A record 72 persons were discharged after full recovery from Covid-19 in different districts of UP even as 86 new cases of the global pandemic infection were reported on Monday. The new discharges took the total number of recovered to 399 while the new cases took state’s tally to 1963. Health officials expressed concern over addition of Gorakhpur and Jhansi to the list of affected districts taking the overall tally to 60. Covid-19 also made a comeback in Pratapgarh and Bareilly after a gap of about a week. Earlier, a migrant labour who came back walking to his hometown in Pilibhit from Indore, one of India’s worst affected districts, also tested positive for the infection. Another cause of worry was from Gautam Budh Nagar where the list of 14 new cases included eight health workers. An official statement issued by the district administration said, “the list included six health workers posted at Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post-Graduate Teaching Institute, one each from district hospitals and ESI hospital tested positive.” In Moradabad also, the list of three patients included a staff of a private hospital. Kanpur, where the cases registered a record jump, took a breather on Monday, recording just 12 cases. Lucknow recorded five cases taking the overall tally to 210. The new cases included four contacts of the KGMU nurse and one from Topkhana Bazar. In Agra, the list of 12 new cases included a 36-year-old civilian employed in Agra police line kitchen who tested positive and a journalist working in a Hindi daily. In Aligarh, random sampling of persons in covid hot spot was conducted in which seven persons tested positive. The infection was found in three other contacts of previous patients. Health officials said that 15 patients in the state were critical but stable with oxygen support. They also expressed happiness over the use of plasma therapy in KGMU afteer which the condition of a 58-year-old diabetic patient improved. However, the patient’s wife tested positive. Besides, two cases each were found in Meerut, Badaun and Bijnor while one patient each was reported in Jalaun, Rampur, Pratapgarh and Muzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-health-workers-among-86-new-cases-up-tally-at-1963/articleshow/75417163.cms||Shailvee Sharda
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Essentials costlier over supply bottlenecks||Nagpur: Despite there being no shortage, the lockdown has impacted the prices of foodgrains. Rates of pulses are up by Rs 10 to 20 a kg and cereals like rice and wheat have got costlier by around Rs 5 a kg, said retail traders. Cooking oil rates have also increased by Rs 10 to 20 a litre.This is partly due to logistics bottleneck and shortage of labour in mills where raw grains are processed, said traders. However, as the panic buying had eased there has been no increase in the last one week, said a wholesaler.A trip around the retail shops showed that tur dal that makes the staple for many was priced at Rs 100 a kg.Shopkeepers at Gokulpeth market said tur was Rs 80 to 90 before the lockdown, chana dal was at Rs 60-65 a kg now up from Rs 55 to 57 a kg earlier. Urad was at Rs 130 a kg against Rs 90 earlier, making it costliest among the pulses. Moong dal was at Rs 90 a kg, an increase of Rs10.“The sales have gone up too as consumers have stepped up buying during the lockdown period. However there is no shortfall of foodgrains,” said the person manning the counter at Gopal Dhanya Bhandar in the locality.“There has been a sharp rise in the rates of cooking oil. A 15-litre pack of soyabean oil that cost Rs 1280 earlier is now over Rs 1500,” said a consumer in a grocery store at Gokulpeth.The impact was seen in the rural areas too where the rates are similar or even slightly higher in some pockets. “The gram panchayat made announcements in the village streets warning shopkeepers against charging higher rates,” said Sanjay Rasad of Isoli village in Buldhana district.Pratap Motwani, secretary of The Itwari Grain and Seeds Merchants Association, a wholesalers guild, said dal mills and other processing units were not functioning at full strength as labourers were not available.The shopkeepers also complained that supply of branded FMCG items had stopped altogether and they were managing with the stock lying at their stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/essentials-costlier-over-supply-bottlenecks/articleshow/75416539.cms||Shishir Arya
April 28, 2020||Pune||38,000 cane workers return to Marathwada after checks||PUNE: District collector Naval Kishore Ram said he has coordinated with his colleague in Marathwada to send 38,000 migrant workers, mostly cane cutters, back to their villages. The workers were from Beed and Ahmednagar and their contractors had hired trucks to transport them. The journey began two days ago. Over 50,000 workers were stranded in Pune and their inter-district shifting was started after coordination between the respective collectors, Ram said. The Centre will have the final word on workers who have to be transported to other states, he added. “These cane workers were stuck at different places in the district and were put up in temporary centres. As per instructions from the state government, the collectors coordinated and arrangements were made to send them back to their villages,” he said. Workers going back to their villages have been advised home quarantine. The decision was taken collectively by the Maharashtra state disaster management, help and rehabilitation and revenue departments. On Saturday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said if the collectors coordinated the movement can be arranged as the lockdown may be extended. The state government had decided that one lakh migrant sugar cane workers would return to their villages amid the lockdown subject to medical tests. The remaining will be sent back to their districts when the respective district administration agrees to coordinate the movement, a senior government official. There were 1.31 lakh sugar cane workers living in temporary shelters provided on the premises of 38 sugar factories in the state. The lockdown, which stranded migrant workers due to a ban on movement, led to sporadic outpouring of anger. Factories were told to get the workers and their kin tested and certified, and inform authorities, including gram panchayats, and obtain requisite permissions for their safe return. The factories’ administrations were also responsible for the workers and their livestock reaching their villages. They coordinated with the district collectors and gram panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/38k-cane-workers-return-to-marathwada-after-checks/articleshow/75417719.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 28, 2020||Meerut||12 test positive in Bulandshahr, one in Meerut||MEERUT: As many as 12 patients tested positive for coronavirus in Bulandshahr, two in Bijnor (including one admitted in Meerut) and one in Meerut, according to the reports which were released on Monday evening. With the fresh cases, the total district tallies reached 52 in Bulandshahr, 31 in Bijnor (including three admitted in Kanpur) and 94 in Meerut (including one admitted in Kanpur). Dr Vishwas Chaudhary, Meerut district surveillance officer, said, “One person tested positive for coronavirus here on Monday. The positive patient is a contact of a pregnant woman who had earlier tested positive in Imliyan area. As many as 46 patients have been discharged so far and five have died, thereby raising the active cases to 42 in Meerut district.” Dr KN Tiwari, chief medical officer, Bulandshahr, said, “As many as 12 cases were tested in Bulandshahr since Sunday night. These include one from Shikarpur – a contact of the Ayurvedic doctor who died in Delhi. Two women from a family in Nai Basti – most likely contacts of Jamaatis, six from Radha Nagar, including three who are contacts of a pharmacist from district women hospital, and three others from a family in Radha Nagar besides a 17-year-old girl from BB Nagar tested positive.” With one more positive case being the contact of the deceased ayurvedic doctor, as many as 12 people in Bulandshahr are in one cluster of the doctor. Meanwhile, one person also tested positive in Muzaffarnagar late evening on Sunday, taking the tally to 22 in the district. Dr Vijay Kumar Yadav, chief medical officer, Bijnor, said, “One person from Chahsheeri colony tested positive in Bijnor. The area has been sealed and sampling of his contacts is being done.” Meanwhile, one more person - a resident from Bijnor - admitted in LLRM Medical College (Meerut) -- tested positive, confirmed Dr Vishwas Chaudhary. With this, the total tally of Bijnor is 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/12-test-positive-in-bulandshahr-one-in-meerut/articleshow/75415624.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government not in a hurry to lift lockdown fully||CHENNAI: As the number of Covid-19 positive cases continued to soar in Tamil Nadu, the state government appeared in no hurry to completely lift the lockdown, top sources said. On Monday, Edappadi K Palaniswami was not among the chief ministers, who spoke during the video conference with Prime Minister Narendran Modi. But, his government is understood to have decided to continue the lockdown, at least partially, notwithstanding the decision of the Union government. 54% cured cases encouraging: CMA senior official told TOI, “If the Centre extends the lockdown, the state has to follow suit as it has no choice under the Disaster Management Act. If they lift the lockdown, the state will decide if it will be a partial or staggered exit. The Tamil Nadu government will not lift the lockdown completely even if the Centre decides to do so.” The CM had spoken during two of the three sessions that the Prime Minister had with the chief ministers since March 20. Soon after the video conference, Palaniswami wrote to Modi, seeking the Centre’s support on a slew of issues, including funds to procure medical equipment, supply of more PCR testing kits and assistance to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises which has a large workforce in the state. He said effective medical treatment in the state had ensured the death rate was only 1.2% with 1,020 patients discharged. “This worked out to an encouraging 54% of cured patients,” Palaniswami said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-not-in-a-hurry-to-lift-lockdown-fully/articleshow/75417187.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Dabhoi cop infected by robber now brings coronavirus under his control!||Vadodara: A police constable of Dabhoi police station who was undergoing treatment after contracting coronavirus from a robber was discharged on Monday.The 35-year-old Rajendrasinh Zala was discharged from GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri as his latest test reports turned out to be negative. “The constable from Dabhoi was discharged as his repeat test came negative of COVID-19,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer of Vadodara, adding that this is the fourth patient who got discharged from Vadodara rural.The cop will now have to remain in home quarantine for two weeks at his residence in Dabhoi police lines. With the constable getting discharged from GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri, the total number of patients getting discharged in Vadodara city and district reached 60.Zala was tested positive on April 16, 24 hours after he nabbed Ayub Tai, the robber who was found to be infected with coronavirus. While Zala was admitted at the hospital, two other police constables who had come in contact with Tai had been home quarantined. Other cops at the police station had heaved a sigh of relief when their tests turned out to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dabhoi-cop-infected-by-robber-now-brings-coronavirus-under-his-control/articleshow/75415762.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Meerut||City officers extend help to poor family after minor girl takes to driving e-rickshaw||MUZAFFARNAGAR: An unusual sight met the few people out on city streets in the morning over the past week. Among the few essential service providers sighted scurrying around with masked faces was a 13-year-old girl on an e-rickshaw, transporting essential commodities. Little Amrin, the eldest among five sisters and a brother who live with their specially-abled father in Khatauli, took to driving the three-wheeler after her father, paralysed below the hips from polio since childhood, bought the vehicle just a day before the nationwide lockdown was implemented. Said her father Zareef, “I bought the e-rickshaw on installments, but got no time to learn how to drive it. We are very poor. When the ration ran out, we didn’t know what to do,” adding their family didn’t receive any help from the state during the lockdown. His daughter chipped in, “My father is not able to walk. With a large family to feed, when the ration ran out five days ago, I decided to earn for my family. I had already learnt how to operate the vehicle.” Local officials have now reached out to the family with help, after hearing of their plight in local media. City programme officer Baljeet Singh, who is looking after needy people in Muzaffarnagar during the lockdown, heard of them on social media and on Monday, dropped rations for the family at their house. Zareef said, “An officer visited our house and gave us ration.” Singh said, “After I got the information via WhatsApp, I visited their home, dropped two-week’s ration and instructed the girl not to drive the e-rickshaw as she is a minor. I have also given them my phone number for any help in future, and instructed an area officer to look after the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/city-officers-extend-help-to-poor-family-after-minor-girl-takes-to-driving-e-rick/articleshow/75415643.cms||Mohd Dilshad
April 28, 2020||Nashik||NGOs help families affected by fire||Nashik: Few non-government organisations (NGO) have joined hands and come forward to help the families affected by the fire in Ganjamal slum area of the city on Saturday. The district administration has already provided them shelter in a nearby school while the NGOs have taken up the responsibility of feeding them. Rahil Khan, a member of Manav Uthan Manch, said "Members of my NGO have been working for the poor since the first day of the lockdown. But this fire has added to the woes. Those affected will be fed by us till they are rehabilitated." He added, "As there is no facility to cook food, giving them groceries will not work. Hence, are providing milk, tea, biscuits and food packets to the 400 people affected by the fire." tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ngos-help-families-affected-by-fire/articleshow/75415641.cms||pragya jain
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||City police start drone surveillance at Satranjipura||Nagpur: City police on Monday started air surveillance at Satranjipura with the help of drones launched by the wireless department. The drones would be pressed into action for monitoring containment zones and other congested localities where police movement is restricted. The drones, equipped with walkie-talkie and pre-recorded messages, have been introduced for effective vigilance and public announcements regarding lockdown norms. During a review meeting last week, state home minister Anil Deshmukh had urged the city police to prepare drones with announcement facilities on the lines of Mumbai. DCP, headquarters, Vikram Sali said that they worked under the guidance of CP BK Upadhyay to attach sound system to the two drones. “The drones would be able to lift up to 200 feet above the ground and can keep an eye on an area under one km radius,” he said. The DCP said that the city police wireless department saved Rs33 lakh by using their innovative technology rather than purchasing one. Sali said the drones would be controlled by mobile surveillance vehicle or mini control rooms station at the locations. “We are aiming at real-time monitoring and announcements through wireless driven announcement systems,” he said. Senior PI Anil Sakhare and sub-inspector Vijay Mohite of the wireless department said the drones would be used in dingy lanes and congested roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-police-start-drone-surveillance-at-satranjipura/articleshow/75416563.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 28, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Constable stops DM’s car for defying norms, rewarded later||MEERUT: Two occupants of a car and their driver were on Monday morning pulled up by a police constable for defying social distancing norms in UP’s Bulandshahr. He let them pass after issuing a stern warning, and giving them a brief speech on the norms. Constable Arun Kumar had no inkling that the man on the backseat was district magistrate Ravindra Kumar, who was on a surprise check. Hours later, Kumar received an appreciation letter from the DM, and Rs 2,000 from the SSP. Amid the lockdown, senior officials in the district are conducting surprise inspections in their private vehicles to take stock of the ground situation. Kumar was on one such inspection when the constable signalled his driver to pull the car aside at Dankaur trisection of Sikandrabad area. Constable Kumar began questioning the motive of their outing. He finally let them off with a warning. “Constable Arun Kumar stopped the car at Sikandrabad and told the occupants that venturing without a valid pass is a violation of the lockdown. And also that three persons were not allowed in a car. He let them pass with a warning that their vehicle will be fined if they were found violating norms again,” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar said. Later, the DM gave an appreciation certificate to constable Kumar. While the SSP announced a cash reward of Rs 2,000. “We were happy to know that the constable is so dedicatedly discharging his duties in such trying times,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/uttar-pradesh-constable-stops-dms-car-for-defying-norms-rewarded-later/articleshow/75415657.cms||Piyush Rai
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Get books delivered at your doorstep||Bengaluru: A bookstore owner on Monday started an on-call book delivery service on Monday. After getting several calls from bored book lovers, Bookworm, a bookstore on Church Street, decided to start the home-delivery service in the city. The store’s owner Krishna Gowda told TOI that they have all the latest books till March and had been getting calls from customers if they were open. “That’s when we decided to have this service. Anyone can call us and check for book availability. They can get it delivered through Dunzo or Swiggy,” Gowda said, adding that they got more than the expected calls on the first day. One of their loyal customers, Sahana Haridas who was quick to share the news on social media platforms, told TOI that it will help people to deal with staying locked up in homes. “I have made a list of a few books. Two latest and three old ones. I can’t wait to get to hold them,” she says. The tweet announcing the service quickly became popular, with people living outside Bengaluru expressing their ‘envy over the city’s book culture’. Vivek Tejuja, a Twitterati said, “I retweeted it and will like it too. Low-key envy for people living in Bangalore.” Interested can get in touch with Gowda on 98450 76757.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/get-books-delivered-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/75416573.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Bats essential part of ecosystem, say activists||Pune: Forest officials and activists working for the conservation of bats are getting increasing calls from citizens to remove bat colonies from their neighbourhoods. They have also received complaints about bat colonies being removed by fire and other methods. The activists said that bats are an essential part of the ecosystem and having a bat colony in the neighbourhood will not lead to transmission of coronavirus. Rahul Khanolkar of Indian Bat Conservation Research Unit said, "Due to unverfied news linking bats to Covid-19 outbreak, people working in bat conservation and forest officials have been getting calls from the general public to remove bats from their area. There have also been incidents of destruction of bat roosts with fire or smoke or sealing the crevices where they roost. Urban insectivorous bats can eat about 500 mosquitoes per night and help in pest control." A statement signed by many scientists and conservation activists said, "The exact origin of SARS-CoV-2 or its precursor is not known. It is premature and unfair to blame bats or any other animal for the pandemic. Scientists strongly suggest that it is highly unlikely for SARS-like viruses to jump directly from bats to humans. Also, there is no evidence of humans contracting coronavirus or any such viruses through the excreta of bats. The recent report from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on the discovery of bat coronaviruses (BtCoV) in two species of South Asian bats poses no known health hazard. The viruses found in the study are different from SARS-CoV-2 and cannot cause Covid-19." Kranti Yardi, professor, Bharati Vidyapeeth Institute of Environment Education, said, "People don’t realise that bats are an important link in evolution and also play an important role in the ecosystem and we have no right to remove them from their natural habitats. They play a huge role in pollination, seed dispersal and pest control." The experts also said that the unique immune system in bats can provide clues on handling viruses. Therefore, they should be seen as a solution to disease outbreaks, rather than a problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bats-essential-part-of-ecosystem-say-activists/articleshow/75417726.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 28, 2020||Meerut||Lab technician at Delhi hospital tests Covid-19 positive, family isolated in Hapur||MEERUT: A lab technician, working at Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH), has been tested positive for Covid-19. According to local authorities, the technician used to commute to work from his home in Pilkhuwa area of Hapur. He was tested in Delhi. Soon after the report arrived, his five members were put under isolation. “He used to visit his family on alternate days. Have shifted his wife and children to hospital isolation as precaution,” said Aditi Singh, Hapur district magistrate. Meanwhile, Pilkhuwa area where the technician lived with family has been declared a Covid-19 hotspot. “Sealing has been done to ensure that every single house is sanitized and screened for health status,” the Hapur DM said. As of now, 21 people have tested positive of Covid-19 in Hapur district. Meanwhile, the district has begun random sampling of people involved in delivery of essential commodities and services. Senior official claimed that it is being done in to contain the outbreak. “We have begun random sampling of persons engaged in essential supplies’ delivery such as vegetable/fruit vendors, sanitation workers, etc. This will further help us ascertain our accurate status regarding local transmission, which we believe we have successfully prevented so far,” DM Singh said in a tweet on April 25. As many as 108 medical staffers at Ganga Ram Hospital were quarantined earlier this month after two patients tested positive for the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lab-technician-at-delhi-hospital-tests-covid-19-positive-family-isolated-in-hapur/articleshow/75415694.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Coach attendants forced to starve due to unpaid wages||Nagpur: With nothing left to feed their families during the lockdown, over 40-45 coach attendants on Monday sought Central Railway’s intervention to clear non-payment of wages for the past six months by a contractor.These 45 attendants are at work aboard various trains originating from Nagpur railway station. In February 2020, the contract of a Mumbai-based Nimbus Harbor Railway Technical Services was short-terminated.These workers alleged they were not paid their dues by Nimbus since August nor did the firm deposit their PF regularly. The same workers have been retained by the present contractor, Piyush Traders, Kalyan.The workers say whenever they sought pending payment from Nimbus, the firm promised to pay on the pretext that once railway cleared the bills, dues would be paid.“We somehow pulled on but due to the lockdown it is becoming extremely difficult to make ends meet. Hence, we sought DRM’s intervention to get the pending payment,” they said.On Monday, each of the 10 workers was given a food kit worth Rs700 by Central Railway Mazdoor Sangh (CRMS) office-bearers as a timely help to save them from the precarious situation.However, Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “If the contractor doesn’t pay the dues, we will make payment from the deposit money in a day or two. The pending dues may not be more than two months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coach-attendants-forced-to-starve-due-to-unpaid-wages/articleshow/75415709.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||+ve cancer patient in Mayo, staff at pvt hosp quarantined||Nagpur: The cancer patient who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday was admitted at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) after Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) reportedly said it was full. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) collected swab samples of 59 staff, including doctors, of private cancer hospital where the patient underwent surgery and and quarantined all of them at the hospital itself.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “We have directed the cancer hospital not to take any new patients till reports of all staff are available. We are treating all staff as suspected cases as none knows whether patient was infected pre or post-surgery. Further decision will be taken after reports are received.”It is second hospital to be temporarily closed, the first one being Janata Hospital, Jaripatka, for three days. Two diagnostic centres were also closed for fumigation for three days.The team from NMC Ashi Nagar Zone led by zonal medical officer Dipankar Bhivgade admitted the cancer patient at IGGMCH and quarantined his wife and her sister. “Patient and family members denied any travel history out of city and also in existing containment zones of the city. They said the patient was undergoing oral cancer treatment for last two years. They also said patient had not met his brothers and other family members for last few years,” Bhivgade said.NMC team first took the patient to GMCH in small hours of Monday and then admitted at IGGMCH. Sources at IGGMCH and NMC said, “Patient is suffering from cancer and needs admission in high dependency unit (HDU) ward. His condition is not bad at present but there is no HDU at IGGMCH. GMCH has converted Trauma Centre into Dedicated Covid Hospital and has ICU and HDU. The matter will be discussed with GMCH.”The person had undergone surgery on April 14 at private cancer hospital and was discharged on April 22. He came for a check-up at the hospital citing cough and other problems on April 24. The hospital engaged a private laboratory and collected samples. The reports came positive on April 26 night from Mumbai laboratory.An auto driver, the person is first cancer patient of the district to test positive for Covid-19. As he is a resident of Sangam Nagar, North Nagpur, Mundhe has notified containment zone with boundaries at Ittabhatti square, Wanjra bridge, Nandi square and NMC Yashodhara Nagar School. It is the ninth containment zone in existence in the city.Also, it is third area from North Nagpur after Jaripatka and Rajiv Gandhi Nagar. NMC will investigate on its own about family members and close contacts and quarantine them from Tuesday onwards.Mundhe added, “A few days ago, NMC already started checking health condition of all cancer patients by calling them from control room. Cancer patients are considered high-risk for Covid-19. We are regularly inquiring about their health, encouraging them to stay at home, coordinating with medical shops and hospitals for medicines and treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ve-cancer-patient-in-mayo-staff-at-pvt-hosp-quarantined/articleshow/75416558.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 28, 2020||Meerut||Follow social distancing while harvesting: Khaps||MEERUT: Often in the news for their brush with the law over contentious diktats, khaps of western UP have issued a different set of instructions to followers this time, especially farmers, asking them to honour physical distancing while harvesting crops, and not to venture out of homes unless necessary. This time, the khaps’ diktat was hailed by the administration. “These are unprecedented times and we all have to follow one line of action, and that is to stay at homes. Everything else can wait,” said Surender Singh, head of Desh Khap in western UP. Heads of some of the prominent khaps have appealed to their followers to “strictly follow rules during lockdown” and maintain social distance at the time of pandemic. The appeal has come when the wheat harvesting is going on in large swathes of north. From time to time, most khaps have come into limelight for controversial diktats like banning of love marriages or same gotra marriages. Some also prohibited women from wearing jeans or keeping mobile phones. In 2018, the head of Balyan Khap, Naresh Tikait, while opposing a Supreme Court verdict, had even threatened, “We will not allow the girls to be born or let them study if these kinds of orders are passed by the court. What will they do then? ” This came after the apex court observed that “khap panchayats’ opposition to the marriage of two consenting adults is illegal and violation of human rights.” However, coronavirus pandemic has prompted khap leaders to join hands with the government. Suhash Chand, the head of Desh khap of Brahmin Samaj said, “Majority of villagers belong to farming sector and it is very important that in the times of wheat and cane harvest, a social distancing of at least one meter is observed by the farmers. We have been appealing to our villagers and pradhans via social media to strictly follow the rule.” Chaudhary Ram Singh of Sain Khap said, “We (khaps) all are unanimous in following the instructions by the health department and are trying to implement it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/honour-lockdown-follow-social-distancing-while-harvesting-crops-say-khaps/articleshow/75415672.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 28, 2020||Pune||Dad stuck in US, Pune police arrange teen’s birthday||PUNE: Vatsal Sharma had never imagined that his 15th birthday would be so special though his father was stuck in the US due to the lockdown. On Sunday night, the teenager cut his birthday cake on the bonnet of a police vehicle with the “Happy Birthday” song playing in the background. After failing to connect with Vatsal because of some technical issues, his father sent an e-mail to the Pune police requesting them to convey his wishes to his son on Sunday. The Pune police forwarded the e-mail to the Pimpri Chinchwad police, as the boy stayed in the Sangvi area. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Sandeep Bishnoicontacted senior inspector of the Sangvi police Dnyaneshwar Sable and told him to wish the boy with a cake. Sable told TOI, “We traced the family’s address with a cellphone number and reached there apartment at night. The initial plan was to celebrate the boy’s birthday at his flat. But we called Vatsal and his mother to the parking lot. We wished him on behalf of his father andtold him to cut the cake, maintaining the social distancing norms.” Sharma said, “This year the police made my birthday special for me. I thank everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-surprise-teenager-with-birthday-cake/articleshow/75417723.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Commercial office space faces crisis as companies encourage work from home||CHENNAI: Commercial real estate is going through one of its worst crises as Covid-19 pandemic has been a game changer, making working from home (WFH) a cheaper option for corporates. Many IT/ITeS companies and corporates are now warming up to the idea of shifting a significant chunk of their work — be it coding or non-client-facing back-office functions — out of their offices and into their employees’ homes. WFH helps companies save on rentals, improve productivity by helping employees save time spent for commuting and finally, boost employees’ well-being, says a report from realty consultant Anarock. “Tenants will recalibrate their space requirements, and the effective average monthly per-desk rentals at Grade A office spaces in some of the major business cities will be a central consideration,” said Ashutosh Limaye, director and head, consulting, Anarock Property Consultants. The contribution of commercial segment towards real estate growth has been significant in India for close to three decades. It withstood the slump even when residential sector was in doldrums. It has a significant role to play in the overall GDP growth too, because about 78% of the investment in infrastructure projects gets added to the GDP, past studies have shown. “Coronavirus has thrown a serious spanner in the works of this lucrative real estate segment, at least for the next two quarters,” said Limaye. WFH, however, is not a catch-all solution — many business verticals and functions still require employees to work in an office setting. A large chunk of work needs constant monitoring and professional infrastructure which only an office setting can provide. Nevertheless, market dynamics are changing quickly now. The fallout could be subdued demand for coworking over the next few quarters, he said. However, coworking would revive once the pressure of pandemic eases. “Coworking spaces are not only the most cost-effective option but also offer flexibility in terms of time period of rental agreements. Coworking spaces can be rented on a monthly, day-to-day and even hourly basis,” said Limaye. In comparison, traditional offices are a source of worry for both tenants and landlords because it is difficult to visualise and plan for the post-pandemic market scenario. They are pinning their hopes on government to roll out incentives to sustain the sector, he said. Ajit Kumar Chordia, MD, Olympia Group, said commercial buildings housing software companies may have to de-densify seating arrangements by 33% and BPOs by 50% to comply with the changing scenario. Niranjan Hiranandani, president of Naredco and Assocham, felt it was too early to judge the efficacy of WFH. Once the lockdown ends, companies would be forced to evaluate the efficacy of WFH. Internet connections at homes are open to hacking, which may compromise internal data of companies. He felt that in line with the social distancing norms, companies are likely to hire more space per employee once lockdown ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/commercial-office-space-faces-crisis-as-companies-encourage-wfh/articleshow/75417217.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Nine Sudanese shifted to temporary jail||LUCKNOW: Nine Sudanese nationals, who were put in a quarantine centre for 14 days after their arrest from Sultanpur on March 19, have been shifted to a temporary jail in Faridpur area of Sultanpur. They were also tested negative for the new coronavirus infection. All of them had taken shelter in Jamia Islamia in Kotwali police station area of Sultanpur district from where they were arrested and sent to 14-day judicial custody. With their arrest the state tally of arrested foreigners with Tablighi Jammat links has reached 155 who have been kept in 50 temporary jails in the state. All the nine Sudanese nationals were booked under Foreigners Act, Passport Act, 1897, Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act, 2005. Seven other persons, one from Bihar and rest from UP, were also arrested along with the Sudanese group. . Superintendent of Police, Sultanpur, SH Meena said all have been shifted to a temporary jail in Faridpur area of the city. “We have seized their passports and traced all those who had come in their contact. Some details are being scanned like for how long they were in India and which places they had visited,” said Meena. The police also said that they had visited Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin on different dates in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-sudanese-shifted-to-temporary-jail/articleshow/75417197.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Business||IESA appoints Gupta as chairman||The India Electronics and Semiconductor Association (IESA) has appointed Satya Gupta, founder and CEO of Seedeyas Innovation, as the chairman for 2020-21. Gupta, who replaces Jitendra Chaddah of Intel, said he would work with the new executive council and will strive to make India as the most preferred destination for innovative intelligent electronics & semiconductor products, and globally competitive manufacturing. “During the current challenging times, it has become amply clear that self-reliance for electronics products and components is a must,” he said. Others in the executive council for 2020-21 include Rajeev Khushu of Texas Instruments, Vivek Tyagi of Western Digital, and Ajay Naini of Xilinx, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iesa-appoints-gupta-as-chairman/articleshow/75416567.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||AIR Jaipur takes listeners down memory lane||Jaipur: To evoke nostalgia among its listeners at the time of lockdown, All India Radio (AIR) Jaipur has started broadcasting old dramas, skits, folk music from its archives. Inspired by Doordarshan, that has recently started broadcasting Ramayana and Mahabharat for its viewers during lockdown, AIR has started broadcasting decades-old content from their archival library on radio as well as its YouTube channel. There are thousands of such tapes in the library of AIR, Jaipur, which are now being taken out and their sound quality being measured, which are then converted into digital form and uploaded on YouTube. Additional director general (west zone), Neeraj Aggarwal explained, “We have more than 400 dramas in our archives in Jaipur. They are in Hindi, Urdu and Sindhi languages and broadcasting them at the time of lockdown, we are getting a good response. Folk songs of Manganiyars and Langa community are preserved in our archives. Radio has a vast reach, to every remote corner of the state, which is what we are now making use of. The response has been good from the present-day artistes and the older generation who had listened to these dramas at that time.” Jaipur radio started in 1955 and has evolved in all these years with change in technology. Dramas in earlier times were recorded by the artistes in the drama studio at the radio station. Reshma Khan, programme head of AIR Jaipur, who has been working for radio for the last 35 years, recalled the times when for special effects, the artistes used their creativity. “For sound of water splashing, artistes would go to an actual pond. For horses tapping, they would go to MI Road, where many tongas used to run. We still have those recorded sounds in our archival library. Of course, times have changed and now we have special effects for everything. We are in the process of digitalizing the tapes. Amidst lockdown, CEO Prasar Bharti Shashi Shekhar in Delhi, asked us to search our records to be uploaded online, to make the present generation aware about our rich history,” said Khan. AIR Jaipur is also running a morning show from 9am to 10am everyday called, ‘Hum Hongen Kamyab’ in which they broadcast live the efforts made by health workers, struggle stories and success stories amidst the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-jaipur-takes-listeners-down-memory-lane/articleshow/75417208.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Meerut||Of 23 Meerut hotspots, only two are in green zone||MEERUT: As the number of cases continue to vary every day, the Meerut health department is keeping a hawk eye on the hotspots in the district. Out of the total 23 hotspots in the district, nine are in red zones, 12 are in orange zones and two in green zones. While the red zone refers to the places where a large number of cases has been found, the orange zone refers to the area where no new case has been found in the last 14 days and the green zone refers to the place where no new case has been found in the last 28 days. Red zones refer to the areas which have large number of cases and high rate of infection, thereby requiring focused attention. The nine areas in red zones are Shastri Nagar sector 13, Sarai Behleem (Sohrab Gate), Humayun Nagar, Dari Wali Masjid (Delhi Gate), Uldhan village (Kharkhauda), Raj Nagar colony (Garh road), Chhota Bazaar (Rajban), Sabun Godam (Baghpat road), Kali village (Sardhana). Out of the red zones, the areas which can fall under orange zones soon include: Uldhan village and Shastri Nagar sector 13, where the last reported cases were on April 13 and April 14. Thereby, they will be in the orange zone by Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively. Orange zones refer to areas which have a limited number of cases in the past and have not witnessed a rise in new positive cases recently. An orange zone can be turned into a green zone when it doesn’t report any new case in last 28 days — since the first case. The 12 areas in the orange zone are Madina Masjid (Sardhana), Mehelka village, Arafat vali Masjid (Kalyan Colony), Chappar Wali Masjid, AS Degree College, Kasba Khiwai, Pachpeda village, Heeralal Kasba (Mawana), Khanpur Banger village (Parikshitgarh), Aad village (Mundali), Salahpur village (Rohta), and Hauz Wali Masjid (Khair Nagar). “Out of the total 23 hotspots, two of them have come in the green zone — Harnam Das Road and Surya Nagar — since no new case has been reported from here in the last 28 days,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/of-23-meerut-hotspots-only-2-are-in-green-zone/articleshow/75415722.cms||Ishita Bhatia
April 28, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Second test report of Bijnor SI shows him negative||BIJNOR: A week after a 59-year-old sub-inspector (SI) -- who was part of a team which escorted nine Tablighi Jamaat followers to a quarantine facility in Bijnor-- was declared Covid-19 positive, another test conducted on him a few days ago ruled out that he was suffering from the disease. After the first report, the SI had become the first policeman in the state to be infected with the virus. Of the nine persons escorted to the facility on April 13, six were suffering from Covid-19, according to test report which arrived on April 18. Later, samples of the rescue team, including the SI posted at Nahtaur police station, were taken and sent to laboratory. He had tested positive on Monday and was admitted at a hospital in Sambhal on April 20. Over 45 police personnel who came in contact with the SI were also put under quarantine, and Nahtaur police station was sealed. The other members of the rescue team, three constables and a few health department workers, were declared negative in the report, a senior government official said. When contacted, chief medical officer Vijay Kumar, said, “Second report of the sub inspector has come negative. Now, we are waiting for third report for further confirmation. According to officials, 27 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bijnor district as of now. Out of them, one has recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/second-test-report-of-bijnor-si-shows-him-negative/articleshow/75415736.cms||Harveer Dabas
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai reports 47 of 52 new positive cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state capital remained red on Tamil Nadu’s map reporting 47 of the 52 Covid-19 positive cases on Monday and the cluster centred around crowded Koyambedu market grew larger with at least 13 close contacts of a vegetable vendor infected. Madurai reported four cases and Villupuram had one, taking the state’s total to 1,937. There were 809 people under treatment in hospitals across the state, while 81 of them were declared fit for discharge. No deaths were reported. The Koyambedu cluster is worrying for public health authorities as people from all over the city and other parts of TN visit the market complex. The vegetable seller, who had tested positive two days ago, lives at Padi Kuppam, about 3km from Koyambedu. The 13 who tested positive on Monday include several of his neighbours.Last week, a flower vendor and three of her contacts and a vegetable seller from Kundarthur and six of his family members tested positive. “We have had at least four or five vendors from the wholesale market and nearly 20 of their family members testing positive in the past one week,” said a senior Greater Chennai Corporation health official. Another case that has caused alarm is a barber, who has a shop on Kaliamman Koil Street in Virugambakkam, also about 2.5km from the Koyambedu market, testing positive. “He has been offering hair-cuts illegally. We are trying to track more than 30 of his contacts,” said the senior civic official. The barber has told officials that he used to frequent the Koyambedu market. “The market has been crowded even during lockdown. Social distancing norms were not followed. A day before the complete lockdown the market was buzzing. It is scary to think of the ramifications. We will start seeing cases in the next two days,” said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “This seems to be there in other places too. The effect is what we see – an increase in the number of cases every day,” he said. In the first seven days of April, the city saw an average daily increase of 17 cases a day. This went down to 7 cases a day in the second week, but it zoomed up to 20 cases a day in the third week. With one more day to go in the fourth week, the average daily cases number 32. “The average number of contacts turning positive for a patient in Chennai is clearly higher when compared to rural areas. In the last three days, we have seen at least one cluster with a dozen contacts of a patient testing positive almost every day,” said a public health official. Meanwhile, 81 people were discharged from various hospitals, taking the total number of people discharged to 1,101. Of the 1,937 people who tested positive so far, 1,312 were men and 625 were women. There were 111 people below the age of 12, 1,600 people between 13 and 60 and 226 people above the age of 60.  The authorities are also battling with the emerging cluster among healthcare workers, particularly doctors and nurses. On Monday, a doctor, a resident of Shanthi Colony in Anna Nagar who was recently appointed by the government through the Medical Recruitment Board tested positive. “His first positing was in Royapuram containment area. He has been there for a week. As a part of his job, he was asked to take swabs of suspected patients at the Barathi Women’s College. A couple of days later he gave his own swab and it returned positive,” a senior health department official said. Two other post-graduate doctors from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital have tested positive. The men’s hostel in the ward was closed on Saturday and swabs were collected from 102 students, according to hospital dean Dr R Jayanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-reports-47-of-52-new-ve-cases-in-tn/articleshow/75417229.cms||Pushpa Narayan
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Deploy CRPF in Satranjipura, Itwari: Pande||Nagpur: With 67 Covid-19 positive cases being reported from prabhag number 21, independent corporator from the area Abha Pande has demanded deployment of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) there. She also submitted a memorandum in this regard to district collector Ravindra Thakare. “As the area has already been declared a corona hotspot, hundreds from this part of the city have been quarantined,” Pande told the collector. Earlier, east Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde had demanded deployment of army to enforce lockdown there. The prabhag covers areas such as Itwari, Satranjipura and Shanti Nagar. Apart from shops dealing with essential commodities, many other stores are functioning brazenly. “Closing down such shops, the administration should also regularize timings of opening of shops dealing in essential commodities. Despite the areas falling under the city police commissionerate, there is brazen violation of lockdown and it can be witnessed most of the day,” she said. “Some discipline of lockdown needs to be enforced here or it will be mayhem. Deployment of CRPF could bring some discipline and will help in curbing further spread of Covid-19,” she said. The senior corporator also demanded personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for health and Asha workers working in containment zone. City activists of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena too raised the issue and submitted a memorandum to state home minister Anil Deshmukh and district guardian minister Nitin Raut among others. “Itwari being the commercial hub of the city, lockdown needs to be enforced strictly and only central paramilitary force can do this,” said MNS city coordinator Hemant Gadkari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deploy-crpf-in-satranjipura-itwari-pande/articleshow/75416584.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Eight Bihar workers pedal their way to home from GB Nagar||LUCKNOW: There seems to be no end to migrant workers' plight during the lockdown. Eight migrant workers of Motihari, Bihar, on homeward journey from Gautam Budh Nagar on bicycles, have already covered over 470km. All the workers, who are auto drivers, crossed Shaheed Path in Lucknow on Sunday. The eight cyclists, carrying heavy bags with bottles tied to their bicycles, started their long and arduous journey on April 24. They had landed in GB Nagar about three years back in search of a job. One of them, who identified himself as Bhumnesh Saini, said that “it is still a long way to go. We don’t know whether we will be able to reach our homes or not.” Saini said that the government has not provided any help to them. “We have no ration. Community kitchens, too, had started avoiding people of other states. We had no option, but to return to our native place,” Saini added. Vimlesh, a neighbour of Saini, said his landlord was pressuring him for clearing the rent. “I had no money. We were not allowed to ply autos during the lockdown. Finally we decided to return to our homes in Motihari,” he said adding that “usually we take break between 12 pm and 3 pm. After taking some rest we again start our onward journey hoping to reach Bihar one day.”Another worker Shambhunath said that “we will not visit GB Nagar again. We did not get any help from the local administration. Many more Bihar natives would be coming on bicycles next week.”  Saini said at some places thermal scanning was done by cops. “But they did not stop us. They also gave food to us at two places.”Health expert Vishnu Kumar said that a healthy person can ride a bicycle for at least 125-150 km per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8-bihar-workers-pedal-their-way-to-home-from-gb-nagar/articleshow/75417240.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Employers hold back Telangana and Andhra Pradesh women in Kuwait||HYDERABAD: With Kuwait announcing amnesty and asking illegal workers to return to their countries without having to pay fine or suffering jail, women from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana working as maids there want to return but are facing difficulties. Even those with valid work permits are finding it difficult to return to India. As the spread of the coronavirus is making life difficult in the Gulf nation, most of the Telugu women, who are working as maids, want to get back home but are being held back by their employers. “The employers are insisting that these women should stay till their visa expires. They are not permitting them to leave,” a social worker said. Even though an Indian woman had sought the help of the police, her employer convinced the police to send her back to the workplace. To return to India, the women can approach the embassy and seek help. But this is easier said than done as it is an arduous task to step out of the house where they are employed. A person, whose mother also works in Kuwait, has been trying hard to take her to the Indian embassy, but the owners of the house, where she is employed as a maid , are not allowing her to step out. Women who are staying in the country illegally are in a deeper crisis. After several efforts, they managed to leave the place where they were employed and reached the Indian embassy. The embassy adopts a procedure to provide an emergency certificate to those who don’t have a passport. As this process takes time, the women are left with no place to stay and are pleading other Indians to provide accommodation till they leave Kuwait. The last day to apply for amnesty is April 30. The workers can return once flights resume their operations after the lockdown. Meanwhile, social worker Gangula Muralidhar Reddy has sent an e-mail to Nizamabad district collector C Narayana Reddy, requesting him to facilitate the return of workers from Nizamabad as they do not have money for the airfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/employers-hold-back-t-ap-women-in-kuwait/articleshow/75416587.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 28, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Stocks piling up, mills and sugarcane growers hit hard by lockdown||MEERUT: The woes of sugarcane growing farmers don’t seem to end any soon as mills, where they sell their produce, are struggling to sell sugar in the market due to lockdown. According to UP Sugar Mills Association (UPSMA), 119 mills of the state owe Rs 12,078 crore to cane growers, which is roughly 44% of the total dues. The figure, which is for April 13, is rising everyday as the crushing season is on. Industry experts say that the percentage of non-payment of dues will only rise because of huge amount of stocks lying unsold in the mills’ warehouse. Secretary general of UPSMA, Deepak Guptara, said, “Around 70% of our production is for domestic use and since the lockdown is in force, the demand has dried up. Exports are also down because of global crisis. There is a huge strain on the millers as they have almost exhausted their working capital. We fear that prevailing crisis will adversely affect the payment mechanism.” To add to the woes of the industry, the UP power corporation has also not paid cogeneration dues to the industry. In a letter to Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL), the UPSMA has urged for the immediate release of dues to the tune of Rs 1,200 crore. “In view of the current situation, we would request you to immediately release payment of millers for outstanding dues so that sugar mills can pay to the farmers in these difficult times,” the letter stated. However, the power corporation is yet to respond to that, a source in UPSMA revealed. The UPPCL chairman, Arvind Kumar, confirmed receiving the letter. But he said that the corporation is short of working capital and cannot pay the dues towards the generators. “Nevertheless, we would see if things can be sorted out as soon as possible,” he said. The UP government, on the other hand, has decided to give sugar to the farmers instead of cane price for the 2019-20 season, which has been categorically rejected by the farmer lobbies. “The value of the sugar made available by mills to willing cane farmers will be adjusted from their balance cane dues of 2019-20,” the official statement read. Sugarcane growers' union leaders, on the other hand, have rejected the offer. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), told TOI, “What are we going to do with sugar? Where are we going to sell these sacs when mills cannot. We want our money. Even at the time of lockdown, business houses are looking for opportunities to maximise their profits. At present, the entire economy of the country is being run by the farmers. It is agriculture sector which is absorbing the out-of-job labourers. It is farmer who is providing them the food grain in lieu of work in the farms. But government, as always, is still unconcerned towards growers’ well-being. The graph of pending cane dues is gradually rising and stands at nothing less than Rs 13,000 crore. Why cannot sugar industry take loan from banking institutions and pay to the farmer?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/stocks-piling-up-mills-sugarcane-growers-hit-hard-by-lockdown/articleshow/75415769.cms||Sandeep Rai
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Chinkara poaching continues unabated, 3 incidents reported||Jaipur: Poaching of the state animal Chinkara (Indian gazelle) is continuing unabated as incidents of killing the endangered species were reported from three places in the past two days. Two incidents were reported in Nagaur, while one case took place in Sawai Madhopur. In the first incident, poachers killed the animal on the outskirts of village Bhundel panchayat, Khimisar, Nagaur district around 11.30pm on Sunday. After villagers learnt about it, they reached the spot but by that time poachers had fled. The forest and police teams that reached later recovered the carcass. Range officer Hemendra Sirodia said, “The forest department has registered an FIR against unidentified poachers under various sections of Wildlife Protection Act. Also, post-mortem of the animal was conducted.” Earlier, another poaching case was registered around 8.30pm near Gudda Bhagwan village falling under the same forest range. The villagers here managed to nab one poacher, while two fled from the spot. The forest officers have seized a torch, wooden stick, skin, some parts of the Chinkara and a motorcycle which was used in the hunt, from the suspects. Sirodia says, “Chinkara and blackbuck are not hard to hunt. At night, poachers flash torch on the animal. The animal freezes as it is scared. Taking advantage of the situation, the poachers hit hard on the animal’s head to kill it.” The department sources in Nagaur expressed their helplessness in controlling poaching as forest land is scanty and monitoring these animals on revenue land is difficult. With sparse public movement during lockdown, there is a surge in poaching cases. On Saturday, a poaching incident was reported in the village of Olwada panchayat adjoining the Ranthambore National Park (RNP). Here, four poachers on two separate bikes were nabbed by the villagers. However, villagers were not able to catch them as they were armed and fired in air. A forest official said, “As per the reports, the poachers killed the Chinkara with a gun. One of the villagers clicked a picture of the carcass that was tied to the bike. We are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chinkara-poaching-continues-unabated-3-incidents-reported/articleshow/75417233.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Delhi||Two food volunteers test Covid-19 positive in Delhi's Mehrauli||NEW DELHI: Two men who were distributing food in Mehrauli and delivering food to nearby areas have tested positive for Covid-19. Another person who was also working with them has cleared the virus test. They were tested when one of them developed fever recently. While the person with fever has been hospitalised, the other positive person has been sent to a Covid care centre. Their family members, who will also be tested, have been advised home isolation. The third person has been placed in an institutional quarantine facility. The South district authorities are trying to trace their contacts. Containment plans are being worked out in large areas, including Motilal Nehru Camp, Kishangarh car market, Church Road at Vasant Kunj and Pehalwan Dhaba at Mehrauli, a source said. Mehrauli MLA Naresh Yadav said they mainly collected food from a government facility and delivered it to three locations while others associated with different social organisations were engaged in distribution. They distributed food only at one spot, the AAP legislator added. “We gave them masks, gloves and hand sanitisers, and they always followed protocols,” Yadav said. Meanwhile, two more containment zones were created in Delhi on Monday, taking the total count to 99. In South district, the areas under Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudwara Wali Gali, Thane Wali Gali and Terminal Wali Gali were declared as one zone while house nos. P-65 and P-184 in New Delhi district’s Pillanji village formed the other red zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-food-volunteers-test-positive-in-mehrauli/articleshow/75417243.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Hotel industry will change forever after lockdown: Experts||Nagpur: Hotel industry is looking at a sea change in the way it operates post lockdown, felt experts who participated in a webinar organized by Tuli College of Hotel Management. They all agreed that though the current time is tough, both the overall economy and hospitality sector will bounce back within a year.Manoj Bali, general manager of Radisson Blu, said “The Indian economy will grow by 7.4% by early next year. The economy should start picking up by November and for hotels, we may see more of corporate business. Quality of work and services are going to improve and that will only bring value to the industry.”Arjun Singh Arora, director of Centre Point Hotel, expects business to pick up after Diwali. Arora said, “Obviously, nothing can be said for certain till travel restrictions are removed, but we can expect things to get back to normal post festive (Diwali) season.”Sudhir Andrews, former principal of the prestigious Indian Institute of Hotel Management (Delhi), sees reduced human contact. “Soft opening of hotels will be there with fewer people and simple menus and self-service. Robot cleaning machines, digital payments and liquor options only through mini-bar are some ways where human contact will be reduced,” said Andrews.Suresh Mathur, COO for Auro Hotels India, said guests will need to be aware of sanitization practices. “Hotels will need to have literature of how everything is sanitised in the hotel to make the guest aware of safety measures. We have to look at providing breakfast in rooms and also focus will be on sanitizing rooms by identifying touch-prone areas.”Urvashi Yashroy, director of the Tuli college who moderated the webinar, said, “Students must learn as many skills as possible during this quarantine time. These skills will not only help you gain confidence but also give you a great understanding of the industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hotel-industry-will-change-forever-after-lockdown-experts/articleshow/75415779.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||10 more Covid patients discharged||LUCKNOW: Ten more Covid-19 patients, including five women, undergoing treatment at two city hospitals were discharged on Monday, taking the number of people who have recovered so far to 53. Seven patients of asame family were discharged from Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) while three others, including a 47-year-old man from Saharanpur, were discharged from Ram Sagar Mishra (RSM) Hospital in Bakshi-ka-Talab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-more-covid-patients-discharged/articleshow/75417262.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||More districts of Vidarbha now under red zone grip||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported 27 new confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the fourth consecutive day that witnessed double digit increase. With more cases being detected, districts in Vidarbha are moving from green to orange and orange to red zones as per the central coding system.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the efforts of states should now be directed towards converting red zones into orange and thereafter to green zones, but what is happening in Vidarbha is completely the opposite.ICMR announced zone-wise distribution of hotspots in the country in the first week of April. Nagpur and Buldhana were the only two districts in Vidarbha in the red zone at that time. Nagpur had 27 cases then and Buldhana 17. As both the cities had more than 15 cases, they were included in red zone.By this methodology, three new districts in region, which were earlier in orange zone have now landed in red zone. They are Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola. Yavatmal reported 65 new cases in 48 hours. Such surge in cases was witnessed for the first time in Vidarbha. All the cases are from six to seven localities in Yavatmal city. Amravati, which has already become hotspot for Covid-19 deaths, has reported 23 cases till date with seven deaths, the highest in Vidarbha. All seven tested positive after death. They were from different localities and the administration is still clueless about their source of infection.Akola had reported 12 cases up to April 11 and was in orange zone. In the last 10 days, it recorded five new cases and one death on April 15. Apart from one death, a confirmed positive patient committed suicide in isolation ward here. On April 26, a new patient was detected from a complete new area of Sindhi Camp in Akola. Having 17 cases with 8 patients discharged, Akola is also in red zone. Bhandara is the only district which was in green zone until April 27, but will be included in orange zone as first patient of the district was detected on Monday — a 45-year-old woman TB patient. Her native village has been sealed already. Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Wardha maintained themselves in green zone with not a single positive case. Washim and Gondia will maintain themselves in orange zone as no new patient have been found here in the last several days. In fact, if no new patient is found in Gondia till May 11, it will fall in green zone.As per ICMR methodology, if no new case is detected for 28 days at a stretch after recovery and discharge of the last patient in the city, it becomes Covid-19 free and can get a green zone tag.Colour codingRED ZONENagpur | 128Yavatmal | 79Buldhana | 24Amravati |23Akola | 17ORANGE ZONEWashim | 1Gondia | 1 Bhandara | 1 GREEN ZONE Gadchiroli | 0Wardha | 0Chandrapur | 0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-districts-of-vidarbha-now-under-red-zone-grip/articleshow/75416590.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Stranded Nepalese workers’ wait to return home prolongs as Nepal extends lockdown||Pithoragarh: In a major disappointment for Nepalese workers stranded in Uttarakhand, Nepal’s government extended the lockdown for 10 more days on Monday (April 27) and prevented their return to homes. These workers have been waiting to return to their homes for over a month now. Earlier, the officials of Nepal had decided to allow these workers to enter its territory on Sunday but the decision was retracted after lockdown extension. “We had planned to take the stranded Nepalese workers to Indo-Nepal border at Banbasa but on Sunday morning, the officials of Nepal didn’t allow their entry. Most probably, higher officials of the neighbouring country retracted on their decision to allow entry of its citizens after lockdown extension,” SN Pandey, district magistrate of Champawat, told TOI. Pithoragarh’s district magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdende told TOI, “Nepalese officials had written to Pithoragarh district administration about the return of these workers. Subsequently, the district administration had written to Union ministry of home affairs regarding the guidelines for the procedure. However, the return of these workers was cancelled.” The official added that more than 1,400 Nepalese citizens have been lodged in six camps of Pithoragarh. Sources from Nepal told TOI that officials of the country had even arranged quarantine facilities where these workers would have been kept after their return. Meanwhile, VC Pant, circle officer of Tanakpur, said, “Around 204 Nepalese workers are staying at Banbasa camp in Champawat district. Earlier on April 23, the district magistrate and superintendent of police of Nepal’s Kanchanpur district had come to the Banbasa camp to check facilities being given to these stranded workers. The officials expressed satisfaction over the facilities that are being provided at the camp.” Pant added that the workers had then requested the two Nepalese officials to ensure their return to home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stranded-nepalese-workers-wait-to-return-home-prolongs-as-nepal-extends-lockdown/articleshow/75415810.cms||Prem Punetha
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Wardha MP’s son held for thrashing worker, gets bail||NAGPUR: Pankaj Tadas, son of Wardha member of parliament (MP) Ramdas Tadas and Sanjay Kaikade, a supervisor at his construction site, were recently booked for thrashing a labourer at Issapur near Deoli in Wardha district. The duo was arrested by Deoli police on Sunday and produced before court, where they got bail. According to police, labourer Rajendra Jadav was working at the construction site on Saturday, when Pankaj called him into his office and thrashed him along with Kaikade over some financial dispute. Jadhav later went to a nearby hospital, from where he was referred to a hospital at Sawangi. Meanwhile, Deoli police registered a case of assault against the duo and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-mps-son-held-for-thrashing-worker-gets-bail/articleshow/75416597.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Curfew extended till May 3 in Pune, longer shopping hours||PUNE: The entire city will continue to be a containment zone with curfew provisions in place till May 3. However, people can shop for essential commodities for four hours — from 10am to 2pm — in all areas. Importantly, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “Areas with less or no positive cases may be opened up after May 3. Instead of the entire city, only the hotspots will be sealed. The aim is to bring livelihoods back on track.” The fresh orders for the city were issued by Gaikwad and joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve on Monday. In Pimpri Chinchwad, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and the police issued orders identifying only 16 areas as containment zones where curfew provisions would continue. On April 19, the entire Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits were declared as a containment zone. The PCMC has announced different sets of timings for shops selling essential commodities in the containment and non-containment zones. “The ongoing nationwide lockdown provision will continue in the non-containment zones,” Pimpri Chinchwad’s additional commissioner of police Ramnath Pokale told TOI. Curfew till May 3 in city, relief in shopping timingIn Pune city, the common four-hour shopping timings for badly affected and lesser affected Covid-19 areas has come as a relief to citizens. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “Despite the eight-day curfew that ended on Monday, social distancing norms are still not being maintained. We had no option but to continue with the containment zone provision. Despite our efforts, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases is still around 7 days; we want it at10 days.” Mhaisekar said, “The deputy chief minister has given us four senior IAS officers for better coordination in the fight against coronavirus — sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao, cooperation commissioner Anil Kawade, animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh and groundwater survey director Kaustubh Diwegavkar. All four have been asked to work with the PMC commissioner.” Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We suggested an extension in the containment zone/curfew measures as there was need for effective implementation of social distancing. We have been able to bring down the mortality rate from 14% to less than 7% but want to reduce it further. We also want to reduce the cases. Our surveillance and testing has increased. All symptomatic people from flu clinics are being referred to Covid-19 hospitals. Private hospitals and doctors have been asked to help out in the crisis, and more beds and facilities have been sought.” Hardikar said, “The number of Covid-19 cases has shown an increase in the 16 areas now declared as containment zones in Pimpri Chinchwad. These areas will have restrictions on movement of people and vehicles. Shops selling essential items will operate for only two hours.” (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni, Siddharth Gaikwad, Satyanarayan Iyer & Mihir Tanksale)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/curfew-extended-till-may-3-in-city-longer-shopping-hrs/articleshow/75417736.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Mystery over death of teen in Telangana's Wanaparthy||HYD ERABAD: A 17-year-old girl died under suspicious circumstances in Wanaparthy district on Monday evening. Police registered a kidnap case and under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Wanaparthy police said the girl was brought to a local hospital by her friend before he fled from the area. The hospital doctors, after examining the minor, declared that she was brought dead and alerted the police since they found that it was an unnatural death. Prima facie, police suspect that she might have died after consuming some poisonous substance. Officials said the girl, who was employed in a farm, had gone to work. But, what transpired after she reported for work and whom she met later is still being probed by police. “As of now, none of her co-workers or the farm owner is available. At the same time, her male friend is also missing and a police team is trying to trace him. If there is any foul-play in the minor girl’s death will be known until we get the post-mortem report,” Wanaparthy police said. The victim hailed from Nagarkurnool district. Her parents lodged a complaint late in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mystery-over-death-of-teen-in-wanaparthy/articleshow/75416589.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Covid death toll in Amt at 7; suspect’s death triggers panic||Amravati: The novel coronavirus (Covid-19) toll in the city climbed to seven with swab test reports on Monday confirming 72-year-old deceased from Taj Nagar, who died on April 24, as a positive case. Panic gripped the city after a 50-year-old paan vendor from Sindhi community-dominated Kanwar Nagar locality died at Covid-19 Hospital on Monday morning. His swab samples have been sent for testing and reports are awaited.Apart from this, samples of two youngsters who were among close contacts of a 40-year-old Tarkheda woman, who had died on April 23 at her home, also tested positive.At seven, Amravati has till date registered highest deaths in Vidarbha.Collector Shailesh Naval said health administration on Monday received 53 swab test reports in two batches which confirmed Taj Nagar resident as Covid victim and two from close contacts of Tarkheda woman as Covid positive. Rest 50 samples tested negative, said Naval.The two contacts who tested positive are both male youngsters aged 21 and 25. He added that both were in institutional quarantine and now have been shifted to Covid-19 ward.With three new cases today, the number of positive cases in Amravati has gone up to 23, including seven deaths and four recovered persons. There are 12 active positive cases in Covid ward, said Naval.Meanwhile, police have cordoned off Kanwar Nagar locality following the death of paan kiosk owner while Amravati Municipal Corporation has launched sanitization drive.“This man was suffering from fever, throat pain and breathing troubles for five days and was brought to Covid Hospital on Monday morning from a private hospital. He died soon after,” said an official, adding his swab has been sent for testing.Meanwhile, the two youths detected positive today have taken the number of contacts of April 23 deceased woman contracting novel coronavirus to three. Her 33-year-old contact had already tested positive on April 25 last.Up to April 26, the health administration has sent total 944 throat swabs for testing and of them 23 have come positive while 761 negative. “We are still awaiting reports of 153 samples from Government Medical College, Akola,” said an official.Earlier in the day, in view of the spurt in positive cases from the cluster zone, Naval, police commissioner Sanjay Baviskar, AMC commissioner inspected health facilities, survey work, medicine availability in high-risk and low-risk areas of the cluster zone.captionCollector Shailesh Naval inspecting Sakkarsath locality in Amravati on Monday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-death-toll-in-amt-at-7-suspects-death-triggers-panic/articleshow/75416593.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||10 held for attacking police in Nagarwada, 17 people booked||VADODARA: Ten people, who were part of the mob of 17 that attacked police near Kasamhala mosque in Nagarwada on Monday early morning, have been arrested. The mob got enraged as cops asked them to disperse and return to their homes. According to policemen, the accused were not returning to their homes after completing the ‘sehri’ ritual. ‘Sehri’ is the meal consumed early in the morning before starting the fast in Ramzaan. When the police asked them to disperse, a few of the men got furious and started hurling abuses and threatened the cops. When warned, two of the accused Rizwan Lakhajiwala and Nazeer Sindhi instigated others. The mob started pelting stones and glass bottles at the cops. Meanwhile, Sindhi hurled his sword at a sub-inspector but the cop managed to save himself. Later when additional police staff arrived, the mob started running away but 10 of them were arrested. A police official said that a lok rakshak dal personnel identified as Rohit Sureshbhai suffered minor injuries as he had a scuffle with some persons from the group. Those who have been arrested have been identified as Rameez Deraiya, Asif Sahilya, Rizwan Lakhajiwala, Salim Dola, Sohil Sindhi, Riyaz Sindhi, Dilaar Ghanchi, Fazal Deraiya, Javed Ghanchi and Tahir Dola. “We have identified seven others as well and they have all been booked for attempt to murder, assault, rioting, deterring a public servant and other offences,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/10-held-for-attacking-police-in-nagarwada-17-people-booked/articleshow/75415795.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Central team visits red zones, Gandhi Hosp||Hyderabad: The inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) headed by Arun Baroka on Monday interacted with residents in containment zones, doctors and supporting staff during their visit to various places in Hyderabad. The team visited Humanyun Nagar containment zone in Khairatabad zone and the government quarantine centre in Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital and the nodal Gandhi Hospital to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. During their visit to Humayun Nagar, the team enquired with GHMC officials how services were being rendered to the residents in medical emergencies and door-to-door fever survey. They also reviewed the sanitation measures. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar apprised the team on the facilities being provided to the residents and measures taken to contain Covid-19 in the containment zones. Later, the team went to SD Eye Hospital and enquired about the facilities provided there. The team inspected the central drug store and asked how they were supplying medicines to the other districts. The central team also enquired about PPE kits to doctors and supporting staff and its quality and method of disposal of used materials. The hospital officials informed that sufficient medicines and PPE kits were available. The team then visited Gandhi Hospital where they inspected the method of treatment given to the Covid-19 patients and facilities being provided. It also enquired whether sufficient staff of sanitation, paramedical, security and ward boys are available and number of beds, ICU beds, ventilators, etc and safety measures taken for doctors and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-team-visits-red-zones-gandhi-hosp/articleshow/75416602.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man, mother arrested for murder||HYDERABAD: A garment store worker in Nizamabad, along with his mother, was arrested on Monday for murdering his wife. The duo killed the woman during an argument over dowry and set the body ablaze in a nearby forest on Friday night. On Saturday afternoon, workers involved in the construction of a check dam at Ramachandrapally near Makloor, noticed the charred body of the woman and alerted the police. “About 90 percent of the body was burnt. As we began investigating , villagers of Shiva thanda near Navipet in Nizamabad approached us with some important information about the victim,” said a Nizamabad police officer. Police identified the victim as Radha, 23, a native of Ardhaveedu mandal in Prakasam district, AP. “During the preliminary probe, we found that Radha’s in-laws used to harass her for dowry,” police said, adding that on Friday, the victim and the accused went to Makloor area to collect money from one of their acquaintances. “While returning to Shivam thanda, an argument broke out between Radha and her mother-in-law and the mother-in-law attacked her with a boulder and killed her,” police said. Police took the duo into custody and a murder case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-mother-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/75416607.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||At 29.1m, Bengaluru metro’s highest point to be at Jayadeva Jn||BENGALURU: The tallest point of Bengaluru’s elevated metro network will lie at Jayadeva Interchange Metro Station. At present, the highest point (23.3 metre above the ground) is near Srirampura Metro Station along Green line in Rajajinagar. But this is set to change. “In Phase 2, the Gottigere-Nagawara (Pink Line) stretch will run 29.1m above the road level at Jayadeva station and will soar over the RV Road- Bommasandra (Yellow line),” said BMRCL chief public relations officer BL Yashwanth Chavan. According to Chavan, the tallest pillar of Phase 1 is at pier No. 195 near Srirampura station and the average of height of piers in Phase 1 is about 12m. “The pier at Jayadeva will be one of the tallest pillars in the country once completed. Passengers travelling on the stretch will get a breathtaking aerial view of the city,” said another official. A BMRCL official said various factors decide the height of pillars. “The gradient and slope of the road are the main factors. Between Srirampura and Kuvempu Road, there is a slope on the road which could be a reason for the height of the pillar,” he said. BMRCL has begun demolishing the landmark flyover at Jayadeva Hospital junction to construct the new elevated road-cum-rail corridor. The busy junction is being remodelled to accommodate an additional elevated road and the interchange Metro station of Reach 5 line (RV Road to Bommasandra) and Reach 6 line (Gottigere to Nagawara). Last year, BMRCL built a new elevated line from Bommasandra (Phase 2) over the existing viaducts of the Green Line (Phase 1) on the RV Road stretch. While Yellow line is 19.8m above the road level, Green line is 11.5m above. Officials said Outer Ring Road Metro line to KR Puram (2A) is at a rail level of 8m and will run under the Byappanahalli – Whitefield line, which will have a rail level of 16.4m above the road level at KR Puram. The viaducts of Reach 2, 3, 4 and 5 must cross NICE Road at rail levels of 18.2m, 18.9m, 19.9m and 16.7m above the road level, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/at-29-1m-metros-highest-point-will-be-at-jayadeva-jn/articleshow/75416638.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||MP: PPE-clad cops brave heat to ensure safety amid Covid-19 fight||BHOPAL: Frontline corona warriors - the cops deployed in sweltering weather at containment areas across the city, are facing dual hardships, wearing the PPE kits for eight hours every day, to enforce the lockdown during the ongoing corona crisis. The cops can’t even answer the nature’s call dressed in these PPE kits. Some of the cops, who removed their PPE kits partially while on duty, were allegedly punished by seniors for exposing themselves and others to the risk of Covid-19 infection. It is a double whammy for the cops; if they don’t wear the protective gear, they expose themselves to the risk. And if they do wear the PPE kits, it becomes unbearable for them to pass eight long hours, sweating profusely inside the plastic kit. Many senior officers are also of the view that it is impractical to wear the PPE kits in this hot weather. Not wanting to comment officially, they did, however, express their concern whether PPE kits are meant actually for wearing outdoor, especially in such hot weather condition. They maintained that PPE kits are meant to be worn indoors, in hospitals etc., where there are air-conditioners fitted, or for a very limited period of time. A senior cop posted in the city said on the condition of anonymity, “The cops deployed on field duty in containment areas have been provided with the PPE kits for their protection, but they were not given proper training on how to wear, how to remove and dispose off these kits. Many cops can be seen patrolling in containment areas improperly wearing the kits or partially removed kits to get some relief in this weather. In the afternoon, cops literally suffocate in these kits.” The senior cop also said, “People can’t even stand for an hour under the scorching sun wearing the PPE kits, but the cops are expected to wear these for eight hours. An alternate solution should be sought to address this issue.” Commandant Pankaj Kumawat, in-charge of monitoring the containment areas in the city, said that there are around 700 cops deployed in 160 containment areas, round the clock, in a shift of 8 hours each. Depending on the priority of the containment area, the number of PPE kit-clad cops could be between 1 and 3 in each shift. In some areas, more than 3 PPE kit-clad cops are deployed to monitor the situation. He admitted that PPE kits are meant to be worn indoors, but added that the nature current duty requires that cops wear these kits while deployed in containment areas. He said, “ Cops are facing harsh time; to wear plastic like PPE kit in hot weather takes a toll on them, especially in the afternoon. The situation will get worse during the heat wave in coming months, but it is the need of the hour for their own safety. The cops are provided adequate time to rest along with drinking water at check points to keep them hydrated.” Kumawat said that many cops remove their kits while on duty to get some relief from heat, but senior officers regularly motivate the field staff to wear the protective gear to safeguard themselves from the risk of Covid-19 infection. He also rubbished the reports that some of the cops were punished for removing their PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/double-whammy-for-ppe-kits-clad-cops-in-containment-areas/articleshow/75415839.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Paltan Bazaar traders protest against Smart City construction work in market area||Dehradun: Concerned over Smart City construction work, traders of Paltan Bazaar held a meeting with city mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama and Rajpur Road MLA Khajan Das on Monday. “On Sunday night, we found that a bulldozer had come in the market area of Paltan Bazaar for Smart City construction work. No prior information was given to us about the restart of the construction work. Additionally, the trading community is under stress as the sales have been hit due to the lockdown and currently, we can’t deal with another issue. Therefore, we want to discuss the construction work and we should be given prior information about it,” said Pankaj Masson, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Udyog Vyapar Mandal. During the meet, city mayor Gama assured the traders that their concerns will be looked upon. Meanwhile, a group of Paltan Bazaar traders, along with the help of police department, are distributing ration kits in the city’s slum areas. “We have distributed hundreds of kits of uncooked food in slum areas and one kit is big enough to feed a family of 3-4 people for at least a week. The police department is helping us in identifying areas where people need our help and the outstation traders are also helping us in this noble cause. In fact, the police department has a proper list in which they have shortlisted the needy people and the last time they were provided with ration,” said Sudesh Agrawal, a group member. Another charitable group Ease Food Friends (EFF) is providing packets of cooked meal to hundreds of poor people in Dehradun. The group comprises of local youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/paltan-bazaar-traders-protest-against-smart-city-construction-work-in-market-area/articleshow/75415864.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Industries shut, life flows into Sabarmati and Kharicut||AHMEDABAD: A month-long lockdown period has helped Sabarmati River achieve a level of cleanliness, which repeated warnings by National Green Tribunal (NGT) to the state river rejuvenation committee could not achieve over the last one and half years. It is the same for Kharicut canal as well. The situation of the two most polluted water stretches of the city — Sabarmati River and the Kharicut canal — has remarkably improved in terms of parameters like biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD). This could be achieved as a majority of industrial clusters surrounding the city was closed.  For the record, the NGT had strictly asked the state river rejuvenation committee to ensure that the BOD levels of 3 mg/L was achieved. The BOD levels of the Sabarmati at Hansol bridge, Narayan Ghat, Railway bridge and Gandhi bridge range from 1.2 mg/L to 1.98 mg/L . Near Vatrak, which was the Sabarmati river’s worst nightmare, the BOD levels plummeted from an average of 31 mg/L in Januaray to March to 12 mg/L post lockdown, according to Gujarat pollution Control Board (GPCB) officials. In 2018, the BOD levels at Vatrak was more than 140 mg/L. The COD levels similarly nosedived in Miroli pumping station from 219 mg/L to 96 mg/L post lockdown. The GPCB officials say that pollution parameters have dropped by more than half of what they used to be prior to the lockdown period. “Never has Kharicut canal in more than two decades had such low pollution parameters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industries-shut-life-flows-into-sabarmati-and-kharicut/articleshow/75416627.cms||Paul John
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Flat in Indiranagar gutted in blaze, close shave for 40 residents||LUCKNOW: As many as 40 residents had a narrow escape as a fire broke out in a flat on the second floor of a commercial-cum-residential building opposite the office of assistant commissioner of police, Ghazipur in Indiranagar early on Monday morning. Local residents alerted the police after detecting smoke billowing out of the flat at around 7.45am. By the time fire tenders could reach the spot, the blaze gutted the flat and spread to other parts of the building triggering panic among residents of 14 flats. People rushed out of their flats and remained on road for over two hours, although fire was doused in about an hour. Though nobody was injured, many complained of discomfort and breathing difficulty due to smoke. Ghazipur SHO Brijesh Singh said the flat owner Anil Saxena was at his other house in Gomtinagar when the incident occurred. The fire also damaged a flat occupied by an elderly couple on the first foor. Chief fire officer Vijay Kumar Singh said prima facie a short circuit appears to have triggered the fire, but investigations will reveal the exact cause. Two fire tenders took around 30 minutes to douse the flames, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/flat-gutted-in-blaze-close-shave-for-40-residents/articleshow/75417294.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 53,000 screenings, 81 lab tests result in one Covid-19 positive case in curfew-hit Banbhoolpura||NAINITAL: In the past three weeks since the Banbhoolpura area of Nainital district was declared a “Covid hotspot” by the district administration, the health department has screened 53,000 people and has sent 81 samples for testing in labs resulting in one Covid-19 case from this densely-populated locality. According to the data provided by the district administration, till Sunday, 52,803 people from 9,135 families have been screened – through thermal checks and inquiring about Covid symptoms - since April 6. In total, 81 samples were sent from the locality for testing in labs, of which, just one was reported positive. Speaking to TOI on Monday, Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal confirmed that the one positive case from the area was reported last week and that the health department teams are still screening people from the area for symptoms. “Till now, we have screened over 9,000 families and are maintaining a strict vigil on the entire locality. Though some relief has been given during the curfew in the last few days and people have been allowed to get food or other essentials, we have maintained that people must follow the social distancing norms,” Bansal said. As reported by TOI earlier, the area was sealed off on April 6 after five Covid cases were reported. All the cases were traced to the congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. On April 13, a strict curfew was imposed in the area as rumours started doing the rounds on social media that local religious leaders were being taken to quarantine facility prompting hundreds of people to come on to the streets. Meanwhile, on Sunday night, the district administration issued an order saying that it will screen all the people travelling to the district. The outsiders who belong to areas declared as “red” or “orange” zones who try to enter Nainital will be sent to a mandatory 14-day quarantine. The order will imply to even the lockdown pass holders. The administration argued that the measure is necessary to contain the spread of the virus since there are strong possibilities that people travelling from the “red” and “orange” zones may be carrying it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/53000-screenings-81-lab-tests-result-in-one-covid-ve-case-in-curfew-hit-banbhoolpura/articleshow/75415974.cms||Prashant Jha
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Parents accuse school of overcharging for home delivery of books||JAIPUR: The extension of the lockdown has made it difficult for parents to arrange books for their children as bookshops were yet to open despite government granting permission. Some schools have started providing books at the doorstep but are allegedly charging more. Parents have termed it unfair at the time of an economic crisis. Laxman Dubey (name changed), whose two children are studying in Jayshree Periwal International School, Jaipur, said the school was charging Rs 200 per bookset to be delivered at home. “The school messaged us to fill a form online to get the books delivered at home. They are charging an exorbitant amount of Rs 200 per bookset. This is not justified at a time when there is an economic crisis,” said Dubey. The school also named a bookstore from where parents could purchase books directly if they did not want to pay for home delivery. The address of the bookstore, however, wasn’t provided till Monday afternoon. Lalita Sharma (name change), another parent whose ward is studying in class VIII, said the school messaged them that Sunday was the last day of filling up the online form for home delivery. “We filled the form on Sunday because we couldn’t locate Sharma bookstore in the city. There could have been 100 such bookshops. On Monday, the school provided us the address of the shop. It is like they smartly forced us to order books online. In my daughter’s class, there are 350 students. If the school is charging Rs 200 per student from just one class, they are making Rs 70,000. With so many students in school, they are easily minting around Rs 6 lakh. They are earning profit out of it as well,” said Sharma. The school authorities, however, refuted the charge. Jaya Singh, principal of Jayshree Periwal International School, told TOI, “We are providing parents the facility of delivering books at their doorsteps and have hired bus drivers, contacted booksellers and making arrangements. It is difficult in the time of lockdown to get all this sorted. It is a fee regarding the facility being provided. After a few days, we will make arrangements for parents to purchase books from school where they won’t have to pay for delivery.” Not every school is charging for the facility. Seedling Public School said it will start home delivery service free of cost. The school administration said it was trying to do its bit for the parents in the time of crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-accuse-school-of-overcharging-for-home-delivery-of-books/articleshow/75417303.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Farmers resort to pressure tactics, sell veggies outside Kallikudi market||TRICHY: Frustrated over the inordinate delay in commencing operation at the Kallikudi integrated vegetable market in Trichy, farmers launched vegetable sales in front of the market on Monday. Though two years have passed since the integrated market was inaugurated, the facility is yet to become operational. The farmers, belonging to the Trichy district Manitha Valar Sangam launched the sales to push the authorities to utilise it. Around 32 farmers from Manikandam and adjoining hamlets sold their vegetables to retail traders and the general public who had come from Trichy. Around five tonne of vegetables to the tune of Rs 57,000 were sold on Monday. “The objective of launching vegetable sales is to pressurise the district administration to put the integrated vegetable market to use. Two years on, the market is still non-functional while the public money has been wasted,” said Ku Pa Krishnan, a former agriculture minister who coordinated the sales. Owing to the positive response, farmers have planned to continue their sales. They have demanded that the district administration earmark shop for them at the Kallikudi market. “Out of the 330 shops in the ground floor, traders were identified for 288. Some of them are ready to occupy but a majority are yet to confirm. Once the lockdown is relaxed, we will follow the protocol to allot the unoccupied shops,” a district administration official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-resort-to-pressure-tactics-sell-veggies-outside-kallikudi-mkt/articleshow/75417299.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Banks instructed to keep hand sanitizers at ATMs||TRICHY: Following complaints from the public about the absence of hand sanitizers at ATMs, the Trichy district administration has instructed all banks to provide hand sanitizers for customers at the ATMs. Since the lockdown, they prefer to buy groceries from nearby small-time stores than visiting supermarkets to avoid travel during the curfew. Unlike the supermarkets, small-time grocery shops often demand cash from people since they don’t have digital gadgets. As the situation calls for frequent visit to ATMs, locals said that they dread to touch the touchscreen and keypads at ATMs as they were accessed by many people everyday. “Both private and public sector banks are not providing hand sanitizers at ATMs. Securities at the ATMs should be provided with quality hand sanitizer and they should insist the customers to compulsorily sanitize their hands,” V Prashanna, a resident of Rockfort area, said. Meanwhile, Trichy collector S Sivarasu has instructed banks to ensure hand sanitizers at ATMs. There are around 445 nationalised and private banks in the district of which around 185 branches are located in the city. The order from the collector says that people withdrawing money from the ATMs should be sensitised to use the hand sanitizer before and after the transaction. “We have shared the advisory received from the collector with all the public and private sector banks. Hand sanitizer will be ensured at the ATMs,” V Sathyanarayanan, lead district bank manager, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/banks-instructed-to-keep-hand-sanitizers-at-atms/articleshow/75417318.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Corona warrior: 85-year-old stitches masks for needy in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Every morning, after her daily prayer rituals, 85-year-old Kumud Bajpai sits with her sewing machine which is almost as old as her. Under natural light in her verandah, she stitches face masks for people who cannot afford to buy them. The Rajendranagar resident has blurry vision but that does not let her energy go down. In fact, she has become a ‘corona warrior’, motivating many people to do their bit to fight the infection, says her daughter-in-law Smita. “We saw our housemaid and other vendors without masks. They said they could not afford it. My daughter-in-law and I then decided to stitch masks at home and distribute them for free,” says Bajpai. The family also arranges for 50-70 food packets daily. Bajpai started out using pieces of cloth she had at home a few days after the lockdown began. “Since all old pieces have been used, we have taken fabric from a nearby tailoring shop to continue making masks,” she says. Bajpai stitches 100-150 triple-layered masks daily. With the help of a family member, masks and food are distributed in Rajendranagar and nearby areas. “The other day my sewing machine stopped working and I couldn’t stitch a single mask. Today, my aim is to make double than the usual,” she adds. Bajpai, who lives with her daughter-in-law, has two sons. One is in the Indian Army posted in Bareilly while the other lives in Pune. “My husband was in LIC. After his death I receive a monthly pension of Rs 10,000. I am using my savings to support to the needy,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-warrior-85-yr-old-stitches-masks-for-needy/articleshow/75417316.cms||Aditi Singh
April 28, 2020||Delhi||Give grains to poor without ration cards: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday directed the AAP government to ensure that foodgrains were distributed to the poor and marginalised even if they didn’t have ration cards. It also ordered all government-run ration shops to remain open from 9am to 1pm and 3pm to 7pm throughout the week. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, while giving interim directions, noted that the “distress caused to residents by the lockdown was aggravated by the stated denial of access to foodgrains to the poor, underprivileged and needy sections”. In another ruling, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar asked the AAP government to simplify the procedure of distributing ration to the poor and needy who had Aadhaar and voter IDs, but didn’t possess ration cards. If there was any need for a policy change, it should also be simplified looking at the need of the people at large, the bench added. Justice Mridul remarked that any person who is hungry should be eligible for grains. Those who are not in dire need shouldn’t leave their house to stand in queues at ration shops. The bench was hearing a PIL by Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, which pressed for ensuring effective and time-bound supply of rations and the urgent need for transparency in the distribution of foodgrains. The bench asked the government to upload details of shop-wise disbursement of ration at the end of each day and also place on its website the grievance helpline numbers. The Chief Justice-led bench directed the authorities that if any policy change was carried out for simplification in the procedure to get rations, it should be notified and informed to all the fair price shop owners. The bench was hearing a plea by NGO Nayee Soch Society seeking direction to Delhi government to provide ration to the needy on production of their Aadhaar or voter IDs at fair price shops. Appearing for Delhi government, additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that rations were being given to those who had Aadhaar and voter IDs, despite them not presenting ration cards. He added that non-residents of Delhi or migrant workers stranded in the city were also being provided rations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-grains-to-poor-without-ration-cards-hc/articleshow/75417301.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Occupancy dives, hospitals in Hyderabad reel under huge losses||HYDERABAD: With occupancy plummeting from 90-95 percent to nearly 20 percent since the beginning of the lockdown, private and corporate hospitals are reeling under major losses and are taking measures to cut down overhead costs. Some are even renegotiating rentals and deferring payments on rentals. Even once the lockdown is lifted hospitals are staring at 4-6 months of minimal occupancy, due to social distancing norms and say that availability of hospital beds will have to be halved. “Despite the drop in footfall, hospitals have to run 24x7 and at any point of time only one-third of the staff is working but we have to pay salaries to the entire staff. Moreover, we cannot force anyone to come and even for the staff who are coming to duty, we have to arrange for transportation and food apart from additional sanitation measures, gloves, masks, PPEs etc. So overall the revenue has reduced drastically and the expenditure has shot up substantially,” said a senior official from a corporate hospital in the city. Dip in revenue ranges across hospitals range from 50 to 80 percent. “There is a 65-70 percent fall in revenue and the number of outpatients is almost zero,” said Hari Krishna, executive director, Medicover Hospitals India. However, the focus currently is on keeping the staff and hospital safe and reaching out to patients through video consultations, ambulance pick up in case of emergency and medicine delivery at doorstep. “For the first week after the lockdown, we reengineered our entire process, as we did not want the hospital to become a carrier and only after that we started accepting patients. Revenue from diagnostics, consultations and elective surgeries which are the biggest chunk have completely washed away. We have completely scaled down operations,” said Dr Riyaz Khan, facility chief operating officer, Care Hospitals. “There is bound to be a financial impact but that is secondary at this point of time,” said Dr Hari Prasad, president Apollo Hospitals Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/occupancy-dives-hospitals-in-city-reel-under-huge-losses/articleshow/75416623.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 28, 2020||Trichy||No new case in central Tamil Nadu since two days||TRICHY: It’s been two days since the central region of the state has seen a rise in people testing positive for Covid-19 with the government machinery underlining the strong containment measures and contact tracing as the steps to narrow down the numbers. Trichy with a total of 51 positive cases highlighted the coordinated effort of the district administration, health department and police in controlling the spread of the virus from the containment areas. The district had its last positive case on April 22. “The notification of the quarantined houses helped a lot. People refrained themselves from even passing through the areas. Teams have been assigned to the needs of the quarantined people. Coordination of the revenue, health and police is the key,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu told ToI. After a fire service man from Perambalur testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, officials traced his contacts. He had also visited Thuraiyur fire station in Trichy recently. Since he had sat with four of his colleagues, the samples of all the 24 in the Thuraiyur station were taken. “But all of them tested negative today,” said Trichy collector. In the last nine days, there were no positive cases in Karur district. So far, all the 42 positive cases that emerged in Karur district were either TJ delegates or their contacts. “Containment activity has largely helped us prevent community spread after positive cases emerged from Pallapatti in Karur district,” said deputy director of health services (DDHS) Karur Dr N Selvakumar. Extensive testing has also helped them control the cases, Selvakumar said. He said that around 2,800 samples have been tested so far. “The system has become such that an infected case is unlikely to escape from our radar,” he said. Pudukottai district stood low in the chart with only one positive case since April 20. The patient’s father was one among the 16 Tablighi Jamaat delegates in the district. While his father tested negative, he tested positive. “We suspected that the patient could have come in contact with the luggage of his father who travelled from New Delhi. After thorough study, we narrowed down our activity to TJ delegates and international passengers who had more chances of transmitting the virus,” said DDHS Dr KV Arjun Kumar of Pudukottai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-new-case-in-central-tn-since-2-days/articleshow/75417297.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Extend lockdown till December: T Jagga Reddy||HYDERABAD: Congress MLA T Jagga Reddy on Monday suggested that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao extend the lockdown till December but after taking all measures to ensure that the poor and the other sections of society are taken care of. Jagga Reddy said that any decision to end lockdown may water down the efforts made by the state government against spread of novel coronavirus as mass gathering festivals are lined up. Starting with the fasting month of Ramzan followed by Eid-ul-Fitr, other festivals to follow are Bakrid, Moharram, Bonalu, Bathukamma, Dasara, to name a few. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extend-lockdown-till-dec-jagga/articleshow/75416615.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||New sample collection model needed: Study||HYDERABAD: At a time when much noise is being made over lack of testing for coronavirus, Max Institute of Heath Management (MIHM) at the Indian School of Business (ISB) has suggested that authorities have to slowly shift towards aggregated model of sample collection where the requirement for ambulances will be much less. For a city with more than 10 lakh population, MIHM in its study said the requirement for ambulances will come down by four times if it follows the above model. Currently, local administrators attend to testing requests from individual patients by following the sample collection and transportation (SCT) protocol – either bring the collection facility to a patient or transport the patient to the collection acility. However, in the aggregated model of sample collection, multiple samples are collected in a single trip which will also significantly reduce the need for ambulances. The process of collecting individual samples also involves an ambulance for transportation and a phlebotomist to collect the sample. The study by MIHM team finds that when a sampling is rampant, especially during the lockdown, the aggregated model of sampling would be very beneficial where the requirement of ambulances comes down by 4% and need for phlebotomists increases by 10% only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-sample-collection-model-needed-study/articleshow/75416632.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 28, 2020||Goa||Have asked agri dept to assess losses: Kavalekar||Margao: Deputy chief minister and state agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar on Monday said that he has directed the agriculture department to assess the losses sustained by the farmers, including floriculturists, during the lockdown, so as to enable the government work out measures to compensate them. “Those in the floriculture business, including those growing flowers in polyhouses, are in total loss. I have given instructions for conducting an assessment of the loss sustained by them,” Kavalekar told TOI on Monday. TOI had earlier highlighted how the floriculture industry in the state has been adversely hit with entrepreneurs staring at an uncertain future because of the lockdown. The demand for flowers like gerbera and orchids, largely comes from the hospitality, entertainment and tourism sectors. The closure of all these and the uncertainty of their opening up have had a cascading effect on the flower trade. “The flowers have no market now, and they cannot be stored too. The government will take a decision about how to compensate the farmers,” Kavalekar said. Assessment will also be done about the losses sustained by farmers who couldn’t harvest rabi paddy. “There was this issue of non-availability of technicians to operate the combined harvesters, as they would usually come from neighbouring states. The problem is now redressed. We have arranged for four operators of which there was a shortfall, and 12 combined harvester machines are now carrying out harvesting operations,” he added. In a recent video conference of all agriculture ministers chaired by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Kavalekar had apprised the Centre that floriculture sector in the state stood to be greatly affected owing to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/have-asked-agri-dept-to-assess-losses-kavalekar/articleshow/75417339.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||472 more from Satranjipura in quarantine||Nagpur: One more person from Satranjipura, the city’s Covid-19 hotspot, tested corona positive on Monday, increasing the district’s total to 129. Even before this result, at least 472 neighbours of the 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, the city’s first and only death, were taken to quarantine between 7.30pm and 11pm on Monday, taking the total number of people quarantined from this locality to 975.Also, in a goof-up, a 40-year-old man from Mominpura remained at Vanamati Institutional Quarantine despite testing positive two days ago.On Monday afternoon, the office at Vanamati received the positive reports of a 40-year-old man quarantined there. The reports of the person had come positive from AIIMS Laboratory at 5.30pm on April 25. TOI had reported the case on April 26.However, the control room at collector office did not send the report to NMC. TOI had pursued the case for two days with officials of NMC. After finally receiving the reports, usually a team from NMC contacts either IGGMCH or GMCH and goes to the institutional quarantine to shift the patient to Covid-19 Isolation Ward.Due to the goof-up, the positive person remained at Vanamati for two days. He was reportedly sharing the room with another family member, whose corona status could not be immediately ascertained. More family members of the person are quarantined in Vanamati so chances of him having met them in these two days cannot be ruled out.The person was finally admitted to GMCH on Monday afternoon.Collector Ravindra Thakre did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages.The positive person is brother of 42-year-old resident of Choodi Gully, Mominpura, who had tested positive on April 18. Number of positive persons from this family has increased to 14.A 42-year-old person had tested positive after being quarantined following the positive results of seven Jabalpur-based Tablighi Jamaats (TJs) on April 12 and 13. The person was taking care of food and other requirements of TJs, who were camping at Darul Falah situated at Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura. The number of cases from Mominpura has increased to 26.From the corona reports released on Monday, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials told TOI, “A 28-year-old woman from Satranjipura tested positive. She was in institutional quarantine at Wathoda and admitted to IGGMCH after testing positive.” The number of cases from this area remained at 80, though. A 40-year-old person from Mominpura had been considered a case from Satranjipura on April 15.Considering the number of neighbours of Satranjipura deceased testing positive, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe also directed quarantining more people from this area.A team led by assistant commissioner Vijay Humne and zonal medical officer Dr Minakshi Mane quarantined 472 persons on Monday evening. The 68-year-old person had died on April 5 and his samples tested positive on April 6. NMC had already quarantined 230 family members, close contacts and some neighbours of the deceased between April 6 and 22. Some 150 more neighbours were quarantined on April 23.East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde said in a press release, “People from the hotspot area in Satranjipura are still not maintaining social distancing, continue to meet each other, and even going to other areas. This violation should be stopped soon to contain spread of Covid-19.”It was reported that 10 people from this hotspot had managed to move out and hide in a godown at Kalamna a couple of days ago.NMC sources told TOI, “Mundhe is expected to direct similar quarantining of large number of people from Mominpura on Tuesday or Wednesday.”Mundhe said in a press release, “We are taking efforts to contain Covid-19 and ensure treatment to all at initial stage but persons from Satranjipura and Mominpura are not giving correct information. Therefore, all people from the hotspot are being quarantined and examined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/472-more-from-satranjipura-in-quarantine/articleshow/75416650.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyd police honour maimed cop||Hyderabad: In support of “MainBhiHarjeetSingh” campaign, the traffic police officers of Hyderabad on Monday were seen holding placards of Harjeet Singh whose hand was chopped off in an attack when he was trying to impose lockdown norms in Punjab. The initiative was taken by the traffic cops in the city to show solidarity with the fellow police officer and others working on the frontline amid difficult circumstance to contain the spread of Covid-19. “Hyderabad traffic police stand together in solidarity against attack on the frontline warriors fighting Covid-19. SI Harjeet Singh is a symbol of bravery. Today @hydtp officers wear his name on our chest with pride #MainBhiHarjeetSingh,” tweeted Anil Kumar, additional commissioner of police, traffic, Hyderabad City. The day-long campaign was launched by Hyderabad traffic police here on Monday. The cop whose hand was chopped off with a sword by Nihangs is slowly recovering. He urges all to stand by Covid-19 warriors. TaLking about the present crisis, he said Covid-19 can be defeated only by strict social distancing, and everyone should abide by this. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-police-honour-maimed-cop/articleshow/75416648.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kochi||Cial prepares to receive evacuated passengers||KOCHI: As the central government plans to airlift Indians stranded in other countries, Cochin International Airport Limited (Cial) has started taking measures to ensure social distancing and implement Covid-19 health protocol within the airport premises. Though the official decision is yet to be out regarding evacuation operations, Cial has already started implementing a slew of measures to smoothen the process in association with the state health department and district administration. Officials have started painting temporary markings (black dots within yellow round) to ensure 1metre distance at all counters. As the cushioned-seats in the terminals cannot be sanitised frequently, Cial is buying separate plastic chairs for arriving passengers. Also, PPE kits will be provided to all personnel who would be in direct contact with passengers. A standard operation procedure to handle the passengers, right from deboarding the aircraft to leaving the airport premises, is under formulation. “The official decision has to be taken by the central government on evacuation of Indians stranded abroad. But the airport has to be prepared if the restrictions are removed post lockdown. Terminals will be split into operational and non-operational, and handling capacity of the terminals will be reduced to one-third of normal capacity to avoid crowding. Health screening will be mandatory for all passengers and those symptomatic will be directly shifted to hospitals in special ambulances,” said a Cial spokesperson. A maximum of five persons, maintaining mandatory social distancing and wearing masks, will only be allowed to queue up at counters. Markings for social distancing will be on escalators too and only four persons will be allowed on them at a time. Passengers will be urged not to touch the railings of stairs. Besides health screening, a dedicated software will collect personal and residential details of each arriving passenger and it will be transferred to their respective police stations, primary health centres and concerned Asha workers to ensure tracking during mandatory quarantine. Also, instead of passengers filling up forms on arrival, their details and declarations will be stored in computers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cial-prepares-to-receive-evacuated-passengers/articleshow/75415917.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
April 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Decision on new Class X, XII exam dates on May 4||PANAJI: On May 4, the executive committee of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will meet to discuss conduct of the Class X board exams. A decision also needs to be taken on the three Class XII subject papers, which too had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 lockdown imposed. “The national lockdown will end on May 3. By the time it will be clear whether or not the lockdown is extended. So on May 4, the executive committee of the board will be in a better position to discuss how we should go about conduct of the exam,” said Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant. Around 20,000 Class X students are waiting for the new board exam schedule to be declared. The exam was originally scheduled to begin from April 2. An official of the directorate of technical education said that the new dates for the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) will also depend on the revised board exam dates. The GCET, scheduled to be held on May 5 and 6, was postponed due to the lockdown. The GCET is held for admissions to degree seats in engineering and pharmacy in Goa. “We will decide on the GCET dates depending on the new schedule announced for NEET and IITJEE. Also, it will depend on the Goa Board exam dates. Because Goa Board also uses school infrastructure to conduct the exam and we also need exam centres to hold the exam, we do not want any clash in the dates,” said the official. In the meantime, Goa Board has asked schools to keep its teachers informed not to leave the state in case the lockdown is lifted after May 3. “We have informed our teachers accordingly. The exams will require to be held with few students in each class due to social distancing norms. And this will mean more teachers may be required for supervision and other such exam work,” said a school head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-new-class-x-xii-exam-dates-on-may-4/articleshow/75417330.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Transsexuals asked to make face masks||TRICHY: The Trichy Corporation has appealed to the transgender community to involve in making and supplying face masks in order to sustain themselves. As the lockdown has impacted the livelihood of transgenders who were involved in various self-employment activities in the city, the corporation on Monday distributed grocery and vegetable bags worth Rs 1,5000 each to 36 transgenders. The beneficiaries were encouraged to associate themselves with the civic body in manufacturing and supplying face masks required for frontline staff involved in Covid-19 preventive measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transsexuals-asked-to-make-face-masks/articleshow/75417333.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Data helping Covid warriors nail the virus||JAIPUR: Ramganj model may have failed to match the Bhilwara model in containing the spread of coronavirus, but it has set a new benchmark in drawing strategies using statistical tools, probability theory and technology. From crunching data in a line graph, scatter plot, funnel and gauge chart to geotagging of Covid-19 patients, home address and geo-mapping of hotspots, attempts have been made to scientifically approach the problem. Since the beginning of the outbreak, the situation in the congested locality of Ramganj was never under control, forcing officials to implement internationally standard tools for better examination of the situation. Every day, the statistics team at the Covid-19 war room in Jaipur receives information on positive cases, their location and mobile numbers. “My team crunches data into all possible kinds of graphs, tabulate it using a repository of available information, analyses CDR data, geo-tagging the exact location of positive cases and marking possible technological tools for the administration,” said Rohitashva Meena, joint director at the transport department presently heading the statistics team at the war room. Confidential information they prepare on a daily basis is shared with the nodal office for planning its strategy. Information received has helped officials in the micro analysis of the pandemic spread in the Walled City. “It has made possible for us to earmark the exact hotspot areas lane-wise. Even the scale of testing in areas is determined on the basis of data provided by them,” said Aqeel Khan, an area magistrate in Ramganj. The effective area is divided into 11 zones based on data rather on municipality figures. The statistical team claims data provided by them meet along with administrative decisions has flattened the curve. “Our data demonstrate that the rate of doubling of patients has also increased from 4 days to 10 days,” said Meena. The data model will now be implemented in the emerging hotspots like in Tonk, Jodhpur and Ajmer. Despite all efforts, Ramganj continues to remain the top hotspot in the country with 600 Covid 19 cases, while Bhilwara model based on ruthless containment has restricted its numbers to 33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/data-helping-covid-warriors-nail-the-virus/articleshow/75417325.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Man shares life-saving drug to save infant’s life in Chennai||CHENNAI: A 2-year-old baby from Chennai with a neurological disorder was in need of anti-epileptic tablets which were out of stock in local markets and couldn’t be imported soon because of the lockdown. Seeing a tweet about this, a man from Bengaluru shared some of the tablets he has kept for his 7-year-old daughter’s treatment. With help from volunteers, Bengaluru police drove the all the way to Chennai in a two-wheeler to deliver the medicine on time and save the kid’s life. The infant, a resident of Nelson Manickam Road, was suffering from epileptic encephalopathy, and needs Sabril (vigabatrin) tablets to prevent occurrence of fits. The city family ran out of medicines last Friday. Local pharmcies too didn’t have stock of this live-saving drug, said Debasis Naik. He got in touch with Arun Bothra, an IPS officer from Odisha, who tweeted about this. Seeing his tweet, Raman Shankar from Bengaluru, offered help by sharing two strips containing 20 tablets. Bheemashankar S Guled, Deputy commissioner of police - north east division, Bengaluru, sent his men, who were on night patrol, to collect the medicines from Shankar around 2am on Monday. By the time the cops reached his home, Guled received a similar help call from a parent at Brookefield in Kundalahalli, Bengaluru. When the police explained this to Shankar, he shared four tablet strips without a second thought. “This is the little bit I could do. Even now, I don’t know the names of who needed the tablets. Since many credible people were involved, we were able to extend a helping hand without any doubt,” he told TOI. Two youngsters, from Riders Republic group, volunteered to reach out to the family in Chennai in their bike for free, said DCP Guled, who in the meanwhile had to spoke to two of his IPS batch mates in Tamil Nadu — G Shashank Sai and Deepa Ganiger — to ensure that the duo reached Chennai on time without much hindrances. On Monday afternoon, they handed over the medicine to the infant’s parent in Chennai. Overwhelmed by this, Naik said, “When they first called me to inform that two poeple were bringing medicine from Bengaluru in a two-wheeler, I thought someone was playing prank on me. What has happened in the last 24 hours was unbelievable and beyond explanation”. Meanwhile, another man from Nagercoil also expressed interest in sharing some of the medicines he had at his home. Railway officers from Nagercoil coordinated with the Chennai police to get these tablets too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-shares-live-saving-drug-to-save-city-infants-life/articleshow/75416645.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Car with ‘essential services’ tag caught ferrying liquor||NAGPUR: With liquor shops closed, smugglers are coming up with new ideas to transport liquor illegally. Tehsil police led by senior PI Jayesh Bhandarkar intercepted a car in which four persons were allegedly ferrying liquor. The accused had put up a tag saying ‘essential services vehicle with chemist shop’, on the windshield. The accused have been identified as Rahul Sadarvate, owner of a chemist shop, Kalpesh Nandanvar, also a shop owner, Ganesh Sadarvate, a telecom engineer and Roshan Barapatre who runs a flower decoration shop. Sources said all the accused were well educated. Tehsil police were carrying out patrolling in the area when they received tipoff about the vehicle. They started checking all vehicles at checkposts. Soon enough this car was intercepted and large consignment of liquor found. Cops seized the car and liquor together worth Rs12.11 lakh. The accused claimed they had brought the liquor from Tasgaon, Bhivapur. “The accused were produced before court on Monday and they have been remanded in custody till April 29. We want to know several things from them,” PI Bhandarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/car-with-essential-services-tag-caught-ferrying-liquor/articleshow/75417327.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Five Covid-19 patients recover, discharged in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Five Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged in the state on Monday. The total number of people "cured", so far, has reached 33, while total cases were 51. According to health department, three patients from Dehradun, including an Army doctor, were tested negative twice in the past 48 hours, while two individuals from Haridwar were cured and discharged on Monday. “With the treatment of 33 among 51 reported cases, the state has achieved 64.7 per cent recovery rate. The state has tested 5,463 people till now and only 1.03 per cent among the total tested ones were found positive,” said additional secretary (health) Yugal Kishore Pant. The official informed that no new case has been reported from the two "orange" districts - Udham Singh Nagar and Almora in the past 24 and 22 days, respectively. The state also has reported zero Covid-19 mortality rate and none of the patients were put on a ventilator so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-covid-patients-recover-discharged/articleshow/75415925.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Baby who tested negative in hospital, turns positive just few days later||HYDERABAD: In an intriguing incident, a baby girl tested positive for coronavirus, a couple of weeks after she tested negative for the same. The six-month-old Nizampet girl, who was treated for severe cold for five days in a hospital, tested negative before she was discharged on April 12. When she was tested again four days back, the result was positive. Her parents and doctors are curious on how she contracted the virus. She is now undergoing treatment at the Gandhi Hospital. She is asymptomatic and doing well. Interestingly, her primary contacts — father, mother, sister and a neighbour who came in contact with her _ have all tested negative and were discharged from government quarantine. According to Cyberabad police she was taken to hospital in the first week of April. “The baby was admitted and discharged after five days. While in hospital the baby tested negative for Covid-19,’’ officials said. Later, at a mandatory check up after 10 days she tested positive. As all her primary contacts tested negative for the virus, the officials are investigating on how the baby got affected. Officials are also suspecting that the baby might have contracted the virus while she was undergoing treatment at the hospital. Alarmed by this incident, the officials earmarked a few blocks of the apartments in which the baby’s family resides as a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/baby-who-tested-ve-in-hosp-turns-ve-just-few-days-later/articleshow/75416639.cms||Srinath Vudali
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Ramzan diets for diabetics, those in Covid-19 isolation||CHENNAI: Ramzan has begun, and with the lockdown in effect, diabetologists as well as specialists from the Chennai Corporation suggest how those in isolation as well those with pre-existing conditions such as Type 2 diabetes can manage the fasting period better. For those in Covid 19 isolation, the corporation suggests a diet of bread and biscuits and ‘kabasura’ water before sunrise and bananas after sunset. In an advisory sent out on how Covid 19 isolation patients can better manage the fast, it was also suggested that protein such as egg be taken after sunset. They are also advised to drink garlic milk (touted as an immunity boosting infusion of garlic pods in a milk reduction) at 10 pm. “Kabasura water is made by mixing 5 gm of the herbal concoction of kabasura in 240 ml of water and then reducing the mixture down to 60 mp for adults and 30 ml for children,” says the advisory. Across the state over the past weeks, the government has been distributing kudineer powder as an immunity booster. The Ramzan fasting can also be a challenge for people with diabetes, says diabetologist Dr V Mohan. “We suggest a diet of glycaemic foods. It is important to see that both at the Suhoor or start of the fast and Iftar, the end of the day’s fast, one does not go overboard with what one eats. Also a little walk after dinner will help.” The ‘glycemic index’ (GI) of a food is defined as the inherent quality of that food to raise the blood glucose level. If the GI of the test food is less than 55 it is ‘Low GI’; if between 56 and 69 it is a ‘Medium GI’, and if higher than 70, it is a ‘High GI’. Examples of low GI foods are whole wheat, oat bran, muesli, beans, peas, legumes and lentils, fruits like apple and most non starchy vegetables. Examples of high GI foods include, polished white rice, white bread, corn flakes, potato and sweets. Nutritionist G Muthulakshmi suggests that for Suhoor one consumes fibre-rich foods as well as protein rich foods like eggs, fruits and vegetables, whole grain foods to keep one energized throughout the day. “For Iftar, include lower glycemic foods like peanuts, whole wheat bread, wheat pasta, oatmeal, peas, and tomatoes. Adding healthy protein rich foods like cottage cheese (paneer), green peas, chickpeas (channa), chicken, and spinach will also help.” Dr Mohan also suggests that one drinks plenty of fluids at the start of the fast. “It is summer and we tend to sweat more. One needs hydration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ramzan-diets-for-diabetics-those-in-covid-19-isolation/articleshow/75416658.cms||Kamini Mathai
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot to PM: States should decide on lockdown relaxations||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday told the Centre to leave the decision on extension and relaxation of lockdown to the states based on specific conditions in each district. He said the lockdown should be lifted in a calibrated manner and not in one go on May 3. He said it was not possible to lift the lockdown by the Centre and the state simultaneously. Chief minister during his video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi also put forward a 15- point charter of demands. Gehlot while repeating his demand of Rs 1 lakh-crore grant in aid to the states said the fund was esential to overcome the revenue losses of the states. He said the amount could be calculated on the basis of the population affected by Covid -19 or any criteria decided by the GST council or interstate council. He said in the light of the state’s finances taking a major blow due to the virus, the compensation scheme under GST to the state be extended from five to 10 years. The GST compensation and CST claim of the state had to be settled immediately, he said. The chief minister demanded a moratorium on the repayment of loans from central agencies, including boards and corporations for six months and also make it interest-free. Another demand by the chief minister pertained to agriculture procurement. The Centre currently procures only 25 % of the crop produce with minimum support price (MSP) which the chief minister said had to be increased to 50%. The industry and business has also suffered huge losses due to the lockdown. He said in order to bring the industry back on track, there was need for a package to the sector as announced by many other countries. He said there was a need to re-establish the interstate supply chain for the movement of raw materials and goods at the earliest. The chief minister said state expenditure had to be augmented to infuse income into the hands of the people. He said the Centre had to release the first installment of centrally sponsored schemes in advance to the states without any conditions with simplified procedure. Many of the MSMEs were not in a position to pay wages during the lockdown. He said the Centre should come out with a scheme under which a portion of the wages had to be borne by the Centre for six months. Gehlot demanded a specific policy from the Centre on the return of migrant labourers in a phased manner to their native places at the earliest. He said the migrant labourers were under intense emotional turmoil as they were deprived of income as well as emotional support of their homes. While welcoming the decision of the RBI to hike the ways and means advance to 60% from 30%, he said the advances should be made interest free and the credit limit of states be increased to 5% of GDP. He argued for centralized procurement of coronavirus test kits and additional allotment of wheat under NFSA to the deserving poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-to-pm-states-should-decide-on-lockdown-relaxations/articleshow/75417340.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Doctors find new friends in tiny tots||KANNUR: A day after she completed her duty at the coronavirus treatment centre in Kannur Medical College, Anjarakandy, Dr Amrutha P C got a message on WhatsApp, from a 11-year-old Covid-19 patient.“Dr Amrutha is my friendly doctor in this hospital. She gave me so many things – pencils, crayons etc…” read the note, written like a diary. “It was actually Dr Ajith Kumar, our nodal officer there, who provided the books and pencils, but we got the credit,” she laughs. When Amrutha, a physician and assistant professor at the medical college, voluntarily took the duty in this facility, it was a different world for her. But when she left to go on 14-day home quarantine after successful completion of her duty, she now has many new friends there including a few children. In the beginning, it was tough to manage them in the closed rooms, that too without air conditioner in the hot climate, and the children were upset. “Since they have no physical ailment even after being diagnosed with Covid-19, they were highly mischievous and their mothers, who were also in the ward, wanted them to be treated in separate rooms, so we provided them pencils, paper and crayons to draw to keep them entertained,” she said. There were three children she had to handle, one under observation and two confirmed cases who are siblings, but they left in a few days and the third one is fast recovering. Interestingly they have not seen the face of the doctors treating them except over video call, and many patients, including children, find cell phones as a relaxation tool. The atmosphere in the Covid hospital is strange with the doctors and nurses wearing PPE kit and consultation over telephone, which creates tension among the people in the beginning, according to doctor couple Akhil P and Aparna Krishnan, who also completed their 14-day duty. They are in government service and took the duty voluntarily. People feel tense when they are taken in an ambulance to the hospital, but now they are aware of the gravity of the situation, said Akhil. “I still remember a mother and her two-and-a half-year-old baby entering the hospital for testing. The kid raised both its hands the moment it entered the building to make sure that it did not touch anybody,” he said. And when they are taken to collect the throat swab, which at times leads to vomiting tendency, the children feel more upset but despite the odds, they get acclimatized with the new environment, said Aparna. “After the robot, Nightingale-19, was introduced for service, it is a good feel for them, and it has cheered them up,” she said. When a child asks why he or she was admitted in a secluded room, that too without any disease, the medical terminologies could explain it, but a chocolate or a crayon would do, explain the doctors, who are on a mission to fight the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/docs-find-new-friends-in-tiny-tots/articleshow/75415929.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 28, 2020||Bareilly||UP repatriates labourers from Haryana; 600 quarantined in Shahjahanpur, 300 in Kheri||BAREILLY: The state government has repatriated from Gurugram and Faridabad in Haryana around 600 migrant workers to Shahjahanpur and around 300 to Kheri district. Administrations of both districts completed medical screening of all the labourers after they were brought in by buses, sent the samples of suspects for Covid-19 tests and admitted the latter at quarantine centres set up in local community health centres. Other labourers are already quarantined at shelter homes in their tehsils for 14 days. According to officials, all the labourers have been provided separate bedsheet, soap, towel, mosquito repellent and other necessary items. Also, there is proper power supply arrangement to ensure the labourers can charge their mobile phones and keep in touch with their families. In Shahjahanpur, 150 labourers are quarantined in Tilhar, 214 in Powayan, 108 in Sadar, 66 in Kalaan and 53 in Jalalabad. Nine labourers from other districts are also quarantined here, with 10 labourers having Covid-19 symptoms kept separately in Kalaan. Their samples will be sent for testing. Shahjahanpur district information officer Alok Yadav told TOI, “All the labourers have been split and sent to their respective tehsils. Every shelter house will have cops for security to ensure no one runs away.” In Kheri, 90 migrants are quarantined in Mohammadi, 68 in Gola, 44 in Mitauli, 58 in Dhaurahra and 41 in Palia. Medical screening of all labourers was completed at CHCs of respective tehsils, and suspects kept separately from the rest. Dhaurahra SDM Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “We’re taking care of food and other basic necessities of the labourers. They are happy to be back in their hometown. We have also arranged for their counseling, and I have advised them to write of their experience and share it with us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-repatriates-labourers-from-haryana-600-quarantined-in-shahjahanpur-300-in-kheri/articleshow/75414326.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two die at KGMU trauma centre’s CCU||LUCKNOW: A day after a nurse posted in the critical care unit (CCU) of KGMU’s trauma centre tested positive for novel coronavirus infection, two critical patients, including a woman, who were undergoing treatment at the unit died on Monday night. While the woman had a C-section delivery recently, the male patient was a case of poisoning. Both of them were on ventilator support. Swab samples of the two patients, along with 12 others at the CCU and 86 health workers including doctors, were sent for testing after the nurse tested positive. “Test reports of 80 employees were negative while results of six staff members and all the patients are awaited. As per protocol, families of the two deceased patients were not allowed to take the bodies for cremation,” said KGMU chief medical superintendent Prof SN Sankhwar. “As per the WHO protocol, the bodies are with KGMU and will be handed over after test reports arrive. If found positive, they will packed as per the guidelines to check the spread of infection,” said KGMU spokesperson Prof Sudhir Singh. Chief spokesperson of KGMU Sandeep Tiwari said, “The unit remained sealed on Monday. The 80 staff members found negative included 25 doctors who were posted in the CCU. They will have to remain in quarantine for 14 days as a precautionary measure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-die-at-kgmu-trauma-centres-ccu/articleshow/75417335.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Hussainsagar turns healthier post lockdown||HYDERABAD: The Hussainsagar has become less polluted post lockdown, according to data analysed by the Telangana Pollution Control Board (TSPCB). A report released on Monday said the water body was healthier on all parameters. The lake had been sampled at nine sampling locations on five days over four months from January to April. Post lockdown, monitoring was carried out on April 10 and 16. The results showed that the Dissolved Oxygen (DO) has increased and Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) has decreased. Faecal coliform too has shown a decreasing trend. When contacted officials said it would take a few days to provide more details of the report. BOD, along with DO levels, are crucial in determining water quality as based on this one can determine whether a water body is capable of sustaining aquatic life. As per parameters set by Central Pollution Control Board, BOD levels in a water body should be at a maximum of 3mg/l. The reverse holds true for dissolved oxygen where values should ideally be at least 4mg/l or above. The lake is monitored every month to assess the water quality of the lake at nine locations in and around the lake. Sample of the lake at Buddha statue was not collected during lockdown period as there was no access to the location. The board said: “The improvement in water quality could be due to arrest of human activities like boating, recreation, eateries (not functioning) around the lake.” The state had taken-up the remediation of Hussainsagar Lake which started again this year on March 3 after a gap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-hussainsagar-turns-healthier-post-lockdown/articleshow/75416651.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Family shown deceased via video call before rites||HYDERABAD: In a heart-rending incident, the family of a 27-year-old migrant worker from Bihar, who died here on Sunday, watched the deceased body via video call on Monday. The death is suspected to be due to coronavirus. Since the family is in Bihar, the officials of the GHMC arranged a video call before completing the last rites. The deceased parents, wife, two-year-old daughter and brother watched the dead body. Brother of deceased thanked the state government and media for the arrangement. “Due to lockdown we were unable to see our him but Telangana sarkar and media ensured we at least see his body through mobile phone. I thank both of them,” the brother told ToI. The wife of the deceased is a six-month pregnant. After learning about the incident through twitter, activist Harish Daga brought the issue to the notice of GHMC officials, who arranged the video conference. The migrant used to work for a person in Sindhi Colony, who died due to coronavirus. The Bihari man used to help his boss with the maintenance of the factories. Once his employer succumbed to Covid-19, the migrant slipped into depression. He too got tested for corona and result is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-shown-deceased-via-video-call-before-rites/articleshow/75416660.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 28, 2020||Bareilly||Another leopard found prowling in Bareilly village||BAREILLY: Nearly 10 days after a leopard was found prowling in Gurva village, which later succumbed to its injuries, another leopard was spotted in Karimganj village, around 1.5 kilometres from the Uttarakhand border, on Sunday. A forest team combing the area has spotted fresh pugmarks. After a few locals found the leopard prowling in Karimganj village under Baheri sub-division of Bareilly district, they alerted police and forest department. Soon, a team of forest department visited the village, but failed to spot the leopard. They, however, spotted pugmarks of a leopard that confirmed the presence of a big cat in the village. However, the leopard on Monday moved from Karimganj to Mannau Patti village, which is also situated on the Bareilly-Uttarakhand border. The locals here, too, spotted the leopard and informed the forest department. Divisional forest officer, Bareilly, Bharat Lal said, “It appears that the leopard has taken shelter in a field and our forest team is combing the area. It is also possible that the feline may return to the forest area it has come from. Besides, we have distributed pamphlets in the area and cautioned the locals not to go near the leopard. Our team is on the spot to ensure that villagers do not go near the leopard or harm the big cat.” Earlier, the leopard that had strayed into a Bareilly village on April 20, later succumbed to its injuries at Kanpur zoo. A forest department team from Bareilly had tranquilised the injured leopard in Bharatpur village of Rampur district and shifted it to the Kanpur zoo for treatment. However, the leopard, which had injuries on the tail, front right paw and chest after it came in contacted with barbed wire tied in agriculture field, died at the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/another-leopard-found-prowling-in-bareilly-village/articleshow/75414357.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Weddings go slim, with a handful of guests||HYDERABAD: With lockdown in force and no gatherings being allowed, several families which did not want to miss out on the ‘shubha (good) muhurtham’ on April 26 went ahead with the planned weddings. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had said no function hall should be made available for weddings during the lockdown period. However, with the weddings having been planned much in advance, the ceremonies took place on Sunday with just a handful of guests with police permission. In Chinnapur village of Buggaram mandal in Jagtial district, Biyyala Laxman Rao and Vinuthna got married with just 12 guests from both families being present at a temple on the outskirts of the village. Similarly, at Nehru Nagar in Sircilla, the wedding of Shravani and Ajay took place with just the families members being present. In Karimnagar district, in two weddings that took place there were only a handful of guests. In Jogapur of Chandurthy mandal, Balakrishna got married to Divya, with just 10 persons present at the wedding. In Karimnagar rural mandal too, Maheshwari and Santosh got married and it was a low-key affair. Agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy attended one of those low-key weddings on Sunday. An agriculture extension officer Santosh of Sangareddy got married to Sirisha at his house with only the family members present. The bridegroom donated Rs 2 lakh to the CM’s relief fund to fight the spread of Covid-19. In Nalgonda, Naveen Goud got married to Varshini of Nakrekal. They got married at a temple with a few guests attending it but after taking permission from the authorities. In another wedding in Karimnagar, there were just five persons, in addition to the priest and the couple. At Maruthinagar in Malkajgiri, Prakash Charyulu and Jaya Sri got married in a simple ceremony in the presence of only 10 guests. A bridegroom posted a video of his on social media apologising for going ahead with his wedding without the presence of guests because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/weddings-go-slim-with-a-handful-of-guests/articleshow/75416636.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Techie seeks cycle lanes in Hyderabad to beat pollution||HYDERABAD: As the city has seen a dip in the pollution levels because of the lockdown, a techie, who has started a campaign, is using the low levels of pollution to drive home his point - having dedicated cycle lanes in the city. Writing to DCP Traffic Hyderabad, Pranay Upadhyay, said pollution is even more dangerous than coronavirus because its affects are long-term. The petition started on change.org demands time-bound completion of a cycle lane for Hyderabadis, who wish to give up car for office commute. Pranay has also been helping out during the Covid-19 outbreak providing people with rations on his ‘cycle-truck’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-seeks-cycle-lanes-in-city-to-beat-pollution/articleshow/75416665.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mysuru||Cops begin probe into forest staffers’ drowning in Kabini||Mysuru: The district police has started an investigation into the death of two forest staffers in Kabini backwaters in HD Kote taluk recently. The probe was ordered by forest minister Anand Singh after their family members expressed suspicion over their death. Mysuru circle chief conservator of forests (CCF) T Hiralal told TOI that an FIR has been lodged in the jurisdictional police station. The police would probe the incident, he said. Forest guesthouse caretaker Mahesh and watcher Shivakumar had drowned in Kabini waters on Friday night, leading to suspicion. There are allegations that they were asked by senior forest officials to get fish for them from the backwaters, which the minister also said will be probed. Meanwhile, noted wildlife conservationist Sanjay Gubbi in a Facebook post has demanded the government to provide wildlife allowance (hardship allowance) to all semi-permanent and temporary staff working in protected areas like being given to permanent forest staff. He stated that the tragic death of two forest staffers while carrying out their duty in Kabini backwaters of Bandipur-Nagarahole tiger reserves is truly saddening. Gubbi stated that the incident highlights the risk the frontline forest staff are facing daily. “Assault by poachers, timber smugglers and encroachers have become common. Despite these attacks, they have risked their lives to conserve the natural heritage of this country,” he said. “The government should extend benefits such as medical, insurance and jobs on compensatory grounds, and ex-gratia payment to all temporary forest staff. The same has to be extended to semi-permanent staff such as those employed under the Kshemabhivruddhi scheme. In the Kabini backwaters, nylon fishing nets have killed many wildlife species in the past. In December 2009, a tusker got entangled in a fishing net and luckily escaped from drowning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-begin-probe-into-forest-staffers-drowning-in-kabini/articleshow/75413478.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 28, 2020||Hubballi||Falcon carcass creates panic among villagers,forest dept says bird not infected with virus||Hubballi: The carcass of a laggar falcon with a radio telemetry device tagged to its leg was found on a farm in Vambatnal in Vijayapura district on Sunday evening, creating panic among residents of the village and nearby areas. Already scared by the Covid-19 pandemic as Vijayapura is one of the worst hit districts in North Karnataka, residents feared that the carcass could be a mischievous attempt to spread the virus in their village. The villagers believed the carcass was that of an eagle until forest department rushed to the spot and confirmed it to be a laggar falcon. Ashok Patil, deputy conservator of forest, Vijayapura, said the bird did not carry any virus. “We found the dead bird with radio telemetry transmitter and antenna tied to one of its legs. A team of veterinary officials visited the spot and confirmed the bird died three days back of natural causes. It didn’t carry any virus,” he said. Dileep Yambatnal, a farmer, said the villagers are relieved after the forest department’s confirmation. Patil said the battery-operated device fitted to the bird is manufactured in the USA and had no camera attached to it. “We also found a metallic tag. I’m personally investigating the matter and we have registered a case under the Wildlife Act and seized the transmitter and tag,” Patil said. Patil said the issue has been brought to the notice of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, Chennai, and Bombay Natural History Society for further investigation. “We are trying to find the purpose of using the transmitter,” he said. Patil said these birds are usually used for study purpose in the USA and sporting activities in the Gulf countries. In India, the use of birds for sport and tagging devices to them is banned, he said. Laggar falcons are found in India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/falcon-carcass-creates-panic-among-villagersforest-dept-says-bird-not-infected-with-virus/articleshow/75413719.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Tehri youth’s body arrives from UAE, cremated||Dehradun: The body of Kamlesh Bhatt, 24, that had been sent back by immigration officials in Delhi last week thereby creating a furore, finally arrived at the cargo terminal of IGI Airport in Delhi on Sunday night. Bhatt, hailing from Tehri Garhwal, was working at a hotel in Abu Dhabi (UAE) and had passed away after suffering a cardiac arrest on April 17. Amidst the lockdown restrictions, his family struggled to have his body sent back to India and finally, managed to repatriate it on April 24 with the help of an Indian-origin social activist Roshan Raturi who arranged for all the requisite clearances. However, the body was returned by immigration officials in Delhi, citing a ministry of home affairs (MHA) order that prohibited receiving of any such cargo from outside India during the lockdown. Soon after the incident of the body being sent back to UAE came to light, the MHA issued an office memorandum clarifying that bringing back mortal remains to the country was permissible as long as all guidelines were being followed. A detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for immigration officials was also issued in this regard. Speaking to TOI, Vimlesh Bhatt, Kamlesh’s cousin, who had gone to Delhi from Dehradun in an ambulance provided by the Uttarakhand government on Sunday to collect the body, said, “We had no problems this time and all the paperwork was completed without any hassles.” He added that the cremation took place in Rishikesh. “Only six people were present at the time of the cremation in view of the Covid-19 guidelines and after that, all of us returned to our native village,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tehri-youths-body-arrives-from-uae-cremated/articleshow/75414369.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Scientists say virus may affect central nervous system, brain||Bengaluru: Scientists from Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur have explored the neuroinvasive nature of SARS-CoV-2 — which causes Covid-19 — highlighting that loss of smell and taste in patients makes their entire central nervous system (CNS) and underlying structures in the brain more prone to the infection and may lead to devastating effects. Surajit Ghosh and his team pointed out that SARS-CoV-2 is known to interact with a specific human receptor known as human angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (hACE2), which also happens to be the entry point of the virus and has an almost ubiquitous presence in most human organ parts ranging from lung parenchyma to nasal mucosa. The brain is also known to express this receptor. Their paper has been accepted by ACS Chemical Neuroscience, a peer-reviewed scientific journal. The team attributed the loss of smell or taste to the fact that nose and mouth both are very important entry points for the virus, which then may slowly make its way to the olfactory bulb using neurons of the olfactory mucosa. “The olfactory bulb located in the forebrain is chiefly responsible for the sense of smell. This explains the loss of smell associated with many asymptomatic carriers of Covid-19 and also may be exposing the CNS to viral infection,” the team said. The paper recounts a recently conducted study on the brain scans (CT and MRI) of a Covid-19 patient that shows a rare encephalopathy called ANE, which leads to brain dysfunction with seizures and mental disorientation. “It indicates that in the presence of human ACE2 receptors in CNS, the brain may be infected by the virus through olfactory bulbs and also through other peripheral nerve terminals or simply blood circulation, and may breach the blood-brain barrier to innervate and attack the CNS,” the scientists argue. Pointing out that the virus may also completely destroy the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain, which regulates breathing and functioning of the heart and blood vessels, the scientists have suggested brain autopsies of Covid-19 patients and analysis of their cerebrospinal fluid. “The pathways of infection of SARS-CoV-2 and its impact on various organs is an important area that would also help in future rational approaches for therapy. The neuroinvasive nature of the virus and its effects on the senses of smell and taste are thus interesting and useful areas of investigation,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science and technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/scientists-say-virus-may-affect-central-nervous-system-brain/articleshow/75415960.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Abhayam workers put life at risk to unite others||Vadodara: Their families worry about them and their children too suffer while they are out, working in a 24-hour shift, trying to reconcile families. But even in lockdown, the counsellors of 181 Abhayam helpline are equally motivated and work towards esnuring that every domestic quarrel has a happy ending. A counsellor for past three years, Gopi Patel has been reporting to work without any holidays even as her son faces social boycott. “My son’s friends are not playing with him like in the past as their parents are afraid of getting infected with virus because I continue to go out for work and meet people. But I cannot leave my work and sit at home as my work is all about uniting families when they are on the verge of separation,” said Patel, a resident of Old Padra Road. When she receives a call, Patel reaches the place with a cop and tries to understand the situation first. “We counsel all family members to make them realize how the situation went out of hand and what could have been done to avoid it. If the woman does not want to file a police complaint, we take an undertaking from her in-laws that the situation will not be repeated and they can live happily together,” Patel added. Patel said that in Vadodara city, even as lockdown is in effect, the number of average daily calls are same. But that is not so in the rural area of Vadodara district. “As all are at home due to lockdown, the number of calls of family quarrels have increased,” said another counsellor Pravina Tadvi. Her son too is suffering like Patel’s. “As I go out and meet people, I have sent my four-year-old son to my mother’s house in Chhota Udepur so that he does not get affected by any infection,” Tadvi said. “There is always a risk of contracting virus, but when my advice or words console a woman whose in-laws as wells as parents are not ready to accept her, I feel it is worth taking the risk,” Tadvi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/abhayam-workers-put-life-at-risk-to-unite-others/articleshow/75415611.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 28, 2020||Mysuru||Buy veggies, fruits and flowers at KMF outlets from today||Mysuru: Starting from Tuesday, farmers can sell their produce like vegetables, fruits and flowers through outlets and franchises of Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF). According to the authorities, space in front of 1,400 KMF shops/ outlets/ parlours across the state will double as makeshift stalls for farmers between 6am and 8pm. Rajendra Kumar Kataria, nodal officer for supply chain management and secretary to the department of horticulture, has asked the department authorities to help farmers utilise the KMF space for selling fruits, vegetables and flowers and also help them in transporting their produce. This intervention is expected to help farmers find the buyers. Ever since the enforcent of the lockdown, farmers across the state had been finding it difficult to transport their produce and also find buyers. This had also prompted them to seek government intervention to bail them out. K Rudresh, deputy director of the horticulture department, said Mymul will share the list of shops/ parlours where farmers can sell their farm products. “It is expected to help farmers, especially mango growers, a lot,” he added. KMF has assured farmers masks, hand sanitisers and handgloves to farmers trading near its premises. Farmers need to bring weighing scales and ensure that the trading place is tidy after the day’s business. They will also have to ensure hygiene around the KMF premises. Expressing happiness over the government move to bail out farmers, Raju Sebestin, a vegetable grower from Gundlupet, said: “Generally, those who come to buy milk, buttermilk and other milk products also prefer buying vegetables. Selling agro produce near KMF outlets is good. Hope there won’t be any coordination-related issues with the outlet owners,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/buy-veggies-fruits-and-flowers-at-kmf-outlets-from-today/articleshow/75414599.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Online classes clock 70% attendance; some professors unhappy with mode||BENGALURU: With schools closing for summer vacation, it’s colleges which are conducting online classes now. The sessions are seeing an average attendance of around 70%. According to Visvesvaraya Technological University, 190 of 219 colleges are actively holding online classes. The average attendance is 70-75%, with urban colleges registering around 90% and those in rural areas struggling to record even 50%. Around 85% of the syllabus has been covered so far, excluding practical classes. Bangalore University (BU) classes have an average attendance of 73.5%. The highest has been recorded in the department of microbiology and biotechnology (97%), followed by biochemistry (94%), molecular biology (92%), apparel technology (92%), Hindi (91%), and botany (90%). Rural development classes have seen the lowest attendance with 45%, followed by philosophy (47%) and history (48%). The portion covered is lowest in commerce (38%), Hindi and applied genetics (44%) and MCA (45%). In some engineering branches, 98% of the course has been completed. In BU’s affiliate colleges, the average attendance is 69% (sample data of 162 colleges were analysed). The average cumulative percentage of syllabus completed is 56.6%. Bengaluru Central University has registered 60-70% attendance. For Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, it has been highest in homeopathy and pharmacy classes and lowest in medical and dental streams. “Medical students are busy with Covid-19 duties. Since pharmacy and homeopathy students are not directly involved, their classes are running efficiently,” said Dr S Sacchidanand, RGUHS VC. While classes are in full swing, several teachers are unhappy with the online mode of imparting lessons. One of their biggest worries is the section of students left out in the process. “The university has asked us to send recorded messages of the classes to students who can’t attend the sessions. How will they understand sums in accountancy if I just send a recording? The network coverage is so poor that many of my students go to fields and courtyards to join online classes. Even then, the lessons are often interrupted due to network issues,” said a professor from BU’s commerce department. The universities have directed teachers to help students once regular classes restart. Conventional teachers, who are not accustomed to the technology, are also worried about the quality of learning among students. “I am an English teacher and my classes are the most important for rural students. Urban students can at least manage reading by themselves. I am uncomfortable taking classes without interacting with students, clarifying their doubts or gauging their levels of comprehension. Our lectures, which are usually structured on that basis, have become flat now. However, there are other tech-savvy students and teachers who seem to be doing pretty well,” said a professor from an English department. The GetCetGo app that was released by the government last Monday has received only 20,000 downloads in the first week. It was introduced for Class 12 students who are preparing for competitive exams. Poor infra, network issues hurdles in India“In a country like the US, online coaching for school and university students may be taking place effectively because of better infrastructure available both at the institutional and student level, apart from the small student-teacher ratio. In India where we have a large number of students per class and inadequate infrastructure at the institutional level and also at the students’ end with issues like network and affordability, delivery of online learning can’t be effective and satisfactory,” said P Venkataramaiah, executive member, Forum of Former Vice Chancellors of Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/online-classes-clock-70-attendance-some-professors-unhappy-with-mode/articleshow/75416409.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
April 28, 2020||Goa||Margao station gets touch-free wash basin||Margao: Konkan Railway has installed a 100% touch-free wash basin and a sensor-operated soap dispenser at Margao railway station, which ensures contactless hand washing. “Passengers are not required to touch any surface for switching on the water tap, instead a pedal is attached to the wash basin, which dispenses water when foot pressed. Upon releasing the pedal, the tap auto-disconnects the flow of water,” a press note by Konkan Railway stated. Similarly, a sensor-operated soap dispenser is also placed to clean the hands. The touch-free dispenser with the motion sensor gets activated when there is motion in front of it and dispenses required amount of handwash, thereby eliminating manual operation of the soap dispenser. “The concept of 100% touch-free handwashing prevents cross-contamination and makes the entire process simple and intuitive,” the note added. Such touch-free wash basins will be installed at other stations over Konkan Railway route, it press note states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-station-gets-touch-free-wash-basin/articleshow/75417365.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Pestered for booze info, three kill rowdy||BENGALURU: A gang of three men allegedly abducted a 28-year-old rowdy-sheeter and stabbed him to death after the latter harassed them for information about gambling dens and liquor availability during the lockdown. The trio also nursed a grudge against the rowdy as they believed he cheated them in gambling, said police. Lokesh Reddy alias Ameera, 39, of Rajanukunte and Nikhil M, 25, of Singanayakanahalli have been arrested for the murder, while their associate, Shreyas, is at large. The trio killed Prakash alias Loosu, 28, of Sadarahalli near Mutkuru village, Hesaraghatta. N Shashikumar, deputy commissioner of police (north), said the gang had differences with Prakash, who had a rowdy sheet in Rajanukunte police station and faced many criminal cases, including attempt to murder, assault and gambling. Lokesh is also accused in few cases related to gambling and his associates Shreyas and Nikhil too were fond of it. “Prakash had asked Lokesh to inform him about places where gambling was going on and where he could buy liquor during the lockdown. He abused the trio for not giving him the information, which led to a heated argument between Prakash and Lokesh. The accused shared a dislike for Prakash as they suspected him of having cheated them in gambling. So, they decided to eliminate him and executed their plan on April 21,” Shashikumar said. Police sources said Lokesh called Prakash to furnish false information about the availability of liquor. The gang picked up Prakash at Suradhenupura village in a car. They told him they could party together and stabbed him four times. They dumped the body near Mutkur and sped away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pestered-for-booze-info-3-kill-rowdy/articleshow/75416429.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Kanika offers to donate plasma for treatment of others, calls up KGMU||LUCKNOW: Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor on Monday approached the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) offering to donate plasma for treatment of other Covid-19 patients. The singer, who hogged the limelight after being found Covid-19 positive on March 20, was admitted to SGPGI in Lucknow and has completed 21-day home quarantine. On Monday, the singer called up the head of KGMU’s transfusion medicine department, Prof Tulika Chandra, and volunteered for plasma donation. KGMU vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt said: “We have receivedan offer for voluntary plasma donation from Kanika Kapoor. It is good that she has come forward for the noble cause. Her fitness will be evaluated and if she fulfils the criteria, we will get the donation done.” “She called around 3pm and said she wanted to help other Covid-19 patients. Vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt has given a go ahead and we will carry out tests to see if she is fit to donate plasma,” Prof Chandra said. According to experts, for plasma donation a person’s haemoglobin level should be above 12.5 and weight should be more than 50kg. Donor should not have diabetes, cardiovascular problems, malaria or syphilis. Earlier, she had issued a statement that she was aware of misinformation floating around about her but she waited for the right time to speak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanika-offers-to-donate-plasma-for-treatment-of-others-calls-up-kgmu/articleshow/75417356.cms||Yusra Husain
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||With migrants restless to go home, Telangana stares at severe workforce shortage||HYDERABAD: Telangana, which depends on over seven lakh migrant workers for various tasks, is likely to face a severe shortage of workforce during and after the lockdown ends and it could have an adverse impact on the economy. Migrant workers are involved in the 2-bhk project, construction activity in private sector, loading and unloading paddy and rice, farming operations, etc. But with Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and other state governments keen on taking back their people, the state is likely to suffer on account of workers’ shortage. Confederation of real estate developers’ association of India (CREDAI) state chairman, Gummi Ram Reddy, said migrant labourers working in the construction industry have become restless due to the extended lockdown. “As there is no clarity on whether the lockdown will end on May 7 or would be extended further, they just want to get back and reunite with their families. Of course, they would come back for work, but right now they want to be back with their families,” he said. “When I spoke to them at our half a dozen construction sites earlier this month, they were not keen to return back to their home states. But today, one of our project manager called me and said the workers said they want to go back to their homes as their government (West Bengal) is likely to make transport arrangements for them to get back home,” Ram Reddy said. The CREDAI state chairman said the private developers have been delivering 30,000 units every year. “These are extra-ordinary circumstances and the work will suffer if the labourers go back. But it is inevitable. The Rs 18,000 crore worth works in construction industry will get delayed,” Ram Reddy said. The construction industry is one of the largest employers of migrant labourers, he said. Ramakanth Inani, senior vice-president, Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said even the industrial sector will be affected badly as 60% of the workforce comprises migrant labourers working in steel, metal, induction furnace, plastic, brick kiln, cement, mining, stone cutting and polishing industries to name a few. “It will be a challenging task for the industry to hold the migrant labour back and continue to work. Some may even offer incentives, but the situation is such that they may not stop for now,” he said. Telangana Rice Millers Association secretary, Mohan Reddy, said nearly 50,000 hamalis from Bihar specialise in loading and unloading of paddy and rice. Over 70% of them had gone back for Holi festival and did not return due to the lockdown. “Even those who stayed back are now ready to go back if they get an opportunity. We are trying to get fresh batches of hamalis from Bihar as peak season of paddy harvest has already commenced,” he said. A top official in the Telangana government said that so far they have not received any request or communication from any state government to make arrangements to send back their people. E Gangadhar, joint commissioner of labour, said they were ensuring that all migrant labourers were supplied 12kg rice and Rs 1,500 cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-migrants-restless-to-go-home-t-stares-at-severe-workforce-shortage/articleshow/75416670.cms||Roushan Ali
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||19 new cases in Yavatmal, 7th death in Amravati, first +ve in Bhandara||NAGPUR: Vidarbha continues to record double digit increase in the number of confirmed positive cases of Covid-19. With 27 new cases on Monday, the total number of cases in region reached 275. Bhandara district, which was in the green zone till Sunday, recorded its first case on Monday. Buldhana recorded three new cases while Nagpur recorded one. Yavatmal, for the third consecutive day, reported the most with 19 new cases, taking the count to 79. Earlier, 20 suspects had tested positive on Saturday and 16 on Sunday. Amravati reported three cases including a 72-yr-old deceased man, who tested positive for Covid-19 post death. This is seventh death in Amravati and 10th in Vidarbha. On the other hand, total eight patients recovered and were discharged in Vidarbha taking the number of recovered patients to 69. With 10 patients recovered and discharged, the Government Medical College in Yavatmal now has 69 positive patients in its isolation ward. Addressing media, district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod said that 305 persons were admitted in the isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal on Monday. “In the last 24 hours, only three persons were admitted and 32 swab samples were sent to Nagpur on Monday. We are still waiting 102 test reports,” he said. District collector MD Singh said that he has issued an order on Monday to enhance the containment areas. “The new areas are Chapman Wadi, Tarpura, Shinde Nagar, Weekly Market area, Alkabir Nagar, Vidarbha Housing Society, Shubhamkar Road and Sudarshan Nagar. There is restriction on movement beyond 3kms. It is in addition to the areas under wards 10 and 20 of the municipal council.” He added, “Of the 1,021 swab samples sent to Nagpur, 988 have tested negative.” There are six hotspots in the district — three in the city, two in Babhulgaon and one in Ner where the Tablighis visited and stayed before they tested positive. The 69 active cases in Yavatmal include 30 females and 39 males. One of them is a child and another a man above 80 years. However, nobody is on ventilator. One of the women is a cook in the police mess from where over 300 policemen are provided food. Now, all personnel in the police headquarters are kept under home quarantine. After testing negative, 331 persons have been discharged from the isolation wards after testing negative. Dean Dr RP Singh, Covid-19 coordinator and ex-dean Dr Milind Kamble and civil surgeon Dr Tarangthushar Warey could not give satisfactory answers to the media’s queries about the cleanliness, drinking water supply, food served to the patients admitted in the isolation wards. Rathod has repeatedly asked the doctor trio to reply to the queries. He has warned them of stringent action if they fail to rectify the lapses and improve the system. In the TOI report published on April 26 regarding causes behind spurt in Covid-19 cases in Yavatmal, it had come to fore that it was due to laxity of health department officials. Meanwhile, municipal chief Kanchantai Chaudhari handed over a check for Rs51,000 to CM’s Covid-19 relief fund on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-new-cases-in-yavatmal-7th-death-in-amt-first-ve-in-bhandara/articleshow/75417046.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||In a low-key birthday fete, TRS turns 20||HYDERABAD: Though TRS party’s foundation day celebrations was a low-key affair on Monday, leaders and party workers from various districts celebrated the event by maintaining social distancing. Overseas branches of TRS also celebrated the day in their respective countries. TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao unfurled the party flag on the occasion of the 20th foundation day at the party headquarters, TRS Bhavan. Before hoisting the flag, KCR garlanded Telangana Thalli and party idealogue Prof Jayashankar statues. TRS working president KT Rama Rao, secretary general K Keshava Rao, ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Eatala Rajender and Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeshwar Rao were present. MP J Santosh Kumar participated in a blood donation camp organised by the party at Banjara Hills. TRS South Africa president Nagaraju Gurrala said their unit is ready to help Telugus stranded in Oman on account of lockdown. Bahrain TRS NRI unit distributed masks to people in Jagtial district. Unit president Radharapu Satish Kumar conducted the programme with the help of locals at Sirikonda village in Kathalapur mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-low-key-bday-fete-trs-turns-20/articleshow/75416716.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Timber smugglers attack forest officials in two districts||HYDERABAD: While people across the state are confined to their homes, forest department officials continue to perform their already complex and challenging job of protecting the wild habitats. In the last one week, the forest officials in Nirmal and Nizamabad districts have encountered three separate attacks on their beat officers working on the field to stop illegal activities such as poaching, smuggling and encroachment of forest land. In the latest incident on Sunday, two field officials sustained minor injuries when they were allegedly attacked by a teak wood smuggler in Birnandi forests of Khanapur mandal. Khanapur forest range officer (FRO) G Vinayak alleged that he along with forest beat officer Pruthviraj Varma were attacked by one Pallepu Rajesh, a smuggler from Mastan Ellapur village in Khanapur mandal, for stopping him from entering the forest areas. “We were abused and attacked with stones for preventing the smuggler from entering the forests under Ellapur forest beat. He was travelling by a bike,” said Vinayak. A case was registered against Rajesh under relevant sections of the Telangana Forest Trespass Act and Prevention of SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Rajesh is said to have a criminal history. In another incident on Saturday, four beat officers were attacked in the middle of the night when they tried to take a group of timber smugglers into custody. Five forest department staff, including two woman forest beat officers of Kamarapally range, were allegedly assaulted by a large group of villagers near Bhikya Naik thanda of Karepally village. In another incident, four beat officers were attacked after they seized two tractors of smuggled timber near Bheemnagar village in Nizamabad. “The villagers hurled stones and threw chilli powder on our staff after they questioned them about the wood...This was a day before the Karepally incident where women officers were assaulted,” said Armoor mandal FRO, Amrutamma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/timber-smugglers-attack-forest-officials-in-two-dists/articleshow/75416656.cms||Moulika.KV
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Tell cops to empathise: TMS to Telangana government||CHA RMINAR: Alleging that the city police have been targeting the poor and daily wage earners from a certain community during the lockdown, the Tahreek Muslim Shabban (TMS) urged the state government to direct the police to not be harsh with the poor who were venturing out to buy essentials. At a press conference on Monday TMS president Mushtaq Malik said that the police’s actions are provocative and are only adding to people’s worries. Malik urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao to take note of such incidents. “It seems like the poor, belonging to only one community, are being targeted. Though all necessary medical and hospital documents are shown to the officers concerned, their vehicles are seized or a fine is imposed on them,’’ said Malik. Malik added that the TMS would provide legal support to those whose vehicles have been seized by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tell-cops-to-empathise-tms-to-govt/articleshow/75416677.cms||Omar bin Taher
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||YSRC’s Ayodhya Rami Reddy set to become second richest Rajya Sabha MP||HYDERABAD: A cursory glance of affidavits filed by Rajya Sabha MP candidates in both Telugu states for the biennial elections will reveal that YSRC MP candidate and industrialist Ayodhya Rami Reddy would be the second richest Rajya Sabha MP in the country, if elected. His election is only a procedural exercise as YSRC has got enough numbers to get all the four candidates it fielded to get elected. Elections are deferred on account of Covid-19 pandemic and an extended lockdown. Mahendra Prasad of Janata Dal (United) from Bihar is the richest MP in the Upper House at Rs 4,078 crore assets followed by Jaya Bachchan of Samajwadi Party with Rs 1,001 crore assets. However, Rami Reddy, an entrepreneur hailing from Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh has movable assets of Rs 2,376 crore and immovable assets worth Rs 17 crore. Most of Rami Reddy’s assets are in the form of shares in companies and bonds and debentures to the tune of Rs 1,997 crore. An MTech in civil engineering from OU College of Engineering, Rami Reddy has been a successful businessman having large shares in Ramky Estates and Farms Ltd, Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd, Ramky Infrastructure and Smilax Laboratories Ltd. His wife owns assets of Rs 168 crore. Another YSRC candidate Nathwani Parimal, a friend of Mukesh Ambani of Reliance Group, has around Rs 359 crore assets. His affidavit filed with the Election Commission reveals that he owns Rs 180 crore worth of movable assets and Rs 179 crore worth immovable assets. Parimal, who hails from Gujarat, is the group president of Reliance Industries Limited and is contesting on YSRC ticket. MLC, AP deputy chief minister Pilli Subash Chandra Bose, who has Rs 33 lakh assets, and another MLC Mopidevi Venkata Ramana have also been nominated to the Rajya Sabha by YSRC chief YS Jaganmohan Reddy. With the AP government deciding to scrap the legislative council, Bose and Ramana are set to gain a foothold in the house of elders. TDP has fielded Varla Ramaiah although his chances of winning election are bleak. In Telangana, ruling TRS has fielded party general secretary K Keshava Rao and former speaker K R Suresh Reddy. Unedited GFX YSRC candidate Mopidevi Venkataramana owns assets worth Rs 1 crore Mopidevi Venkatarmana is currently Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry department in Andhra. He was an MLC. TDP leader Varla Ramaiah a cop turned politicians owns assets worth Rs 1.2 crore TRS MP candidate K Keshava Rao holds assets worth Rs 2.2 crore TRS MP candidate and former speaker K R Suresh Reddy owns assets worth Rs 14.5 crore ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ysrcs-ayodhya-set-to-become-2nd-richest-rs-mp/articleshow/75416749.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu government holds meeting to shift shops from wholesale market||CHENNAI: Reviving its plans to split the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) to effectively implement the social distancing nroms, the state government on Monday convened a meeting with traders. The meeting had the participation of the police commissioner, municipal administration department officials, the corporation commissioner and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. Official sources with Market Management Committee (MMC) that maintains KWMC said fruit and vegetable traders were suggested to move to the mofussil bus terminuses at Koyambedu, Kilambakkam and Madhavaram. “The objective is to ensure that social distancing can be facilitated,” an MMC official said. This is the second time such a meeting was taking place in the last 20 days for the purpose. “We tried to make the traders understand that if they do not co-operate, the number of positive cases for coronavirus might increase leading to shutting down of the market,” police commissioner A K Viswanathan said. Corporation officials stressed that the market has remained a cause of concern since the lockdown began but kneejerk decisions were avoided as it is the main hub of vegetable supply to the city. “We have shut down small markets across the city if physical distancing was not followed. Here, the case is different. We have to consider the supply to 70 lakh odd residents of the city,” said a senior corporation official. The second round of talks will continue on Tuesday. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said an announcement on the discussion would be made on Tuesday. Meanwhile, wholesale traders associations have sought the authorities to provide seven acres of land within the market complex to shift a section of wholesale traders. “We have also made a suggestion to shift hundreds of unauthorised traders operating within the market complex to bus terminus, who can buy vegetable from wholesale traders and sell it to customers,” S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations said. (With inputs from Sindhu Kannan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-holds-meeting-to-shift-shops-from-wholesale-market/articleshow/75416667.cms||Srikkanth D
April 28, 2020||Mysuru||Amid pandemic fears, Mysuru on alert for dengue||Mysuru/Madikeri: Dengue cases in neighbouring Kodagu district have put the authorities in Mysuru district on alert. Two dengue cases were identified in Kodagu. A man from Sampaje and a girl from Sunticoppa tested positive for dengue. However, both also recovered. This year from January onwards the district has witnessed seven dengue cases. All of them have been cured, said Dr Mohan, district health officer. Even though Mysuru district health department reported zero dengue cases in April, the health department launched an awareness drive to ensure that it will not further burden the administrative machinery which is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic. For last one week, the department launched door to door survey and awareness programmes along with the Covid 19 related activities. Seven dengue and 12 chikungunya cases have been reported from Mysuru district till March this year. Authorities say that last year half of those who tested positivefor dengue in the district were from Bengaluru as the patients were either studying or employed in Bengaluru. Dr Chidambar, district vector-borne diseases control officer, stated that all precautionary measures are being taken to contain the spread of dengue and chikungunya. Since people are at home during lockdown, it has become comparatively easier to ensure cleanliness in localities and prevent breeding of mosquitoes and spreading of the disease, he added. Dr MG Satish Kumar of Columbia Asia Hospital said the lockdown has helped in keeping vector-borne diseases under check. He, however, warned that cases may go up during the monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/amid-pandemic-fears-mysuru-on-alert-for-dengue/articleshow/75413807.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Politicos seek slots for senior citizens in Pune||PUNE: Cutting across party lines, corporators in Pune and other politicians have demanded that the civic body ease some of the restrictions to make life in the lockdown easier for citizens. Foremost among the demands was an extension in the timings for shops selling essentials to operate., as it was inconveniencing people — especially senior citizens — who stand in long queues under the hot sun. Pune Municipal Corporation has sealed the entire city to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The implementation was done in phases — Peth areas and some parts of Kondhwa were on April 6, while some more areas — Shivajinagar and parts of Ahmednagar Road — were cordoned off on April 13. The entire city (PMC limits) was sealed on April 20. “Citizens should not feel hassled while buying essential commodities. The timings set for opening the shops is adding to the problem. Many people have been left with no option but to stand in front of shops in the summer heat to buy supplies,” Rajya Sabha member Vandana Chavan (NCP) said. She said some steps, such as placing a display board clearly mentioning availability of supplies at the shop, should be made mandatory. She also suggested that the shops be opened around 8am and also for a few hours in the evening. “Special timings and queues should be set aside for senior citizens,” Chavan said. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol of the ruling BJP too has sought an extension in the timings, “Many people venture out of their houses for buying essentials in these limited hours. It causes a lot of rush outside shops. Maintaining physical distance is not possible in such an arrangement,” he said, adding that the timings should be extended by at least two more hours. Siddharth Dhende, former deputy mayor, said that the lockdown has made daily life tougher for people, especially those dependent on daily wages. “Many of these people find it tough to make both the ends meet. They have not earned anything for a month-and-a-half and their savings have been exhausted,” he said. According PMC, steps to ease restrictions are in the offing. “We are willing to give relief to people. It will be done once we get more clarity and direction from the Union and state governments. We will announce the details soon,” municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/politicos-seek-slots-for-senior-citizens/articleshow/75417347.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
April 28, 2020||Mysuru||Madikeri farmer loses Rs 1.3 lakh to Facebook ‘friend’||Madikeri: Already facing financial crisis due to the lockdown, a farmer in Kodagu lost Rs 1.3 lakh to a man whom he befriended on Facebook recently. P J Sareesh from Kaluru village near Madikeri befriended Jockey Keltin on the social networking website. After promising to send some “valuable gifts” to Sareesh, Jockey collected his address and offered him a way out to avoid the tax that he would have to pay to receive the gift. Sareesh fell for the deal and some callers, identifying themselves as customs officers, threatened him of dire consequences if he did not pay Rs 1.5 lakh for the jewellery that came from a foreign country. A frightened Sareesh credited Rs 1.3 lakh (in instalments) to the accounts of the callers. But when they called him to deposit Rs 65,000, Sareesh realised his folly and brought the issue to the notice his friends who made him approach police. Cyberpolice have launched an investigation to nab the fraudster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/madikeri-farmer-loses-rs-1-3-lakh-to-facebook-friend/articleshow/75413676.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Why aren’t you letting migrants leave: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday sought to know from the state as to what are its difficulties in sending back the stranded migrants to their native places. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by advocate PV Krishnaiah who brought to the notice of the court the plight of the labourers mainly from Chhattisgarh and also from Maharashtra and Odisha states. They are returning to their places on foot and were undergoing untold miseries.  The bench said that when they are willing and longing to return to their places why can't the state coordinate with the neighboring states and facilitate their return journey. Advocate General BS Prasad sought time to find out the stand of the state on this aspect. The bench gave him two weeks to convey the state reply. The bench also heard another PIL filed by activist Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogili who narrated the woes of transgenders during this lockdown period. Since they do not possess any ration cards, the state help is not reaching them. They are starving and need urgent help. The bench sought state reply and posted case to May 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-arent-you-letting-migrants-leave-hc/articleshow/75416675.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata has 227 containment zones||KOLKATA: Kolkata Police has arrested more than 20,000 people for defying the lockdown in the city in the last 33 days. With Bengal police arresting another 30,000 violators, the total number of arrests in Bengal has now crossed the 50,000 mark. Police have also taken action against 3,000-odd drivers in Kolkata and 3,000 were booked in other districts. With the number of containment zones increasing every week, all police stations have been asked to be ready to implement the rules at any point of the day. In the past 48 hours, two new containment zones — one at St Georges Gate at Hastings and another at APC Park in Baghajatin — have come up after two tests on suspects came positive. While the Hastings resident is an assistant engineer in a state-run hospital, the Baghajatin patient is a cancer survivor who was being treated in a private hospital. While some police stations — in south and east — still have no containment zones in their area out of the 227 identified till Monday, a few in central Kolkata, like Burrabazar, are handling multiple hotspots. Police, though, say an SOP set up for this purpose has helped them carry out the containment job in a scientific manner on a short notice. The high number of arrests, said cops, was a result of intense naka checking, conducted jointly with the traffic police and the reserved forces, who went on area domination in the bylanes of the city. On Monday, as many as 202 were prosecuted by noon. Fifty- nine people were prosecuted for not wearing masks and another nine booked for spitting on the roads. On Monday, Kolkata Police took to Twitter to appeal to citizens to report social distancing breaches directly to their control room. Significantly, the appeal came from the Port division which has several red spots and is presently managing the Ramzan season. “Social distancing is being maintained religiously during purchase for Ramazan in entire Kolkata Port area. Report violations to local PS and DC Port Control. Stay home stay safe,” it tweeted sharing images of some markets and mosques whose gates were shut. “We have been receiving cooperation from people from the beginning. When they are following the lockdown, there are several ways to encou-rage them,” said an officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-50k-held-across-state-in-last-1-month/articleshow/75416680.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Migrants get iftaar, sehri kits at NMC shelter homes||Nagpur: Around 30 Muslim migrants who are staying at NMC shelter homes across the city have been provided sehri and iftaar kits comprising fruits, dates and other eatables. Of these, the needs of 15 are being taken care of by a group of women at Sadar shelter home. The migrants were worried about not being able to undertake their annual month-long fasting, as only two meals are provided at the shelter homes. Having food at sehri (pre-dawn) is important, but the first meal is delivered only at 11am there. Of the total 1,438 inmates, 52 are Muslims, staying at 23 shelter homes in the city. But 20 chose not to observe fasting because of lack of arrangements to feed them at sehri time. Neerja Pathania, who along with her friends is looking after shelter homes at Government Polytechnic hostel and Tuli College, said that plenty of food, fruits and snacks are being provided to all. “We have around 130 inmates at GP hostel in Sadar and 111 at Tuli College near Lonara. Only 15 Muslims are at Sadar. We were aware that they will be needing food, juices and fruits during Ramzan. We are seven friends who are making individual contributions like milk, cakes, bread, butter, fruits and dates,” she said. Pathania added that Bharatiya Jain Samaj is providing meals for all inmates. The Muslim migrants are from Bareilly and were put up at the shelter homes around 25 days ago. Pathania said the Muslims are allowed to offer namaz and others ensure that TV viewing or other entertainment activities are stopped during this time. Besides Pathania, her friends Neha Patel and Jalpesh Katkoria are rendering their services at the shelter homes, under the guidance of NMC deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrants-get-iftaar-sehri-kits-at-nmc-shelter-homes/articleshow/75416963.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 28, 2020||Pune||Three more with co-morbidity die of nCoV, 84 turn positive in Pune||Pune: Three more individuals succumbed to Covid-19 infection, while another 84 people tested positive for the contagion in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, taking the total casualty and case counts to 80 and 1,348, respectively, in the region so far. Of the three deaths, two were reported at the Sassoon General Hospital, while one at a private hospital. They all had co-morbidity conditions like diabetes, a district health official said. A 48-year-old woman from Parvati, who had diabetes, hypertension and obesity, succumbed to the contagion on Monday, the official said, adding A 38-year-old man from Kondhwa, who suffered from diabetes and acute kidney failure, also breathed his last on Monday. He was a patient of Covid-19. The third deceased was a 74-year-old man, who was admitted at a city hospital on April 26. So far, 17 people have succumbed to the contagion in PMC limits, while three in PCMC limits. The Sassoon General Hospital has recorded as many as 55 deaths. Most of these patients sought medical intervention late and suffered from co-morbidity conditions, experts said. When it comes to the 84 fresh cases, highest 71 were recorded from Pune. The daily count of positive cases has remained over 75 for the last five days in the PMR. Civic health officials said increase in surveillance and daily testing has pushed up count of positive cases. The checks have been increased in five wards in the city that have reported maximum cases, the officials said. The total positive cases in PMC limits increased to 1,190 on Monday, while in Pimpri Chinchwad the total cases have reached 93. Most new cases in Pune have been detected from dense pockets and slums, the official said. On Monday, 11 new positive patients were found in Pimpri Chinchwad, including five men and seven women. Five positive patients were discharged in the PCMC limits on Monday, taking the count of discharged patients to 29 so far. A total of 55 positive patients are undergoing treatment in civic hospitals in the Pimpri Chinchwad area. As many as 62 people were quarantined on Monday, taking the total count of such individuals to 3,341. Besides, 171 suspected patients were admitted on Monday. Negative reports of 112 persons were received on Monday. Mayor visits contagion hotspots Mayor Muralidhar Mohol visited Covid-19 hotspot, mostly slum pockets, in the city on Monday. He said the shifting of people from dense areas to other locations had been planned to ensue social distancing, for which the civic body will utilize hostels, marriage halls, besides civic-run schools. The mayor said option of utilization of buildings of SRA projects was also being explored as per requirement. The social organizations can make arrangements of food for those will undergo temporary shifting, he added. The officials from PMC and city police department were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-with-co-morbidity-die-of-ncov-84-turn-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75417362.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 28, 2020||Pune||Case reported in Velhe taluka headquarters, area sealed||Pune: The Velhe taluka headquarters was completely sealed by local administration and police after a conservancy staff member of a rural hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on April 25. The conservancy staff member is a resident of Market Yard in Pune and the city has already been declared as a red zone area. The police said the he had travelled to Velhe three days ago on his two-wheeler. An area of eight square kilometre in and around Velhe taluka headquarters has been sealed. “We have created a containment zone of 3km, where four symptomatic persons were found. On Monday, the four villagers tested negative for Covid-19,” Shivaji Shinde, the tehsildar of Velhe, said. Shinde said the hospital staffer who tested positive for the contagion, was sent to a quarantine facility on Sinhagad Road. “Many revenue, gram panchayat office bearers and other government workers work in Velhe taluka and stay in Pune. We had told them to not leave the taluka headquarters until further orders, but somehow they were making trips to Pune. After Saturday’s incident, no one will be allowed to leave the taluka headquarters,” Shinde said. He added that a group of villagers was helping farmers sell their produce in the city. Shiva Shinde, a resident of Kelad village near Velhe, said, “We never thought the virus would reach here. Now, the entire village is in lockdown. We can’t even go to the taluka headquarters to buy essentials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/case-reported-in-velhe-taluka-headquarters-area-sealed/articleshow/75417368.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Mushrooms replace meat on the plate||TRICHY: The demand for button mushrooms has gone up manifold ever since restrictions were put in place on the operation of mutton, chicken and fish stalls across the district. However, owing to transportation issues traders are unable to get supply from Pune, Ooty, and Chengalpet regularly. As people were found flocking meat and fish stalls during weekends, even after the imposition of 144, the district administrations imposed restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “Not only on weekends, but people are demanding mushrooms on weekdays too. New customers are mostly non-vegetarians. During the Tamil month of Puratasi, mushroom sales rises three to four times. That situation is prevailing now,” K Pushparaj, a grocery owner in Srirangam, said. M Girija, a housewife from Woraiyur, said they opted to avoid non-vegetarian food after the spread of coronavirus and started cooking mushrooms. “Unlike normal days, mushroom is available at all the shops. The cost is very less and we can get a packet for Rs 50. It is also easy to cook,” she said. R Manohar, a wholesale trader, said that he could not meet the demand as it has been manifold. “Earlier, we sold 300 packets on weekends. Now, the demand has gone up to 750 packets. We have stalls at temporary vegetable markets, Uzhavar Sandhai and we deliver to grocery shops across the district. We are delivering at customer’s doorsteps too,” he said. “Around 80% of supply is from Ooty while the remaining is supplied by companies in Chengalpet and Pollachi. A certain percentage of supply is from Pune also,” said S Prabu Eswaran, zonal manager of Sri Karpaga Vinayakar Mushroom Farm. “50% of our sales was from hotels. We lost the orders from there due to lockdown. Now, we are concentrating only on retail sales. However, despite good demand, we are not able to supply all customers. We used to receive 20 to 30 tonnes of button mushrooms only from Ooty. After the lockdown truckers hesitate as even though we possess permit cards issued by the collector’s office we are blocked unnecessarily by the police citing lame reasons on highways. The government should help us to consign mushroom to meet entire demand,” said Prabu Eswaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-for-button-mushrooms-goes-up-manifold/articleshow/75417366.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Chief minister praises sanitary worker who reported to work a day after mother’s death||TRICHY: A 45-year-old sanitary worker in a village panchayat of Perambalur district is on cloud nine after a tweet from the official twitter handle of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday appreciating the worker’s commitment in reporting for Covid-19 preventive work just a day after his mother’s demise. Ayyadurai Arumugam, 45, has been working as a sanitary worker, earning Rs 5,800, in V Kalathur village panchayat in Veppanthattai taluk of Perambalur district for the last 21 years. On April 21, his mother A Angamma, 70, passed away at their residence in Kamaraj Nagar due to age-related illness. With the lockdown in effect, Ayyadurai completed the final rites for his mother within five hours. Instead of grieving and availing leave to complete a few rituals, he opted to report for work. Only after completing his duty by spraying disinfectant in V Kalathur police station and the village that has a population of 10,260 people, Ayyadurai visited his mother’s burial place to complete a few rituals usually done a day after a person’s demise. “With coronavirus threatening people, I was not interested to take leave. Preventive measures and cleaning work assigned to me was the need of the hour, so I cannot afford to stay at home,” Ayyadurai, a class III dropout told TOI. His gesture was appreciated by the officials of V Kalathur panchayat and district administration. It was a pleasant surprise for Ayyadurai who could not read and write to be informed by his panchayat that the Tamil Nadu CM had congratulated Ayyadurai’s commitment in a tweet with the picture of the sanitary worker on Monday. “Such appreciations will motivate me to work hard further,” Ayyadurai added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/chief-minister-praises-sanitary-worker-who-reported-to-work-a-day-after-mothers-death/articleshow/75417357.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bareilly||‘Quack’ tests positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 35-year-old person, who the health department has identified as a quack, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. According to officials, the patient, who is asthmatic and diabetic, visited the 300-bed government hospital on Saturday complaining of respiratory distress. He was admitted to a private medical college after his samples were collected immediately. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The patient is a quack who practices from his home in Haziyapur area of Bareilly city. He used to run the TB-DOTS centre. His wife claimed he has no travel history and hadn’t come in contact with any known covid carrier. We will conduct resampling of the patient according to his family’s wishes. He may have come in contact while examining patients at his home. Hence, we will screen all families in a 1km-radius of his house in Haziyapur.” Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla added, “Our health team is investigating how the patient got infected and the number of people who came in contact with him. As the patient’s condition is serious, he was admitted to a private medical college.” According to health officials, after the man was tested positive for Covid-19, the health department quarantined 30 people, including patient’s wife, three minor children and mother, and their samples were collected for test. Meanwhile, before the arrival of test report, the man’s wife along with her brother-in-law went to camp office of district magistrate on Monday morning. They later visited CMO’s office and the woman met CMO and demanded him to give permission to meet her husband. However, minutes after they left CMO’s office, officials learnt that the woman’s husband has been tested positive. They were later quarantined and a team of health department disinfected CMO’s office and DM’s camp office. Four staff of DM’s camp office were quarantined on Monday evening with whom the woman met or interacted in the morning. A one-kilometre containment zone has been prepared in Haziyapur and team of health department has started house-to-house survey here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/quack-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-bareilly/articleshow/75414386.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bar rejects Rs 5k aid plea from 401 car-owning lawyers||Ahmedabad: As many as 401 lawyers who own cars had applied for Rs 5,000 financial aid that the Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG) is offering to young lawyers who are struggling due to loss of income during this nationwide lockdown.The BCG rejected the applications of these 401 lawyers, among nearly 4,500 who found ineligible for the unemployment allowance the council has decided to pay in this time of crisis. The BCG laid down several criteria to to avail of the financial aid, mainly those enrolled after 2006. Those who have a car, a spouse in a government job, an annual income above Rs 3 lakh or other family income, were not entitled to this aid.The BCG said 47,000 such advocates fall in the bracket of young lawyers. Of these, 13,037 applications were received from 270 bar associations across the state. After scrutiny, the BCG found 8,500 applications valid.According to BCG member Anil Kella, after scrutiny, 401 applicants were found owning cars and were disqualified for the aid. Similarly, there were 193 advocates whose annual income was found above Rs 3 lakh. There were 183 lawyers who are working as panel advocates and 344 others were having other sources of family income.Besides, as many as 2,504 advocates were such who did not clear the All India Bar Examination and did not show their place of practice, were rendered disqualified for the support, the BCG said. The council further said that it has allocated Rs 4.5 crore to support these struggling lawyers and funds would be transferred to their bank accounts in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bar-rejects-rs-5k-aid-plea-from-401-car-owning-lawyers/articleshow/75416679.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Nodal officer objects to field sampling being brought down in Ramganj||Jaipur: The field sampling at Jaipur’s Ramganj area has dropped to zero since April 19. Taking objection to this, Jaipur city nodal officer Ajitabh Sharma on Monday said the medical and health department has “drastically brought down the field sampling rate” in the area and the matter has been brought to the notice of chief secretary D B Gupta so that the rate of sampling is scaled up looking at the severity of Covid-19 infection in the city. He also warned ‘no testing’ could lead to increase in mortality in future. According to official data, no field samples were collected from Ramganj area from April 19 to April 26. From April 8 to April 18, the number of samples collected from Ramganj area were 4,599. “To identify and isolate the infected is an essential component in the fight against Covid-19. The medical and health department has drastically brought down the field sampling rate in Ramganj. No testing may have an amplifying impact later in the coming weeks, which may cause increase in mortality. The whole matter has been brought to the notice of the chief secretary so that the department adopts the correct and the desired course,” Sharma told TOI. It is believed if the sampling in Ramganj becomes nil, subsequently the number of people quarantined will also reduce as they are the primary and secondary contacts. CMHO-I Dr Narottam Sharma said, “The prevelance rate in Ramganj area is 7%. So, as per ICMR guidelines and directions of the health department, we are focusing on sampling of those who are above 60 years, those who have come in close contact with the patients, persons with ILI (Influenza-like illness) symptoms and those who are in high-risk groups (with comorbid conditions). Even now we are sampling 200 to 400 people per day in Ramganj area. In this area alone, we have already done sampling of more than 6,000 people.” The nodal officer, after a meeting at the collectorate, said more than 11,000 people above 60 years and those in the vulnerable category will be tested with pulse oximeters in Ramganj area and if their oxygen level is found to be low, they will be tested further for Covid-19. He also gave directions to set up sufficient number of teams for the task. He further asked the officials to conduct sampling of more than 100 shopkeepers in the walled city. He also directed to conduct random tests of “potential super-spreaders” including shopkeepers in medicine, vegetables and grocery shops. Sharma instructed the officials to conduct random sampling at Jawahar Nagar Kutchhi Basti area. He said IEC (Information, Education and Communication) system also needs to be strengthened. Graphics Field samples collected Date Quarantine centres Ramganj area April 16 231 163 April 18 53 60 April 19 135 0 April 20 88 0 April 21 54 0 April 22 263 0 April 23 548 0 April 24 209 0 April 25 215 0 April 26 179 0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nodal-officer-objects-to-field-sampling-being-brought-down-in-ramganj/articleshow/75417364.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bareilly||Fresh positive case reported in corona-free Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Considered to be a coronavirus-free district after a man was discharged from hospital on April 13, a fresh positive case was reported in Pilibhit on Sunday night. The patient is a 24-year-old youth of a village under Amaria police station. He had returned from Indore in Madhya Pradesh on April 21. After his return, he showed no symptoms of Covid-19. But as part of the protocol, samples of his throat and nasal swabs were sent for testing to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow on April 22. His test report was received here on Sunday evening. The heath administration promptly shifted the youth to Bareilly, to be lodged in an isolation ward there on Sunday night itself. The health officials have also quarantined the seven people who were sharing the room with him on Monday. Their samples were collected and sent for tests. The youth is the first asymptomatic patient in Pilibhit. So far, only 0.02% of Pilibhit's total population has been tested for coronavirus infection. As per official records, the health department has sent samples of 599 people for testing. “We are testing only those persons who are apparently showing symptoms of coronavirus. We lack the infrastructure needed for the testing each and every person, especially those who are engaged in supply network of essential commodities," said Devendra Pratap Mishra, ADM (judicial). Pilibhit had been declared as corona-free after the last patient was discharged on April 13. Nodal officer for contagious diseases in the health department, Dr Ashwani Gupta, told TOI that as many as 294 persons suspected of being infected had so far been lodged in institutional quarantines. Of these, 166 had been sent back home after the completion of 14-day quarantine. Of the total 599 samples sent for testing, the department had received 417 negative reports, three positive, including that of the man last discharged. As of now,179 test reports were still awaited, Dr Gupta said. Meanwhile, assistant regional transport officer Amitabh Rai told TOI that 436 labourers from Haryana had arrived in Pilibhit on Monday morning by 17 buses arranged by the state government. These labourers were housed in shelter homes in Biaslpur, Puranpur, Amaria and Pilibhit city. With this, the total number of people kept in the 20 shelter homes in the district has gone up to 783, said ADM Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fresh-positive-case-reported-in-corona-free-pilibhit/articleshow/75414372.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Farmers urge Tamil Nadu to announce cash aid||TRICHY: The Bharatiya Kisan Sangam has appealed to the state government to announce cash assistance to the tune of 50% of the scale of finance fixed for the crops to the farmers to get rid of the loss incurred following the countrywide lockdown imposed after the spread of Covid-19. In a letter to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Kisan Sangam, state general secretary N S Parthasarathy expressed his gratitude for various measures taken by the state government to help the farming community after the outbreak of Covid-19. However, farmers who had raised cash crops such as mango, banana, jackfruit and flowers could not market their entire produce. They were unable to sell not even 50% of their harvest. Considering this, the state should announce separate cash assistance to each cash crop based on the scale of finance, Parthasarathy said. Scale of finance is the finance required for raising a crop per unit cultivated area, which is acre or hectare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-urge-tn-to-announce-cash-aid/articleshow/75417369.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Increase MGNREGS wage employment duration to 150 days: Uttarakhand CM suggests during video-con with PM Narendra Modi||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat suggested during a video-con with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to increase the wage employment duration of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) from 100 to 150 days, even as he added that the state was following PM’s mantra of "Jaan bhi, Jahan bhi" amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. On the issue of lockdown extension beyond May 3, the CM backed the move but also requested permission for more economic activities in the state's nine districts – which had been kept in green category list as either no Covid-19 positive case or just a solitary one was reported in these areas. The CM maintained that the state would follow the Centre’s decision and was in favour of its extension. The CM said that while keeping the guidelines in mind, the projects related to National Highway and MGNREGS have been started in the nine districts. He also advocated the need for a phase-wise opening of sectors to ensure a gradual return to normalcy. Rawat further said that on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya, the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri dhams were opened on Sunday. He maintained that Uttarakhand was a tourist state and the sector has been affected during the ongoing lockdown but exuded confidence that things would be back on track soon. Moreover, to help bring the state’s economy back on track, the state government has formed a three-member sub-committee to gauge the losses, analyse the situation and suggest measures to strengthen the state’s financial condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/increase-mgnregs-wage-employment-duration-to-150-days-cm-suggests-during-video-con-with-modi/articleshow/75415972.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Rains bring timely respite, more likely||NAGPUR: Rains continue to bring respite to the citizens from the scorching heat, amidst lockdown. On Monday evening, Nagpurians were taken by surprise with the weather turning pleasant, with heavy winds and light rainfall in some areas. According to met officials, a cyclonic circulation present over east Vidarbha was responsible for the pleasant change in weather. “The circulation was 1.5 kilometers above the sea level. Apart from this, the region is also getting moisture supply from the Bay of Bengal,” they added. As per the forecast of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, thunderstorm accompanied by heavy winds and hail is expected to occur at isolated places in the region on Tuesday and Wednesday too. The change in weather conditions brought down the city’s maximum temperature to 39.2 degree Celsius on Monday. This was nearly three degrees below the normal mercury levels. The minimum temperature was 25.2 degree Celsius. At 42.6 degree Celsius, Akola was the hottest in the region. The lowest maximum temperature was recorded in Gondia, at 35.6 degree Celsius. In Nagpur, the maximum temperatures are expected to stay between 40-43 degree Celsius in the coming week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rains-bring-timely-respite-more-likely/articleshow/75416965.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Why give sites in FTL areas: HC asks Telangana||HYDERABAD: The HC on Monday questioned the state as to why the authorities are proposing alternate sites to the displaced persons of Kondapochamma reservoir that is also likely to be submerged soon.  The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy was hearing pleas from 55 farmers from Bailampur in Siddipet who were displaced. Their counsel informed HC that authorities gave alternate sites in full tank level area of a nearby tank which too may get submerged. The bench directed Siddipet collector to provide alternate sites to farmers and posted the case to May 1. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-give-sites-in-ftl-areas-hc-asks-t/articleshow/75416684.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held for attempt to frame neighbour||Ahmedabad: Two men were arrested by Naroda police, and one went on the run after cops caught on to their plan to frame a neighbour in a knife attack. According to case details, Narendrasinh Jhala of Naroda and his brother-in-law Bahadursinh Chauhan had called up the police control room late on Sunday evening informing that Chauhan had been stabbed near Shantivilla Flat in Naroda by 3-4 persons who had come in a car. “When a police team reached the spot, they found only Jhala and Chauhan there. Chauhan had a stab wound on his arm and a corresponding slash on his shirt sleeve. They were taken to the police station, where on questioning it came to fore that a day earlier, Chauhan’s father had a quarrel with their neighbour, Mehul Goswami, regarding sleeping on the terrace,” said an official of Naroda police station. “At the time, both had submitted applications against one another, and both had been arrested and then released on bail,” he added. DCP Zone-4, Neeraj Badgujar said on learning about the earlier quarrel, police asked Jhala and Chauhan separately to pinpoint the spot of the assault. “None of the two could say exactly where the attack had taken place,” Badgujar said. “On further questioning, Chauhan broke down and admitted they had concocted the story to frame Goswami. Chauhan said that on Sunday afternoon, his friend Mahesh Bharwad had called him to come near Vithal Plaza. Here, Jhala and Chauhan went and sat in Bharwad’s car. Bharwad told them they will teach Goswami a lesson and send him to jail. Then Bharwad tore Chauhan’s shirt and stabbed him on his arm. After this, Jhala called police to say they had been attacked,” Badgujar said. Jhala and Chauhan have been arrested for giving false information to police, and the hunt is on for Bharwad, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-for-attempt-to-frame-neighbour/articleshow/75416693.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM asks officials to prepare lockdown phase-out plan||BHOPAL: The state government will forward a model on how it proposes to normalise life in the state after the lockdown period ends on May 3. Prime Minister had asked all the state chief ministers in his video conference with them on Monday to send a model on lifting the lockdown restrictions, particularly dealing with resuming economic activities, restoring supply chain, ensuring health care to everyone. After the video conference with Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, asked the top officials to chalk out a phased exit plan from the lockdown as directed by the PM. Sources said Chouhan government is planning to extend the lockdown in MP till May 20, especially in the districts under red zone— worst-affected by coronavirus and not showing consistent improvement. Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Khargone, Raisen, Hoshangabad and Dhar could be the districts where the lockdown would continue without any relaxation. Districts where no coronavirus positive case has been reported in past two weeks could be given major relaxations in the lockdown, but schools, colleges, malls, cinema halls would remain closed. Not all shops would be allowed to open either. Pan, tea kiosks, salon, beauty parlours may not be allowed to open for now. The district crisis management committee headed by district collector may take a final call on the issue. The third category — cities and towns under green category, where there has been not a single Coronavirus case may open up largely, but people from infected areas would not be allowed to come there and vice-versa. Earlier, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday morning took part in a video conference held by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers of the states regarding the coronavirus control and situation arising out of the crisis. Nine states participated in the discussion on Monday. Minister for public health and family welfare minister Narottam Mishra, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, director general of police Vivek Johari, additional chief secretary, health, Mohammad Suleman and other officers were present on the occasion. The Prime Minister discussed with the chief ministers, issues about prevention of Coronavirus infection, delivery of essential commodities as well as providing other civic amenities in the containment areas and necessary preparations after May 3. After the video conferencing with the Prime Minister, chief minister Chouhan held discussions with the chief secretary and other officials. He directed the officials to prepare the proposals for Corona treatment, preparations after May 3 and for conducting economic activities as per the instructions of PM. He also asked them to take necessary steps to prepare models for the coming days. Chouhan said that after receiving detailed instructions from the Centre, action will be taken by the MP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-asks-officials-to-prepare-lockdown-phase-out-plan/articleshow/75415999.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Delhi artists' team stuck at Uttarkashi for over a month; plead to govt for help||Uttarkashi: Gourmohan Pahari, a Delhi-based graphic design artist and his team of 10 workers, who are stuck in Uttarkashi district in the Garhwal Himalayas for over a month following the lockdown, have appealed to the Delhi and Uttarakhand governments to help them in returning to their homes. Speaking to TOI on Monday, Pahari alleged that all of them were getting increasingly desperate to return, adding that “if no help is forthcoming in the next few days, we will be forced to walk back to our homes on foot.” All the stranded artists hail from Alaknanda and Chittaranjan Park area of South Delhi, and are currently staying at the Uttarkashi-based Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) where they had gone on March 16 to finalise work on the institute’s mountaineering museum which was scheduled to be inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind in the last week of March. The inauguration was subsequently cancelled due to the Covid-19 crisis. Speaking about their situation, Pahari said, “The NIM administration is extending all possible support to us in terms of food and accommodation, due to which we managed to stay so long in Uttarkashi. But with every passing day, the situation is getting tougher for us both mentally and physically. We are running out of money and some of the workers are facing health issues. Besides, our family members back in Delhi are also extremely worried and not able to cope up on their own, due to which we are extremely homesick and want to go back home at any cost.” The stranded artists have also made a video in which they can be seen making a fervent appeal to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and PM Narendra Modi asking for help to get back home. Pahari said that they had approached the district administration of Uttarkashi, too, but didn't get any help. “It is tragic that their focus is on evacuating stranded students and tourists, but not labourers and skilled workers, who are facing the worst time in this crisis,” he added. Reacting to the issue, Ashish Chauhan, district magistrate of Uttarkashi, told TOI, “We will make arrangements to send all workers and labourers to their respective regions, soon after we get directions in this regard from the government. Till then, it is important to keep them inside the district, in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.” He added that the administration was “willing to extend all help to the Delhi-based artists if they are facing any problem regarding food and accommodation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/delhi-artists-team-stuck-at-uttarkashi-for-over-a-month-plead-to-govt-for-help/articleshow/75414398.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Koyambedu hairdresser tests positive||CHENNAI: A hair dressing salon owner in Koyambedu, who had kept his shop open illegally during the lockdown, tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago, sending city corporation officials and health department staff into a tizzy. While the 36-year-old been admitted to the government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital and is stable according to doctors, his wife and child have been placed under quarantine. Health department officials said that he approached a clinic after feeling feverish and was directed to the government hospital. The small salon was located in one of the bylanes near the wholesale market and was frequented by many in the area during the lockdown, multiple sources in Greater Chennai Corporation and the city police said,. “This was sealed shut after he tested positive,” said the jurisdictional police inspector. Corporation officials now need to trace all his contacts including the patrons of his shop. The man’s residence comes under the Valasaravakkam zone (11), while his shop is under the Kodambakkam zone (10). Corporation frontline workers are now going about conducting inquiries in both zones asking residents if they have had a haircut recently as the salon’s patrons may have come from both the zones. So far, around 30 people from zones 10 and 11 have been identified as having visited the shop recently for a haircut, an official said. “Swabs of these people will be taken to test if they Covid-19,” an official said. This is the second time corporation staff have been forced to make such inquiries. The first time was after a 20-year-old barber from Uttar Pradesh who lived in Arumbakkam tested positive for the infection and became the second Covid-19 positive patient in Tamil Nadu was. At the time, corporation workers posed the same question to residents in his neighbourhood. This time, corporation officials have not put out public posters or made officials messages through the various social media channels like they did to trace the contacts of all the people who had tested positive at the Phoenix mall in Velachery. Sources in the corporation said that they didn’t know if residents would be willing to voluntarily come forward to accept that they had a haircut at the shop. While the source of the patient’s infection is not known clearly to health department officials, sources say that he could have contracted it from the Koyambedu market during one of his visits. (With inputs from Pushpa Narayan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/koyambedu-hairdresser-tests-ve/articleshow/75416715.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
April 28, 2020||Goa||Goa schools to declare results through messaging apps||PANAJI: For state schools, the academic year ends on April 30 and with the lockdown still in force, institutes will be informing students of their final results through electronic means. Over a hundred institutes in the state had already introduced a school management app, using which the results will be conveyed to the parents. “We will inform the parents of the results through the school management app. The actual report card will be handed over to parents later, depending on when the lockdown is lifted. The certificates and trophies will be handed over to students once the new academic year begins,” said headmistress of the Cujira-based Rosary High School, Sarita Carvalho. While most schools would, under normal circumstances, summon parents to collect the final report card in person, many rural institutes used to also send the card through the postal service. But most institutes will not be relying on the postal service now to deliver the card this year, as they feel it may turn out to be unreliable during the restrictions imposed because of the lockdown. The Goa Headmaster’s Association has told schools not to call parents to the institute as the directorate of education circular states that parents, students or visitors should not be encouraged to visit institutes during the lockdown. Students upto Class VIII will be promoted directly to the higher class, as has been decided by the directorate of education. “Now, it is only the question of informing Class IX and XI students whether they have passed or failed. Most teachers already have WhatsApp groups of their classes. We have told them to inform students through these groups. Or teachers at least have the phone numbers of the parents whom they can the results,” said association member Vithoba Dessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-to-declare-results-through-messaging-apps/articleshow/75417372.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||‘Expert advice, curbs’ relook needed for lockdown exit’||PUNE: Former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan has said that the Centre and state government must urgently take on board experts in behavioural economics and social sciences to identify the big industries and micro, small and medium size enterprises (MSMEs) that should be re-opened on priority. “The definition of the MSMEs must be widened to include many more small businesses," Chavan, a technocrat and former Union minister of state with the Prime Minister’s Office, told TOI. He said the government should rethink its decision asking small units to provide accommodation for employees. Chavan said that if providing accommodation for such staff is a must within the industry premises, then the governments should step in to provide the required infrastructure. The senior Congress leader’s observations assume significance in view of his party being in a coalition in the state government headed by Uddhav Thackeray and in the light of the state government contemplating to extend the lockdown. When told that the Union government has already appointed a task force comprising prominent economists and technocrats to prepare a roadmap for a staggered exit from the lockdown, Chavan said there would be a radical shift in the demand pattern after the lockdown ends as consumer behaviour will undergo a sea change. “When people are worried about their jobs and salaries and when there is fear about a pandemic, the demand for white goods, luxury goods, vehicles and other such goods may go down. Buyers will spend on basic needs and essentials. They will be more conservative in their spending approach. There is no point in granting random concessions and approvals to each and every industry in one go when buyers’ priorities are set to change. Behavioural economists and social scientists will be able to identify sectors that need an impetus on priority," Chavan said. Chavan defended his party chief Sonia Gandhi's demand to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a wage protection package of Rs 1 lakh crore for MSMEs, saying the Union government should work proactively on this demand. He pointed out that the US government had already announced such a relief package for that country. Talking about job losses, Chavan said, "There is no point in rendering lip service that employers should not retrench staff. That’s easier said than done. How will a small-scale employer afford to pay salaries unless the Union government provides funds?” he asked. Chavan said the definition of MSMEs needed to be widened to include every small business that generates employment and is in dire need of support. Efforts should be aimed at “inclusion” of more business and not the bureaucratic exercise of “excluding” business by opting for “technical definitions” to decide which business can qualify for grants, he felt. Chavan also questioned the series of restrictions that are being imposed on businesses while allowing them to work outside the containment and red zone/hotspot areas. “How can a small cloth store owner provide accommodation for staff living in containment zones and cannot travel back home?” he asked. Chavan said that if such restrictions are needed, the authorities identify properties around the MIDCs to provide accommodation, food and transport for the staff. He pointed out that there were restrictions even on shops selling poultry items and perishable goods. “When farming and allied activities constitute the top priority sector that has been opened up even during the lockdown, every effort should be made to promote shops selling the produce. Else, the economy will suffer heavily,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expert-advice-curbs-relook-needed-for-lockdown-exit/articleshow/75417375.cms||Abhijit Atre
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||Lodha sells 300 property units in Mumbai region after lockdown||MUMBAI: Lodha Developers said on Monday it has sold around 300 units across multiple projects in Mumbai region since the start of the lockdown over four weeks ago. On Akshay Tritiya day itself, the group said it sold 80 residential units with a high preference for ready-to-move-in inventories. A company spokesperson said the group’s UK business, too, generated sales of around Rs 150 crore (£15 million) during this period. Prashant Bindal, chief sales officer, Lodha, said lower interest rates on home loans helped sales. “Ready-to-move-in homes and projects with integrated living are witnessing high interest,’’ he said. The company said it has provided special financial support for SME vendors and channel partners during the lockdown and has so far served 3.5 lakh free meals to the needy and ensured that sufficient food was made available to the thousands of workmen living at its sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lodha-sells-300-property-units-after-lockdown/articleshow/75416712.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Location and lockdown keep help out of Vavurla’s reach||Margao/Quepem: Cut off as it is from the state’s mainstream owing to its geographical location and absence of any access road, the mountain-top village of Vavurla has resigned itself to isolation even during the lockdown. Or so it seems. For over a month, the 30-odd tribal families of Vavurla have been sustaining on the meagre resources of the village without a murmur of complaint — not that anyone cares to listen though. The self-sufficiency of the village — the locals grow paddy, some cereals, fruits and vegetables on their lands on a collective basis — helped them survive the 21-day lockdown. It was only when the government eased some restrictions during the second lockdown that the villagers have been trudging up and down their naturally quarantined hilltop location located 1,600m above mean sea level to stock up on other essential commodities. The nearest location, which passes off as a market place for these tribals, is Gaodongrim in Canacona, some 16-18km away. “Nobody even inquired about our welfare all these days of the lockdown. It was only on Sunday, after over a month of lockdown, that a team from the South Goa district administration visited our village and provided all the houses with essential items, like rice, atta, oil, dal, tea powder and biscuit packets, for free. As always, the state government forgot about this village,” villager Raju Gaonkar told TOI. Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, when contacted, however, said that the government may have failed to reach out to them in time, but refuted charges that the village didn’t receive any assistance during the lockdown. The village lies in his constituency of Quepem. “I don’t think there was any problem for the villagers. Though the villagers have sufficient stocks of food grains, I had arranged to make available essential goods through the Padi panchayat immediately after the 21-day lockdown came into force. During the next lockdown, I made arrangements to distribute essential items to the needy from all villages in my constituency for free. The locals there may be complaining about government’s delay in providing them assistance immediately, but personally I had made all necessary arrangements for supplying essentials to them,” Kavalekar told TOI. On Sunday, South Goa nodal officer for food supplies, Hemant Kumar, accompanied by incident commander Santosh Kundaikar, Quepem deputy collector Rohit Kadam, mamlatdar Ramesh Gaonkar, and other officials trudged a distance of 4km to deliver the essential items. Kadam said that they will monitor the tribal area and make sure that regular supplies reach it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/location-and-lockdown-keep-help-out-of-vavurlas-reach/articleshow/75417390.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Blood donation camp exceeds expectations||TRICHY: The first blood donation camp by the district administration during the lockdown received an overwhelming response on Monday. The day long camp yielded 286 units of blood for the government blood banks at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital and government headquarters hospital in Manapparai. “The response from people to our call to donate blood for surgeries and caesareans at government hospitals was impressive. People with full of determination came travelling long distances to make it to the camp,” said Dr S M Manivannan, district AIDS Prevention and Control Unit programme manager . The camp organised by MGMGH and NSS of National College with the help of the district administration. The blood banks had expected around 200 units of blood, but the camp got 286 units as most of the donors were the general public who are not regular donors. The organisers had to even send back some of the volunteers citing their age and health conditions. A 65-year-old man who wanted to donate blood. The doctors dissuaded him due to his age they had already set the age criteria for donors as 18 to 60 years. Most of the donors came in the category of 25 to 40 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/blood-donation-camp-exceeds-expectations/articleshow/75417371.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal push to normalize non-Covid-19 hospital services||KOLKATA: The state on Monday took its first steps to normalise non-Covid services in a phased manner by screening all patients at the entry points and conducting surgeries maintaining the Covid protocol. Before all planned surgeries, the patients will be tested for Covid-19. Medical teams will take protection for emergency surgeries and the patient will be removed to isolation and tested for Covid-19. An order issued late Monday evening state: “While there is lack of clarity on when and how the lockdown will be lifted, it is certain that we will have to normalise hospital services in a phased manner, commensurate with the evolving situation.” The order acknowledged that the patients are having a tough time visiting hospitals owing to travel restrictions and lack of transport. It urged the hospital authorities to draw up a blueprint, including duty rosters for medical personnel, to resume services. The guidelines issued says para-medical staff in protective gear will screen all patients and segregate those who has fever. While standing in a queue, social distancing norm will be mandatory. Use of face masks will be compulsory. The hospital waiting areas will be sanitised after the OPD and visiting hours every day. In the IPD, the distance between two beds should be at least 1m. A health officer said, “The decisions were taken in a meeting convened by CM Mamata Banerjee on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-push-to-normalize-non-covid-hosp-services/articleshow/75416720.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Trichy school makes 3D printed face shields for workers||TRICHY: A private school in Trichy has made use of Atal Tinkering Lab (ATL) to make 3D face shields and offer it to the frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19. Sri Vignesh Vidyalaya Senior Secondary school in Trichy has so far produced 30 face shields and offered it to police personnel and health workers in the city. Sources said that the face shields have been clinically proved more effective than face masks. While it prevents a person from touching their face, it will also act as a barrier for droplets from reaching our face. On learning about the demand for face shields, the school roped in Tinkrbot – a Trichy-based start-up company with expertise in 3D printing technology and started producing face shields. The school engaged two of its staffs to operate the machine in the ATL in school by getting training from Tinkrbot through video calls. S Ishurthi, founder, Tinkrbot, said they had customized the design after interacting with doctors and other medical professionals and added that they are improvising on their design to make it more effective by increasing thickness of the shield up to 170-200 microns from the existing 100 microns. Ishruthi said they are ready to share the design and even assist the schools in printing 3D face shields. “We are satisfied that we could be of some help to the society,” said Padma Srinivasan, principal of Sri Vignesh Vidyalaya Senior Secondary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-school-makes-3d-printed-face-shields-for-workers/articleshow/75417374.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar residents unhappy with lockdown restrictions that ignore citizen’s problems||HARIDWAR: Discontent on the way the Haridwar administration is implementing the lockdown is rising among locals. Residents are pointing fingers, saying those quarantined at Gurukul Ayurvedic College and Rishikul Ayurvedic College in the city are facing a number of issues which need to be addressed urgently. Former MLA Ram Yash Singh also pointed out that “many residents are being put through avoidable difficulties in getting permission to leave the city or state, even in emergencies”. A physician on condition of anonymity told TOI that he had received complaints from many people quarantined at the two Ayurvedic colleges, saying “they are not being properly looked after”. Superintendent of the hospital at Rishikul Ayurvedic College, O P Singh, denied the charge. “There are 56 people in the hospital’s isolation ward. Their samples have been sent for examination. The contractor for the district hospital supplies them food, while we provide medicines as prescribed by doctors. There has been no complaint of any kind from any patient so far,” he said. Chief medical superintendent of Mela Hospital, Rajesh Gupta, who is in charge of the isolation ward, also said he hadn’t received any complaint. Ram Yash Singh’s complaint was based on personal experience. Some days ago, he and his son were urgently required to go to a city in Uttar Pradesh after the death of a relative. “After running from pillar to post, when I finally got the permission, it was of no use as it was only for one person, besides the driver,” he said. In Gandikhata, restrictions on movement of Van Gujjars were imposed on April 3, and 98 of them were quarantined at Peeran Kaliyar, after they disclosed they had taken part in the Tabligi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in Delhi. The restrictions were lifted on Thursday, but only after their domestic animals were reported to be starving and thousands of litres of milk was wasted, in the absence of any arrangement made either for their fodder or collection of milk from them,” Singh added. Another former MLA Ambarish Kumar said, “There are hundreds of labourers in the city with no income following the lockdown. As they have no ration cards, they can’t avail of the free ration being distributed by the state.” He demanded that temporary ration cards be issued to them to ensure they have something to eat. “There should be a touch of humanity in the enforcement of the lockdown,” he said. Pointing at the desperation of labourers, senior retired BHEL officer Khalid Zaheer quoted some of them as saying, “We are not so much afraid of Covid-19 as of starvation.” Rajesh Shivpuri, a priest, drew attention to the plight of over a hundred members of the community “who are on the verge of starvation, as their source of income has dried up since the lockdown as pilgrims are not visiting Haridwar.” Other residents, however, agreed that strict adherence of the lockdown protocol must be ensured in the city, even if some people end up facing difficulties in the process. “The number of coronavirus infection cases in the district has risen sharply. Parts of Jwalapur have been sealed and their adjoining areas declared containment zones. The administration has to act keeping these facts in mind,” said professor Shrawan Kumar of Gurukul Kangri University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-residents-unhappy-with-lockdown-restrictions-that-ignore-citizens-problems/articleshow/75415982.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
April 28, 2020||Bareilly||SP suspends four constables for misconduct||PILIBHIT: Four constables of the district police were suspended by superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit on Monday for alleged misbehavior and misconduct. The action was taken following a preliminary inquiry report in the matter. Consatables Abhishek Kumar and Pawan Kumar of Amaria police station were suspended for allegedly misbehaving with those who were engaged in delivering essential commodities in Amaria, a hot spot. They also failed to enforce the lockdown. Constable Vivek Kumar of traffic police was suspended for being drunk on duty and creating a ruckus in public. Constable Rahul Tomar of Pilibhit Kotwali police station was suspended on charges of misbehaving with commuters with valid passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-suspends-four-constables-for-misconduct/articleshow/75414394.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘38 held under PASA so far’||Ahmedabad: Attacks on police, health workers or other government workers working on mitigating the Covid-19 pandemic are being taken seriously by the government. For 15 offences registered so far, 38 accused have been booked and held under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). DGP Shivanand Jha said that on Sunday three more accused of assaulting such government workers have been detained under PASA and sent to various jails of the state. “On April 9, there was an attack on police in Navsari district, those accused in this case have been held under PASA. Two persons were held under PASA and sent to jails for another such incident on April 5,” said Jha. About some persons opening their shops despite of prohibitory orders, Jha said police are watching paan shops, tea stalls, roadside eateries and hair salons. Action will be taken against errant shop owners, said Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/38-held-under-pasa-so-far/articleshow/75416727.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||In the time of distancing, baby gets name in virtual ceremony with 100 kin in attendance||Pune: At 5pm on Sunday, members of four Pune families logged on to a popular video conferencing app to attend the naming ceremony of their relatives’ baby. Dressed to the nines in traditional attire, these family members were among nearly 100 others spread across India and the globe to attend the ceremony of the infant in Mumbai. Radhika Gokhale, organiser of the event and mother of the infant Reva Vadalkar, said, “We had planned a proper ceremony on April 12. We cancelled the bookings with the banquet hall and caterers after the lockdown was announced. About two weeks ago, we decided we would have a small ceremony at home on Akshaya Tritiya and live stream it for my husband, who is in Mysuru, and in-laws, who are in Nashik. Other relatives said they would like to be a part of the ceremony. On Sunday, we had nearly 100 participants to the virtual ceremony.” The invite said everyone had to dress up and her relatives complied. “My 93-year-old grandfather, who lives with me, read through the scriptures to find out how the ceremony is conducted and jotted down some mantras which would be needed. He blessed the baby by chanting the shlokas and mantras. We wrote Reva’s name in a dish full of rice grain as per tradition. The baby’s aunt is supposed to say the name in her ear but since it wasn’t possible, my elder daughter did,” she said. The relatives are in Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Indore and Bengaluru , and also from the US, Canada and Middle East. “We also had singing and dancing presented by children and elders from their homes. The entire event, spanning a couple of hours, was without any hindrances, not even connectivity issues,” Gokhale added. Pune resident Neelima Sahasrabudhe said, “Normally, it is not very interesting for me to get ready and attend ceremonies. But, due to lockdown, we haven’t had the chance to meet our near and dear ones. This virtual ceremony was a good chance to meet relatives spread across the globe. Family members across four generations attended the ceremony. Some were interested in the performances, some in rituals and some in chatting. It was a unique function.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-the-time-of-distancing-baby-gets-name-in-virtual-ceremony-with-100-kin-in-attendance/articleshow/75417384.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Hubby held in Thanjavur for killing pregnant woman||THANJAVUR: Police arrested a man and his mother on charges of murdering his pregnant wife after setting fire on her. According to police, the accused have been identified as Muruganantham, 25, of Sooriyampatti in Thanjavur district and his mother Pushpavalli, 55. Muruganantham married Sangeetha, 20, daughter of Govindaraj of Pottuvachavadi in the district one-and-a-half years ago. Since then, Pushpavalli had reportedly been torturing Sangeetha asking for more dowry, police said. Sangeetha was in her eighth month of pregnancy. On April 7, her neighbours heard a noise from the house. When they rushed to the house they found her lying on the floor with her stomach burnt. Muruganantham and Pushpavalli were also there at the house. Muruganantham rushed her to Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. During inquiry, the victim told police that she attempted self-immolation. However, on April 8, the victim told police that it was her mother-in-law Pushpavalli who poured kerosene on her and set fire. Following her statement, police arrested both Pushpavalli and Muruganantham and produced them before a court, which remanded them in judicial custody. Both of them have been lodged at the Trichy Central Prison. Sangeetha gave birth to a boy following a C section on Sunday morning. However, she succumbed to burn injuries on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hubby-held-for-killing-pregnant-woman/articleshow/75417380.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Contacts of Perambalur firefighter test negative||TRICHY: After a man who travelled to Karur on April 19 tested positive for Covid-19 in Perambalur district, health officials in Karur are on their toes to trace people who had come in contact with him. The officials traced 93 contacts and tested the samples, but all of them tested negative on Monday. However, officials are keenly watching the situation. A 33-year-old fire and rescue service personnel from Perambalur district was part of the team, which came as an additional reinforcement for extinguishing fire in a dump yard in Karur on April 19. On his return on April 24, he tested positive for Covid-19 in Perambalur. Apart from having lunch with around 60 people with whom he had interacted for about two hours, he had taken additional food packs and distributed it among people on the way to Perambalur, said the health officials. “We could trace around 93 contacts including sanitary workers who came in contact with them. They all tested negative on Monday,” said N Selva Kumar, deputy director of health services, Karur. He said that it is unlikely that he contracted the infection at Karur, as all those who came in contact with him have tested negative in Karur. However, he said that officials are keenly watching people for symptoms in the area for at least a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/contacts-of-perambalur-firefighter-test-negative/articleshow/75417376.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||Hindus arranging roza-iftar for Muslims kept in isolation at Hanumangarh dist hospital||JAIPUR: Bhatner city in Hanumangarh district has become an example of brotherhood with Hindu youths arranging roza-iftar for Muslims admitted to the district hospital during the month of Ramzan. Most Muslims, who have been kept in isolation to check spread of Covid-19, are keeping fast in the hospital. Suspected corona patients are admitted to the district hospital as their samples have been sent to Bikaner divisional headquarters for investigation. Bhatner Kings Club and the district-level committee of ‘Koi Bhuka Nahi Soye’ have been helping these Muslims who were observing roza-iftar at the hospital by serving them fruits. Principal medical officer of the district hospital, S P Sharma, said they handed over packets of fruits and other items for roza-iftar at the hospital regularly since Ramzan began on Saturday. ‘Koi Bhuka Nahi Soye’ committee chairman Tarun Vijay, Bhatner Kings Club president Kulbhushan Jindal, patron Ashish Vijay, vice-president Rohit Aggarwal are spearheading this campaign in their areas fostering brotherhood among communities. Tarun Vijay said, “We have decided to distribute fruits to Muslims who are fasting at the hospital for Ramzan.” He said there has always been a feeling of communal harmony in Hanumangarh district and they want to reinforce this with a small gesture. Medical officer Dr M P Sharma said at present 18 such patients are admitted to the district hospital whose samples have been taken, many of them are Muslims observing fast. Their test reports are awaited. Apart from that, patients who came in contact with corona positive patients have also been admitted. He said the efforts of local youths are laudable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hindus-arranging-roza-iftar-for-muslims-kept-in-isolation-at-hanumangarh-dist-hospital/articleshow/75417383.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Sanctuaries under close surveillance in Tamil||TRICHY: As the wildlife and bird sanctuaries in the central region having been closed as a preventive step against Covid-19, the forest department is frequently sanitising the campuses and taking steps to prevent any man-animal conflict. In the central region, bird sanctuaries are located in Udayamarthandapuram, Muthupettai and Vaduvur in Tiruvarur district apart from Point Calimere in Nagapattinam district. “We have instructed our staff to take all precautionary steps to ensure that sanctuaries remain unaffected from any infection including Covid-19. The sanctuary infrastructure is disinfected with sodium hypochlorite solution daily,” said S Ramasubramanian, conservator of forest, Thanjavur circle. “Extensive patrolling was started as soon as these sanctuaries were closed to beef up security and surveillance to avoid man-animal conflict. We have controlled dumping of waste outside Point Calimere wildlife sanctuary by taking up the matter with concerned authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanctuaries-under-close-surveillance/articleshow/75417385.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 28, 2020||Goa||NRIs abroad get Goa’s helping hand||Margao: The state’s NRI Commission has begun the process for compiling the database of Goan diaspora while also attempting to reach out to those desirous of returning to the state owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Commission has now uploaded a form on its website asking NRIs of Goan origin to register with it. Those wishing to return to Goa are required to fill in the appropriate details as sought in the assistance form. Commissioner of NRI affairs Narendra Sawaikar tweeted from his official Twitter handle: “Glad to inform that Goa NRI Commission has begun the registration process/assistance of NRIs of Goan origin.” As pointed out by TOI in an earlier report, Sawaikar had moved a file in October 2019 to the effect that there should be some mechanism in place by which data concerning Goans settled abroad could be collected and compiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nris-abroad-get-goas-helping-hand/articleshow/75417388.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||After survey, teachers now get duty at fair price shops||Panaji: After the Covid-19 state health survey, teachers have now been tasked with ensuring that safety norms are being maintained at fair price shops, besides also keeping a check on any pilferage of grains. Teachers said that they not only feel humiliated, but also think that this government is working against their interests. The teachers have been asked to work in two shifts up to May 12. Most received phone calls from BLOs to be present for training on Sunday on their role at fair price shops. Teachers said they were only given a notice of a few hours before being called for the training. “BLOs are unauthorised to call us. Aided school headmasters and teachers are private management employees and the official order should go to the management. When it comes to benefits, the state government denies us whatever is due to government servants. But when it comes to putting our lives at risk, teachers are found to be the soft target,” headmaster Vithoba Desai said. He said the teachers will organise themselves and challenge the order of the collector in the court of law. “The government has ample employees in the civil supplies department and it is their duty to do this work,” Desai said. While teachers from South Goa were asked to report at fair price shops from Monday, those from North Goa were summoned from Tuesday. They were further enraged as the duty at fair price shops includes working on Saturday and Sunday. “When at the training at Junta House in Panaji, one teacher asked why the same teachers, who were allotted the health survey duty, were allotted the fair price shop duty. (In response) an official threatened to issue a memo to the teacher,” one teacher said. The order states that teachers should ensure fair price shops remain open from 9am to 1pm and 3pm to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-survey-teachers-now-get-duty-at-fair-price-shops/articleshow/75417377.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMC, PCMC testing over twice national average||PUNE: The civic bodies of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are testing more than twice the national average. At 14 and 9 tests per 10,000 people, respectively, the tests conducted in the 7.5 million population municipal limits outweigh the national average by over two times. Government figures revealed that the number of tests nationally administered was 4.3 per 10,000 people. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far tested over 7,300 samples for its nearly 53 lakh (including cantonment areas) population, officials privy to the process said. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has tested over 2,100 samples for its nearly 22 lakh people. The rural parts of Pune have tested about 1,500 people for the remaining 30 lakh population of the district — the lowest among the three areas. As on April 27 (Friday), 09:00am, a total of 6,65,819 samples was tested across India since the onset of corona virus in the country. For each bunch of 10,000 people, this translates to 4.3 tests. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “For now the tests are manageable because as many as 25-30 contacts are being traced per known positive patient. The civic body cannot manage it if the numbers reach 100 positive patients per day. This is why the containment has to continue in the hotspots. A lot of positive patients are now being traced with travel history to the PMC limits.” Data show that many areas in PMC are a hotspot and therefore there is a strong case for movement restrictions in PMC areas. As against the PCMC’s positivity rate (patients positive as against patients tested) of about 4%, the PMC’s positivity rate is over 15%. “This means that the positive patients are scattered all across Pune city. We have been taking steps towards more targeted tests,” PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-pcmc-testing-over-twice-national-average/articleshow/75417379.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 28, 2020||Trichy||Focus on random sampling in Trichy||TRICHY: The Trichy district administration has intensified measures by taking random sampling from the areas of infected patients. The move is aimed at bringing down the Covid-19 active cases to zero . “After taking family and secondary contacts of the positive patients, our focus has shifted to random sampling in the containment zones. The measure will help us penetrate further to check the presence of the viral disease and treat them accordingly, if found positive,” collector S Sivarasu told TOI on Monday. Pregnant women, people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza-like infection (ILI) in the containment areas of the 51 positive patients are being targeted. Stating that the process would be intensified further, collector said that as many as 200 swabs taken in random sampling were being processed at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). “None of them in the random sample tested positive giving us a hope of making the number of positive cases to zero,” said Sivarasu exuding confidence. He also stated that the urban areas of the district might move to orange zone from red zone by May 2 and the rural areas are likely to reach the stage by May 7. Nine areas in Trichy Corporation, one in municipality, three in town panchayats and seven in rural areas have been brought under the containment zones in the district. In Trichy, a total of 107 Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) delegates turned up at the MGMGH on March 31 of which 39 tested positive. While the positive patients were kept at the isolation ward, the others were shifted to institutional quarantine at Jamal Mohammed College. Since then, contact tracing measures were intensified. Collector said that 177 family contacts of the positive patients were traced and all of them were put through testing. Results showed that seven family contacts or close contacts and five secondary contacts tested positive. Secondary contacts included housemaids, milk vendors and others visiting the quarantined houses. As of Monday, MGMGH had a total of 19 Covid-19 positive patients of which nine are native of Trichy. The nine, includes only one TJ delegate while the others are family and secondary contacts. Besides random sampling, fever patients with comorbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension are visiting MGMGH. Such patients were being treated at the respective wards. On the deaths of four non-Covid-19 patients at MGMGH in the past 10 days, the collector said, “I have ordered them to take the sample of such dead patients to check if they had the viral infection before disposing their bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/focus-on-random-sampling-in-trichy/articleshow/75417387.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Min launches distribution of free rice bags to 15k families||Madurai: Minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji inaugurated the distribution of 10kg rice bags to 15,000 families in Virudhunagar district on Sunday. He said that AIADMK party cadres would deliver the rice bags to 15,000 economically backward families in the district at their door steps. The minister said that the state government is taking several steps to ensure the welfare of people during the lockdown period by providing monetary assistance, distributing essential commodities and giving free food through Amma canteens. He said that the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had already announced Rs 1,000 as monetary assistance for fireworks industry workers and people employed in the safety matches industry in order to help them during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-launches-distribution-of-free-rice-bags-to-15k-families/articleshow/75396569.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cops move to block 323 social media IDs for spreading rumours||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad cyber police station has written to respective service providers to block 323 social media accounts, from across the state, for spreading rumours and hate messages. DCP, cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala said that these include 263 Facebook accounts , 55 Twitter accounts, 3 Instagram accounts and one account each of WhatsApp and YouTube. Jhala added that the account holders were spreading rumours about Covid-19, hate messages and false information about Covid-19 cases. “We are waiting for the report from the service providers to learn whether the accounts have been blocked or not,” Jhala said. DGP Jha has also expressed concerns about false news and rumours being spread on social media and had instructed the cyber cell to to spot such social media accounts and write to the service providers to block them. Meanwhile, city police chief Ashish Bhatia said that they are strictly implementing the lockdown and registering several cases every day based on CCTV footage, PCR van patrolling, drones and ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) cameras installed in the city. “The good news is that the 20 policemen, who recovered from Covid-19 infection, have finished their quarantine period of 14 days and will join duty soon,” Bhatia said. He added that police “She” teams are regularly checking on the well-being of senior citizens. “On Sunday, an aged woman in Kalupur fell down while coming out of her house. The “She” team reached the spot quickly, and rushed her to a hospital. The woman is doing well know,” he said. Bhatia urged citizens to contact the police on control room number 100, helpline number 104 and also through the dedicated WhatsApp number 6359627500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-move-to-block-323-social-media-ids/articleshow/75416740.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Ahmedabad cops move to block 323 social media IDs for spreading rumours||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad cyber police station has written to respective service providers to block 323 social media accounts, from across the state, for spreading rumours and hate messages. DCP, cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala said that these include 263 Facebook accounts , 55 Twitter accounts, 3 Instagram accounts and one account each of WhatsApp and YouTube. Jhala added that the account holders were spreading rumours about Covid-19, hate messages and false information about Covid-19 cases. “We are waiting for the report from the service providers to learn whether the accounts have been blocked or not,” Jhala said. DGP Jha has also expressed concerns about false news and rumours being spread on social media and had instructed the cyber cell to to spot such social media accounts and write to the service providers to block them. Meanwhile, city police chief Ashish Bhatia said that they are strictly implementing the lockdown and registering several cases every day based on CCTV footage, PCR van patrolling, drones and ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) cameras installed in the city. “The good news is that the 20 policemen, who recovered from Covid-19 infection, have finished their quarantine period of 14 days and will join duty soon,” Bhatia said. He added that police “She” teams are regularly checking on the well-being of senior citizens. “On Sunday, an aged woman in Kalupur fell down while coming out of her house. The “She” team reached the spot quickly, and rushed her to a hospital. The woman is doing well know,” he said. Bhatia urged citizens to contact the police on control room number 100, helpline number 104 and also through the dedicated WhatsApp number 6359627500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-move-to-block-323-social-media-ids/articleshow/75419600.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Ahmedabad cops move to block 323 social media IDs for spreading rumours||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad cyber police station has written to respective service providers to block 323 social media accounts, from across the state, for spreading rumours and hate messages. DCP, cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala said that these include 263 Facebook accounts , 55 Twitter accounts, 3 Instagram accounts and one account each of WhatsApp and YouTube. Jhala added that the account holders were spreading rumours about Covid-19, hate messages and false information about Covid-19 cases. “We are waiting for the report from the service providers to learn whether the accounts have been blocked or not,” Jhala said. DGP Jha has also expressed concerns about false news and rumours being spread on social media and had instructed the cyber cell to to spot such social media accounts and write to the service providers to block them. Meanwhile, city police chief Ashish Bhatia said that they are strictly implementing the lockdown and registering several cases every day based on CCTV footage, PCR van patrolling, drones and ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) cameras installed in the city. “The good news is that the 20 policemen, who recovered from Covid-19 infection, have finished their quarantine period of 14 days and will join duty soon,” Bhatia said. He added that police “She” teams are regularly checking on the well-being of senior citizens. “On Sunday, an aged woman in Kalupur fell down while coming out of her house. The “She” team reached the spot quickly, and rushed her to a hospital. The woman is doing well know,” he said. Bhatia urged citizens to contact the police on control room number 100, helpline number 104 and also through the dedicated WhatsApp number 6359627500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cops-move-to-block-323-social-media-ids/articleshow/75419603.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur jailbirds create video album, first song released on social media||UDAIPUR: The musicians are not in a fancy recording studio. They’re in Udaipur Central Jail and music is part of a programme that gives inmates a chance to express themselves, examine their lives and prepare for release. ‘Out of the box’- the jail band comprising few musicians-cum-singers has released its first video on social media. They have chosen a patriotic song ‘Teri mitti mein mil jaavaan’ from the movie ‘Kesari’ as their first song. The complete shooting has been done inside the jail compound. District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) encouraged the jail band to create the first music album in joint venture with M Square production and Arya Films which shot, edited and released its first song on a social media channel. Had it not been for the lockdown, the release would had been a grand one, authorities said. “There is another world for these prisoners besides life in jail. They have their own insecurities, happiness, sorrows, music taps into their emotions and allows prisoners to explore and express their experiences,” Riddhima Sharma, secretary DLSA told TOI. “They develop confidence in themselves as they gain skills. They develop a new identity, feel encouraged to learn new things,” she said. “The inmates’ stories of incarceration are not just about the latest charges they’re hit with, says Surendra Singh Shekhawat, the jail superintendent. They’re about deeper issues in their lives and the conditions that surround them like poverty and unemployment and getting back into the mainstream after they are released. The jail band consists of musicians Jarnail Singh, Sunil, Sanjay, Chainsukh, Balkrishna, Ravi and Shivlal. The video has been directed by Mukesh Dangi, photographed by Amandeep Singh and Raju Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-jailbirds-create-video-album-first-song-released-on-social-media/articleshow/75417389.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||Ahmedabad cops move to block 323 social media IDs for spreading rumours||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad cyber police station has written to respective service providers to block 323 social media accounts, from across the state, for spreading rumours and hate messages. DCP, cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala said that these include 263 Facebook accounts , 55 Twitter accounts, 3 Instagram accounts and one account each of WhatsApp and YouTube. Jhala added that the account holders were spreading rumours about Covid-19, hate messages and false information about Covid-19 cases. “We are waiting for the report from the service providers to learn whether the accounts have been blocked or not,” Jhala said. DGP Jha has also expressed concerns about false news and rumours being spread on social media and had instructed the cyber cell to to spot such social media accounts and write to the service providers to block them. Meanwhile, city police chief Ashish Bhatia said that they are strictly implementing the lockdown and registering several cases every day based on CCTV footage, PCR van patrolling, drones and ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) cameras installed in the city. “The good news is that the 20 policemen, who recovered from Covid-19 infection, have finished their quarantine period of 14 days and will join duty soon,” Bhatia said. He added that police “She” teams are regularly checking on the well-being of senior citizens. “On Sunday, an aged woman in Kalupur fell down while coming out of her house. The “She” team reached the spot quickly, and rushed her to a hospital. The woman is doing well know,” he said. Bhatia urged citizens to contact the police on control room number 100, helpline number 104 and also through the dedicated WhatsApp number 6359627500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-move-to-block-323-social-media-ids/articleshow/75419601.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||BBA online admissions start at MSU||Vadodara: M S University’s Faculty of Commerce on Monday began the online admission process for first and second year of Bachelors of Business Administration (BBA) programme. The written test for admission in first year BBA programme will be held on June 7 while its results will be declared on June 15. The creative writing (extempore), group discussion and personal interviews will be held between June 24 and June 27 while merit list will be issued on July 3. “Prospective candidates can scan the QR code to get access to BBA prospectus 2020-21,” said professor Ketan Upadhyay, programme director of BBA and dean of Faculty of Commerce, adding that candidates can apply online on MSU’s official website on or before May 22. The online admission process has been started for 240 seats with additional 24 seats for foreign nationals. Admissions to first year BBA are finalized based on performance of a student in entrance test consisting of written test, creative writing, group discussion and personal interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bba-online-admissions-start-at-msu/articleshow/75415821.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Police mitra’ booked for inciting cops in Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: Sector 21 police of Gandhinagar on Sunday booked a resident of Odhav area, who calls himself a ‘police mitra’ (friend of the police), for allegedly inciting police personnel by a message on social media in which he asked Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha to use the police welfare fund for cops deployed to enforce the lockdown. The accused, Vishnu Thakor, has been also booked under an orwellian law called the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922, which has rarely been invoked, said a police official. Thakor was on April 21 booked by Ahmedabad city cyber crime police for posting comments on social media aimed at fomenting discontent among policemen. He then commented that cops work in adverse conditions but are not appreciated. He also posted that police do not have any right to protest though everyone else in the government does. Gandhinagar SP Mayur Chavda said Thakor was arrested for inciting police personnel and booked under IPC Sections 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquility) and 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes). Thakor was also booked under the Disaster Management Act, said Chavda. He added that it was rare for a person to be booked twice under the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act. The FIR filed with Sector-21 police states that Thakor indirectly puts pressure on cops who have been sincerely performing their duty to enforce the lockdown. It states, “Thakor spread a message on social media in which he says that the Gujarat DGP gave some media briefing saying that as people wear khaki, they will obviously have problems. Thakor says in the message that the DGP has hundreds of crores in the police welfare fund he should use it on cops deployed during the lockdown.” “Thakor further says he will seek details of each and every rupee spent on police welfare,” states the FIR. The FIR adds that Thakor has made claims without proper information and put indirect pressure on cops who have been performing their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-mitra-booked-for-inciting-cops/articleshow/75416757.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||No interim stay on burial of dead Covid-19 patients at 3 Mumbai kabrastans||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday rejected a plea for urgent interim orders to restrain the BMC from allowing burial of dead Covid-19 patients at Navpada Konkani Muslim Cemetery, Khoja Sunnat Jamat Kabrastan and Khoja Isna Ashari Jamaat Kabrastan in Bandra (West). Justice B P Colabawalla directed that burial can take place at these three cemeteries in Bandra (West) and that the BMC open their locks. Pradeep Gandhy and a few other residents of Bandra had petitioned the HC against an April 9 BMC circular notifying names of Muslim cemeteries where dead Covid-19 patients could be buried. Their counsel Amogh Singh argued the circular was issued with “utter disregard” to the one issued on March 30 which said bodies be cremated at the “nearest crematorium”. He said the cemeteries are “interconnected’’ and right next to petitioners’ homes and they feared “community transmission”. When the trustees’ counsel Pratap Nimbalkar said the lock was placed by locals, Singh refuted it saying the petitioner is a lawyer and won’t go around putting locks on cemeteries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-interim-stay-on-burial-of-ve-deceased-at-3-kabrastans/articleshow/75416812.cms||Swati Deshpande
April 28, 2020||Dehradun||Fake websites, FB pages, WhatsApp forwards promising liquor leave tipplers ‘high & dry’ across India||A number of pages on Facebook, WhatsApp forwards and even fake websites with mobile numbers that promise home delivery of alcohol have cropped up since India went under lockdown. This has prompted cyber cell officials in various states to issue advisories against dialling numbers that promise doorstep liquor delivery but become unresponsive once advance payment is made online. Tipplers desperate for a swig -- India has now entered its 34th lockdown day — seem to have encouraged criminals to cast their net wide. Initial reports of the scam had come just from metros like Gurugram and Hyderabad. Now, though, even in smaller towns like Dehradun people are losing anywhere between Rs 4,000 to Rs 8,000 each. On Monday, TOI called up three such numbers that are in circulation on social media. The reporter was first asked the brand and type of liquor they wanted and then told to transfer 50% of the bill amount via a digital wallet. Dehradun police said preliminary inquiry suggests the numbers are being operated by gangs in Rajasthan. But even the probe has hit lockdown hurdles. “Our teams can visit Rajasthan once the lockdown is lifted. We are spreading awareness among residents to be wary of such scams,” said Shweta Choubey, SP City, Dehradun. India has imposed a ban on alcohol sale during the lockdown. Many countries, however, haven’t. For instance, New York — one of the worst-hit cities in the US — has listed wine stores under “essential” businesses. The ban on alcohol sale is one reason many people who have been duped have not reported the incidents. Mohit Ahuja, an engineer from Jharkhand, said he placed an order after coming across a message on Facebook and credited a bank account with 50% of the payment. He realised he had been cheated soon enough, but did not approach police since he was aware delivery of liquor during lockdown is prohibited. In Gurugram, the scam came to the fore when liquor vend owners registered complaints that people were using the name of their outlets to offer home delivery. Gurugram police has taken down several such pages off social media. In Kerala — where several people have committed suicide after they were unable to lay hands on some alcohol — tech-savvy gangsters went a step ahead. They put up a fake website, complete with the official logo and other details of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation. Police are now using social media to warn netizens. The Hyderabad cyber crime cell recently tweeted: “Dear citizens, fraudsters uploaded their mobile numbers in the name of specified wine shops. If you call them, they will assure to supply wines at your door and obtain your debit card information and may dupe you. So be aware and be cautious.” (Inputs by Debashish Chatterjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fake-websites-fb-pages-whatsapp-forwards-promising-liquor-leave-tipplers-high-dry-across-india/articleshow/75416000.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Patient in Lucknow responding to therapy, second dose transfused||LUCKNOW: The critically ill 58-year-old government doctor from Orai, the first patient in the state to undergo convalescent therapy for Covid-19 at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), was transfused with the second dose of plasma containing anti-bodies of novel coronavirus on Monday. The second transfusion was done by doctors after they noticed “some positive signs” in the patient. On Sunday, he was administered with the first dose of plasma donated by Lucknow’s first Covid-19 survivor, a Toranto-based female doctor. “The patient was diagnosed with the disease on Sunday and chosen for the therapy because his condition was deteriorating. However, his ventilator parameters have improved a bit after the first transfusion,” said KGMU vice-chancellor Prof MLB Bhatt, adding that the initiative of the university as historic. “The patient has diabetes and was on ventilator when the first transfusion was done. He continues to be on ventilator but is stable,” said Dr D Himanshu, in charge of Covid-19 unit. “We gave him the second dose of 200ml on Monday night, 24 hours after the first one,” he added. Head of KGMU’s transfusion medicine department Prof Tulika Chandra said the donor readily donated plasma on knowing that her blood group matched with the patient’s. The patient, father of an MBBS student, was suffering from fever and breathing problem for eight days when he came to the medical university on Friday. Test reports confirmed Covid-19. His wife also tested positive but she has mild symptoms and is in the isolation ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patient-responding-to-therapy-second-dose-transfused/articleshow/75417391.cms||Yusra Husain
April 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Swiggy signs pact with government, begins veggie delivery in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The online distribution of vegetables began in the city on Monday. The state agricultural department had signed an agreement with Swiggy for the distribution of vegetables in Visakhapatnam. On Monday, Swiggy delivered 36 orders. One can place orders online between 6 am and 12 noon. Sources said that the department is holding talks with Zomato, another supplier, to be part of the vegetable delivery network. “We will assess the number of orders and quantity, besides the variety of vegetables in the next few days before enhancing the services. People can avoid risk by taking door delivery,” said L Siva Sankar, joint collector. Around 500 vegetable farmers at various rythu bazaars in the city have tied up for the online sale. As of now, MVP and Seetammadhara rythu bazaars would supply vegetables for the online delivery. Earlier, the district administration had facilitated delivery of groceries through various outlets such as Reliance, Spencer’s, D Mart and others. “We have given orders to estate officers of raitu bazaars to provide supply till night. Orders would be taken between 6 am to 12 noon. The delivery would continue till evening,” said the joint collector. The estate officers would confirm the order by verifying the availability of vegetables. The district administration would enhance the number of farmers and the quantity after studying the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/swiggy-signs-pact-with-govt-begins-veggie-delivery-in-city/articleshow/75414449.cms||Siva G
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police book nine persons for tea party||Ahmedabad: There was a storm in a tea cup in the city as police booked nine persons for making tea outside their house and having a discussion over a cup of tea, thus violating the state home department notification which restricts unnecessary movement. The incident took place on Saturday when around 10 persons made tea outside their homes at Takshashila Apartments near Nalanda Complex in the Vastrapur area. Vastrapur police came to know about this when they checked CCTV footage of the society and found that people had held a tea party to break the lockdown boredom. Vastrapur police questioned residents of Takshashila Apartments and security guards about the tea party. Police later identified the accused from CCTV footage and booked them. Inspector M M Jadeja of Vastrapur police said that the accused had gathered just to gossip and the notification prohbits four or more persons from gathering at one place. “We had to take stern action as people gather without any reason and they could spread the novel coronavirus. We have identified all the accused and begun an investigation in the case,” said Jadeja. Police also seized a kettle, sugar, tea leaves and milk from the accused persons, said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-book-nine-persons-for-tea-party/articleshow/75416754.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Pests attack mango and cashew orchards||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as farmers across the state try to brave the lockdown that has posed difficulties for them such as lack of labour and shutting down of markets, pest infestation has added to their woes as they struggle to save their crops. K Sailaja of the horticulture department, Visakhapatnam, said, “These are common seasonal pests and are not new.” Mango and cashew are the chief orchard crops in the north coastal region and both have been attacked by pests, with farmers and orchard lease holders watching helplessly. While mangoes are being attacked by borer insects, cashew orchards (mainly the Bapatla variety) are infested by long worms. Orchard cultivators are trying to pick fruits that are still unaffected by pests, but they are finding it difficult due to lack of labour. “The non-availability of labour has proved to be a curse for us as picking all fruits before they are eaten by pests is a herculean task,” said Ch Raju, a farmer from Bheemaboyinapalem village in Narsipatnam. Latcha Reddy, a trader from the Tuni market, said, “The situation is so bad that even if the lockdown is lifted, damage control will be limited. In fact, most lease holders, who are actually traders, have given up hopes of harvesting their fruits this year.” Senior sources in the department said that the fruit borer is a major pest in Odisha, West Bengal and coastal AP and are active from January to May. They added that fenthion spray can be used to control its spread at an early stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pests-attack-mango-cashew-orchards/articleshow/75414495.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||240 new cases; MP’s corona count 2330||Bhopal: With 240 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in the state on Monday the total number of patients in the state increased to 2,330. The state health bulletin released on Monday said a total of seven death were also reported— 3 each in Indore and Bhopal and one at Mandsaur-taking the total death toll due to Covid-19 in the state to 110. Amid the gloom, the good news is that 55 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged from different hospitals, taking the number of patients who recovered from Covid-19 in the state so far to 357. In the state, Indore reported the highest number of 196 cases, while Bhopal and Ujjain followed with 13 cases each. Ten positive cases were reported from Jabapur while five cases were reported from Raisen and one case each was reported from Hoshangabad, Dewas and Harda districts. In Harda, it was the first Covid-19 positive patient, thus taking the total number of districts affected by the disease in the state to 27. Of the total active Covid-19 positive patients in the state, 1,644 patients are said to be stable while 54 are in a serious condition. Of the 54 serious patients 43 are admitted at Indore, 5 each at Bhopal and Ujjain and one at Harda districts. So far, in the state total reports of 27,009 samples have been received and 2,165 have tested positive. Administration has declared a total of 651 localities across 27 districts as containment zones and have restricted the movement of residents living in these area , said official sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/240-new-cases-mps-corona-count-2330/articleshow/75416008.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: No relaxation of lockdown in containment zones till May 3||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lockdown norms won’t be relaxed in containment zones in Visakhapatnam till May 3, minister M Srinivasa Rao said on Monday, adding that essential commodities and emergency services would be allowed and door-to-door delivery of essentials is being arranged. Following a meeting with senior district officials, the minister said that although no new coronavirus cases have been traced to containment zones such as Narsipatnam or Revadi in Padmanabham mandal in the last 28 days, the lockdown will be executed as a precautionary measure. In Visakhapatnam district, 11,313 samples have been tested till date. Of these, 22 have come out positive while 10,310 samples have tested negative. Of the 22 people who had tested positive, 19 have been discharged. With regard to PPE for doctors and medical workers, the minister said 11,265 PPE kits have already arrived and another 8,000 kits would arrive soon. The minister further said that there are currently 16,500 rapid testing kits in the district. Srinivasa Rao added that 3,000 foreign returnees were placed in quarantine initially. Later, 1,921 more persons were quarantined, of which 360 have been discharged. Srinivasa Rao said that 139 mobile rythu bazaars have been set up, of which 70 are in containment zones. The minister said that the state government has given permission for farming and NREGS work. “Concerned tehsildar, MDO and local inspector will allow farming-related work and transportation of produce,” he said. The minister further said low-rank cops, health staff and sanitation workers who have been at the forefront of treatment paraphernalia would be tested and the process has started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-relaxation-of-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-may-3/articleshow/75414477.cms||Siva G
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||22 who tested positive in rapid test were found not infected in microbiology lab||JAIPUR: Twenty-two persons who tested positive for Covid-19 using the China-made rapid testing kits, tested negative in the PCR test at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital. The kits, which were sent to Rajasthan by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), not only tested negative on patients who had tested positive in PCR tests, but tested positive on persons who were found not infected in PCR tests. Health department officials said PCR test is a confirmatory test. “We have allowed the 22 persons, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the rapid test, to go to their homes as they have not been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the PCR test. Since rapid test is not confirmatory, we sent their samples to microbiology lab for confirmation. All of them tested negative in PCR tests done in microbiology labs,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur -I). On April 17, the health department had conducted rapid test on 60 people for the first time in Jaipur. On April 18, they further used the rapid test on 1,078 persons in 15 different areas of the city. On April 19, they tested 1,232 persons. In the rapid test, 22 were found infected with the virus. As the report showed them positive for the virus, the health authorities quarantined them to ESI hospital in Jaipur. But, now the health authorities said they have concluded that the result given by rapid test is inaccurate. The health department had received 30,000 kits of rapid tests from ICMR, free for the state government, which was procured by the Centre. Besides, 10,000 kits were purchased by the state government. The kits were supplied by Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech, which was authorized by the ICMR to supply the kits to the state government, said a health department official. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh said that the ICMR on Monday asked all the chief secretaries to stop using the kits supplied by the two Chinese companies, one of which, is Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech. The ICMR has claimed that the test kits supplied to the state government by the two companies showed variation is results. State health minister Raghu Sharma was the first one to raise the issue with the center about the test kits supplied by the company through ICMR alleging that it gave inaccurate results which was not correlating with PCR test result, which is a confirmatory test. Sharma said only 5.4% of test results of rapid test correlated with PCR results when it was done on 168 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/22-who-tested-positive-in-rapid-test-were-found-not-infected-in-microbiology-lab/articleshow/75417393.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 9,200 labourers returned to home states||Gandhinagar: Over 9,200 migrant workers have been sent back to their respective states by the state government until Monday evening. On Monday, over 2,300 migrant workers from Rajasthan were taken to the Rajasthan border, from where arrangements will be made to transport them to their respective homes. “These workers wanted to return to their homes in Rajasthan, but were unable to do so because of the lockdown, and were put up in shelter homes. After discussions with the Rajasthan government, we arranged 84 buses to take them from shelter homes to Rajasthan border. From there the Rajasthan government has made arrangements for their onward journey,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment. More than 560 of these workers were in shelter homes in Banaskantha, over 300 in Valsad, 285 in Aravalli, and 228 in Vadodara. Mittra said that the workers were screened by doctors before boarding the buses for home. “The workers will reach their homes by tomorrow,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-9200-labourers-returned-to-home-states/articleshow/75416760.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Borders closed, but many trying to walk home||VISAKHAPATNAM: A group of migrant workers who were stranded in the city due to the lockdown, imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, were spotted on National Highway-16 in the early hours of Monday trying to walk their way back home in Bobbili and Terlam in Vizianagaram district. However, Vizianagaram district officials have set up more than 40 checkposts near the district borders to prevent the entry of people without permission. Security was tightened after three coronavirus cases were reported in Srikakulam on Saturday. Vizianagaram joint collector G C Kishore Kumar said, “There is no way we can allow anyone t o enter the district without screening and mandatory quarantine. However, we are sure that the Visakhapatnam district authorities will prevent them from leaving the district.” The lockdown has left most migrant labourers without work making it difficult for them to make ends meet. Even though the district administration, a few NGOs as well as individuals have come forward to distribute cooked meals to these labourers, they want to return home for now. Brother Anil Kumar of RK Mission, Visakhapatnam, said, “They are desperate to go home. However, given the conditions and the security across the state, they may not be able to make it too far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/borders-closed-but-many-trying-to-walk-home/articleshow/75414510.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||IIT Kharagpur scholar hangs himself in hostel room||KHARAGPUR/KOLKATA: A research scholar of the mechanical engineering department at Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, committed suicide on Monday. Bhavanibhatla Kondal Rao, a resident of Andhra Pradesh, was found hanging in his room at B R Ambedkar Hall on the second floor. His parents have been informed and they are on their way to Kharagpur. Some of the students became concerned on Monday morning after Rao was not found in the dining hall for breakfast. Being alarmed, some of them rushed to his room where the door was found locked from inside. The students raised alarm and informed the officials. Even the IIT-Kgp security was called who rushed to the room. Police from Hijli outpost reached the spot and forced into the room where Rao was found unconscious. He was hanging from the ceiling with a bedsheet. He was living in a single room on the campus. The student had taken admission in 2015 and was about to complete his doctoral programme. Rao was then rushed to B C Roy Hospital on the campus and later shifted to Kharagpur sub-divisional hospital where he was declared dead. Sources said he had a record of a psychological problem and was taking assistance from the counselling centre. Rao got stuck on the campus due to the lockdown, said a source. He got married in February and his wife was at his home. “Rao had dinner with others on Sunday and there were no signs of anxiety,” said registrar B N Singh. He added, “He was a good academic performer. Police have taken the body. We have informed his parents. The time of his suicide can be confirmed only after a post-mortem.” SDPO Kharagpur, Sukomal Das, said, “The body has been sent for post mortem. No suicide note was found.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-research-scholar-ends-life-on-campus/articleshow/75416017.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||Jump in count due to rapid tracking: Jabalpur collector||JABALPUR: With one more patient testing positive for Covid-19 in Jabalpur on Monday, total number of positive patients in the district increased to 69. The new patient who was tested positive on Monday is a 46-year-old man from ward number 5 of Patan town. He had come into contact with a patient who was earlier tested positive, said sources. It is noteworthy that 54 out of these 69 positive cases have been reported in the past eight days only. The number of patients remained nearly stagnant in the city after the first patients were tested positive on March 20, and had merely increased to 15 till April 19. District collector Jabalpur, Bharat Yadav said, “The sudden spurt in cases could be attributed to the fact that we had conducted proactive surveys and identified high-risk patients. These are the test reports of the high-risk patients identified by us.” Sources said that among the new patients, 14 are related to one single source, 12 are related to one source while eight are related to another source, thus a major chunk of the new cases are related to three different sources. Chief medical and health officer, Jabalpur, Dr Manish Mishra said, “Survey of 60000 people in the containment zone was done, and of those people, 382 were identified as being the persons who had come into close contact with the Covid-19 patients. We had taken samples of each of them and sent for tests”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/spurt-in-jabalpur-cases-due-to-proactive-surveys-collector/articleshow/75416022.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||No fee hike in schools this session: UP government||The UP government on Monday issued instructions to all schools, public and private, not to hike fees in the academic session 2020-21, reports Isha Jain. The decision to this effect was taken after considering the current situation due to the lockdown in wake of new coronavirus pandemic. Parents have to pay fees according to the fee slab set for 2019-20 academic session. The order applies to all schools run by different boards, includingCBSE and CISCE. Schools who have charged the increased amount are directed to adjust the extra fees in the upcoming months. UP deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who also holds the education portfolio, made this announcement following a meeting with secondary education officials. As per the government order, schools have been instructed not to increase fees in this academic session. Parents have to pay fees according to the slab set for 2019-20 academic session. The decision has been taken considering the fact that many are grappling with reduced earnings due to the lockdown. The move will bring relief to parents who have suffered pay cuts or have low business turnover due to the lockdown. “The government’s decision has given us some respite,” said Pritam Singh, a parent, who has three school going children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-fee-hike-in-schools-this-session-govt/articleshow/75417397.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Blessing in disguise: Boom for brooms in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: With sanitation activities coming to the forefront during the pandemic, demand for brooms produced in rural pockets of north-coastal AP has seen a rise in cities such as Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. The region includes Konaseema and Uddanam with coconut plantations and tribal areas that produce the brooms. Wholesale merchants here annually supply close to 1,500 tonne of brooms to different cities. Supply, however, was halted in the wake of the lockdown and the absence of transport services. “Now, with the grant of permission for transportation of essential commodities and nationwide permits, and even resumption of Depot Goods Transport (DGT) vans of APSRTC, sale of brooms has resumed,” said K Veerababu, a wholesale coconut broom supplier from Mamidikuduru mandal in East Godavari. “On Tuesday, I transported 6,000 kg of coconut brooms to retail merchants in Hyderabad, from where the brooms would be sold to other places like Mumbai. I charge Rs 9 for each broom,” Veerababu told TOI. Another supplier, P Sriramulu from Srikakulam, said he supplied 4,000 kg of brooms to Pendurthi in the city. “We were ready to supply the brooms, but there was shortage of workers to make them. The workers were stuck at their homes due to the lockdown,” Sriramulu added. Chief medical officer of GVMC Dr KSLG Sastry said demand has increased after the virus outbreak and the frequent sanitising of public places by civic bodies. “Private contractors will take care of the supply of brooms for Vizag city,” Sastry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/blessing-in-disguise-boom-for-brooms-in-ap/articleshow/75414531.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 28, 2020||Goa||No water & power, four families in Quepem town now hungry as well||Quepem: For 28 people living in the remote parts of Quepem, the lockdown has meant no essential supplies in addition to lack of power and water. While few would raise eyebrows of scarce amenities in rural areas, the fact that four families are struggling in an urban area comes as a shock to most. And yet, these four families are barely surviving in four huts at Devosa Tank, which is within the jurisdiction of Quepem Municipal Council (QMC) and 4km from the main town. The government has even failed to provide them with toilet facilities and all are engaged in open defecation. The families comprise elderly persons, children and a person with disabilities. They are all living below the poverty line with no tap water, power supply or proper road connectivity. “For drinking water, our family members have to walk for an hour to a spring in a hillock,” said Sudhakar Gaonkar, a person with disabilities. The water pipeline is along the main road, hardly a km away but does not reach them. The 1km stretch to their homes is untarred and uneven, making it difficult for even a two-wheeler to manoeuvre. In case of an emergency, the ambulance or fire service will not be able to drive up this path. “If any one falls sick we lift them on our shoulders through the muddy pathway to reach the main road for government assistance,” said Saku Gaonkar, an elderly woman who lives in one of the four huts. “We have been living here for 56 years, but we are yet to see a bulb light up our houses,” Saku added, drawing into focus their daily struggle. The living conditions are far from ideal and it takes a toll on these families from time to time. “It is very frustrating to live without basic necessities. Various party candidates come to us but all they give us are empty promises,” Sudesh Gaokar said, who lives in a small hut with nine other family members. Eight stay in Sunita Gaonkar’s hut, another eight members in Francisco Furtado’s humble abode and another three members in Suvarna Gaonkar’s hut. The imposition of the lockdown has stalled their only source of livelihood. The laterite stone quarries, where family heads and other members worked were shut down. “We are jobless, and till date no one has come here to distribute groceries. Since Devosa ward is a scheduled tribe community all others have received groceries from councillors and from government, barring our families,” said Sudesh. When the issue was brought before Quepem mamlatdar Ramesh Gaonkar, he said that he had issued clear instructions to all panchas and councillors to bring to his notice if any person is in need of anything. “The essential supply will be delivered to these people on Tuesday morning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-water-power-four-families-in-quepem-town-now-hungry-as-well/articleshow/75417407.cms||Johnny M
April 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Tourism restrictions to continue in Agency||VISAKHAPATNAM: Restrictions on the entry of foreigners and tourists in Agency areas such as Araku and Paderu since mid-March seem to have paid off with no positive Covid-19 cases among tribals in the region. Officials, however, plan to keep in place strategies to ensure all 11 tribal mandals remain Covid-free. Araku Valley — one of the prime tourist spots of AP — may not be open to tourists and non-locals anytime soon after the lockdown ends. Speaking to TOI, project officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) DK Balaji said, “We are concerned about the end of lockdown next week because if usual entry and exit of visitors to and from the Araku Valley and other tribal areas are allowed and a single Covid case surfaces, it would cause a health havoc in the entire Agency area. Therefore, even if the lockdown is lifted, we will be continuing with our restrictions for the safety of the tribals here.” Speaking on safety measures, Balaji said, “Tourists and tourism-related activities will remain suspended for an indefinite period. Tourist spots like museums, cave, garden will continue to remain closed and hotels have been instructed not to accept bookings. Only locals or tribals who have been stranded in other towns or cities due to the lockdown or those who have some genuine business or work, will be allowed entry to the Agency areas. We may consider opening the weekly shandies or markets only for food items and perishable products ensuring social distancing is observed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tourism-restrictions-to-continue-in-agency/articleshow/75414541.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown: ‘60% low-income families have food for just a week’||AHMEDABAD: How has the extended lockdown impacted persons belonging to lower income groups? A rapid survey covering 110 household from April 10 to 22 by volunteers working with IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) reveal that about 76% of these household reported not earning regular income any more.  The survey was a follow-up of an earlier survey in first phase of lockdown where 500 city-based household were surveyed on similar questions. The surveys were initiated by professor Ankur Sarin at IIM-A. “Primary respondents in the survey are parents of the kids who are associated with IIM-A initiative of Prayas and also those who were associated with our earlier initiatives in different capacities,” said Sarin. “Aim of the survey was to assess the impact of lockdown and how the low-income families coped with the changing dynamics.” Primarily, respondents were bus, van or auto drivers, daily wage workers, plumbers, rickshaw pullers and vegetable/ fruit vendors. Many household in the survey also claimed to have reduced their daily food intake and reducing quantity of milk provided to the younger members of family. A few members mentioned that they were surviving on the khichdi from community kitchens. The earlier survey had mentioned that about 4,500 workers from other states were found in four wards. Thus, the number could be much higher for the total 48 wards of the city. These workers were found taking shelter in which are small, informal workshops that also serve as their workspaces. Abandoned without income, they had also lost access to food as they relied on street vendors for cooked food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-low-income-families-have-food-for-just-a-week/articleshow/75416780.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||Virus has mutated into 10 types, one now dominant across regions: Study||MUMBAI: The novel coronavirus, first reported in China in December 2019, has mutated into 10 different types and one of them — A2a — has nearly replaced all the others to become dominant across geographical regions, says a global study by an Indian institute. The study, by Nidhan Biswas and Partha Majumder from the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani, West Bengal, will soon be published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, a peer-reviewed medical journal published by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The novel coronavirus with the A2a mutation is highly efficient in entering human lung cells in larger numbers. The previous SARS-CoV that killed 800 and infected 8,000 people 10 years ago was also adept in entering the lungs, but not as much as A2a. It is efficient in transmission and resultantly, Covid-19 became highly prevalent across all regions, wrote the authors. The study is crucial as it provides vaccine manufacturers with a specific target. The 10 types have evolved from the ancestral type ‘O’ over four months. A2a started overtaking other types across the world by March-end. “It has became the dominant type of SARS-CoV2,” said Majumder. The NIBG researchers used the RNA sequence data shared by Covid-19 researchers from across the world in a public database, GISAID. The team used RNA sequences of 3,600 coronaviruses collected from 55 countries from December 2019 to April 6, 2020. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete CoverageWhat will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe first observation was that the coronavirus has evolved into newer types during its spread within China and the rest of the world. “The coronavirus can be classified into many types --- O, A2, A2a, A3, B, B1, and so on. Currently, there are 11 types, including type O which is the ‘ancestral type’ that originated in Wuhan,” said Majumder, distinguished professor and founding director of the institute. “To live, a virus must propagate by infecting other animals. A mutation usually disables the virus from transmitting itself,” said Majumder. However, some mutations enable the virus to transmit more efficiently and infect more persons. “Such mutant viruses increase the frequency (of transmission) and sometimes completely replace the original type of the virus. The SARS-CoV2 is doing just that,” he added. The coronavirus infection, or Covid, begins in the patient’s throat, then enters his lungs and multiplies, causing breathing difficulties. The scientists said the A2a mutation altered a component of the spike protein (the major protein on the surface) of the coronavirus, allowing it to bind more easily with the surface protein of the lung cell, said Majumder. Covid-19 has emerged as a pandemic because of the A2a type’s ability to transmit easily. Even though the sample of RNA sequences used from infected persons in India was very small (35), the study showed that A2a accounted for 47.5% of the samples. Interestingly, more persons with type A2a have no known travel history to countries outside India. For any conclusions on whether type A2a is dominant in India, more samples of RNA sequences are required, said the researchers. The study is important for the fight against Covid-19 --- to develop vaccines and also to determine the presence of co-existence of type A2a with other types in some regions. Studies are required to find out whether the co-existence is because of the ethnic composition of these regions or it’s because of their travel patterns. Researchers at the institute are trying to answer some of these questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/virus-has-mutated-into-10-types-one-now-dominant-across-regions-study/articleshow/75417399.cms||Yogita Rao
April 28, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Containment zones hit the century mark||NEW DELHI: A large area in South district was turned into a containment zone on Tuesday after two volunteers taking part in food delivery and distribution in and around Mehrauli tested positive for Covid-19. Delhi now has 100 containment zones with the authorities also sealing D Block house numbers 152 to 162 in Shaheen Bagh. Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudwara Wali Gali, Thane Wali Gali and Terminal Wali Gali in Mehrauli, housing thousands of people, have been barricaded and police personnel deployed to prevent any unauthorised movement. Even for essential items, the residents will have to depend on home delivery arranged by the authorities. Three men were helping feed the needy in the area since the nationwide lockdown was announced to fight novel coronavirus. One of them recently developed fever, prompting the authorities to test all three. While the person with fever has been hospitalised, the other positive person has been sent to a Covid care centre. The third person, who has tested negative, is kept in an institutional quarantine facility. “Nobody living inside the containment zone in Mehrauli has tested positive. But we have sealed the areas as a precautionary step as those two men were volunteering there,” said a senior South district official. All these areas are densely populated, hence it is likely that many people might have come in contact with them, he added. The family members of those found positive have been placed under home quarantine and will be tested. As per procedure, the authorities have mounted a massive screening exercise in the area, especially in the containment zone, and will test all suspected people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/containment-zones-hit-the-century-mark/articleshow/75438595.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Liquor worth Rs 14 lakh, Rs 6 lakh in cash looted from highway off-shop||KOLKATA: In the single largest liquor heist in Bengal since the start of the lockdown, branded foreign liquor worth Rs 14.1 lakh and Rs 5.9 lakh in cash were robbed from an off-shop on state highway in Howrah’s Uluberia off NH-6. The shop was shut since the start of the lockdown last month. The shop is owned by a businessman from Park Circus who said that his partner, who lives in Uluberia, had checked the shop last Thursday when everything was fine. But on Sunday, locals informed them about the broken shutter grills. The owners then discovered the break-in at Chandipur restaurant-cum-bar — 48 kilometres from Kolkata — which primarily operates as an off-shop. While several thousand bottles of single malt whiskey, expensive vodka, hundred-odd premium scotch bottles and crates of beer bottles were stolen, the only bottles left behind in the godown and on the racks were that of a few cheap whisky and country liquor. “It looks like the robbers had proper preparation as the quantity of liquor they have stolen required a number of persons and at least a truck to carry them away. They even knew where the cash was kept and had broken open the drawer to steal them,” said Shah Jahan Khan, the businessman from Park Circus and one of the partner-owners of the establishment. Khan said the store had multiple CCTVs installed but the robbers had stolen the digital video recorder (DVR) that stored the images to a hard drive. “We generally stock liquor worth Rs 22-24 lakh every weekend. We had barely sold goods worth Rs 6 lakh till March 23 following which the shop was closed. That accounts for the large stock of liquor kept in the racks as well as godown. Since there was so much crowd on the last day before lockdown came into effect, we didn’t get the scope to take cash back home and with the lockdown period kept increasing, our staff couldn’t open the store,” said Khan, whose liquor retail chain company runs a number of off-shops at some of the prominent places like Ballygunge Circular Road, Khanna crossing, Mullickbazar and Kankurgachhi. Incidentally, Sunday’s heist was the second liquor shop robbery in the Kulgachhia neighbourhood after one of the shops near the highway had allegedly reported about a similar robbery. “We have started a probe and are questioning a number of locals. It looks like the handiwork of a local gang as with nakas all around, it would be difficult for any vehicle from outside to come,” said an officer of Uluberia PS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-worth-rs-14l-rs-6l-in-cash-looted-from-highway-off-shop/articleshow/75416032.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||In Madhya Pradesh, 55 Covid-19 cases and 3 deaths recorded every day||BHOPAL: Coronavirus is claiming three lives every day in Madhya Pradesh. In fact, MP is third in the country when it comes to Covid-19 deaths, after Maharashtra and Gujarat. Number of corona-positive cases in MP is less compared to Rajasthan and Delhi, but the number of deaths in state is far more than the total number of deaths in Delhi and Rajasthan (which was 95) while MP recorded 110 deaths. The state has recorded an average of 55 corona-positive cases per day in the past 38 days after first positive case of coronavirus found in Jabalpur on 20 March, which was also MP’s first. Till Sunday evening, Maharashtra recorded 342 deaths, followed by Gujarat at 151, MP stands at third position with 110 casualties while Delhi recorded 54 deaths and Rajasthan recorded 41 deaths. The number of corona-positive cases in Delhi and Rajasthan were 2918 and 2185, respectively - both the states had more positive cases than MP. But the state has seen more deaths than total number of deaths reported in Delhi and Rajasthan. Number of corona-positive patients in Maharashtra and Gujarat was 8068 and 3301, respectively. On Sunday the state crossed the mark of 2000 corona-positive cases and 100th death. Roughly 5 per cent people who tested positive in MP, died, but 15 per cent patients recovered. On both parameters, MP falls short of the national average of over 21 per cent recovery and 3 per cent deaths. On March 25, MP recorded its first Covid-19 death after a 65-year-old woman from Ujjain succumbed to the disease in Indore. Till Sunday, the administration has declared 617 localities in 26 districts as containment zones. Survey of patients in these zones is over and movement is completely restricted. The number of total corona-positive cases in MP rose to 2165 on Monday. It was 2090, a day earlier. Total number of deaths in state was 110 till Monday evening. Number of corona-positive cases in Indore was 1207, Bhopal 428, Ujjain 119, Jabalpur 69, Khargone 61 and 36 each in Dhar and Khandwa. Figures are sufficient to indicate that lockdown would not open in parts of MP on May 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-mp-55-covid-cases-and-3-deaths-recorded-every-day/articleshow/75416049.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Sattari mom-of-five goes into early labour, delivers one of her twins in 108-ambulance||PANAJI: A 32-year-old Sattari woman’s fourth delivery on Monday turned out to be full of surprises for all involved. For one, she never expected to go into labour during the lockdown and that too, more than two weeks before her due date. Secondly, she didn’t make it to the hospital in time, delivering one of her twins in the ambulance itself. “As soon as we found that the baby was crowning, we decided to stop the ambulance and deliver the child,” emergency medical technician (EMT) Shreetan Kudnekar, said. The baby boy was born in Assonora while the ambulance was en route to the district hospital at Mapusa. Staff nurse Sali Sawant and multi-tasking staffer Seema Parit from the Valpoi community health centre assisted in the delivery. “The delivery took around 20 minutes and was a challenge to handle in the ambulance. It was, however, a wonderful experience and my first,” Kudnekar said. The woman’s husband and mother-in-law were also present in the ambulance when the baby was delivered. GVK EMRI officials say the paramedics and ambulance staff used personal protective equipment (PPE) as a safety precaution, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The second baby was delivered in the Mapusa district hospital, where the mother of five is now recovering. EMTs have delivered 23 babies in ambulances as well as in homes of patients during the lockdown. “We are proud to present yet another stirring story by 108 ambulance. Twins were successfully delivered in the ambulance by Valpoi staff…,” health minister Vishwajit Rane tweeted. In October, TOI had reported another instance of twins safely delivered in an ambulance while it was proceeding from Cansua to Hospicio, Margao. Paramedic staff of the 108 ambulance service have assisted in the delivery of 877 babies till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sattari-mom-of-five-goes-into-early-labour-delivers-one-of-her-twins-in-108-ambulance/articleshow/75417416.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Brace for more thunderstorms in Covid-19 season, say weathermen||KOLKATA: A low cloud cover shrouded Kolkata in a haze on Monday morning even as a steady drizzle drenched the city. With the Covid-19 pandemic looming large, the city may receive more thunderstorms over the next four days, said Met officials. The city received 9.8mm rain on Monday. A cyclonic circulation in Bangladesh triggered the cloud cover and rain on Monday. It may precipitate more showers and even a squall in the course of the week, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). “In fact, the whole of south Bengal and eastern India may receive rain and thunderstorms this week. Apart from the circulation in Bangladesh, there is another one over central India and a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal, which is supplying moisture to the systems. We expect both circulations to intensify over the next few days and trigger thunderstorms. Kolkata could receive a squall,” said RMC director, GK Das. A squall had lashed the city with a wind speed of 70 km/hr last Thursday evening. It led to scattered rain in some parts of the city that remained warm and humid through the day. It was the fourth squall to strike the city since April 11. “This is the period when norwesters happen. Even though we had none during the first half of the month, systems have now started building up and thunderstorms are in the offing,” said a weather scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/brace-for-more-thunderstorms-in-covid-season-say-weathermen/articleshow/75416059.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Two held for trying to loot elderly woman in Ajwa||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Monday arrested two persons in connection with attempt to loot case that was registered at Bapod police station. The cops said that the accused had planned to loot Kokila Upadhyay, 69, a resident of Ajwa Road on Sunday. According to the police, Akhil Suthar and his girlfriend had planned to loot Upadhyay when she was alone at her home. Suthar first send his girlfriend to do a recce of the woman's home. She told the victim that the air-conditioner in her home needs maintenance. Upadhyay asked the girl to send in someone for maintenance work. Suthar went to the woman’s home but saw a man there who was stay at her home on rent. He left and returned again after some time. Suthar then pushed the woman and tried to loot her gold chain and ring. But Upadhyay raised alarm following which he fled. The crime branch nabbed Suthar and a woman on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-trying-to-loot-elderly-woman-in-ajwa/articleshow/75415863.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||VHP seeks support of President to bring culprits to book||LUCKNOW: With an aim to mobilise Hindus and seers over the Palghar lynchings, Vishwa Hindu Parishad will launch a nationwide campaign to seek the President’s intervention to bring the culprits behind the incident to book. Two seers of Juna Akhara and their driver were lynched by a mob in Maharashtra’s Palghar district on April 16, triggering a nationwide uproar. The campaign will be launched on April 28, which is also the birth anniversary of seers Adi Shankaracharya and Ramanujacharya. VHP national spokesperson Vinod Bansal said they expect maximum participation of seers from UP where most of the akharas are based. Seers from Ayodhya, Varanasi, Prayagraj and Mathura will also be mobilised, he added. The seers will issue a joint appeal to Hindus while sending a memorandum to the President, through district magistrates in their respective districts, seeking justice for the victims.  “The idea is to mobilise seers as well as the entire Hindu society vis-à-vis Palghar incident which has raised question over the safety of seers in Maharashtra,” Bansal told TOI. VHP sources said the outfit will appeal to Hindus to observe fast and organise havan in their homes while jointly dispatching a memorandum to President of India on Tuesday. The move is seen as VHP’s attempt to flex its muscles against Shiv Sena which snapped ties with BJP to form an alliance government with NCP and Congress in Maharashtra in November last year. Sources said VHP was in no mood to let go the Palghar incident while attempting to rumble the Shiv Sena on its home turf. VHP secretary general Milind Parande said besides Palghar, there was a murderous attack on seers in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district too. Blaming Christian missionaries and leftists behind such attacks, Parande said it was worrying that the main perpetrators of Palghar and Hoshiarpur have still not been arrested. “The Punjab government should immediately arrest the criminals and ensure they get severe punishment,” he said. Parande claimed Hindu seers are being attacked in regions where religious conversions by Christian missionaries and non-democratic leftist activities have intensified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vhp-seeks-support-of-prez-to-bring-culprits-to-book/articleshow/75417405.cms||Pankaj Shah
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Flout rules and lose your liquor licence: Telangana minister||HYDERABAD: Excise minister V Srinivas Goud has warned wine shop owners of heavy penalties if they fail to adhere to lockdown. The minister said that government would not hesitate to cancel licenses under the Excise Act if shop owners resort to illegal sale of liquor. The minister held a review meeting with the officials through video conference and said that many people, who are addicted to liquor are now consuming Gudumba and this practice should be stopped immediately. He asked officials to keep a watch on suspected areas. Goud said that excise deputy commissioners, excise superintendents and SHOs would be made accountable and action would be taken against them if they fail to stop illegal sale of liquor. He also warned the field level excise officials of stringent action if they fail to discharge their duties diligently. The excise task force teams were strictly told to book the cases on the violators. Goud said that during the lockdown period, the excise department sealed 2,211 A4 shops and 1,030 bars. As many as 40 cases were booked and 74 persons were arrested on licence violation charges. The department had also arrested 718 persons, who were accused of selling unauthorised liquor and seized 5,969 litres of IML and 4,495 litres of beer. The department is strictly enforcing the rules and is conducting raids all over in the state. As on Monday, 1,624 number of cases were booked on ID sellers and manufacturers, 1,440 persons were arrested, 7,319 litres of ID liquor was seized and 1,25,544 litres of fermented jaggery was destroyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flout-rules-lose-your-liquor-licence-min/articleshow/75416807.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Homecoming for Marella seamen today, to be tested||Panaji: Sixty Goan crew members from the Marella Discovery will return to Goa on Tuesday evening, ports secretary P S Reddy told TOI on Monday. “The Goa government has been working very hard and has cleared all the hurdles,” he said. “We received the police clearance to bring the boys back to Goa. They are fit to travel now, but since it’s not advisable to travel at night, they will leave on Tuesday morning in three buses and be brought straight to the quarantine centre in Panaji.” “They will be quarantined for 14 days and tested again before they are sent home. This is for their own safety as well as that of their parents and families,” Reddy said. He also said that the crew would not have to pay for the 14-day quarantine. “The government has taken care of that,” Reddy said. Five members of the crew are originally from Karnataka, and since they prefer to return to their families there, will not be coming to Goa, he said. The state government swung into action last week after the captain of the Marella Discovery on Tuesday said he would proceed to Europe with the Indian crew as all his efforts with the Indian government, local agents and politicians failed. That evening, the government issued the SOP for sign-on and sign-off, after which the Indian crew were disembarked, tested, and sent to hotels. After the sign-off, Marella Discovery proceeded to Europe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/homecoming-for-marella-seamen-today-to-be-tested/articleshow/75417410.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Police distribute sanitary pads to 30k migrant women stuck in camps||Bengaluru: With most establishments downing their shutters and little money in hand, getting hygiene products wasn’t that easy for migrant women. The pressing need was addressed timely by Bengaluru police who provided sanitary pads to almost 30,000 migrant women across the city. A sanitation issue which is often ignored or brushed under a carpet was highlighted after Rohini Katoch Sepat, deputy commissioner of police (south division) and Nisha James, deputy commissioner of police, administration, visited two migrant labour camps in Talghattapura last week. “These women did not have access to sanitary pads. It’s natural that in times like these, such needs are not easily met,” Nisha James told TOI. Nisha discussed the matter with her seniors and asked eight nodal officers of different divisions to find out the number of women in these camps and assess their requirement. Soon, the city police found out that there were approximately 29,990 women living in 657 labour camps across the eight divisions in the city. Thus, began the sanitary pads distribution drive, seamlessly coordinated through a WhatsApp group. The pads were donated by P&G (30,000 packs), Fresh to Home (30,000 packs) and city-based Stonesoup (200). The department covered the requirement of these women for the next two months. Kathyayini Alva, police inspector and nodal officer of east division, said these women have become accustomed to use of sanitary pads after moving to the city for work. “Since the lockdown came into effect, these people had no work, which meant no income, and naturally they were unable to purchase pads. We’ve distributed 14 pads per head for over 1,100 women in east division alone,” Kathyayini said. On Monday, they distributed 11,640 pads to women in slums also. Nodal officers like inspector Hemalatha R (south) and sub-inspector Rohini T (north) also educate women about menstrual hygiene. Training was given to the women labourers in use and disposal of sanitary pads. “Migrant women were forced to use cloth due to lack of sanitary pads. With no place to even bathe, it’s a huge problem for most women here. To wash the cloth during abrupt rains was also an issue. As soon as the labourers see a Hoysala vehicle approaching, they would line up for groceries. One of those times, we asked only women to gather. We held a class for them on how to dispose the pads in paper and put them all in a bag for the BBMP to collect,” Rohini said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-distribute-sanitary-pads-to-30k-migrant-women-stuck-in-camps/articleshow/75416318.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||State aims to test up to 1,000 swabs per day: Rane||Panaji: The state government is trying to speed up its testing process by testing 450-1,000 swabs each day. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday said the government is procuring the latest PCR machine that will be able to conduct both, swab and anti-body testing. “The machine shall be used for antibody testing when necessary,” Rane said. The government’s virology lab at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, will function 24x7 to cater to maximum testing in the fight against Covid-19, he added. Six people were placed under hospital isolation at the GMC, taking the total to 10. All 113 test reports came back negative even as the government sent 147 additional samples for testing on Monday. It is awaiting 35 test reports. While three people were placed under facility quarantine, there are presently 12 people each quarantined at Mayem Residency and Margao Residency, 11 at Mapusa Residency, and four at Old Goa Residency. Four cured patients are under seven-day home quarantine after having completed seven days of institution quarantine, while three have already completed both.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-aims-to-test-up-to-1000-swabs-per-day-rane/articleshow/75417443.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees its highest daily toll at 27, Mumbai its second highest at 12||MUMBAI: The state recorded 27 deaths on Monday, its highest in a single day since the outbreak of novel coronavirus. Maharashtra now has 369 lives lost to the infection since it detected its first case on March 9. Mumbai recorded 15 deaths on Monday, its second-highest single-day toll, taking the overall number of casualties for the city to 219. The highest single-day deaths for Mumbai was 16 recorded on April 12, while the state’s previous high of 25 deaths was reported on April 9. 70% of state’s cases from city, six deaths in Amravati townOf the 522 new cases recorded in the state on Monday, Mumbai contributed 70% or 369. The case fatality rate in the state and city remained almost unchanged from Sunday at 4.29% and 3.79% respectively. Of the 27 deaths, six were reported from Amaravati city, but these deaths took place between April 20 and 25 and were added to the state’s tally on Monday. Four deaths were reported from Pune city and one each from Jalgaon and Aurangabad. The coronavirus fear reached Mantralaya too as four housekeeping staff tested positive. They were part of a private agency staff. In Mumbai, where for the second day in a row over 300 cases have been recorded, containment areas have further gone up. With the addition of 176 zones on Monday, the number has touched 1,212. It was 1,036 till Saturday. Civic officials, however, said around 231 have been released too. Three doctors involved in screening locals from Dharavi area, especially from the five high-risk zones, tested positive. With 13 new cases reported, the count of cases from the area now stands at 288, including 14 deaths. Two more community health volunteers too, who were involved in door-to-door surveillance, have tested positive. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said the state was gearing up its infrastructure to tackle the rise in cases. He said the state currently has 1,677 hospitals as part of its three-tier treatment set-up, and cumulatively has 1.76 lakh isolation beds and 7,248 ICU beds in these hospitals. He said the state was prepared in case there was a spike in cases in May, as has been predicted by some mathematical projections. “As on Monday, there are nearly 80,000 PPEs in the state and 2.82 lakh N-95 masks. We are very well-equipped to handle the situation. But our focus is to increase the time it takes for the cases to double and also to ensure people report to hospitals early so treatment can be started on time,” Tope said. The state in its analysis said of the 27 deaths reported, 15 were of men and 12 of women. 13 of the victims were aged over 60 years, eight were from the 40-59 age-group, and six were under 40 years old. A total of 22 out of 27 patients (81%) had high-risk comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma, heart disease, TB etc. One of them was an HIV patient and one was suffering from cancer. Maharashtra has discharged a total of 1,282 patients, of which 94 went home on Monday. Five BEST staffers and 3 of their spouses tested positive. 13 BEST workers have been infected so far. The state will pay compensation of Rs 50 lakh to kin of any government staffer who dies of Covid-19 while working towards combating coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-sees-its-highest-daily-toll-27-city-its-second-highest-at-12/articleshow/75417414.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Logistics lag plagues industry||Ahmedabad: Even though more than 550 units in industrial clusters around Ahmedabad got permission to resume operations from late last week, only a scant few have been able to resume production. While some are still struggling with sanitizing premises and getting lockdown passes for employees, others who could resume production have done so barely at 10% capacity and uncertainty looms over ramping it up, without logistics support as transport remains crippled. “There are several problems particularly with regard to issuing of lockdown passes and transportation. Without logistics support, industrial operations will not be able to resume completely. Many units do not have warehousing facilities and are dependent on transport for dispatching finished goods and procuring raw materials,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). “Prompt steps need to be taken in this direction so that industrial activity resumes at the earliest. If industrial operations do not resume, not only the economy will suffer, but even the workers who are currently out of jobs will face adverse impact,” Parikh added. Echoing a similar view, Shailesh Patwari, past president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), said, “Shipping raw materials to factories and shipping out finished goods is crucial and while some units have resumed production, smooth transportation is crucial to operations.” Estimates by transporters indicate that less than 10% transport vehicles are plying on roads in Gujarat at this point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/logistics-lag-plagues-industry/articleshow/75416796.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Transport woes hit supply chains in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Even though the state government has permitted the movement of transport vehicles carrying essential and non-essential goods, transporters across the state are facing problems. Estimates by Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA) suggest that less than 10% of transport vehicles are plying currently, and as a result, supply chain woes continue for even essential commodities including both FMCG products and medicines. Chemists have indicated that the supply of requested medicines and FMCG products is not adequate or timely. Even FMCG distributors are facing manpower crunch and shortage of vehicles. “Despite instructions from the state government, the movement of transport vehicles is not smooth with drivers having lockdown passes being stopped at various checkpoints by police and not allowed to move,” Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA, said. “Moreover, opening up of transport godowns is another concern. Lot of stocks of essential commodities are locked in these godowns. “Clear instructions have been passed on to police that no goods carrier should be unnecessarily harassed,” said Shivanand Jha, DGP, Gujarat. “They have been told to facilitate the movement of goods carriers on the highway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/transport-woes-hit-supply-chains/articleshow/75416813.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||Online classes not up to the mark, finds new study||BHOPAL: Online classes launched by educational institutions have failed to impress students. A study conducted by a former MANIT faculty, Professor Sheetal Sharma, has concluded that students prefers offline classes. She suggested that there is a need to train teachers and improve infrastructure before conducting online classes. Principal in an architecture college, Prof Sharma, said her study was based on the interactions done by both Indian and foreign students of different streams. “I had distributed an online form to the students where they were asked to share their experiences. Almost all students felt that offline classes are better than online classes,” said Prof Sharma. Asked about the problems faced by students in online classes, Prof Sharma said, “Several students, belonging to rural areas and studying in cities, have gone back to their homes. Now, they face poor internet and other issues. Many of the students live in remote areas or in places where the internet connection is poor and they are not able to attend the online classes properly, but their attendance is marked as present in the class. At the end, it is a compete loss for them.” A few students complained that there was no fixed time for the online classes and, several times, they were informed at the last moment about the class, due which they could not attend. Distraction during classes was another major issue for students. “Several times, it is more a one-way communication class as the teacher completes the class without getting questions from students. So, online classes end like just a lecture and course completing exercise,” said Prof Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/online-classes-not-up-to-the-mark-finds-new-study/articleshow/75416080.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Girl posts fake picture of tiger on street, family in soup||Nagpur: Posting a fake picture of a tiger entering a locality ‘just for fun’ to a friend has landed family of an 18-year-old girl from Paratwada in trouble. The picture went viral on social media, causing scare among the local residents. The girl, residing near Waghmata temple on Paratwada-Anjangaon road, had sent the picture to her friend 3-4 days ago. The edited image gives an impression that a tiger is walking on the road. The picture looks real with some trees in the background and vehicles parked on the deserted street. On April 25, scared residents started inquiring with forest officials after the picture went viral on social media. “I was surprised as the road and buildings seen in the picture were real but the tiger was an odd man out,” said Pradeep Bhad, range forest officer (RFO), Paratwada. “During inquiry, we traced the building from which the picture was clicked and zeroed in on the family. The girl’s father admitted his daughter did it out of excitement and was sorry for that,” said Bhad. Bhad has summoned the girl’s father on Tuesday to record his statement. “Sometime jokes take a serious turn. The girl’s funny trick not only embarrassed people but it also sent wrong message about tigers turning to human localities,” Bhad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/girl-posts-fake-picture-of-tiger-on-street-family-in-soup/articleshow/75416066.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Transport woes hit supply chains in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Even though the state government has permitted the movement of transport vehicles carrying essential and non-essential goods, transporters across the state are facing problems. Estimates by Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA) suggest that less than 10% of transport vehicles are plying currently, and as a result, supply chain woes continue for even essential commodities including both FMCG products and medicines. Chemists have indicated that the supply of requested medicines and FMCG products is not adequate or timely. Even FMCG distributors are facing manpower crunch and shortage of vehicles. “Despite instructions from the state government, the movement of transport vehicles is not smooth with drivers having lockdown passes being stopped at various checkpoints by police and not allowed to move,” Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA, said. “Moreover, opening up of transport godowns is another concern. Lot of stocks of essential commodities are locked in these godowns. “Clear instructions have been passed on to police that no goods carrier should be unnecessarily harassed,” said Shivanand Jha, DGP, Gujarat. “They have been told to facilitate the movement of goods carriers on the highway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/transport-woes-hit-supply-chains/articleshow/75418809.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Surat||Transport woes hit supply chains in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Even though the state government has permitted the movement of transport vehicles carrying essential and non-essential goods, transporters across the state are facing problems. Estimates by Akhil Gujarat Truck Transporters’ Association (AGTTA) suggest that less than 10% of transport vehicles are plying currently, and as a result, supply chain woes continue for even essential commodities including both FMCG products and medicines. Chemists have indicated that the supply of requested medicines and FMCG products is not adequate or timely. Even FMCG distributors are facing manpower crunch and shortage of vehicles. “Despite instructions from the state government, the movement of transport vehicles is not smooth with drivers having lockdown passes being stopped at various checkpoints by police and not allowed to move,” Mukesh Dave, president, AGTTA, said. “Moreover, opening up of transport godowns is another concern. Lot of stocks of essential commodities are locked in these godowns. “Clear instructions have been passed on to police that no goods carrier should be unnecessarily harassed,” said Shivanand Jha, DGP, Gujarat. “They have been told to facilitate the movement of goods carriers on the highway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/transport-woes-hit-supply-chains/articleshow/75418810.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav 'attacks' UP government over Naveen Jain’s letter||LUCKNOW: Taking a jibe at government’s much publicised ‘Agra Model’ to tackle coronavirus, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said the poor healthcare conditions might turn the Taj City into India’s Wuhan. He cited reports of poor upkeep of isolation and quarantine centres and increasing number of coronavirus infected patients. “In the fight against coronavirus, chief minister’s much publicised Agra Model has been questioned by Agra mayor who claims that the model might prove to be a disaster and turn the Taj City into Wuhan,” Akhilesh said in a social media post. Hours after Akhilesh’s statement, the state government issued a video statement of Agra mayor Naveen Jain thanking CM Yogi Adityanath for taking cognizance of his letter regarding the status of pandemic in Taj City. “The CM has appointed two senior officers to supervise the government efforts to fight coronavirus. Ever since the two senior officers have been posted, the situation in Agra is improving,” Jain said. In an apparent reference to videos on social media showing how health workers were throwing foods packets and water bottles at patients locked inside a quarantine centre, Akhilesh said such poor upkeep of these facilities is only adding to the woes of the people and is even life threatening for them. Akhilesh also attacked the BJP for its approach towards the sufferings of farmers who have been hit by rains and thunderstorms thrice in the recent weeks. “Every time the crops are destroyed by rains or hailstorm, the chief minister orders for assessment of losses to the farmers and payment of compensation but nothing reaches the farmers,” he said. The former UP CM said agriculturists were already facing a tough time and the latest spell of rains and hail on Sunday has come as the proverbial last straw for them. “Help has to be extended to farmers immediately. Their leftover produce must be purchased by the government at a higher price and they should be given interest free loans if the government wants the farmers to be in a position to cultivate their fields for the next sowing season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jains-letter-akhileshs-ammo-to-attack-govt/articleshow/75417418.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Case against retired Major for posting fake news||HYDERABAD: A retired Major of the Army was booked for posting fake news on a microblogging site using a morphed image of Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar. The social media monitoring team of Cyberabad police noticed the post from a particular twitter account containing morphed news clipping with Cyberabad commissioner’s photo.  “The fake news clipping posted by the accused contains morphed newspaper article. The original news article heading was replaced by the accused with a fake heading- Cyberabad Police Bans the Sale of Oranges in the City. He also attached a morphed photo of senior police officers of Cyberabad commissionerate,” Cyberabad police’s cyber crime inspector K Srinivas said. As the post containing morphed news clipping was likely to promote enmity between different religions and prejudicial to the maintenance of communal harmony, a criminal case has been registered on the twitter handle operator, Major Neelam Singh (Retd). “We have written to twitter seeking details of the accused. Currently, the post has been taken down,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-retd-major-for-posting-fake-news/articleshow/75416829.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Chicalim bio panel protects ‘tisreo’ habitat||Panaji: A few fish species in Goa’s estuaries are showing signs of rejuvenation, but unsustainable harvesting of the resources has left biodiversity management committees (BMC) worrying that the broodstock may be wiped out. Worried about the impact of largescale extraction of clams (tisreo) in the Chicalim bay, the village committee members managed to prevent a crowd from entering the waters on Monday. “We couldn’t do much to stop the crowd of over 400 persons from nearby villages on Sunday. Today we took police help to block them,” chairman of Chicalim BMC Rui M Costa Araujo said. The depleted populations of shellfish and other species — clams in Chicalim and cylindrical-shaped shellfish in Quelossim after a few years — have resurfaced due to stoppage of mining activities. The lockdown norms came handy to stop the haphazard fishing. “While the clam crop is still growing, people gathering in a small area was dangerous,” former Chicalim sarpanch, Marie Mascarenhas said. Others suggested that biodiversity managers look beyond merely stopping the harvesting activity. “This is an excellent opportunity to revive our heritage. But we need to work out a comprehensive plan for sustainable enjoyment of this restorative effort,” parish priest of Chicalim Fr Bolmax Pereira, who did his dotoral researcher on wetlands of Goa, said. Cyril Fernandes, chairman of biodiversity heritage site committee, said, “Protecting this endangered habit through a scientific plan is the is the need of the hour.” Araujo assured of efforts to chalk out sustainable extraction by locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalim-bio-panel-protects-tisreo-habitat/articleshow/75417445.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Australians stranded in Kolkata to fly back home today||KOLKATA: For the first time since Australia and India announced lockdown and stopped flight operations, a passenger aircraft will fly from Kolkata to Sydney on Tuesday evening, carrying 140-odd Australians stranded in the city and other parts of eastern India for over a month. Till now, Armenians, Americans, Japanese, Malaysians, British, Germans, Swiss, other European Union citizens and Bhutanese have been airlifted from Kolkata. Indians, however, still remain stranded in various countries and the government has been mum on their repatriation. “Covid-19 has left many people stranded around the world. The Australian government has been busy organising and supporting return flights and assisting our nationals in need overseas, including in the east and northeast of India,” said Andrew Ford, Australia’s consul-general in Kolkata. More than 140 Australians are expected to board the flight that will depart Kolkata on Tuesday evening. “It is quite possible that there will be no more flights back to Australia from the city for some time. Australians in the east and northeast may need to stay where they have been for some months,” the consul general told TOI. Meanwhile, Bangladesh high commission is planning to facilitate the return of its citizens who agree to air travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/australians-stranded-in-city-to-fly-back-home-today/articleshow/75416098.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Duo held for selling liquor illegally in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police arrested two men for selling liquor illegally and launched a hunt for two media persons who were accomplices of the accused. During vehicle checking on Om Sakthi Temple Road at SV Colony in Tirupur on April 25 night, Tirupur north police sub-inspector V Rajendraprasath and his team intercepted V Manimuthu, 46, of the same area while he was walking suspiciously with a gunny bag. On interrogation, police found 10 brandy bottles (each 180 ml) in the gunny bag. Manimuthu is working as a supervisor in a vest company in Tirupur. With no job due to the lockdown, Manimuthu decided to make money by selling liquor illegally. He bought 48 brandy bottles (180 ml) for Rs 12,400 from R Manikandan, 39, of Bridgeway Colony in Tirupur and sold 38 bottles for Rs 13,300. The cops seized the remaining bottles and arrested Manimuthu. Police arrested Manikandan on the same day night. Manikandan informed police that he bought 106 bottles of liquor (each 180 ml) from two media persons Farooq and Noswath and he sold each bottle for Rs 250.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/duo-held-for-selling-liquor-illegally/articleshow/75416096.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||NLP, laughter therapy organised for conservancy workers||MADURAI: In an attempt to motivate the conservancy workers involved in covid-19 prevention work and to help them overcome their stress, neuro linguistic programming (NLP) and laughter therapy was launched recently for the workers under Virudhunagar municipality. Speaking to TOI, K Chinnaraja,50, a professional salesmanship trainer and president of an NGO ‘Viruthai Vizhuthugal’ said that while interacting with a few conservancy workers he learnt that their workload has increased and needed motivation. Subsequently, he approached the Virudhunagar municipal commissioner S Parthasarathy for organizing a session who readily accepted for the same. “NLP and laughter therapy would help the workers to relax and help them gain positive energy in their subconscious mind. This would also help them overcome their work stress and motivate them,” explained Chinnaraja. After the session on Saturday, the workers expressed that they felt refreshed and relaxed, he added. The municipal commissioner Parthasarathy explained that the conservancy workers, apart from their regular duty of garbage collection are also involved in spraying disinfectants in Virudhunagar town. “Since all the 180 workers are given additional work and are working even during Sunday’s, they might be stressed. Though the sanitary workers are given safety gears such as gloves and masks every day, they would have a fear of getting infected. This session would not only help overcome stress but also be a motivation for them as they are rendering an effective service during such an emergency situation,” he said. While the session for the first batch of 40 workers is completed, more sessions would be organized including the one on Tuesday, said Parthasarathy. A conservancy worker R Vijayapandi said that the workers are on the filed from 5.30am till 7.30pm every day as against the usual working time of 6am to 11am and 2pm to 5pm every day. “Though all the workers carry out the work in a dedicated manner, the long hours of work leads to stress. This session was a great initiative by the officials as it made us all relaxed and motivated us to work even harder,” said Vijayapandi. Organizing such sessions on a weekly basis would be helpful for the sanitary workers, he suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nlp-laughter-therapy-organised-for-conservancy-workers/articleshow/75416833.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 woman from Botad gives birth to healthy baby||RAJKOT: Motherhood for this 29-year-old Covid-19 positive woman Nazma Salot has come as a mixed bag of blessing. In her ninth month of pregnancy, when she was waiting for her baby to arrive, the news of her testing Covid positive arrived first. Therefore, on April 24, Salot was shifted to a temporary hospital created in the guest house of Sarangpur temple, but immediately the next day she had to be transferred to Bhavnagar’s Sir T hospital in a critical condition. Here, she gave birth to a healthy baby on Monday, which was immediately separated from the mother for fear of infection. And now, unlike all mothers, this new mother has to console herself seeing her newborn only through the virtual window — that of a cellphone. Doctors are taking extreme precaution for the infant and is fed mother’s milk only after it is checked for bacterial infection and goes through proper sterilization process. Meanwhile, they have also sent the baby’s sample for Covid-19 test and the result is expected by Tuesday. It all happened within 24 hours, when the hospital administration got news of the Salot being transferred there for deliver. A labour room and an operation theater was created in the isolation ward to perform C-section on the woman, who also had high blood pressure. The operation on time saved both the mother and the child. The baby boy weighing 2.8kg is healthy and normal, said hospital sources. For Salot, her journey to the Bhavnagar hospital in the ambulance too was fraught with danger as she started getting labour pains midway near Vallabhipur. Talking to TOI, Hardik Patel, a hospital administrator said that a doctor guided the emergency medical technician (EMT) in the ambulance over phone while they sent a doctor to Vallabhipur. “We also alerted the police to clear roads so that the ambulance could reach the hospital at the earliest,” he said. “The delivery was very risky because of her co-morbid condition and Covid infection. However, the hard work of doctors and nursing staff resulted in a happy ending,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-woman-gives-birth-to-healthy-baby/articleshow/75414648.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||75 per cent private nursing homes open, BMC warns the rest of action||MUMBAI: In an inspection carried out to see if all private nursing homes and dispensaries in the city were working, the civic health department found 1,068 (75%) of the 1,416 nursing homes and 89 of the 99 dialysis centres were operational. Last week, the BMC chief had directed all hospitals to start providing medical services as non-Covid patients were facing difficulty in accessing healthcare. Action pertaining to cancellation of licences is likely against non-compliant hospitals. “We don’t want to take such harsh action, but if they don’t follow orders despite repeated requests, we will be forced to do so,” said a civic official. Fear of infection & travel woes pose hurdles for pvt hosp staffIn a circular issued last week, BMC asked all hospitals to provide medical services so that non-covid patients are not inconvenienced. Civic body officials said there have been several instances where people couldn’t avail of health facilities in time.  “Since provision of medical services falls under essential services under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, all private practitioners are hereby directed to reopen their clinics immediately to provide medical assistance to patients,” stated a circular issued by the BMC last week. Officials said they had also made it clear that if a clinic is located in residential premises and society members cause any hindrance to the private practitioner in discharging their duty, action will be taken against them as well. However, with over 300 healthcare workers affected in the city, providing medical services has become a challenge, say nursing homes and hospitals. The owner of a private nursing home in Goregaon said eight of his nurses and cleaners have refused to come to the hospital till trains services start. “They are wary of travelling in BEST buses, which mostly ferry essential service providers. A few of them said they would work if I can provide Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs). I am trying to find a vendor who will sell it at a reasonable cost,” he said. A gynaecologist in Jogeshwari said she has managed to carry out a handful of deliveries since her staffers had to come to the hospital on foot. “The lockdown has created huge problems in terms of travel for healthcare workers. That is one of the biggest reasons why small and mid-level centres are finding it difficult to stay open,” she said. Dr Lalit Kapoor of the Association of Medical Consultants said several staffers face resistance from their families and neighbours. Dr Gautam Bhansali of Bombay Hospital said only one- third or a little more staffers are showing up for work in most centres. “There is fear since so many healthcare workers have tested positive. We are trying to motivate them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/75-pvt-nursing-homes-open-bmc-warns-the-rest-of-action/articleshow/75417421.cms||Richa Pinto
April 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Generator fumes snuff out Peelamedu resident’s life||COIMBATORE: A 49-year-old Peelamedu resident suffocated to death on Monday after inhaling fumes from a generator. His 47-year-old brother and 80-year-old father are fighting for their lives at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). Police identified the deceased as S Balaji of Hudco Colony in Peelamedu. “He was staying with his father Sreedharan, mother S Padmavalli and younger brother S Murali in a rented house at Hudco Colony. Sreedharan, who had gone to the restroom around 2am, became unconscious. His sons rushed to his help but also fainted. Padmavalli, who found the trio motionless, alerted neighbours,” a police officer said. Though the neighbours rushed them to CMCH, doctors could not save Balaji. While Balaji was unemployed, Murali work as a manager in a watch showroom. The brothers were bachelors. Forensic experts who inspected the scene said that the trio died from carbon monoxide poisoning. “They had breathed the toxic gas emitted by a generator kept in the neighbouring building, which was leased by an internet service provider,” the officer told TOI. “The generator had kicked automatically after the area suffered a power outage.” The Peelamedu (law & order) police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/generator-fumes-snuff-out-peelamedu-residents-life/articleshow/75416105.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||10 Indonesian Tablighis held in Mumbai for ‘attempt to murder’||MUMBAI: Bandra police recently arrested 10 of the 12 Indonesians who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi and travelled to Mumbai on March 23. After they were tracked down to a building in Bandra (West), all six couples were put under institutional quarantine at a hotel. Two men tested positive for Covid-19 and have been quarantined till May 8. The other 10, including six women, were taken into custody after their negative reports were received on April 23. All 12 had allegedly not followed the lockdown orders and visited a few mosques, including one in Dharavi, thus attracting charges under IPC sections for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and attempt to murder, said the police. Indonesians stayed at 3 places in city before Bandra They were found to have roamed around in the city and attended prayer sessions at mosques. This is the main reason why they have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 304 for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, 307 for attempt to murder, 188 for disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant and 269 for a negligent act, besides the Epidemic Diseases Act, a Bandra police officer told TOI. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe case was registered in the first week of April against the six couples after police received a tip-off that they had moved into a flat in Bandra. Police are collecting information about the person who had given them the place to stay. “We learnt the couples attended the congregation and came to Mumbai in different batches on different dates and stayed in three different locations in the city before relocating to Bandra,” said a police officer. Read AlsoCoronavirus: Centre, states wary of lifting curbs, graded easing on cardsThe sum of consultations PM Modi had with chief ministers on Monday, official sources said, was that most states wanted the lockdown to continue with some easing of curbs, depending on the situation in a particular area. Green zones may witness the piecemeal lifting of restrictions while toughThe couples are in India on tourist visas. Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Pranaya Ashok said all were quarantined and 10 were arrested after they tested negative. “The 10 will be produced before Bandra court after they complete their five-day custody on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-indonesian-tablighis-held-in-city-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/75417446.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Man rides 2,000km from Gujarat to meet ailing mom||MADURAI: A man travelled for nearly 2,350km from Gujarat to Virudhunagar district on his two-wheeler to meet his family amid the nationwide lockdown. He received an e-pass to travel. N Chandramohan,43, who is working as a project engineer for a Chennai-based company in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, travelled for four days on his two-wheeler to reach Watrap near Srivilliputhur in Virudhunagar district to meet his wife and children. He is now planning to take them to go meet his ailing mother in Nagapattinam district. Speaking to TOI, Chandramohan said that following the announcement of lockdown, he got stranded in Ahmedabad. He said that he received a call from his mother, who is residing at Sirkali in Nagapattinam district along with his father, about her weak health condition. He said that he applied for an e-pass from Ahmedabad district administration officials to travel. After he obtained a travel pass, he started his journey on April 22 and reached his in-law’s house, where his wife and children were staying, at Watrap on April 25. He said that he wants to obtain vehicle passes and travel to see his mother along with his wife and two children. “The Virudhunagar district administration officials asked me to stay under home quarantine and have taken sample from me on Monday,” he said and added that he is awaiting test results so that he would be able to travel to meet his mother. Narrating his travel experience, Chandramohan said, “I had packed a few biscuit packets and started to travel since I knew that I would not get any food on the way during the lockdown. I filled up water from the petrol bunks where I would fill up fuel. I rested at the petrol bunks on the way during night time. The entire experience was terrifying as the roads looked deserted except only a few trucks.” Chandramohan travelled via Maharashtra and Karnataka to reach Tamil Nadu. He said that he only survived by eating the biscuits and drinking water for three days until he reached Hosur where he found a small hotel where he got parcel and ate food on April 25 morning. “When I met my wife and children at Watrap, it was an emotional moment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-bikes-from-gujarat-to-virudhunagar-to-meet-his-kin/articleshow/75416837.cms||Kaushik Kannan
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||173 quarantined in Hooghly||CHINSURAH: Around 173 people, including 23 panchayat functionaries, have either been isolated at Mogra quarantine centre in Hooghly or home quarantined. A search is on for 300-odd people who are feared to have come in contact with a Covid suspect running a wholesale market in Chinsurah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/173-quarantined-in-hooghly/articleshow/75416112.cms||Falguni Banerjee
April 28, 2020||Vadodara||Despite guarding red zones, cops fight Covid||Vadodara: Even though they have been on their toes round-the-clock guarding the hottest red zone in the city, Nagarwada, not a single cop has tested positive for coronavirus in the city so far. Senior police officials said that they are taking utmost care to ensure that none of the policeman gets infected with Covid. “Strict instructions have been given to the cops not to have any food or beverage from locals in any area. This will reduce their contact with plausible infection. We have been sending in food packets and water at every point in sufficient quantity,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. The move came after many cops in Ahmedabad reported Covid positive after they reportedly consumed beverages offered by the locals in some areas. “We are providing sanitizers to every cop out there in the field and everyone has been strictly instructed to wear masks. Also, sanitizer showers are installed at some spots,” Gahlaut told TOI. The police department has been conducting routine health check-up of cops posted in red zone as well as other areas. The cops who seem fatigued are asked to rest at home. “If any policeman complains of fever or cold, he or she is examined immediately and given medicines. So far, not a single cop has tested positive for coronavirus,” Gahlaut added. Along with the cops, a company of Rapid Action Force (RAF) and Border Security Force (BSF) too has been deployed in the city for ensuring that citizens follow the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/despite-guarding-red-zones-cops-fight-covid/articleshow/75415654.cms||Tushar Tere
April 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Conjunctivitis could also be a symptom of Covid-19, say doctors||BENGALURU: Cases of conjunctivitis or redness in the eyes are no longer being treated as mere eye infections. Such patients are now being taken to a separate triage and checked for travel history. Conjunctivitis can also be a symptom of Covid-19 infection, say doctors. Narayana Nethralaya has seen close to 200 cases of conjunctivitis in the last 40 days and all precautions have been taken to triage such patients to a different OPD and screen them further. “Covid-19 infection can enter the human body through the eyes too. We take the travel and contact history of those who come with conjunctivitis. Our staff treating such cases wear PPEs and take all precautions. So far, all the cases we have seen have responded to treatment and hence they aren’t Covid-19 positive. But the chances of positive cases in future cannot be ruled out,” says Dr Bhujang Shetty, chairman, Narayana Nethralaya. Dr Shetty says some of the first coronavirus cases reported in China were of eye infections in the form of conjunctivitis. “Dr Li Wenliang, the Covid-19 whistleblower from China, was an ophthalmologist. He succumbed to the infection and had treated such cases,” he points out. At least one person who tested positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka had developed redness in the eyes as an initial symptom. The 32-year-old man from Bengaluru, who returned from the US on March 8, ignored it thinking it was due to lack of sleep. The man tested positive for Covid-19 on March 17. At Dr Agarwal’s Eye Hospital too, patients with conjunctivitis are being treated in a separate triage. Dr Sanjana Vatsa, consultant ophthalmologist, says ocular manifestation of Covid-19 is possible. “As per studies, there are patients who have Covid-19 and conjunctivitis. The reported statistics say that out of 30 patients, one or two will have the virus in their tear secretions as well,” says Dr Vatsa. Covid-19’s manifestation is still revealing itself, says Dr Deepak Kumar UG, nodal officer for Covid-19 ward, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases. “There are also manifestations on the skin (seen in Korea), where patients have had patches and rashes as the first symptom,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/conjunctivitis-could-also-be-a-symptom-of-covid-19-say-doctors/articleshow/75416298.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||Frontline fighters to get ayurvedic cover against nCov||Rajkot: If all goes as planned, the ministry of Ayush will soon come up with an ayurvedic medicine that would protect the frontline workers like the doctors, nurses and cops, from getting infected with the coronavirus, while executing their duties.The Institute for Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (IPGT & RA) of Gujarat Ayurveda University has been chosen as nodal agency for the first phase of the project in which ayurveda institutes across the country are collaborating. The initial phase involves finding the correct formulation of the medicine and developing a protocol of administering it to the frontline workers, the most vulnerable groups, in the fight against Covid-19. Director of IPGT & RA Anup Thakar, who is member of the expert group formed by the ministry, said that formulation is likely to be finalized in a week or so. “This medicine is being prepared as part of project initiated by the ministry of Ayush. It will be administered to frontline workers in the cities where the number of Covid-19 patients is high so that we can study the effect of the medicine and the level of protection it provides against the virus infection,” Thakar told TOI. The next phase of the project will be to study the effect of the medicine on particular group like doctors, police and nurses, he added. He said that the formulation is being prepared using herbs and other well documented preparations in ayurveda. All central councils of alternative medicine like Central Council for Research in Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Unani and National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur and All India Institute of Ayurveda, Delhi have joined hands in providing the necessary as per the requirement of the ministry of ayush. “It’s difficult to say how many days it will take to prepare the medicine, but it will be rolled out after the approval of the expert committee of Ayush ministry,” said Thakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/frontline-fighters-to-get-ayurvedic-cover-against-ncov/articleshow/75414676.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 28, 2020||Goa||Sawant arrogantly pushed for physical survey: Cong||Panaji: The Centre’s decision to conduct a telephonic survey to gather information on Covid-19 has exposed the arrogance of chief minister Pramod Sawant once again, said state Congress spokesperson Swati Kerkar. Kerkar said that Sawant has always tried to show one-upmanship over the Union government but the Centre has always taken decisions exactly opposite to those taken by the Goa government. “Congress had urged the government to conduct a telephonic survey, but the CM arrogantly pushed for the physical survey, risking the lives over 7,000 government employees ,” Kerkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-arrogantly-pushed-for-physical-survey-cong/articleshow/75417458.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||One more case against sexual predator Kasi||KANYAKUMARI: Police on Sunday filed a second FIR against sexual predator Kasi alias Suji, 26, of Nagercoil for harassment and extortion of women. Superintendent of police (SP) for Kanyakumari district, N Shreenath said that he has received complaints from at least 10 victims, most of them from Chennai. Kasi was arrested by the Kottar police on Friday based on a complaint from a woman doctor in Chennai who accused him of cheating her and extorting money from her by blackmailing to release her pictures and videos on social media. The second FIR was registered based on a complaint from a woman in Nagercoil. He had made her fall into his trap two years ago and borrowed money from her. “He had taken away cash and jewellery worth Rs 2.5 lakh from the victim,” the SP said. In this case, the Nesamony Nagar police booked the accused for robbery, cheating and harassment other among sections. Police said that special teams probing the case have not come across any accomplices though a few men were probed. Police have also warned of action against those circulating pictures or morphed pictures of girls and women related to Kasi. Those receiving such pictures or videos are requested to take a screenshot of the same – with the identity of the sender – to the Kanyakumari SP on his mobile number 9498111103. Meanwhile, the Kanyakumari district unit of the CPI has petitioned the collector to expedite inquiry and to bring the culprits to justice. It also appealed to the national commission for women and national commission for child rights to conduct an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1-more-case-against-sexual-predator-kasi/articleshow/75416845.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore corporation collects 50T waste from containment zones||COIMBATORE: The city corporation has been collecting close to 50 tonne of waste from containment zones in its limit on a daily basis and is burying it after spraying disinfectants. Masks and gloves collected from quarantined individuals are being incinerated, officials said. As many as 11 areas including KK Pudur, Poo Market, RS Puram, Cheran Managar, Kavundampalayam and Kunniyamuthur were declared as containment zones in the city. “The corporation has deployed workers specifically to collect waste from houses of suspected and diagnosed patients, and, those who reside around them... the workers have been equipped with safety gears including PPE, gloves and masks,” said a corporation source. While residents have been directed to segregate the waste generated into wet, dry and biomedical waste before dropping it in the garbage cart, all sanitary workers have been directed not to touch the waste. While the biomedical waste is sent for incineration to a private company, other types of waste is buried at compost yards at Vellalore, burial grounds or at other vacant sites after spraying disinfectants. Meanwhile, the amount of garbage that is being collected from the city has come down by 200 tonne a day from the earlier 1,000 tonne a day ever since lockdown was imposed. Corporation officials said this was mainly due to the closure of commercial establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-corpn-collects-50t-waste-from-containment-zones/articleshow/75416114.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Sanitary workers demand sufficient protective gear||COIMBATORE: Sanitary workers of the city corporation along with the members of Social Justice Party staged a protest on Monday demanding sufficient number of safety gear. While sanitary workers are lauded for being the frontline warriors during the Covid-19 emergency, the state government should take steps to ensure their safety, party president N Panneerselvam said. “The city corporation has distributed poor quality masks and gloves to the workers. The gloves are so stiff that the workers are struggling to do their job. They have been given reusable cloth masks and not the N95 ones. What is the purpose of providing safety gear if it’s not of good quality?” The workers were given only one set of safety gear, the party leader said. “How is it even possible to use them every day without having another set?” The party had petitioned the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis a few months ago for risk allowance and safety gears, Panneerselvam said. “Even though the commission made recommendations, the state government took no steps to fulfil our demands. Government employees exposed to danger while on duty get risk allowance every month. Sanitary workers should also enjoy the benefit,” he said. Sanitary workers engaged in cleaning manholes were covered under risk insurance only recently. They are now eligible for Rs 10 lakh for fatal accidents and up to Rs 1 lakh for non-fatal accidents. The workers also requested the government to provide them houses within the corporation limit so that they need not travel over 25 kilometres every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sanitary-workers-demand-sufficient-protective-gear/articleshow/75416117.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Bhopal||Butterflies reclaim their lost space as Bhopal stays indoors||Bhopal: Bhopalis have a new visitor these days. Unlike birds, these winged beauties do not announce their visit, and if you are very very quiet you can spot them easily in your garden or backyard. With noise and pollution levels down, butterflies are finding their way back into people’s homes, sending hearts aflutter. "Vehicle movement, vehicular pollution, pesticides hamper the life cycle of butterflies, which is why they tend to disappear when the environment is not conducive for them. Resident species can even travel short distances to avoid adverse conditions. Now, in lockdown, with little movement, butterflies are finding it encouraging to come out," said Mohammed Khalique of Bhopal Birds. "You can spot 10-12 species easily in your garden these days, if you are lucky, then you can spot 25. Ashoka trees are quite common in residential areas. Around these trees you can easily spot the Tailed Jay or the Common Jay. The other very common butterfly is the Grass Yellow. Wherever there is even a little grass, you can spot these butterflies flying close to the ground. If you have lemon trees in your garden then you can also spot the Lime Butterfly. Butterflies can also be spotted hovering around madar tree," said Dr Sangeeta Rajgir, bird and butterfly expert and president of Bhopal Birds. Butterflies are temperature sensitive, and come out only when the temperature is between 15 to 25 degree Celsius, says Aseem Shrivastava, an IFS officer who has written a book on butterflies of Central India. "In summer, good time to spot butterflies would be between 7 to 9am, specially near flowering plants as they are a nectar source. Butterflies also flock to moist places, damp patches and fruit to obtain moisture and nutrients." Sarang Sham Mhatre a resource person at Raisen Butterfly Park said, “There are around 100+ butterfly species in Bhopal region, which majorly belong to five families. Each family has their different characteristics. The Pieridae are those which have white and yellow wings. The next is Pappilionidae, which have long tail on wings. Third are Hesperidae, which have elongated wings, next is Licanidae, with blue colour on upper wings of male butterflies and last Nymphalidae which have brush like hair on their legs.” Many species of butterflies maintain territories. Some species will bask or perch on chosen perches — which is why some of them can be spotted near the same place for days. Experts say, if you are interested in butterfly watching, you can take out a list of 10 common species in your area and try to spot them in your garden. Another interesting thing about butterflies is that many of them are named according to what they look like, a Plain Tiger or Striped Tiger has stripes like a tiger and the same colour, similarly Danaid Eggfly is a black butterfly with egg-shaped spot on it — so when you spot a butterfly just type in what you see in a search engine and chances are you will be able to get a name. Other than flowering plants, you can place overripe fruits in a bowl to attract butterflies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/butterflies-reclaim-their-lost-space-as-bhopal-stays-indoors/articleshow/75416118.cms||Tanya Srivastava
April 28, 2020||Goa||Govt fast-tracks repair of crumbling basilica roof||Panaji: Days after the rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus issued an appeal to the government that the historic monument needs urgent repairs, work on its roof has been fast-tracked. Rector Fr Patricio Fernandes told TOI on Monday that additional labourers have been brought in to complete the roof, work on which was abandoned during the initial lockdown. “This work has to be completed quickly. They have begun placing galvanised iron (GI) sheets on part of the roof,” he said.” In a letter last week to the chief minister, governor, ASI and Archbishop of Goa highlighting the ASI’s neglect of the structure that houses the relics of St Francis Xavier, Fernandes said that rain water had already seeped in with the roof open, and appealed for help to prevent further deterioration. He also said in the letter that the heritage artefacts in the basilica have been left to crumble due to sheer neglect. Following his appeal, politicians, priests and several people visited the basilica and offered support. Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik assured Fernandes of the support required to protect the Basilica, and said that ASI officials requested him for a chemical treatment unit at Old Goa. South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha also told Fernandes that secretaries in New Delhi and Goa would get in touch with him (the rector) to take this further. Meanwhile, ports minister Michael Lobo suggested the deployment of Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) funds if the ASI could not accomplish the task, and also offered to repair the damaged toilets and take up repairs of the basilica’s ancient chairs. Lobo also offered to speak to authorities in New Delhi to send the Mastrillian casket to Italy for repairs and get the Union culture ministry to visit the Basilica to inspect all works . Basilica committee president and vicar general Fr Jose Remedios Fernandes, also visited the basilica and recommended the need for a thorough assessment before and after restoration work in all future projects involving the structure. The rector explained that the most urgent need was anti-termite treatment, because the wet wood and mud walls would attract termites, thereby destroying not only the affected places but would endanger the ancient and priceless altars, statues and wooden floors throughout the basilica complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-fast-tracks-repair-of-crumbling-basilica-roof/articleshow/75417451.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Two arrested for possession of illicit liquor in Ramnad||MADURAI: The Ramanathapuram district police arrested two people who were in possession of illicit liquor at Rameswaram on Monday. According to police, Badrinathan, 23, a resident of Gandhi Nagar at Rameswaram in Ramanathapuram district who had completed his undergraduation has been working as a delivery boy for an e-commerce company. Badrinathan’s friend Praveenkumar, 30, is a priest who used to perform rituals for the people visiting Rameswaram cost. Since, all the liquor shops in the state are closed following the lockdown, the duo had planned to make illicit liquor and sell them. A special team formed by the Ramanathapuram district superintendent of police V Varun Kumar to curb brewing of illicit arrack in the district, received a tip off that the duo were in possession of illicit lliquor. Based on a tip off, police officials picked up Badrinathan and Praveenkumar from Rameswaram. During investigation, the duo told the officials that they mixed yeast with fruit juice and sold them after fermentation. Rameswaram town police registered a case under various Sections of Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, and arrested the duo. Police also seized 11 litres of illicit liquor from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-arrested-for-possession-of-illicit-liquor-in-ramnad/articleshow/75416841.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Month-long study on cards to make villages self-reliant||Panaji: In a bid to prepare a revival plan for the state’s grassroot economy, the state government plans to identify resilient practices at the village level and document economic resources through a month-long study. The idea is to analyse the potential for revival of sectors related to agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing, horticulture, tourism, MSME, traditional means of livelihood and the employment potential in each individual village, said director of higher education Prasad Lolayekar said. The development comes even as civic society members and NGOs complained that the economic revival committee does not have any representation from small entrepreneurs and does not take into account rural businesses. “One of the key objectives is to make villages self sustainable by supporting the rural economy and to strengthen the village panchayats to help them earn revenue without relying on government grants,” said Lolayekar. According to sources, the study will commence on May 5 and the final report has to be submitted by June 15. The Directorate of Higher Education and Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD), have been asked to survey the 191 village panchayats so that a detailed economic revival plan can be drawn up for the state. Municipalities will also be surveyed as part of the study. “In the last week of March when the state-wide lockdown began, incident commanders noticed that some villages and areas seemed self-sufficient and they did not need much while other areas were really left struggling,” said a government official. At the April 13 meeting, the State Executive Committee, asked the director of higher education and GIPARD to prepare a report on measures to revive village-level economies. “The aim of this study is to prepare a detailed plan for revival of the economy of the state with the emphasis being the local body,” said an official. Authorities have made 25 village clusters and the clusters have been allocated to different private and government colleges. The teachers of the respective colleges will collect data on socio – economic factors, institutions, resources, livelihood sources and other factors from the village panchayats. The inputs will be used to undertake development activities at the village level, said an officer who was at the SEC meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/month-long-study-on-cards-to-make-villages-self-reliant/articleshow/75417457.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 28, 2020||Goa||With flights grounded, Navy begins runway maintenance||Panaji: Taking advantage of the suspension of flights due to the coronavirus lockdown, the Indian Navy has commenced maintenance and repairs of the runway at the Goa International Airport at Dabolim.  The maintenance activity, being done by the Military Engineer Services (MES), will continue till May 7, officials said. “INS Hansa has issued a notice to airmen (NOTAM) informing about closure of the runway till May 7,” Goa airport director Gagan Malik said. The repairs, which began on April 25, have been going on even as the navy and Airports Authority of India coordinate international relief flights which are evacuating foreign nationals who are stranded in Goa due to the lockdown. Till date, 33 international rescue flights have airlifted 6416 foreigners along with 58 infants from Goa, said Malik. High frequency operations and heavy monsoons have deteriorated the runway, necessitating periodic repairs. Now, with domestic and international flights suspended, the navy has decided to strengthen the lone runway which serves civilian as well as military flights. According to the NOTAM, currently the maintenance work is being done in the afternoon, from 2pm to 7pm. From May 1, the work will be undertaken from 6.30am to 12.30pm. “This is regular pre-monsoon maintenance to ensure the health of the runway and to prevent foreign object damage to the aircraft engines. During the monsoons if there is any damage then no repairs can be done,” said a naval official.  For flight safety reasons, the runway requires regular attention and maintenance from drainage clearing to resurfacing of broken patches. Runway markings also need to be visible during the monsoons, when visibility drops due to heavy rainfall, said a source. During regular operations, civilian flights are allowed to land throughout the day except for a six hour block during weekdays and for 24 hours on weekends. This leaves very little time for repairs, officials said.  In September last year, the Indian Navy had proposed to close the runway for arrivals and departures for six hours every Saturday for maintenance. But since the move coincided with the charter flight season, the maintenance time was reduced. Along with the runway, the taxiway and other movement areas are being repaired based on requirements. Box  Fresh consignment of med supplies reaches state A second Lifeline Udan flight landed at Goa International Airport on Monday carrying a consignment of medical supplies for the state. Weighing about 714 kg, and packed in 50 boxes, the supplies included safety goggles, PPE, masks and other equipment requested by the directorate of health services. The consignment was brought by an Alliance Air ATR 72. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) handled the unloading of the cargo and facilitated a quick turnaround of the aircraft for its next leg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-flights-grounded-navy-begins-runway-maintenance/articleshow/75417462.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Karumbalai residents live in uncertain times||MADURAI: M Pandeeswari, 40, a mother of two from Karumbalai, used to work as a maid servant in houses earning Rs 6,000 every month. She has lost her livelihood as the house owner asked her not to come for work till the end of lockdown. Her husband, a construction labourer, does not earn anything currently either. The few thousand rupees they had saved has already been spent and they are now seeking loan from acquaintances to run the family. “It will be difficult for us to run the family if the lockdown continues for a few more weeks. People are not forthcoming to provide loan as they want to secure whatever they have for their own expenses,” she said. Karumbalai, a slum abutting KK Nagar in the city, is home to around 3,000 families including many transgenders. Most of them work in the unorganized sector like maids, cleaners in hotel, security guards, construction labourers and painters. They do not have scope for savings as whatever they earn is barely enough to run the family. Residents say that they came across news about relief materials being distributed to poor people in various parts of the city, but they are yet to see any in their location. S Vicky, a social worker, said that people are knocking on his doors seeking help. He has decided to bring their plight to the notice of the government. With the help of volunteers, he has taken a door to door survey to check for people in need of help. While there are 3,000 families, at least 1,200 families require immediate help, he said. Vicky, who manages Police Boys Club in Karumbalai, said that people require rice, dal and oil as they are running out of money to purchase essentials. “Among 1,200 families, there is a section of vulnerable people who are desperate for help. We can identify them separately if government agencies or NGOs come forward to help them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/karumbalai-residents-live-in-uncertain-times/articleshow/75416855.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Jaipur||9 die as Raj records highest toll in a day, 77 more test +ve||Jaipur: Two pregnant women, who gave birth over the weekend in Jaipur, were among the nine who were confirmed dead due to Covid-19 infection in the state on Monday. This is the highest number of fatalities in a day in the state. While a 24-year-old woman from the city, who had given birth to a baby on Saturday, died on Sunday, another pregnant 20-year-old, who was rushed to the city’s Mahila Chikitsalaya from Bharatpur, died after undergoing a C-section on the intevening night of Friday-Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9-die-as-raj-records-highest-toll-in-a-day-77-more-test-ve/articleshow/75417464.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain gives Coimbatore a miss, but winds prove a breather||COIMBATORE: The spell of summer rain since Saturday evening seems to have given the city and its immediate suburbs a miss. While Pollachi and parts of Sulur received light showers on and off during the weekend, most parts of the district had to make do with heavy winds and cloudy skies. The heavy breeze resulted in the maximum temperature dropping by 1 degree C. On Sunday, residents struggling in the sweltering summer heat were in for a surprise due to cool winds for close to an hour. “Though the average wind speeds recorded were only 5.7 kmph, there are chances that when the trough was moving wind speeds briefly crossed 30 kmph in the district,” said chief meteorologist at Skymet weather services, Mahesh Palawat.  According to rainfall data recorded by the district administration, only Valparai and Anamalai received ample rain on Sunday. While Cincona received 36 mm of rain, Valparai received 13 mm and Sholayar Dam got 14 mm of rain. On Friday and Saturday too, only these catchments recorded showers. Weather experts who predicted that summer rain in the district would begin from Sunday were stumped after their predictions did not turn out true. “ It is surprising because we predicted 18 mm of rainfall through Sunday and Monday, but we can still expect rain till April 30 or in the next three days,” said S P Ramanathan, director of the agro climate research centre at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. “It is because of the constant east to west shifting of the trough extending from Vidarbha to interior Tamil Nadu,” said Palawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-gives-city-a-miss-but-winds-prove-a-breather/articleshow/75416138.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: No lockdown misery for Mangalamkunnu elephants||KOZHIKODE: If getting hold of household essentials during the lockdown has been a challenge for you, hear this. The Mangalamkunnu Angadiyil house near Sreekrishnapuram in Palakkad district has been managing the mammoth task of feeding and tending to the 11 elephants owned by them during the lockdown. Brothers M A Haridasan and M A Parameswaran, popularly known as Mangalamkunnu brothers, own the largest number of captive elephants in the state, only behind Guruvayur devaswom. Despite the lockdown, the family has been sourcing around 3,000kg of food materials daily- including grass from Pollachi in Tamil Nadu, rice and rice flakes from mills in Palakkad, palm leaves from Malappuram and medicines from Thrissur - for the 10 elephants which stand tethered at the Mangalamkunnu house after the lockdown washed away the peak festival season mid-way. The remaining elephant is kept at the house of a mahout at Alathur. The elephants owned by the family include celebrity elephants like Mangalamkunnu Ayyappan and Mangalamkunnu Karnan, among others. “The first three days of the lockdown were tough and we faced difficulties in getting food materials. But with the government giving the nod for transporting food materials for elephants, the supply chain issues have been resolved,” Haridasan said. He added that an elephant needs around 250-300kg of palm leaves daily. Also, they are fed around 17kg of grains, including rice, rice flakes and 4kg of beer waste, which is also part of the diet. Haridasan said they spend Rs 5,000 for the upkeep of an elephant a day. “We have a long-term contract with suppliers to provide palm leaves and they mostly source it from Malappuram. There have been some isolated instances of some households raising objections to people entering their compounds to cut the leaves during the lockdown, but even then, we are receiving the supplies,” he said. To solve issues with the daily travel of mahouts during the lockdown, around eight of the 24 mahouts are staying on the Mangalamkunnu house premises itself. The remaining mahouts and other staff for preparation of food reach the house daily. The lockdown has crippled the usual January-May annual festive season when it was at its peak. “From March 10 onwards, the festivals started getting cancelled. The financial loss due to the cancellation of bookings has been huge as normally an elephant gets around 80 bookings in the season and only around 45 of them were over this season when the Covid-19 struck. All the remaining bookings got cancelled and we refunded the advance amounts. There have been around 350 booking cancellations due to the lockdown for our elephants alone,” he added. However, the family is not ready to cut corners in tending the elephants despite the huge revenue loss. “Our elephants are like members of the family and we don’t think of profit and loss when it comes to taking care of them,” he said, adding that elephant owners as a whole are worried about the long-term consequence of the pandemic. The family’s tryst with jumbos began in 1977 when elder brother Parameswaran brought the elephant Ayyappan from Bihar in 1977. Over the years, the brothers added to the numbers. At one point (during 1998-99), the family had as many as 18 elephants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/no-lockdown-misery-for-mangalamkunnu-elephants/articleshow/75414730.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Residents see red as 100 trees axed to pave way for roads||HYDERABAD: Massive felling of trees at a park in HUDA Enclave on Sunday, has left residents angry. Over 100 trees were bulldozed in the dead of night amid lockdown for road development. “Over the past five days, road cutting work has been going on. Earlier, about 30 feet land was taken from a private unoccupied property, but last night more than 30 feet of the park was cleared,” said Phani Kondepudi, a resident of HUDA Enclave, stating that the maximum damage was done between 11pm and 2am. “When we confronted the GHMC officials on ground they said they had the required permissions. But we had gone to court in 2013 and obtained a stay order which mentioned parks in this area cannot be touched,” said Kondepudi, exacerbated with officials who said the project would be completed in 40 days. Residents say the road had been proposed according to the HUDA authorized plan, but it was the park being encroached upon that they are protesting. The road is to connect the Enclave with Narne road. “We are not opposed to the road and development which is a necessity. What we oppose is the way bulldozers have come in during a lockdown at a designated park area as part of road cutting. The park wall was demolished and all that is left is GHMC gate to the park,” said Juhee Ahmed, another resident. When TOI contacted, Deputy director, GHMC Urban biodiversity wing Srinivas Reddy, he denied the area was a park at all. “Only parks fall under our ambit, and this is just an open space. The issue is being handled by town planning department,” he said. Ravinder, supervisor, Town planning wing, said it was GHMC land. “Work is going on as per approved road development plan,” he said, adding that they had full authority over the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-see-red-as-100-trees-axed-to-pave-way-for-roads/articleshow/75416852.cms||Uttara Varma
April 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Schoolteachers asked to install Aarogya Setu||COIMBATORE: Following the state government’s direction, the school education department has asked all teachers and non-teaching staff of schools in the district to install and use the Arogya Setu mobile application. In a communication, Coimbatore chief education officer (CEO), P Usha, asked all block education officers and district education officers to ensure that teachers and non-teaching staff from all government schools, government aided schools, nursery and primary schools, matriculation schools and CBSE schools install the app and use them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/schoolteachers-asked-to-install-arogya-setu/articleshow/75416133.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Out of work, pilots eye home delivery for bread and butter||PANAJI: Motorcycle pilots have been out of work ever since the lockdown but with social distancing guidelines discouraging pillion riding on two-wheelers, they are worried that their business will not return to normal any time soon. The lockdown has forced motorcycle pilots to get creative with their services with many of them offering to carry food and medicine deliveries, and even run errands for senior citizens stuck at home. There are 417 motorcycle pilots in the state registered under the Goa Motorcycle Taxi Rider’s Association. “The appointment of motorcycle pilots in different places in Goa to provide services in this critical situation is very important. We are therefore seeking permission from the government to allow us to operate during this time,” association president Suresh Thakur said, adding that the association will provide masks and other personal protection equipment. While government departments have resumed work since last week with 33% staff, motorcycle pilots lose out due to the new guidelines that don’t allow for pillion riders. “The state government has come to the aid of various low-income groups but there has been nothing done for pilots, auto rickshaws and yellow and black taxi drivers. Our appeal to the government is to provide us with some financial assistance,” Thakur said. Thakur, who is also the president of the Gao Shramik Yellow Cab and Goods Carrier Mahasangh has appealed to the transport department to provide financial assistance to members of the association who are unable to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/out-of-work-pilots-eye-home-delivery-for-bread-and-butter/articleshow/75417463.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Carcass of dolphin washes ashore||TUTICORIN: The carcass of a 10-foot-long female bottlenose dolphin washed ashore in Pullaveli coastal village in Tuticorin district on Monday morning. The dolphin died after suffering an injury, according to officials. Forest department officials said the carcass was first spotted by fishermen of the village around 8am. Srivaikuntam forest range officer S Vimal Kumar said the mammal was about three to four years old, weighed between 350 and 400kg and had a circumference of 1.67m. Since the injury was near the female organ, Kumar ruled out the possibility of the propeller of a boat causing the injury -- unlike in several cases. “The dolphin could have lost its way to the shallow water close to the shore and accidentally hit a rock. It could have died early on Monday morning,” he said. The carcass was buried after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/carcass-of-dolphin-washes-ashore/articleshow/75416849.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||2 discharged, 2 test positive||Rajkot: Two people were discharged from the hospital in Rajkot on Monday. Thes include one each in Rajkot and Bhavnagar, while two more people from Rajkot tested Covid positive on the same day.Alfaz Dasadiya, 20, a resident of Sihor in Bhavnagar district got discharged from Sir T hospital on Monday after he was admitted there on April 14. Total 20 people discharged from the hospital so far, while the total number of patients who have recovered stands at 41. Five have died in the district. Ikbal Chudasama, 34, from Rajkot too got discharged from the civil hospital where he had been admitted on April 15. Altogether 14 people got discharged from Rajkot so far. Meanwhile, two more persons — a 21-year-old man from Jangleshwar and his mother – tested positive in Rajkot on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-discharged-2-test-positive/articleshow/75414683.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Ponda students sew 300 face covers for policemen||PANAJI: The students and faculty of GGPR College of Commerce and Economics, Ponda, are doing their bit for the essential workers, by providing much-needed face masks to protect police officers on duty. They have distributed 300 hand-sewn masks to the Ponda police station. There are 15 student NSS volunteers involved in this project and together they have taken on a target of providing 10,000 masks over a period of one year. The masks will also be distributed among the workers of the Ponda municipal council, the housekeeping staff of hospitals and journalists working in Ponda. Motorcycle pilots, taxi drivers and autorickshaw drivers will also receive the masks when they resume operations.The students don’t have extensive sewing experience, yet this isn’t the first time they have stepped forward with their stitched products. “We have sewing machines donated to the college by well-wishers. We used them during the polythene-ban movement to sew reusable cloth bags . A total of one lakh bags were distributed among the people of Ponda at the time,” principal of the college Pravin Bhende said. The students however are now faced with a fresh challenge – the fabric they use is fast running out due to unavailability of materials during the lockdown. “Since the shops are closed, getting fabric to achieve our target is a problem. We appeal to the authorities to allow some shops to open so that our work doesn’t suffer ,” Bhende said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-students-sew-300-face-covers-for-policemen/articleshow/75417470.cms||Nida Sayed
April 28, 2020||Goa||Archaeology dept to take up only pre-monsoon works||Panaji: Some of Goa’s oldest heritage sites that are a testimony to the state’s history may see some hope of survival during the upcoming rains. The department of archaeology, which has resumed duties last week after a long hiatus under lockdown, will take up only pre-monsoon works on priority of three monuments. All other restoration projects, scheduled for the new financial year, will be taken up after lockdown. The three monuments are the St Xavier’s chapel at Old Goa, the Jain basti at Bandora in Ponda and the Sakhali fort. “At these monuments, we have to undertake repair work of the roof, spread tarpaulin sheet, check on leakages and other minor repairs. Besides that, we are not doing any major works since it is only a few weeks until monsoon,” an archaeology official said. The department engages workers every summer to ensure that all the tasks are completed well ahead of the monsoon and the centuries-old monuments can withstand the rain. At many of the monuments across the state, repair works had started in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/archaeology-dept-to-take-up-only-pre-monsoon-works/articleshow/75417469.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Goa cops get video showing fishermen cutting fins off||PANAJI: Investigations into the mutilation of a whale shark at Baga beach are likely to receive a boost, as forest department has submitted to Calangute police a video showing some fishermen slicing off its fins. The maimed 4.9m long juvenile whale shark had washed ashore more than a week ago. While speculation is rife that it was alive after its stranding, its pectoral, dorsal and tail fins were later missing. The carcass of the whale shark, considered the largest of the fish species, was in a fresh condition. A post-mortem examination has indicated that it died due to an injury from a blunt force on the left side of the thoracic region. “The injury may have caused weakness, septicemia and shock, due to which it had breathing problems,” a source said. The whale shark, along with the tiger, is included in schedule one of the Wildlife Protection Act. The drastic decline in their population globally has heightened concern about their status. “Sharks are beautiful, intelligent and perfectly adapted to their marine environment. They play a critical role in maintaining the ecosystem balance in our oceans as an apex predator,” said Puja Mitra, coordinator of Goa marine stranding network. The gruesome incident and circumstances of its mortality have yet again raised concern about educating people about consuming its meat and using shark fins for other purposes. “There is need to work with local communities to build alternate income sources and educate the public about protecting marine wildlife and habitats,” Mitra, a marine conservationist said. After round forest officer Abhijeet Naik conducted a panchnama and lodged an FIR at Calangute police station, the case has been entrusted to the range forest officer (territorial). “All legal formalities are complete and The trial court will take up the matter after May 3,” a source said. Watch Goa: Video shows fishermen cutting off fins of stranded whale shark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-get-video-showing-fishermen-cutting-fins-off/articleshow/75417468.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||As stores raise shutters, citizens indulge in a flurry of shopping||PANAJI: For the first time in over a month, Patel raised the shutters of his hardware store in St Inez on Monday with a the hope of recovering lost business. Within minutes, he was dealing with a flurry of requests from residents who were repairing their homes to construction contractors who wanted to purchase equipment or pick up tools that they had ordered prior to the lockdown. With the state government’s implementation of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) guidelines on reopening non-essential stores, life in the state began to limp back to normal. Under the watchful gaze of Goa police and other authorities, citizens ventured out to purchase their requirements. A laundry store in Porvorim stacked up all the pending deliveries on its counter, awaiting customers who had given clothes and linen items to wash before the lockdown was imposed. Even then, there were some stationery stores that kept their shutters down as they awaited an official nod from the Corporation of the city of Panaji to restart operations. “I have not opened my shop today as I wanted to see how things go. I will open my shop tomorrow,” said Areef Shaikh, who runs a glassware store. With the government allowing construction activity to resume and also allowing self employed personnel such as carpenters, electricians, masons and plumbers to work, demand for hardware tools and equipment was seen. “Its been more than a month’s work that we lost and all the site work is pending. A lot of our goods which we ordered are stuck in various places, but we can’t stop work,” said a contractor Manish Kumar. On Friday, the MHA announced further relaxations and permitted shops, including neighbourhood stores, standalone shops and those in residential complexes which are registered under the Shops and Establishment Act, to open up. Traffic movement in Panaji, Porvorim and Mapusa also picked up as citizens rushed about to purchase the necessary wares. “There has been a tremendous increase in the flow of traffic as people are either buying stuff or going for some work. The frequency of vehicular flow is more than the other days,” said Panaji traffic cell police inspector Brendon D’Costa. The police recorded 410 violations in the city, around 70% of them being two-wheeler riders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-stores-raise-shutters-citizens-indulge-in-a-flurry-of-shopping/articleshow/75417465.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai shows total obedience on day 2 of blanket shutdown||MADURAI: Streets and residential areas in the in the city remained largely devoid of activities as the public continued to extend full cooperation to the blanket shutdown by staying indoors. Police said that except for those out to buy essentials such as medicines and milk, the city roads saw none loiter unnecessarily. The police increased vigilance on check posts on city borders to ensure that no one crossed the borders unnecessarily. A few, who were seen using their vehicles, were asked to return home. Around 100 of national cadet corps from six city colleges lent their hand to the city police. Joseph Nixon, assistant commissioner, Town Range Traffic, said only those allowed by the district administration for essential services stepped out of the house. Others stayed inside their houses. A few people only used roads for medical emergency and travelling to meet relatives in cases like death. Crowd at Amma canteens run by the corporation was big on Sunday and Monday as many are dependent on them when most shops and bakeries are closed. While people in core city areas stayed inside houses, people on the outskirts kept wandering on the interior streets. People gathered in the streets to play games such as badminton. J Sivachandran, a resident of Vandiyur, said, “The purpose of the lockdown is to keep people in their respective houses, but people gather in streets to talk and play on streets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/city-shows-total-obedience-on-day-2-of-blanket-shutdown/articleshow/75416864.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Amend relevant law for mining operations to last till 2037, Pramod Sawant urges PM Narendra Modi||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an amendment to the relevant law that will allow mining operations in the state to continue till 2037. The state government has urged the Union mines ministry to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Decalaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987 to restart mining activities. Mining activities in the state came to halt on March 15, 2018 after the Supreme Court in its February 7 order quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. “I will speak to the Union mines minister on Tuesday. We will wait for the reply, and after that we will decide on approaching the Supreme Court,” he said. Recently, governor Satya Pal Malik had urged the government to focus on the early resumption of mining activities for reviving the economy which has been hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The government has to fast track the proposal before the Centre for resumption of mining leases by way of legislative cure in the form of amendment to the mining laws, so as to get extension for leases upto 2037,” he said The mining matter was scheduled to come up for hearing on April 21, but as the apex court is only hearing urgent matters due to the lockdown, the case was not listed. TOI had reported that the state government’s lack of initiative to plead before the Supreme Court that the mining case scheduled on April 21 be treated as an urgent matter, has left the fate of mining resumption hanging in balance. Two mining companies had approached the court seeking an extension of leases till 2037. Recently, mining companies have started transportation of e-auctioned and iron ore paid ore for exports. Sawant said that the transportation should be undertaken as per the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amend-relevant-law-for-mining-ops-to-last-till-2037-sawant-urges-pm/articleshow/75417473.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Sanatan Sanstha and HJS start online satsang series||Panaji: Sanatan Sanstha and Hindu Janajagruti Samiti (HJS) have started online “satsang” or spiritual discourses for all sections of the society to help people stay calm at home during the lockdown. Sanatan Sanstha’s Tulshidas Ganjeker said that based on the organisation’s founder Jayant Athavale’s research, they have started online satsang series — ‘Balsanskar’ for children and ‘Dharmasamvad’ for others on YouTube and Facebook. Since people can’t move out of their houses due to the lockdown restrictions, they are at a loss of ideas about what to do at home, so our ‘series of online chanting satsangs’ will supplement a family’s needs, HJS state convenor Manoj Solanki said. “So far, more than 50 episodes of the series have been broadcast and we received tremendous response. Many parents said they have witnessed positive changes in their children after just three episodes of ‘Balsanskar’ series,” Ganjeker said. He said that while children can imbibe ‘sanskars’ (good habits) by viewing the Balsanskar series and become good citizens tomorrow, the ‘Dharamasamvad’ series suggests remedies for eliminating problems faced in day-to-day life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanatan-sanstha-and-hjs-start-online-satsang-series/articleshow/75417472.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Vitamin, zinc tablets distributed in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai corporation has started providing multi-vitamin tablets and zinc tablets to its frontline warriors in a bid to the improve immunity against covid-19 outbreak. Around 5,000 sanitary workers received the tablets at the instruction of the government. Corporation commissioner S Visakan inspected the distribution of tablet at Race Course Colony and urged workers to consume them. The tablets are provided to help them to boost their immunity power. Corporation started providing kabasura kudineer to residents in containment zones to boost their immunity. The decoction was carried in tea containers. Each light commercial vehicle loaded with a number of such containers was dispatched to containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vitamin-zinc-tablets-distributed/articleshow/75416889.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Police and fire stations closed after two test coronavirus positive||MADURAI: The South Gate police station in the city was closed on Sunday night after a special sub-inspector of police posted there tested positive for Covid-19. The station has started functioning temporarily under a marquee from Monday. At least 10 police personnel from the station have been asked to isolate themselves, due to which it is functioning with minimum strength. The station has a strength of 75 personnel including around 25 in the crime unit. Those who worked closely with the SSI and a section of station strength has been tested. “We are eagerly awaiting the test result with the hope that they would be negative. I have been staying away from my family members including children. Hope others too follow suit until they get the test results,” said a personnel who got tested. Cleaning activities at the station building was carried out by the corporation health workers before it was locked. Meanwhile, a fire station at Meenakshi Amman temple was also closed on Monday as one of the 14 personnel had tested positive on Sunday. While the patients has been admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital, the remaining have been asked to isolate themselves. Disinfection activities were carried out in all the containment zones of Palanganatham, Sellur, Anaiyur, West Masi Street, Mahaboobpalayam, Anna Nagar, Vandiyur and Periyar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-and-fire-stations-closed-after-two-test-positive/articleshow/75416878.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Just one positive case and two hotspots, yet Ernakulam on high vigil||KOCHI: Even though the number of Covid-19 positive cases under treatment at hospitals in Ernakulam district has come down to just one, authorities are continuing vigil. District administration, which has already taken a slew of measures for ensuring Covid-19 control, on Monday, closed the border with Kottayam district. It was after considering the situations in the neighbouring Kottayam and Idukki districts that the district administration decided to continue vigil. As of now, there are only two hotspots in the district and both are under Kochi corporation limits — Chullickal in Mattanchery and Kaloor south. It was on April 24 that these places were declared hotspots. A youth from Kaloor who is under treatment at government medical college after testing positive for Covid-19 is the only positive case in the district. “That’s one of the major reasons for Kaloor south division becoming hotspot,” M G Aristotle, councillor from Kaloor south division said. Relatives and acquaintances of the youth have also been placed under quarantine,” he said. Chullickal became a hotspot following the death of Yakub Hussain Sait due to the disease on March 28. His wife, daughter and son too had contracted the disease but were discharged after they were cured. “On Sunday, swab samples were collected from those residing at the apartment complex where the Sait family resides. They had been under quarantine ever since Yakub Hussain Sait was tested positive on March 23,” said Jayanthi Premnath, councillor from Panayappilly division. Accredited social health activists, division and ward councillors, health department officials and police have been monitoring those under quarantine. “In Chullickal, there are 27 roads linking other places. All except two have been closed,” said Antony Francis, councillor, Kochi corporation. Drones are also being used to monitor the movement of those under quarantine. In the wake of increasing number of patients at the outpatient wing at Ernakulam general hospital, authorities have decided to reschedule OP timings. Cardiology and urology OPs will function from 2pm to 5.30pm on Mondays and Thursdays while neurology will function from 2pm to 5.30pm on Thursdays. Nephrology will function from 2pm to 5.30pm on Tuesdays and Fridays. “The number of patients at OP is around 1,000 a day now. It was around 300 when the lockdown started. Before the Covid-19 spread, it was around 2,500-3,000 a day. It is to avoid crowding that we changed the timings,” said Dr Anitha, superintendent of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/just-1-ve-case-2-hotspotsyet-ernakulam-on-high-vigil/articleshow/75414807.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cases sans known source on the rise||Thiruvananthapuram: The higher number of Covid-19 patients without any known source of infection is rankling the state health department. This is true of half a dozen positive cases reported in the last one week in Kottayam and Idukki districts. However, the state government is ruling out the possibility of a community spread in the state especially in these two districts. “Our every effort is to check the community spread. There are reports of lockdown and quarantine violations in Idukki. At present we are safe and there is no community spread,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. The sources of infection of the headload worker in Kottayam, a nurse at Regional Cancer Centre and another with a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, a businessman in Vaikkom and a degree student from Panachikkad are all yet to be narrowed down. This held true even in the case of a truck driver until reports emerged the other day that he had travelled to Maharashtra. In Idukki, the source of infection of two patients — one from Munnar and another from Vandanmedu — is yet to be traced. Health minister K K Shailaja has also ruled out a community spread. “The sources of all these cases are being traced. There is no community spread in any part of the state. We have conducted random tests in all suspected areas and there is no trace of a community spread,’’ she affirmed. She, however, did not rule out its possibility in the future. “I cannot say that there will be no community spread or that it is not going to happen,’’ said Shailaja. The source of infection of two people who died of Covid-19, one from Pothencode, Thiruvananthapuram, and the 71-year-old Mahi native, is also yet to be identified. The case of the businessman from Palakkad who died at a hospital in Coimbatore is eerily similar. Others involve an Asha worker who tested positive in Kollam and a student from Vilayur, Palakkad. The health department is still clueless in the case of the four-month-old baby from Malappuram who died in Kozhikode. Experts are of the view that random sampling has become imminent at least in those areas where more cases are being reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cases-sans-known-source-on-the-rise/articleshow/75414825.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Madurai||Fake leopard hunt video lands four in trouble||Tenkasi: Four youths, who made a fake leopard hunting video to gain popularity on social media, landed in soup and ended up coughing up Rs 1.2 lakh as fine. They also had to release another video apologising for their “foolish act.” The accused have been identified as S Nagaraj, who worked as a foreman in Muscat and returned to his native village recently, and his friends S Marichamy, a daily wage earner, S Anandaraj, an earthmover operator, and C Anand Kumar, a student. All of them hail from Maiparai village near Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district. Nagaraj and his friends were making videos on the TikTok app during the lockdown period. Some of their videos were popular. In a bid to take their popularity to the next level, they made a fake leopard hunting video. Forest department officials said earlier last week the youths shot a video by setting fire in a crevice on a rock at Poonai Parai near their village and pretended to be ready with logs to catch a leopard. However, no leopard was shown in the video. The video was uploaded on a social media platform on Thursday. The 15-second video got nearly one lakh views. The video came to the notice of forest officials at Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district. During inquiry, the officials came to know that the place where it was recorded was in Tenkasi district. Kovilpatti forest officials picked up two of the accused and alerted their counterparts in Sankarankovil range, who picked up the other two. “There is no leopard in this region and the accused had recorded the video with a misleading message only to gain popularity. It did not go well,” a forest official said. Since the misleading video had reached many, Sankarankovil range officer P K Stalin and Puliyangudi forester M Ashok Kumar made the accused to record another video, in which Nagaraj apologised and asked people not to resort to such mischief. It was shared on the social media platform where the earlier video was posted. “I was arrested by the forest department for creating a rumour and sharing the video. I am here because of my mistake,” he said. Nagaraj added that hunting wild animals was a crime and that people should take effort to conserve them. The four were booked under Section 9 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, which prohibits hunting. The four were released on bail after they paid a fine of Rs 30,000 each (Rs1.2 lakh).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fake-leopard-hunt-video-lands-four-in-trouble/articleshow/75416894.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra pradesh’s test positivity rate lowest in country||VIJAYAWADA: The percentage of Covid-19 positive cases in Andhra Pradesh stands at 1.58%, if one were to consider the nearly 74,500 tests conducted till Monday morning as a base. This is far less than the country’s average of some 4.2 % and other major states like Maharashtra (7.47%), Gujarat (6.46%), Rajasthan (2.8%) and Tamil Nadu (2.42%), which have screened at least 50,000 people by Monday morning. According to state authorities, increased testing capacity has allowed detection of a higher number of cases in the last few days that could help in taking steps to prevent the spread of the disease. Apart from the nine viral research and diagnostic laboratories, the state extended its testing footprint through Truenat machines and followed by rapid antibody tests and chemiluminescent immunoassays IgG and IgM (CLIA) testing. On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh continued to hold first place in the country in terms of the number of people screened per million population. According to official statistics, Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 74,551 samples (1,396 samples per million) against the country’s average of 480 samples. Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, which stood in the second place, averaged 1,009 tests per million. The three other states, which made it to the top-five list include Maharashtra (865 samples per million), Gujarat (786) and Haryana (676). In absolute numbers, Maharashtra screened the highest number of people, 1.08 lakh. Rajasthan has so far tested 77,822 samples, while Tamil Nadu carried out 77,701 tests. Special chief secretary KS Jawahar Reddy said the sample testing capacity has significantly increased from the initial capacity of 90 samples a day on February 15. “As many nine viral research and diagnostic laboratories have been set up in various parts of the state. Now, the state has an antigen-based testing capacity of 7,000 samples a day alone, besides the antibody-based testing. Andhra Pradesh is conducting the highest per million Covid screening tests compared to any other state in the country,” said Reddy. Andhra Pradesh is considering the RT-PCR as the only confirmatory test. Even if a patient tests positive in Truenat test or rapid diagnostic test, the result will be again validated through the RT-PCR testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/test-positivity-rate-lowest-in-ap/articleshow/75414769.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 28, 2020||Madurai||High numbers due to sudden outbreak in containment area||MADURAI: With the district reporting as many as 33 Covid-19 cases in the last six days, district officials asserted that they are doing their best to contain the spread of the virus. On Monday, four more cases were reported taking the total cases in the district to 79. While most of the cases in the district were from a single source infection initially, of late cases are cropping up in various containment areas and other parts, which were largely unaffected. On Monday, four people, including a 27-year-old pregnant woman from Teppakulam and a Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) staff nurse from Y Othakadai, tested positive for Covid-19. The other two cases are a man and a woman from Teppakulam and Karisalkulam. The number of cases has gone up because of a sudden outbreak in one of the containment areas. “Else we had fully brought things under control,” Madurai district collector T G Vinay said. “One case turned positive. There is nothing to panic as we have cordoned off the area and intensified the containment measures. The cases are declining,” he said. Across the district, around 30 different areas have been marked as containment zones. There have also been a handful of cases of officials from police and fire department, health and sanitary workers testing positive for Covid-19. At GRH, two sanitary workers, two staff nurses and a supervisor have tested positive for Covid-19. Stating that there is no lapse in terms of providing protective equipment such as PPEs, N95 masks and gloves to the staff, Vinay said they have taken a serious view of GRH staff contracting the infection. A pregnant woman, who was admitted to hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 gave birth to a healthy baby girl after a C-section .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-numbers-due-to-sudden-outbreak-in-containment-area/articleshow/75416908.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar asks PM Modi to rejig norms to bring back Kota students||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Monday told PM Narendra Modi that bringing back students from Kota (Rajasthan) or any other place in the country will not be possible unless the Centre modifies its existing guidelines for the nationwide lockdown as it would not be in consonance with the law. Speaking at the PM’s video conferencing with CMs of other states, Nitish said Bihar government was strictly implementing the lockdown as per guidelines issued by the Centre and under the Central Disaster Management Act, inter-state travelling is banned. “Unless the guidelines and rules are amended, calling back anyone will not be in consonance with the law,” Bihar CM said and urged the Centre to issue necessary guidelines in this matter. “Large number of students from Bihar study at different coaching centres in Kota, Rajasthan. Some states have called back their students from there…Not only Kota, students from Bihar also study at many other places in the country,” he told the PM. Assuring Bihar’s full support to the Centre in its fight against Covid-19, Nitish told the PM that state government would follow whatever guidelines the Centre would issue for the lockdown. The Bihar CM said that the Centre has to take a decision as to how long the lockdown would continue. He also informed the PM that more than one lakh people from Bihar who are stranded outside the state have so far called the helpline number of the state government. “So far, 25 lakh stranded people have made application for financial assistance of Rs 1,000 under the CM Special Assistance Scheme. Amount of Rs 1,000 each has so far been transferred in the bank accounts of more than 15 lakh people,” he said. Nitish further said only 66 positive cases of covid-19 were in Bihar before April 14, but now it has increased to over 300. In initial days, a few positive cases came in the state through those who returned from abroad. So far, 56 patients of covid-19 have been cured in the state. “To date, covid-19 cases have been found in 48 blocks of 22 districts,” Nitsh said. Bihar has total 534 blocks in its 38 districts. He said the state government has launched a door-to-door screening campaign on the pattern of the pulse polio programme to identify people infected with symptoms of coviid-19. “So far, more than 4 crore people of 75 lakh families have been screened under this special drive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-asks-pm-to-rejig-norms-to-bring-back-kota-students/articleshow/75415105.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||Check if PPEs can be provided in non-Covid areas: SC||Nagpur: The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday directed the Central government to examine whether personal protection equipment (PPEs) could be provided to all health officials working in ‘non-Covid treatment areas’. “We direct the Union of India to examine this issue and make necessary suggestions in the ‘Rational Use of Personal Protective Equipment’ guidelines, so that PPEs are provided to all health officials who are working in non-Covid treatment areas,” a bench comprising justices NV Ramana, Sanjay Kaul and Bhushan Gavai said. The directives came while the SC was hearing an intervention of city-based doctor Sameer Paltewar through counsels Shreeyash Uday Lalit and Krishna Kumar Singh, via video conferencing. The intervener sought provision of PPEs to all health workers, including doctors, nurses, ward boys and other medical, paramedical professionals working in all non-Covid treatment areas, contending that Covid-19 infection from asymptomatic patients is on the rise in the country. While allowing Dr Paltewar’s application, the judges stated that they found substance in his suggestions. “Needless to say that the other directives passed by this court on April 8 are directed to be continued,” the bench said, before disposing of the intervention application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/check-if-ppes-can-be-provided-in-non-covid-areas-sc/articleshow/75416918.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 28, 2020||Kochi||17 priests donate blood to inspire youth||Kochi: In a novel gesture amid the Covid-19 lockdown, 17 young priests of Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese came together at Ernakulam general hospital to donate blood and encourage the youth within the Church to do so. The priests, who hail from various parishes in the archdiocese, reached the city for the sole purpose and returned to their respective parishes on Monday. Father Joseph Koluthuvallil of Sahrudaya, the charitable arm of the archdiocese, said the priests decided to donate after coming to know about a requirement at the blood bank at the hospital. “In the coming days as well, priests and youths would come forward, if there is a requirement,” said Fr Koluthuvallil. Fr Koluthuvallil said the donation by priests was also an effort to inspire others, especially churchgoers, to come forward and to donate blood. “Usually, priests wear casual attires while going for such informal activities. However, on Monday all of us came wearing the white habit so that people would see us and get inspired to come forward and help others,” said Fr Koluthuvallil. Meanwhile, general hospital superintendent Dr A Anitha said that blood is a continuous requirement. “Voluntary organizations have been a helpful hand in this sector. We did not face a shortage as such during the lockdown, but requirement keeps arising,” said Dr Anitha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/17-priests-donate-blood-to-inspire-youth/articleshow/75414888.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||His lime juice revives sapped cops, home guard jawans||Rajkot: Parched cops and home guard jawans on duty in this summer heat see an oasis pedalling towards them on hot afternoon when Chintan Thakar from Amreli, cycles his way to quench their thirst with fresh lime juice. “ I visit 10 to 12 points where the cops are deployed and offer them the much-needed drink,” said Thakar.When his supply of lime juice gets exhausted, Thakar returns home, prepares some more and goes back to serving them jawans at other thirsty corners. “As I could not have afforded any other thing, this idea of serving lime juice occurred to me during the lockdown period. This is my service to the nation,” added Thakar, a man with limited resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/his-lime-juice-revives-sapped-cops-home-guard-jawans/articleshow/75414861.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Aquaculture body to monitor all hatcheries||AMARAVATI: The government will soon set up an aquaculture authority to monitor hatchery activity from seed-level to marketing. The government will also ensure minimum support price (MSP) for farmers. Speaking to the media here on Monday, minister for fisheries Mopidevi Venkataramana Ramana said the government has plan to set up an aqua authority to monitor the activity from brooding to shipment. The minister asked the farmers not to sell aqua products in distress as the ports were opened recently and exports will pick up once the cargo ships are put to sail. He said that the state has the largest number of hatcheries in the country and brooding seed has become a herculean task due to the lockdown. “As 80% of broader prawns are to be imported from the US, gap is arisen in the production activity due to lack of proper cargo facilities,” said Mopidevi. He said the government has written to the Union ministry of commerce and fisheries to permit cargo transport for aqua production and sale. “The state government will stand by aqua farmers and make sure that they need not resort to distress sale. As of now, exports of aqua produce have begun in various ports across the country. Soon the cargo services will be made fully functional,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aquaculture-body-to-monitor-all-hatcheries/articleshow/75414884.cms||Samdani MN
April 28, 2020||Goa||Karnika, Angriya owners not willing to test seafarers: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that Karnika and Angriya authorities have not shown willingness to test seafarers for Covid-19. “They are not following the standard operating procedure” laid down by DG shipping, the CM said, adding that the SOP is mandatory since Karnika is at Mumbai port. Sawant also said that ports secretary P S Reddy is continuously following up with the agents or owners of the ships to follow the SOP and allow crew to sign off. “The company is yet to apply and give us details of their crew,” Reddy said. “The moment they apply, we are ready to give full NOC for the movement of the crew to Goa. But they are yet to write to us. Only once they decide to disembark the crew will they inform local authorities.” Since the Goa government is yet to receive any communication from Karnika, the 93 crew members on board the ship are yet to receive any communication regarding the sign-off. “We are constantly in touch with the owners and agents of the ships that they should complete the SOP so that Goan seafarers can come to Goa,” Sawant said, adding that quarantine facilities for the seafarers are already ready. The CM has also said that Mumbai port is of the opinion that the Covid-19 tests should be paid for, and that the owner of the ships should sort out the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnika-angriya-owners-not-willing-to-test-seafarers-cm/articleshow/75417526.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government hiding coronavirus numbers: Congress||HYDERABAD: TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy on Monday said there is a strong suspicion that the state government is concealing the number of Covid-19 positive cases and not making public the actual number of cases. “Why is Telangana government not allowing private hospitals and labs approved by ICMR to conduct Covid-19 tests, there has been no clear answer from KCR on this aspect. The government needs to conduct more tests and should take South Korea as an example in this regard,” he said. Participating in a video conference conducted by CLP leader M Bhatti Vikramarka on Monday, Uttam said the rate of Covid-19 tests in Telangana was only 37 for every lakh people. Bhatti criticised the CM for confining himself to media conferences and review meetings at Pragathi Bhavan and said procurement of paddy was going at a snail’s pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-hiding-coronavirus-numbers-cong/articleshow/75416923.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Tobacco products worth Rs 13 lakh seized||RAJKOT: A truck carrying a large cache of chewing tobacco and paan masala was seized on Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway near Magharikhada village of Chotila taluka in Surendranagar district on Sunday night. The truck driver was arrested from the spot. "The seized products are worth Rs 13 lakh. The truck driver, identified as Sanjay Patel (42), said he was taking the tobacco products from Rajkot to Surat," said Rajdeepsinh Jadeja, sub-inspector with Chotila police station. The tobacco products were concealed beneath the heaps of onion sacks. The state government has banned the sale of tobacco products during the lockdown period imposed to fight the spread of Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tobacco-products-worth-rs-13l-seized/articleshow/75414901.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Masks & social distancing may go on for two years: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that people may have to wear masks and maintain social distancing for the next two years. Earlier, speaking to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he recommended that the lockdown in the state should continue beyond May 3, and that the state government is hopeful that the Union government too continues the lockdown. He also recommended that the state’s borders continue to be shut even after May 3, as well as that air and rail transport to the state stay suspended. Sawant also suggested that economic activities continue within the state’s borders. He cited the increasing number of cases in Maharashtra and Karnataka to push for the sealing of the state. On Monday, TOI was the first to report that the Goa government would recommend that the lockdown continue and that Goa’s borders remain sealed. “Even though there is not a single positive Covid-19 case in Goa, we have recommended that the lockdown continue beyond May 3,” Sawant said, adding that other states too have requested the PM to continue the lockdown. The CM added that it would be right for Goa to lift the lockdown given the situation in the neighbouring states. However, he added, Goa would continue to follow the Centre’s guidelines. Sawant said that the decision on how long borders would be closed would be decided after the Centre issues guidelines after May 3. While the borders stay sealed, Sawant said that police are taking photos of those entering Goa in trucks carrying essential commodities. During the last meeting with the PM on April 11, Sawant had suggested that the lockdown continue in the state till April 30. He had also recommended that all flight and rail services should remain suspended and that state borders should be closed, except for essential items. With strict implementation of the lockdown even before the national lockdown was announced, the state has managed to restrict positive cases to seven, all of whom have recovered. The last positive case in Goa was found on April 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/masks-social-distancing-may-go-on-for-two-years-cm/articleshow/75417540.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Marriage season is here, but there are no buyers for gold||VISAKHAPATNAM: Jewellery sales have taken a hit with festivals such as Ugadi and Akshaya Tritiya and the marriage season overlapping with the lockdown. Traders rue that the jolt comes at a time when sales were picking up after January this year. Business had been affected after the price of gold increased in August 2019. “Since August 2019 when the price of gold increased to Rs 3,300 per gram our business was dwindling. Although the present price of gold is Rs 4,300 per gm our sale was picking up since January as customers were trying to stock jewellery for the festive and marriage season apprehending a further increase in price. The lockdown came at a wrong time for us,” Moulikrishna Manchukonda, managing partner of Shyam Jewellery told TOI. Traders claimed that sales during March and April account for 30 per cent of annual sales. “This year our revenue during the peak season is absolutely zero. With no delivery possible there had been no jewellery business on the e-commerce apps as well. Being non-essential commodity we cannot move the government with a request. The only thing we can do is to wait till the lockdown is withdrawn and situation gets normal,” added Manchukonda. Although jewellery is sold on e-commerce applications and websites, there are few takers as most customers are not ready to pay and book a product that will be delivered after the lockdown is withdrawn. Apprehending that after the lockdown is lifted, people will be reluctant to go shopping for a few months, traders plan to intensify e-commerce activities to encourage customers place orders from home. “One of the ideas we are implementing is to connect with customers through video conference, whereby a customer can see our showrooms and interact with our sales executive live. Once convinced, they can place an order online and the product would be delivered at home,” J Raghunath, general manager (marketing), Vaibhab Jewellers told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/marriage-season-is-here-but-there-are-no-buyers-for-gold/articleshow/75414921.cms||Arpit Basu
April 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Five arrested with 100 litres of spirit||KOCHI: Kalady police on Monday arrested five persons with 100 litres of spirit which was being transported for making illicit liquor. Police said that the accused used to take spirit reportedly meant for making sanitizer from Aluva to a hideout at Mattoor, where they used to mix essence of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and add colour to it. The accused then used to sell it as ‘Brandy’. One litre was sold for Rs 3,500, police said. The arrested persons are identified as Freddy Jose (24), Sona Dickson (34), Anu Thomas (30), Binil Antony (28) and Sajith Varghese (34). Police said that spirit was arranged by Varghese, an Angamaly-based man who had several cases against him, while the rest were arrested for their involvement in the production and sale of illegal liquor. Police said that the accused were nabbed after getting a tip-off. The area was kept under surveillance leading to the seizure and arrest, police said. Police seized as much as Rs 76,000 from the locaton at Mattoor. According to police, they have received information about the persons who gave the spirit to the accused. A special team has been formed to probe the case. The accused will be produced in court on Tuesday. Police said the remaining accused would soon be nabbed. Meanwhile, an excise team at Angamaly seized and destroyed 100 litres of wash used for brewing arrack from an abandoned plot near a canal at Angamaly. An investigation is on to find the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/five-arrested-with-100-litres-of-spirit/articleshow/75414933.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Rajkot||Woman, 4 others held for killing her husband||Rajkot: A woman, her paramour and three of their accomplices were arrested on Sunday for the alleged murder of the woman's husband in Akolvadi village of Talala taluka in Gir Somnath district. Police said the accused, Nadeem Baloch (30) was in love with Varsha (32), wife of the deceased, Sameer Solanki (35). At her insistence, Nadeem, Ramij Baloch (27) Sagar Gadhia (28), Nahishad Patel (25) and Ajay Koli had allegedly strangled Sameer on April 22 night. According to the police, Sameer was a habitual drunkard and would go to a farmhouse in his SUV to booze. On the night of the crime, when Sameer was driving out of the farmhouse, he saw the accused walking on the road. “Nadeem, Ramiz, Sagar and Ajay were walking down the road. When Sameer, who knew them, stopped to ask them what happened, they said their bikes had developed snags and so they were walking home. At this, Sameer offered them a lift in his SUV. Once they got inside, one of the accused sitting behind Sameer strangled him with a wire,” said H S Bhuva, sub-inspector with Talala police station. After killing Sameer, the accused drove the SUV to the farmhouse of Patel’s uncle on the outskirts of Vadal village of Talala taluka, where they cut the body into pieces and threw his hands and feet, the wire, and the deceased’s clothes in a borewell. They then took Sameer's head and torso to a pond in Akolvadi and buried it on the banks of the pond. After this Nadeem drove the SUV to Sameer's house and told Varsha that the job was done. On April 23 morning, Varsha declared that Sameer had gone missing after going for a morning walk. “Meanwhile, Sameer’s elder brother Bipin Solanki approached us. He told us that Varsha had an affair with Nadeem and that he suspected a foul play. We rounded up Varsha, who, when interrogated, confessed to the crime, leading to the arrests of the accused,” said Bhuva. Cops have launched a manhunt for Koli, who is still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-4-others-held-for-killing-her-husband/articleshow/75414930.cms||---
April 28, 2020||India||Bihar won’t bring the stranded home yet, Odisha wants SOP||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday suggested to PM Narendra Modi that the Centre come out with a “pan-India standard operating procedure” for evacuation of migrants and other stranded people, echoing the views of his counterparts in several states grappling with the challenge of organising transport, border transit control and quarantine for potentially lakhs of returnees. Bihar’s Nitish Kumar told Modi that his government wouldn’t bring back even students stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota until the Centre has framed clear-cut evacuation guidelines for all states to follow. A glimpse of what many states might have to handle over the next few days and weeks came when a migrant helpline set up by Rajasthan received 28,000-odd calls within eight hours of the number going live. “It’s been just a day and we are yet to set up a dashboard. In the coming days, we will able to receive more calls to assist migrant workers,” a senior official of the Rajasthan government said in Jaipur. There were snaking queues of people and vehicles along Himachal Pradesh’s inter-state borders after the state government’s decision to allow people from the state stranded in Chandigarh, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana to return home. The police and civil administration had a hard time managing the rush in the absence of a coordinated effort involving all the states. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee tweeted that her government would take whatever steps possible to help people stuck in 18 states. The state has launched a scheme called “Sneher Parash”, under which Rs 1,000 will be transferred to every migrant stuck insome other state. In a letter to the PM on Sunday, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren asked the Centre to specify why several states were being allowed to ferry back people through the borders before a national protocol is in place. “Why is the Union government silent on the issue?” he said. Haryana, too, has no plan to send buses immediately to bring back stranded people. “We are adhering to the guidelines laid down by the MHA and there will be no evacuation till May 3,” state home minister Anil Vij said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-wont-bring-the-stranded-home-yet-odisha-wants-sop/articleshow/75418464.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||More than 50k held across state in last 1 month||Kolkata: Kolkata Police has arrested more than 20,000 people for defying the lockdown in the city in the last 33 days. With Bengal police arresting another 30,000 violators, the total number of arrests in Bengal has now crossed the 50,000 mark. Police have also taken action against 3,000-odd drivers in Kolkata and 3,000 were booked in other districts. With the number of containment zones increasing every week, all police stations have been asked to be ready to implement the rules at any point of the day. In the past 48 hours, two new containment zones — one at St Georges Gate at Hastings and another at APC Park in Baghajatin — have come up after two tests on suspects came positive. While the Hastings resident is an assistant engineer in a state-run hospital, the Baghajatin patient is a cancer survivor who was being treated in a private hospital. While some police stations — in south and east — still have no containment zones in their area out of the 227 identified till Monday, a few in central Kolkata, like Burrabazar, are handling multiple hotspots. Police, though, say an SOP set up for this purpose has helped them carry out the containment job in a scientific manner on a short notice. The high number of arrests, said cops, was a result of intense naka checking, conducted jointly with the traffic police and the reserved forces, who went on area domination in the bylanes of the city. On Monday, as many as 202 were prosecuted by noon. Fifty- nine people were prosecuted for not wearing masks and another nine booked for spitting on the roads. On Monday, Kolkata Police took to Twitter to appeal to citizens to report social distancing breaches directly to their control room. Significantly, the appeal came from the Port division which has several red spots and is presently managing the Ramzan season. “Social distancing is being maintained religiously during purchase for Ramazan in entire Kolkata Port area. Report violations to local PS and DC Port Control. Stay home stay safe,” it tweeted sharing images of some markets and mosques whose gates were shut. “We have been receiving cooperation from people from the beginning. When they are following the lockdown, there are several ways to encou-rage them,” said an officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-50k-held-across-state-in-last-1-month/articleshow/75416255.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Deferring polls within ambit of SEC’s power’||Vijayawada: Former state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Monday filed a rejoinder to the counter-affidavits filed by the state government and state election commission. Ramesh Kumar in his rejoinder to the counter affidavit filed by the state election commission stated that the decision to defer the local body election is confidential and said process does not require any consultation and concurrence. It is purely a discretionary power vested with the state election commissioner and there is no statute that suggests that he should consult anyone before making the decision, he stated. Secretary to the state election commission is a staff officer and the commissioner need not take all decisions consulting him, Ramesh Kumar stated. He also said district collector cadre senior officer should be posted as secretary of the state election commission and state government posted a person who was promoted as IAS cadre in 2019 who did not have prior experience in conducting elections. “But still, I went forward with conducting the elections,” he stated. In his rejoinder to the counter affidavit filed by the state government, Ramesh Kumar stated that the election reforms brought by the government are in favour of the ruling party. He said the process of completing local body elections within 15 days will affect the right of appeal of the rejected candidate who filed nominations. Newly appointed SEC also filed counter on Monday. He stated that the ordinance brought by the state government is valid and hence his appointment is valid as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deferring-polls-within-ambit-of-secs-power/articleshow/75414944.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Goa||Why no SOP to bring us home, say the elderly & ailing stranded in Mumbai||PANAJI: On March 7, when Davorlim resident Shamsunder Lotlikar and his wife Rajashree travelled to Mumbai for a medical check-up, they did not expect to be stranded in a nationwide lockdown. With expenses running high and stress increasing due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the Lotlikars, like many others, want the Goa government to allow them to return. Several states like Punjab, Odisha, Assam and Uttar Pradesh have organised transport to bring their residents back home from Maharashtra. But Goa — apart from working out an SOP with the Centre to bring seafarers back — has not announced a similar effort for its residents stranded in the neighbouring state. “Where is the mechanism to address this issue of local transfer while the government brings Indians from foreign countries? On the news, we saw efforts of the Goa government to bring back stranded seafarers,” said Piyush Vernekar, who is helping the Lotlikars in Mumbai. Shamsunder and Rajashree, both in their sixties, are presently staying at the residence of an acquaintance in Ambernath, a suburb about 55km from Mumbai. There are a considerable number of senior citizens who are stranded outside Goa. Most had gone for religious purposes or medical treatment. Many of them want to return after spending over a month away from their homes and loved ones. Like the Lotlikar couple, they are willing to pay for their travel. All they want is the assurance that they will be not be turned away at the border. Over 1,000 cancer patients who had come to Mumbai for treatment from various parts of the country, are also stranded due to the nationwide lockdown. Among them are several Goan families. One such family from the Mapusa constituency, which did not want to be named, is stranded in Andheri after travelling there to seek radiation and chemotherapy for a cancer patient. “We had applied online to the Goa and Maharashtra governments to let my brother drive us home, but it was rejected. It is high risk for my mom and my dad being away from home and in a state where cases are increasing. It’s stressing all of us,” said Zita (name changed). After hearing the plight of the family, Maharashtra’s tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray intervened and got them permission to travel to Goa. Their application to enter Goa was initially rejected by the North Goa collectorate but was permitted on Monday evening “after much pleading”. The daughter and mother have tested negative for coronavirus but a similar test for the 70-year old father was denied as he has no travel history and no symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/why-no-sop-to-bring-us-home-say-the-elderly-ailing-stranded-in-mumbai/articleshow/75417542.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Fires at hotel, Panjagutta graveyard||Hyderabad: A minor fire occurred in the graveyard at Banjara Hills on Monday afternoon. Fire tenders rushed to the spot and put off the fire. Fire department officials said that was no property loss was reported in the incident. “At around 2 p.m, the Film Nagar fire station staff received a phone call about a fire at the graveyard near The Times of India office. We rushed to the spot and put out the fire within a few minutes. Dry grass, garbage including abandoned cables caught fire. However, there was no property damage,” said a fire department official. In another incident, computers and some furniture was gutted in a fire mishap at Capital hotel in Malakpet. At around 8.30 a.m, Malakpet fire station staff were alerted about the incident. “A few computers in the reception on the ground floor of the two storey building and some furniture was damaged. Electric short circuit is suspected to be the reason for the mishap. The hotel was closed due to lockdown and four workers, who are staying at the hotel, alerted the fire control,” Malakpet ACP, N Venkata Ramana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fires-at-hotel-panjagutta-graveyard/articleshow/75416935.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||From record low, poultry prices touch sky in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Price of chicken swung the most during the lockdown due to supply chain issues and sudden unavailability or severe short-supply of other protein sources like mutton and fish. Egg prices have also been fluctuating due to volatile demand patterns and supply constraints in the past one month. When Covid-19 just started spreading in India, chicken price plunged to a record low. “Whole chicken had been sold at Rs10/kg in rural Bengal where the poultry farms are located. Dressed chicken in Kolkata was sold at Rs 50-60/kg the distress-sale continued for over a month,” said Madan Mohan Maity, general secretary of West Bengal Poultry Federation. Times ViewSome amount of volatility is expected in such times and prices of perishables are particularly vulnerable. But the consumer, too, needs some protection against the type of rapid fluctuations we have seen over the last few weeks.However, the dressed chicken price shot to Rs 290-300 after the lockdown as the supply chain was crippled. However, with state government ensuring smoother supply of chicken, the price again fell to Rs 110-120/kg. But prices started increasing steadily from April 10 onwards. On Monday dressed chicken price in some markets across the city touched Rs 220/kg. Currently, there are some supply chain issues, but consumption has also come down by 40% with roadside food stalls getting closed. The weekly consumption of chicken in greater Kolkata is 60 lakh kilograms. “The production cost for a fully-grown chicken is around Rs 90 and it has increased further with chicken feed supply from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Haryana getting disrupted. Moreover, the industry in West Bengal has suffered huge losses after the lockdown. But price above Rs 200 per kg is unethical,” Maity said. During the initial phase, egg prices also fell to Rs 3.5 per piece. But it swung up to Rs 7 per piece a few days after that. For a brief period, it cooled to Rs 4 per piece, but started rising again and is now selling at Rs 5.5-6 per piece. “It was supply constraint coupled with panic-buying that pushed the demand initially. Since restaurants and bakeries are closed at present, demand of eggs has come down to a large extent,” said Kajal Dutta, secretary of Kolkata Egg Merchants’ Association. On Sunday, wholesale price of eggs (100 pieces) was Rs 405 and it came down to Rs 345 on Monday. “Considering transportation costs and a decent profit, retail price of eggs should not exceed Rs 5.5 per piece,” Dutta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-record-low-poultry-prices-touch-sky/articleshow/75416273.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Home buyers in Hyderabad seek discounts, easy payment schedules||HYDERABAD: While the lockdown has not put a stop to enquiries about new homes, Hyderabad’s developers say most prospective buyers are now calling with added requests — from a higher rate of discount of anywhere between 15% and 20% to refund schemes, in case they wish to withdraw the deal at a later stage. Another common request: relaxation in payment schedules. “Though much lesser than usual, we are receiving a fair number of calls every day for all the three projects open for sale. At least 50% of these probable customers are asking us to ease payment schedules, once the deal is signed. And that’s expected since everybody is cautious about their finances now,” said Tapas Patel, CEO of Om Sree Builders and Developers, a prominent real estate firm from Secunderabad. While he is working on accommodating this request, at least till all industries stabilise, Patel says offering a discount isn’t an option. Developers across the city agree. Reason: the fear of a higher rate of construction once the lockdown is lifted. Industry insiders say that they are already receiving feelers about an upward revision in the price of cement, steel and other raw material, soon after the market resumes work. “That is, anyway, going to take a toll on builders. So, to offer discounts, higher than what is usually given — not more than 2% to 5% — is out of the question. The profit margins are already very thin,” said Ashwin Rao, director, Manbhum Constructions. He is certain that the residential sector in the city, will slowly but steadily start looking up in the next six months. So is R Suresh Kumar, senior vice-president (business operations), Prestige Group (Hyderabad). And while many developers are planning to defer their new launches for 2020, the Bengaluru-based firm is eager to go ahead with theirs. However, cut in property rates is not on offer. “A lot of buyers are enquiring about the possibility of a refund scheme so that they can cancel their booking if they are faced with financial issues in the future. But that’s tough to work out,” Kumar said adding that apart from IT, developers will not eye a larger clientele from the pharma industry, which is witnessing an upswing. Also on the radar of many are businesspersons, particularly those dealing with essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-buyers-seek-discounts-easy-payment-schedules/articleshow/75416940.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Six-fold rise in prices of tobacco products in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Over one month into the lockdown, prices of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products such as gutka have shot up with several retailers charging up to 150 per cent of the maximum retail price (MRP) in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Tirupati and other cities and towns. Those habituated to tobacco consumption have turned to small grocery stores and milk outlets that stock groceries and are selling cigarettes. As tobacco products are not classified as essential commodities, these retailers are selling cigarette packets at Rs 80 to Rs 120 over the MRP, citing the gap between demand and supply. “I developed the habit of smoking cigarettes during my college days and continue even today. Due to Covid-19 lockdown, I am shelling out about Rs 250 for a Gold Flake Kings pack of 10, which was around Rs 165 before the lockdown,” said a consumer, K Prabhakar. Similarly, gutka or betel-quid prices that were being sold in the black market at one-and-a-half times the MRP prior to March 31 have now shot up to three times the MRP. “Before Covid-19 lockdown, I paid Rs 5 per sachet of gutka and am now paying Rs 30 for the sachet. With no other option, I have cut down my consumption from 10 packets to five packets in a day,” said a regular consumer P Naresh Kumar. A senior police officer, A Trinad Rao gutka is being smuggled into Andhra Pradesh from parts of Odisha, Tamil Nadu and parts of Telangana. “Though it may look like a small trade, it involves crores of business,” he added. Sources said officials of the food safety department recently seized gutka in two incidents. The first case was reported at Visakhapatnam, while the second was in Chittoor in which gutka worth over Rs 1.6 crore was seized. One of the major causes of oral cancer, Parliament passed the gutka and Pan Masala (Prohibition) Act, 2015 following a health advisory by the World Health Organisation (WHO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/6-fold-rise-in-prices-of-tobacco-products/articleshow/75414962.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Virus cases, non-nCoV deaths shut up Jorabagan||Kolkata: A dozen people testing positive to Covid-19 and five other non-Covid deaths have spooked the residents in one of Kolkata’s oldest neighbourhoods where the affluent lived a century ago in palatial homes that are now in disrepair and hemmed in by overcrowded coolie quarters. Fear has gripped locals in Tagore Castle Street, Pathuriaghata Street and PK Tagore Street following the spate of Covid cases and rumours that the virus had claimed lives in the neighbourhoods. What appears to have caused widespread alarm is that three of the five deaths occured in one family. Though two of them weren't Covid positive and the report of the third person is yet to arrive, locals are convinced there is a co-relation with the virus. “Reports of the first two deceased said that they were not Covid-19 positive. But there is something mysterious about consecutive deaths in the same family and we are very afraid,” said local resident Laltu Palit. Congested localities like Joragaban, where these thickly populated neighbourhoods with over 9,000 migrant labourers are situated, pose a challenge to both civic authorities and police to monitor and enforce lockdown. But in the past few days, people have disappeared from the streets, an indication of how afraid everyone is. “The family had 14 members. While those who have died did not test positive, we are making arrangements to get the others tested,” said Ward 24 councillor Elora Saha. Apprehending trouble, municipal authorities have begun regular sanitization of roads and pavements in these localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virus-cases-non-ncov-deaths-shut-up-jorabagan/articleshow/75416264.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 28, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant seeks cop report on rave, vows action||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that he has directed Goa police to submit a detailed report on the rave party hosted by foreigners at Pernem. “Based on the facts and the report, I will take action,” he said. TOI had reported on its edition April 26 that while the country is under lockdown, foreigners have been organising and hosting rave parties. Last Friday, one such party was foiled by locals of Paliem and Arambol. After the TOI report, SP (North Goa) Utkrisht Prasoon, dy SP Gajanan Prabhudessai, PI (Pernem) Sandesh Chodankar and other police personnel rushed to the site. Locals of the area have also been demanding that police take stringent action against owners of bikes who rented out the vehicles to foreigners (since all the bikes were private vehicles).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-seeks-cop-report-on-rave-vows-action/articleshow/75417546.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Malakpet cluster fumes as supplies, medicines deplete||HYDERABAD: Claiming that they ran short of food, essentials and medicines, people confined inside the Old Malakpet containment cluster barged towards barricades to vent their ire on officials on Monday afternoon. Around 50 frustrated people marched towards the the barricades and narrated their woes. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation entrusted the job of proving essentials and food to the households of this area to Priyanka Ala, GHMC additional commissioner, revenue. “We are running short of food, essentials, medicines and even water,” a senior citizen from the cluster. There was also heated argument between GHMC officials and Malakpet AIMIM MLA, Ahmed Balala who rushed to the spot. MLA alleged the that civic officials were intentionally harassing people in the clusters. “Barricading has surfaced even in bylanes where there are no positive cases. The civic body has failed to deliver essentials in the cluster,” said Balala But GHMC officials said residents of containment clusters are being supplied with essentials. “The issue has been resolved. Some residents intentionally created ruckus as they were stopped from going out. MLA Ahmed Balala ensured ration reaches all households in the zone,” said Ashok Samrat, GHMC zonal commissioner, Charminar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/malakpet-cluster-fumes-as-supplies-medicines-deplete/articleshow/75416945.cms||Nabinder Bommala
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||State push to normalize non-Covid hosp services||Kolkata: The state on Monday took its first steps to normalise non-Covid services in a phased manner by screening all patients at the entry points and conducting surgeries maintaining the Covid protocol. Before all planned surgeries, the patients will be tested for Covid-19. Medical teams will take protection for emergency surgeries and the patient will be removed to isolation and tested for Covid-19. An order issued late Monday evening state: “While there is lack of clarity on when and how the lockdown will be lifted, it is certain that we will have to normalise hospital services in a phased manner, commensurate with the evolving situation.” The order acknowledged that the patients are having a tough time visiting hospitals owing to travel restrictions and lack of transport. It urged the hospital authorities to draw up a blueprint, including duty rosters for medical personnel, to resume services. The guidelines issued says para-medical staff in protective gear will screen all patients and segregate those who has fever. While standing in a queue, social distancing norm will be mandatory. Use of face masks will be compulsory. The hospital waiting areas will be sanitised after the OPD and visiting hours every day. In the IPD, the distance between two beds should be at least 1m. A health officer said, “The decisions were taken in a meeting convened by CM Mamata Banerjee on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-push-to-normalize-non-covid-hosp-services/articleshow/75416279.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Railways sets up Covid-19 cell||Hyderabad: To ensure the smooth functioning of supply chains and for passengers’ queries to be answered, the Indian Railways has set up an emergency Covid-19 cell. The cell consists of about 400 officers and staff .The cell responds to about 13,000 queries and suggestion, on an average, everyday. Five communication and feedback platforms, including the 139 and 138 helplines, are being used for the purpose. More than 90% of the queries are being responded on one-to-one basis, mostly in the local language of the caller. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/railways-sets-up-covid-19-cell/articleshow/75416952.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government clears home-delivery of non-essentials||KOLKATA: Partha Roy of Northen Avenue was happy that finally he will be able to replace his defunct washing machine soon after CM Mamata Banerjee allowed home-delivery of non-essentials during lockdown. However, when Roy made at least 10 calls to electronics retail chains, he was disappointed as no one was delivering. However, such disappointment among consumers is likely to be over soon as traders gear up for home-delivery of non-essentials. Banerjee said: “We have decided to start home-delivery of non-essential goods. Till now, only essential goods could be home-delivered. This had some problems, but was helpful to people at large. There are many non-essential goods, which people may require. People can place orders over phone, website or other media. This will be a big help. We shall take some clarity from Centre. But we can definitely open small shops.”Great Eastern Retail (P) Ltd director Pulkit Baid got hundreads of calls enquiring about AC, washing machine, TV and microwave oven in the last 10 days. “Once we get permission, we can home-deliver products. But we need e-passes from administration for logistics,” he added. Like electronics retailers, big retail chains — like Future Group’s Big Bazaar, RP-SG group’s Spencer’s — and conventional traders of the state are gearing up for supply of non-essentials in case of lockdown is extended. “Leading pharma chains are planning home-delivery for medicines via tie up with courier companies,” said Gautam Jatia from Frank Ross. Future Group head (east) Manish Agarwal told TOI, “Nearly 25% of the sales of our food and groceries is coming from home-deliveries. For bigger items, though, logistics would be important,” he added. Spencer’s another retail biggie also offers electronics and kitchen items. It recently tied up with Flipkart for home delivery of goods. “We have been delivering essentials to doorsteps. Our channel partners like Uber and Flipkart add to our delivery platforms,” a spokesperson of Spencer’s said. Confederation of West Bengal Trade Association is developing a website, covering kirana stores, auto parts, computer peripherals, electricals, electronics and transporters. CWBTA president Sushil Poddar said if government allows, the website can be used as an offline-online combination to supply goods to customers at their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-clears-home-delivery-of-non-essentials/articleshow/75416285.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Paramedic cops team up for Covid-19 fight||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Being the frontline warriors in the fight on Covid-19 pandemic, the police are considered highly vulnerable as they often come in direct contact with the public, including those in quarantine. To reduce the risk of police personnel contracting the virus, the state police have initiated a project, 'protecting the protectors', by using their in-house human resources. Personnel with professional degrees in various paramedical courses have been selected, formed into a team of paramedics and have been deputed to various districts to examine those on duty and their family members and report to the higher authorities. Among the short-listed 100, as many as 54 personnel are on active duty while the remaining have been kept as reserve. They were handpicked from different units. Their fields of expertise include nursing and midwifery, pharmacy and pharmacology, social work, perfusion technology, health and safety, medical laboratory technology and diploma holders in sanitary inspector course. “Any symptoms of Covid-19 like illness or flu-like symptoms should be promptly documented and reported,” state police chief Loknath Behera’s order to all the SPs and other senior officials regarding the task assigned for the paramedic teams, said. The healthcare teams cover all the police stations, traffic units, barracks, police buildings, special units, railway police stations, telecommunication units, battalions, detachments, police quarters and duty points in each district within their allotted jurisdiction. Ten police hospitals in the state are attached to various armed reserve battalion units, India reserve battalion, Kerala armed police battalion units, rapid response and rescue force unit, special armed police unit and the police headquarters. “We are also in the process of upgrading all these hospitals to the level which can be a primary treatment centre for Covid-19. This will be mainly for the police officials and their family members which in due course will be extended to the public as well,” Behera told TOI. Each police paramedic team has been deputed under the local police doctor-in-charge. The coordination of the field level work of the team has been handed over to the commandant of Kerala armed police battalion-I Vaibhav Saxena, who is also a professionally qualified medical practitioner, under the overall coordination of ADGP (training) B Sandhya. The team has been provided with sufficient personal protection equipment and medical equipment including masks, gloves, thermometres etc, and have also been asked to promote awareness among the police personnel and their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/paramedic-cops-team-up-for-covid-fight/articleshow/75415061.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Nagpur||‘Accelerated video conferencing in HC amid these tough times’||Nagpur: After putting in over 42 years into the judiciary as a lawyer, judge and then adorning the chair of Chief Justice (CJ), his last day didn’t came on expected lines due to coronavirus. Only the second CJ from Vidarbha after justice S Kotwal, justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari who preferred to retire from his hometown had already instructed members of the High Court Bar Association (HCBA) and others to keep it an extremely low-key affair.Only president Gauri Venkatraman, secretary Prafulla Khubalkar and vice-president Purushottam Patil completed the formalities. Instead of bouquets, they showed him the video clip where HCBA members, including senior lawyers, gave him wishes. Besides them, justices Ravi Deshpande, Rohit Deo and Amit Borkar along with senior counsel Jugalkishore Gilda attended his farewell. He was appointed as acting CJ on February 24 and later granted full-time charge on March 20. In a freewheeling chat with TOI, the outgoing CJ spoke on his tenure and achievements.Excerpts...How was your tenure?It was satisfactory wherein I tried to dispose of old matters pending since long. Of course, pendency couldn’t be reduced overnight even with 70 judges. As a judge in the division bench, I disposed of Laxmi Bank liquidation matter pending since 1960. The other case that I remember was Letters Patent Appeal (LPA) that was filed prior to 1947, which we disposed of. Whenever I had free time, I made all efforts to dispose of many old criminal cases and was successful.What are your achievements?There was not much scope for carrying out major changes due to Covid-19 and lockdown. But I could accelerate video conferencing process, first in principal seat at Mumbai and then HC benches in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Panaji. Though it was already started by the HC administration, it was successfully implemented in these tough times with the help of Supreme Court e-committee. It significantly helped in reduction of court attendance.Have the lawyers cooperated?We started this facility with the help of techno-savvy lawyers where only urgent matters were taken initially. In Mumbai, it was impossible for the lawyers to get hard copies in absence of local trains, but they helped in sending soft copies and fully cooperated in the process. Due to lawyers’ help, we’ve not only maintained social distancing but also granted relief to many litigants.What are your plans after retirement?After putting in practice for over four decades, I will take two to three months rest in the city. I am thinking of joining practice like in consultation or arbitration and do some writing.Any landmark/major judgments you remember?I remember removal of religious encroachments on roads which neither the administration nor the politicians were able to do due to sheer public pressure. Then one case I presided over was a sensitive one where a religious head’s body was exhumed and buried at another place after the court’s orders. It helped in easing out big tension in the city. At Panaji, I dealt with a slew of serious criminal matters that included political murders. Even in PIL related to electrocution deaths, I had constituted a committee to check and address the issue in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/accelerated-video-conferencing-in-hc-amid-these-tough-times/articleshow/75416958.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 28, 2020||Patna||At 68, Bihar logs highest Covid-19 tally in a single day||PATNA: Bihar reported its highest single-day tally of Covid-19 positive cases so far with 68 people testing positive on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 345. The previous highest single-day figure of 53 was reported on April 24. Out of the 345 cases, only two people have died so far and 57 people have recovered, bringing the total number of active cases to 286. Among the fresh cases are four toddlers— a two-year-old male from Naubatpur, a two-year-old male from Gausganj in Bhojpur, a two-year-old male from Sasaram in Rohtas and another 2.5 year old female child from Sasaram. Maximum cases on Monday were reported from Munger with 22 people testing positive for the virus in the age bracket of seven to 65 years. The cases mostly came from Sadar Bazar in Jamalpur. Rohtas had the second highest number of cases with 16 people testing positive for the virus. They were from various parts of the districts including, Sasaram, Kochas, Ursha, Dehri-on-Sone, Shobhaganj, Nokha Sasram, Gola and Tapeshwariganj. Seven cases were reported from Bhojpur, six from Patna, five each from Madhubani and Aurangabad, three from Lakhisarai and one each from Saran, Nawada, Darbhanga, Purnia and Madhepura also tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. As per information shared by state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar, 18,396 tests were done in the state till Monday morning and 1,656 samples were under testing process. Sanjay said that above four crore people have been screened through door-to-door survey, of which 2,629 were found to have symptoms like cough, fever and breathing problem. Out of these, samples of 1,906 have been collected and sent for test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/at-68-bihar-logs-highest-covid-tally-in-a-single-day/articleshow/75415047.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Panel advises more oxygen stations, greater surveillance to cut back Covid-19 death rate||PUNE: The committee that submitted the death audit report to the state government recently has suggested that oxygen stations be made available at all Covid-19 hospitals and quarantine centres. It has also called for stricter surveillance of senior citizens with co-morbidities. An oxygen mask near the bed, connected to a central oxygen supply system or to an oxygen cylinder, helps Covid-19 patients with breathing difficulty. Breathlessness is a common symptom of such patients and delays in treatment worsen the condition, leading to death. The audit report observed that the elderly and pre-morbid patients were largely succumbing to the coronavirus. “We have told health authorities to watch this category of patients which is in a large number. The screening of quarantined and isolated asymptomatic patients should be done regularly,” the committee said. “The teams that visited Mumbai and Pune made similar suggestions which the state has started implementing,” said Subhash Salunkhe, technical advisor to the state government on infectious diseases. He is a member of both teams. Salunkhe said Sassoon hospital has more oxygen stations now. The hospital accounts for more than 50 of the 80 deaths in the Pune Metropolitan Region. Pune’s Covid-19 mortality rate on Monday was 5.8% as against 8.5% ten days ago and 6.7 % five days ago. The state’s Covid-19 mortality rate was 4.24%. Committee advises more oxygen stations, greater surveillance to cut back death ratePune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said the public works department had set up an oxygen generation plant at Sassoon hospital in 11 days. “It has been beneficial. Other Covid-19 hospitals have been told to ensure they have oxygen supply facilities,” he said. Public health expert R Jotkar said a helpline to facilitate self-reporting by critical patients, standby ambulances at each isolation facility for transporting critical patients, measuring oxygen saturation of residents during containment, a survey with thermoscanners and oxymeters, and transfer of those below 94% saturation to oxygen stations will bring down the mortality rate. A central health team that visited Pune last week said Covid-19’s doubling rate in Pune was seven days, a little higher than the rest of the country. Every ninth sample in Pune was found to be Covid-19 positive while it was every 23rd sample in the rest of India. Mumbai team member Avinash Supe said they had strongly recommended provision of early oxygen to patients with breathing trouble. “The mortality rate will come down if all our recommendations are implemented,” he said. He added that the cremation protocols of the Covid-19 patients should be adhered to. The team had advised that high-risk persons be identified fast, testing and surveillance be increased and contact tracing done quickly. Lockdown protocols must be enforced in slums and markets where social distancing does not exist. Institutional quarantining instead of home quarantine should be stressed upon for slum areas, the members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panel-advises-more-oxygen-stations-greater-surveillance-to-cut-back-covid-19-death-rate/articleshow/75417560.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: New platform for university students||HYDERABAD: The governor of Telangana has started Connect-Chancellor, an initiative to provide opportunities to university students for showcasing their innovative, exciting and novel ideas. Ideas can be represented in the form of articles, stories and poems on various issues that can have an impact on the student community and society at large. The aim of the initiative is to bring out the creativity and innovation among the university students. The best papers in each language will be awarded Rs 15,000 for the first, Rs 10,000 for second and Rs 5,000 for third best papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-platform-for-students/articleshow/75416959.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand says no to Centre’s guidelines on reopening shops||RANCHI: The state government will not implement the Centre's guidelines giving relaxations to some shops due to a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday, adding that he will wait for the Centre’s decision on the nationwide lockdown, which was extended till May 3, before devising any strategy at the state level. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday night, Soren asked him for clear-cut guidelines on transportation of migrant labourers and students stranded in other states and questioned why the Centre has ignored lockdown violations in other states. Addressing a press conference on Monday afternoon soon after attending Modi’s video-conference with all CMs, Soren said, “We support the Centre on the issue of lockdown. We will wait until May 3 for the Union government’s decision and only after that we will review the situation at the state level. However, considering the spike in number of coronavirus cases in Ranchi and other parts of the state in recent days, we have decided not to implement the advisory related to the opening of some shops till May 3.” Soren said he did not get a chance to air his views at the meeting even though he had written to the PM on Sunday evening detailing the points and issues concerning Jharkhand. Soren said his biggest concern is why Jharkhand is being “punished by the Centre” when it comes to stranded migrants and students. He said, “I don’t want to break any law. The Centre’s guidelines have clearly banned interstate movement and said any violation amounts would invite cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Then how are many states bringing back their students and labourers? Why is Union government silent on the issue?” He added, “It is not that we don’t want our people back, but we are abiding by the Centre’s orders as per constitutional norms. We have requested the Centre time and again for clear-cut guidelines for such movement so that we too can bring our people back home. The Centre has not responded. It seems Jharkhand is being punished for following the rules while other states continue to violate norms.” Soren also sought Centre’s assistance in bringing stranded people back. He said, “I have urged the PM for support as we do not have enough resources to track and bring every native of Jharkhand stranded in nooks and corner of the country.” The State’s coronavirus positive patients count touched 91 and Ranchi has more than 60 cases. Of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, 11 are affected so far. Soren said the spike in cases is a good sign before the lockdown end. He said, “The increase shows we are tracing affected people and providing them with medical treatment on time and also containing the spread of the virus. We are trying to ramp up testing facilities across the state.” Soren, however, was concerned on the trend of the virus spreading from Ranchi’s Hindpiri area, prompting him to take some strict measures on Monday. He said, “In a majority of the cases, the affected people’s link with Hindpiri patients, directly or indirectly, have come to light. This is a concern as people from Hindpiri escaped to other districts and tested positive or transmitted the infection despite the lockdown and curfew. To stop this, CRPF has now taken control of Hindpiri to enforce the lockdown. If need be, it will be expanded to the entire of the district.” Soren said orders have been given to the authorities to completely seal Ranchi. “All inbound and outbound movement of vehicles or people to and from Ranchi, except those dealing in essentials, will now be barred. We will be more strict now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-says-no-to-centres-guidelines-on-reopening-shops/articleshow/75415481.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||Questions raised on admin’s lapses in quarantine process||RANCHI: A day after the state capital recorded its biggest spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration on Monday extended the screening and contact-tracing exercise by dividing the city into four zones. However, residents and officials have started questioning several lapses that the district administration had made and claimed that these lapses have possibly increased the rate of infection in the city. A total of seven persons out of 13, who tested positive on Sunday in the city, were frontline workers and five of them are sent to home quarantine. However, two of the five sent to home quarantine were found working, thus increasing the risk of spreading the infection. Among the seven frontline workers, five were nurses of Ranchi sadar hospital and got infected through a pregnant woman from Hindpiri, the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak in the city. While two of the nurses were sent to a quarantine centre, three of them were put in home quarantine. Of the other two persons, one is a driver, who was advised home quarantine and used to ferry the executive officer of the Covid-19 control and command centre at Hindpiri. The last is a daily wager, a resident from another district who was released from a quarantine centre after completing the 14-day isolation, but advised home quarantine. He, was however, hired to work at the control and command centre. Both were found working till their test reports arrived on Sunday. A senior health department official on condition of anonymity said the spread could have been contained if the administration acted in a co-ordinated manner and quarantined all those whose samples were collected. He said, “Three of the nurses who tested positive were earlier sent to home quarantine after their samples were collected on April 21. They were residents of different areas, including Loadih, Chutia and Argora. Since they were in direct contact with a patient, staying at their homes increased the risk of spreading infection among people from those areas.” Neighbours of the three nurses and the driver have also alleged negligence on part of the district administration, saying that not enough precaution was taken to isolate people on Covid-19 duty. Kumar Prasenjit, a resident of Piska More area, said, “If the administration wants us to stay indoors to contain the virus, then they should have made protocols to ensure that those on Covid-19 duty are not allowed to go around the city but make them stay in an isolated environment. Now that people from various areas have tested positive, I think community infection may have started.” Ishan Trivedi, a resident of Harmu housing colony, said, “I fail to understand the logic behind hiring a man, who was advised home quarantine, to work at the control and command centre. Are the officials ignorant or have they run out of resources that they have to hire people in home quarantine? Now that a frontline worker has been detected positive from Imli Chowk area, we do not know how safe we are.” On its part, the district authorities appointed nodal officers for the four zones to expand the screening and contact-tracing exercise All four nodal officers have been provided one hospital each in their respective areas to isolate any suspected patients. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DC Rai Mahimapat Ray said, “We have shifted all positive nurses to Rims, a Covid-19 designated hospital, and their contacts are being traced and samples are being collected for testing. Moreover, new neighbourhoods from where new positive cases have been reported are being combed and samples are being collected.” On being asked whether those who have come in contact with infected frontline workers were quarantined, Ray said, “Family members of the official and his driver along with three nurses, who were on home quarantine before they tested positive, are now being sent to a quarantine centre and we are also collecting their samples for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/questions-raised-on-admins-lapses-in-quarantine-process/articleshow/75415150.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City cop suspended, hotel owner, 4 others arrested||Jamshedpur: Police on Monday arrested five persons, including the owner of Alcor Hotel, and sent them to jail on charges of trafficking and violation of lockdown. Bistupur police station officer in-charge of Rajesh Prakash Sinha was also suspended for “inefficient handling” of the case. On Saturday, Bistupur police raided the hotel and found that its salon, spa and bar were open. Police detained three prominent city businessmen— Laddu Mangotia, Rajat Jaggi and Deepak Agarwal — from the hotel premises while they were “partying” with a woman they brought in from Kolkata and arranged a fake ID proof for her stay at the hote; police sources said. She too was detained from the hotel on Sunday. In a report tabled by a police team, led by Jamshedpur city SP Subash Chandra Jat, police found evidence of wrongdoings by all the five accused. They were arrested under sections of Immoral Trafficking Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, SSP Anoop Birthare said. The five forwarded to jail are hotel owner Rajiv Duggal, manager Sharad Poddar and three other employees. The woman has also been forwarded to jail after being produced before the court of chief judicial magistrate.The three businessmen have been put under home quarantine for 14 days. “All three have been charged with lockdown violation and we will question them further during the course of our investigation,” Birthare said. “Bistupur OC Sinha has been suspended as there were allegations that he did not discharge his duties properly after the three businessmen were brought to police station on Saturday. The new OC will take charge soon,” Birthare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-cop-suspended-hotel-owner-4-others-arrested/articleshow/75414994.cms||B Sridhar
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||CRPF roped in to help enforce lockdown in Ranchi||RANCHI: With many people coming out on the streets needlessly amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the state government has roped in Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel to enforce the lockdown strictly across the state capital. Official sources said two companies of the paramilitary force will be deployed at various sensitive areas of the city in the initial phase. The administration will also respond in a calibrated manner and would deploy more CRPF personnel, if needed. DGP M V Rao said CRPF was deployed mainly due to shortage of manpower in the state police force and the need to put up checking points at more places in the city. He further said police will take strict action against people breaking laws, misusing social media and spreading rumours. Moreover, people loitering on roads will face strict legal action, the officer said. Rao said, “I appeal to people to obey the lockdown norms as it is the only way to prevent the spread of coronavirus. If they violate laws, they should not complain of stern measures taken against them.” In the recent past, several people have reportedly escaped from the Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of Covid-19 outbreak, where police said a strict security cordon has been set up. In the latest incident on April 18, three members of a family from Hindpiri were traced to Bero area in rural Ranchi. Police brought them back on the same day and sent them home after a medical examination. A case was also registered against them in connection with the incident. Rao, however, said taking CRPF help was not related to people escaping from containment zones. He said, “Incidents of people escaping from containments zones happened earlier. The decision on CRPF was taken recently.” CRPF inspector general Raj Kumar said even though the paramilitary force has been deployed for law and order duties in the past, it will be an entirely new assignment for them to work during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have taken all precautions by providing our personnel with masks and sanitizers. They have been asked to maintain social distancing while on duty. The commandant 133 Battalion has been made the nodal officer in this regard,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crpf-roped-in-to-help-enforce-lockdown-in-ranchi/articleshow/75415594.cms||Sanjay Sahay
April 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Ranchi gets 20 new cases, Jharkhand figure doubles to 103 in 4 days||RANCHI: The number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand crossed the three-figure-mark as the state reported 20 fresh cases, all from various localities in Ranchi, on Monday. The figure also the highest single-day spike in the number of cases, far above the 16 reported on Sunday. The state has now recorded 103 cases of the novel coronavirus. Of these, 82 are active, while 19 have recovered and two have died. In a concern for the health authorities, the state has recorded a doubling rate of four days — the state recorded its 50th positive case on April 23. State health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We have detected 20 positive cases of Covid-19 on Monday from different areas of Ranchi district.” He added that Jamtara became the 11th of 24 districts affected when a positive case was detected just before midnight on Sunday. Meanwhile, six patients — four from Ranchi and two from Dhanbad — were discharged from hospital after they made a full recovery, officials said. Among the fresh cases, three — the assistant sub-inspector of Hindpiri police station, an ambulance driver and a Sadar hospital staff —are frontline Covid warriors. Of the 20, 17 are male. Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of the outbreak, reported seven cases, including a pregnant woman. Three cases each were detected in Bedo and Itki and the remaining seven are from different areas of the city. Of the seven new cases in Hindpiri, four are migrant from other states who were under quarantine at Raain mosque and their samples were collected during a contact-tracing exercise. The others have been infected through direct and indirect contact with positive patients. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said: “All the new cases are from different area of Ranchi, including Kanke, Doranda, Kadru, and a couple from Rims. They are being shifted to the Covid-19 block at Rims. We will be continuing our containment exercise in the respective areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/ranchi-gets-20-new-cases-jharkhand-figure-doubles-to-103-in-4-days/articleshow/75426310.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||Bar Council to give Rs 45L for J’khand lawyers’ aid||RANCHI: The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Monday informed the Jharkhand high court that it will provide Rs 45 lakh to the Jharkhand State Bar Council (JSBC) to meet the basic requirements of lawyers facing difficulties during the lockdown. The BCI made the submission before a division bench comprising chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice S N Prasad during hearing on a PILs related to relief for lawyers affected by the lockdown. During the proceedings, JSBC said it will allocate Rs 50 lakh from its own reserve to provide foodgrains, medicines and other necessities to lawyers. Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan said, “The court has directed that the Advocate Welfare Trustee Committee hold its meeting and decide on the fund it would allocate to JSBC for helping the lawyers.” He said he has informed the court that the state government has notified the Advocate Clerks Welfare Act, adding that its rules are to be framed. The court was of the view that it should be done soon. JSBC chairperson Rajendra Krishna, who took part in the hearing, said, “My submission was that the JSBC is in urgent need of funds to help the needy lawyers. The next hearing in the case is on May 7.” In the last hearing, the HC had sought information from BCI on its plan to help the lawyers. It had also asked the JSBC for its plan for implementation of a welfare scheme. The court also wanted to know if the state government has notified the Advocate Clerks Welfare Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bar-council-to-give-rs-45l-for-jkhand-lawyers-aid/articleshow/75415552.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||Crackdown against 12 PDS dealers in Simdega||GUMLA: The Simdega administration fined 12 ration dealers and also filed FIRs against them on Sunday for irregularities in distribution of ration. The steps were taken after it came to light that these PDS dealers were not providing two months’ advance ration to the poor. The district authorities said they have also passed orders to suspend or cancel the licences of some of the shops. Notably, of the 12 erring shops, nine were run by women self-help groups. Simdega additional collector-cum-district supply officer Amrendra Kumar Sinha said, “Fines have been calculated based on the market price of the quantity of rice that was not distributed among the beneficiaries. The fines range between Rs 15,000 to Rs 1 lakh. Of the 12 dealers, licences of two have been suspended and one cancelled.” He added that they have been receiving complaints against the shops for sometime and action was taken only after a thorough probe. Notably, deputy commissioner Mrityunjay Barnwal has deputed two executive magistrates to keep a tab on the activities of all PDS dealers in the district during the nationwide lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crackdown-against-12-pds-dealers-in-simdega/articleshow/75415381.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||VHP to distribute ‘Hindu Shop’ banners to Steel City fruit-sellers||Jamshedpur: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP)’s Jamshedpur unit on Monday said it will launch a campaign to distribute banners and posters saying “Hindu Shop” to fruit and vegetable sellers in the Steel City. The announcement comes soon after the police removed similar banners put up outside four shops in the city’s Kadma market. The controversial banners put up by the vendors read ‘Vishwa Hindu Parishad Ki Anumodit Hindu Fal Dukaan’ (‘fruit shop approved by VHP). Police took down the banners on Saturday evening after chief minister Hemant Soren issued a directive regarding the issue on social media. BJP has criticised the Hemant Soren-led mahagathbandhan government for directing the police to take action against the vendors. Former chief minister Raghubar Das on Sunday visited the market and met the fruit vendors, assuring them BJP’s full support. He also told them and they should not be afraid of displaying their religious identity. Congress, meanwhile, accused BJP and VHP of trying to create a communal divide in the society. Talking to TOI on Monday, VHP’s Jamshedpur mahanagar secretary Janardhan Pandey said, “We have made banners that will be distributed among fruit and vegetable vendors in Kadma, Sakchi and Bistupur localities. Once the lockdown is lifted, we will launch the distribution programme in a big way. Along with the ‘Hindu Shop’ banners, we will also gift framed photos of Lord Ram to the vendors and ask them to put them up at their shops." The VHP functionary said the “irresponsible acts” of Tablighi Jamaat members was the main reason for the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country and in Jharkhand and most people want to be safe when they purchase essential items and food from the markets. “The banners we distribute will help buyers identify the shop they can visit. They will be able to buy basic food material without any fear and doubt,” Pandey said, arguing that there are several eateries, cosmetics and fruit shops in the city that “flaunt their religion identity to attract customers of a respective community”. Pandey said “I don't want to get into an argument about whether police action was correct or not. But it is a fact that there are several establishments in the city that are run by Muslim proprietors and their shops are easily identifiable.” He was making a reference to the several ‘Jhatka’ or ‘Halal’ meat shops and ‘Muslim hotels’ in the city. SSP Anoop Birtharay on Sunday said that the police will not allow anyone to disturb social fabric of the city. He said the police have not lodged an FIR against the vendor, but they will serve him a notice under Section 107 of the CrPC. A notice will also be sent to the person who had lodged a complaint highlighting the banner. He said, “At this point of time, when Disaster Management Act – 2005 has been imposed in the Country and shop or business establishment are being opened only with the order of local administrations, putting such banners in shops cannot be allowed as it might lead to division of society on the lines of religion and may create enmity between them,” said the SSP. "Prime facie, it appears to be a conspiracy hatched with an intention to divide the society on the lines of religion. OCs of concerned police station have been ordered to remove the banners and tell the shopkeepers not to repeat the act,” he added. Meanwhile, Congress, part of the ruling mahagathbandhan in the state, on Monday accused VHP and BJP of playing politics during a pandemic. Congress district president, Vijay Khan, said, “BJP and VHP are trying to create a division in the society on religious lines for political gains. It is an attempt to create communal tension and law and order problems and then criticise the state government for the trouble. The way Raghubar Das rushed to the Kadma market to meet the fruit sellers shows his desperation to return to the centerstage of politics.” The fruit vendors, however, said that they had no idea they would land in trouble because of the banners. “The lockdown has already ruined our business. We are somehow managing to run our shops and feed our families. We are not part of any political party. Let us work in peace,” some vendors told TOI on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vhp-to-distribute-hindu-shop-banners-to-steel-city-fruit-sellers/articleshow/75414742.cms||B Sridhar
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||90% Covid -19 patients asymptomatic: Docs||RANCHI: More than 90% of the 91 (to be changed later) Covid-19 patients in the state have remained asymptomatic so far. None among the patients being treated at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) here has shown even the mildest complications and all are being provided with prophylactic treatment (intended to prevent disease). Based on the observation of the patients, doctors at Rims have asked people in general to not be scared of tests or even when infected. Sharing details of treatment of patients, Dr J K Mitra, head of medicine department at Rims, said they are providing prophylactic treatment with hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to the patients. “If there are mild symptoms, which less than 10% at the Covid-19 block, have, we are giving them supportive therapy — treatment according to the symptoms,” he said. While all the admitted patients are being administered a dose of HCQ, a few others with mild symptoms like sneezing, cough and fever have been administered with azithromycin (an antibiotic), paracetamol and cough syrup. “Vitamic C and calcium tablets are also in stock for patients to augment their immunity,” Mitra said. Other doctors at Rims said they have seen even elderly patients remaining asymptomatic or with mild symptoms like those of normal cold and flu. “There is no need to panic. Though the medical fraternity is worried about the rapid spread of the virus, not everyone progresses to a condition that requires tertiary medical care,” said Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, head of trauma, emergency and critical care. Manzoor Alam (65), who recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged from Rims on April 20, told TOI that he was initially scared when his entire family was quarantined and their samples were sent for tests. “Of the six members in my family, only I tested positive even though I had no symptoms,” he said. Despite suffering from Type II diabetes, Alam remained hale and hearty throughout his weeklong stay at Rims. “I was given two tablets a day for two days and thereafter one tablet twice every day. I never felt any difficulty. I neither had fever nor cough. In fact, all other patients around me in the hospital seemed healthy,” he said, applauding the team that looked after them in the hospital. Medical experts at Rims said only two patients became critical at the hospital and both eventually died. “The first casualty was a man who was suffering from several ailments and had developed severe acute respiratory syndrome and needed a ventilator, but his wife, who died later, had tested negative for the virus,” Mitra said. Bhattacharya pointed out that the mortality rate for Covid-19 is less challenging in the state compared with the infection rate. “Though we want people not to be scared of any infection, they must not take any risk. Once they become a carrier, they can infect the elderly in their families. The aged are likely to develop complications if they are infected,” he cautioned, explaining why the entire machinery is trying to prevent the spread of the disease at the community level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/90-covid-19-patients-asymptomatic-docs/articleshow/75415046.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||Cyber crooks play on corona pandemic panic||Lucknow: Exploiting pandemic-triggered insecurities among citizens and cashing in on surge in online transactions in time of lockdown, cyber crooks in the city are making merry and laughing all the way to the bank. It was double trouble for Alok Kumar, an event manager and Indiranagar resident, after he was duped of Rs 10,000 by a fly-by-night website. Kumar booked N95 masks and sanitisers for his troupe early this month from a snazzy website, offering covid-19 solutions. However, after two days of transaction, the website was withdrawn by conmen after making fast buck. Similarly, a teacher residing in Gomtinagar, was defrauded of Rs 15,000 by a caller, who introduced himself as World Health Organisation (WHO) official and promised to deliver PPE kits and medical check-up at the doorstep. The teacher had suffered a panic attack after an area in close proximity was declared a hotspot. She fell to sweet-talking of the caller and placed an order for 10 PPE kits extra and later realised she had been scammed. ‘Corona-conning’ cases account for 65% cyber frauds reported in one month since the lockdown was clamped, with total cases at cyber cell of Lucknow Police pegged at 66. While other kinds of cybercrime, including phuishing and vishing has dipped, scamsters are now making the most of covid-19 scare by duping gullible. A cyber cell senior officer said, people are being scammed not only on the pretext of selling protective gears like masks, PPE kits and sanitisers at cheap rates on fake websites, but also in the name of covid-19 medicine. In most cases, scamsters pose as WHO or hospital officials, besides floating fake websites, he said. Another category of fraud, he said, was circulation of fake messages seeking donations to battle coronavirus with a tax-saving rider. “At least 13 people were duped in the name of selling masks and PPE kits, 13 others were scammed by claims of covid-19 medicines,” said Vivek Ranjan Rai, assistant commissioner of police, cyber cell. Rai said, preliminary investigations suggest of 66 cases, 40 conmen had links with the infamous Jamtara district of Jharkhand, while 12 had links to NCR region and remaining 14 from other parts of India, including Surat, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. “After the lockdown ends, a team will be dispatched to bust the Jamtara gang,” he said. “We had issued fraud prevention advisory against coronavirus-related scams, but more awareness needs to be created,” said the ACP. He also said few days ago, the cyber cell took note of fake websites offering key positions with an aim to con those who lost jobs after the onset of lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cyber-crooks-play-on-corona-pandemic-panic/articleshow/75415229.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi gets 20 new cases, Jharkhand figure doubles to 103 in 4 days||RANCHI: The number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand crossed the three-figure-mark as the state reported 20 fresh cases, all from various localities in Ranchi, on Monday. The figure also the highest single-day spike in the number of cases, far above the 16 reported on Sunday. The state has now recorded 103 cases of the novel coronavirus. Of these, 82 are active, while 19 have recovered and two have died. In a concern for the health authorities, the state has recorded a doubling rate of four days — the state recorded its 50th positive case on April 23. State health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “We have detected 20 positive cases of Covid-19 on Monday from different areas of Ranchi district.” He added that Jamtara became the 11th of 24 districts affected when a positive case was detected just before midnight on Sunday. Meanwhile, six patients — four from Ranchi and two from Dhanbad — were discharged from hospital after they made a full recovery, officials said. Among the fresh cases, three — the assistant sub-inspector of Hindpiri police station, an ambulance driver and a Sadar hospital staff —are frontline Covid warriors. Of the 20, 17 are male. Hindpiri locality, the epicentre of the outbreak, reported seven cases, including a pregnant woman. Three cases each were detected in Bedo and Itki and the remaining seven are from different areas of the city. Of the seven new cases in Hindpiri, four are migrant from other states who were under quarantine at Raain mosque and their samples were collected during a contact-tracing exercise. The others have been infected through direct and indirect contact with positive patients. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said: “All the new cases are from different area of Ranchi, including Kanke, Doranda, Kadru, and a couple from Rims. They are being shifted to the Covid-19 block at Rims. We will be continuing our containment exercise in the respective areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-gets-20-new-cases-jharkhand-figure-doubles-to-103-in-4-days/articleshow/75415678.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Electricity staff emerge as lockdown heroes||VIJAYAWADA: While doctors, paramedical staff, police and sanitation workers are working tirelessly in this moment of crisis, another group which is quietly but consistently working away is the electricity staff. Energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant, in a statement on Sunday, said that electricity employees are being applauded by all sections of society for their service. Appreciating efforts of ground-level staff who are ensuring uninterrupted power supply at hospitals, Srikant said that their services will be recognised by the government. Immediately after the lockdown was announced, the energy department had sounded high alert and special teams were formed to check power outages. A centralised call centre has been established to monitor power supply. Thousands of engineers have been deployed on the ground to restore power supply in case there is a breakdown. Meanwhile, with the onset of summer, sudden winds, rain and gale, the electricity department is facing several challenges. There have been incidents of transformer blasts, conductor snaps and poles being uprooted. Srikant said that ground-level employees have immediately risen to the occasion and restored power supply within the shortest possible time span. K Venkateswara Rao, JMD vigilance, APTransco said a separate control room has been set up to deal with issues faced by electricity employees and to coordinate with cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/electricity-staff-emerge-as-lockdown-heroes/articleshow/75416397.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Curb on public transport may continue post May 3||AMARAVATI: The lockdown might be eased in some states, including AP, post May 3 but public transport is unlikely to resume any time soon as both the Centre and the state governments are believed to be in favour of keeping public transport services in suspension for some more time. Suspension of train, bus and air traffic are likely to continue post May 3, sources said, adding that several chief ministers requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown during the video conference on Monday. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy too is learnt to have endorsed the PM’s views on the issue of suspension of public transport to safeguard the ‘green zones’. During his televised public address on Monday evening, Jagan hinted that it might take a little longer than expected to revive public transport in the state as they need to protect the ‘green zones’ for revival of economic activity. “We are very much particular about protection of green zones. We need to take every measure to protect those areas from getting infected,” he said. Sources said there would be curbs even on private transport, which would be allowed only after proper scrutiny. However, there would not be any vehicular movement between the ‘green zones’ and ‘red zones’ till the situation improves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/curb-on-public-transport-may-continue-post-may-3/articleshow/75416411.cms||Samdani MN
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada police net Rs 3.2 crore as fine amid lockdown||VIJAYAWADA: As the tenure of the lockdown completed one month, Vijayawada police have so far booked 1,874 people for violations within the commissionerate limits. According to official police data, the cops earned a record Rs 3.2 crore in fine amounts at a time when vehicle movements have been curtailed. Police officials said they had intensified the enforcement against the violators since the Day One. As a case-in-point, they cite that the average collection of traffic fines used to stand somewhere in the region of lakhs and, for the first time, the commissionerate has touched over a crore in revenue. Overall, 985 cases were booked against 1,032 shops and 248 individuals for violating the lockdown guidelines under 188 of IPC (disobeying order promulgated by a government servant). Apart from shops, 12 big business establishments and 13 hawkers were booked as well for running their operations. While the lockdown has left the roads almost empty, the cops booked 65,947 vehicles across the city for various violations under Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, during the last 32 days. Out of the 65,947 vehicles, 677 were booked for violating the lockdown norms. The cops said that these violations mostly include people travelling in doubles and triples in the same two-wheeler. The cops also seized 6,125 vehicles for travelling without an appropriate reason during the lockdown. The cops have been conducting checks and booking cases across more than 50 checks posts within their jurisdictions. “Compared to the initial days, the compliance for lock down has significantly improved now than before. This is primarily because of the identification of more red zones in the city which has created fear among the residents,” said a senior police official. In rest of the Krishna district, over 2,300 cases have been booked so far under Section 188 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-net-rs-3-2-crore-as-fine-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75416458.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh government invokes PD Act to curb arrack trade||TIRUPATI: Illicit arrack trade, despite being outlawed, continues in the rural ramparts of Chittoor. Since the lockdown, bootleggers have mushroomed across the district to make some easy money. Now, the trade has made way into urban areas. K Narayanaswami, deputy CM and state excise minister told TOI that over 445 cases have been registered over the last month in Chittoor. Therefore, the state government has decided to book repeat offenders under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-invokes-pd-act-to-curb-arrack-trade/articleshow/75416489.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Hooch brewers brave lockdown for profit||VIJAYAWADA: Unavailability of liquor and beer due to the lockdown has come as a boon to hooch trade in Andhra Pradesh. Despite raids, seizures and arrests, hooch traders are brazenly continuing their trade given the sustained demand for it. Earlier, assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram had said brewing of illicit liquor (hooch) has been increasing indiscriminately and hooch traders are turning millionaires. He expressed his anger at the excise department for its failure to curb it. The prohibition and excise department had initiated a driver since March 23 to check hooch brewers. The department has so far registered 4,266 cases, seized over 36,000 litres of hooch, destroyed over 8 lakh litres of jaggery wash, seized over 30,000 kgs of black jaggery and arrested over 4,000 persons. The uptick in hooch brewing can be attributed to two reasons. First, with the lockdown forcing a larger number of people to stay home without any income, brewing hooch seems to be an easy to way to earn money. Second is the rising demand. With bars and alcohol shops closed, many alcoholics have turned to drinking hooch. It is hence of little surprise that the drink, hitherto considered undesirable, is selling for 500 to 1,500 a bottle. “Acting on credible information, our officer have raided several places, seized large quantities of hooch, almost double of what we usually find, and destroyed ingredients during the lockdown,” said Vineet Brij Lal, director of enforcement, prohibition and excise. “Raids will continue lockdown or no lockdown,” he added. A senior officer with the department said there are several people with previous experience of brewing the alcohol in different flavours such as mango, orange, cashew, blueberry and other fruit flavours. They seem to have increased production to meet the demand and make easy money. Besides, since a majority of the people prepare hooch near farm fields or inside their houses, no one gets a wind of it, he added. Raids show brewing of hooch is more active in the border areas. Speaking to TOI, T Anil Kumar (name changed), a hooch buyer, said that he purchased a bottle of cashew flavour hooch at 1,000 during the lockdown. The brewers claimed that they have increased the price owning to the risk involved in the trade. Expressing his concern over the flow of the hooch from Odisha to parts of Vizianagaram district, deputy excise commissioner, Vizianagaram, YV Bhaskar said, “Our teams have been collecting information to bust hooch trade. Tipplers have to be careful as the hooch is being laced with sedatives and dangerous chemicals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hooch-brewers-brave-lockdown-for-profit/articleshow/75416473.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 28, 2020||Business||Biz bodies adopt local mkts in Covid fight||Kolkata: Following request from chief minister Mamata Banerjee to adopt local markets for implementing hygienic practices to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, leading business chambers and industry bodies have started sanitisation drive in over a dozen markets across the city. The Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BCC&I) has adopted Bansdroni Bazar, in addition to Jodhpur Park Market and Gariahat, for sanitization. The chamber representatives Deb A Mukherjee, president-designate, Subhodip Ghosh, director-general, and Smarajit Purkayastha, deputy director general handed over thermal gun, gloves, masks and sanitisers to the chairperson of the Bansdroni Bazar Committee last week. Earlier, on April 14 and 15, the chamber had distributed 35 litres sanitisers; 11 kg detergents, 2,000 pieces of reusable masks; 1,400 pairs of gloves to Gariahat and Jodhpur Park Bazar Samity. The Bharat Chamber of Commerce has taken over Park Circus, Phool Bagan-VIP Market and Salt Lake CK Market for proper sanitisation awareness campaign. “All markets have been sanitised and masks and hand sanitisers were distributed to more than 500 hundred shopkeepers through the respective market management. Besides, West Bengal Hosiery Association, an affiliated body of Bharat Chamber, distributed more than 12,000 masks and 100 litres sanitisers to other markets, including Jadu Bazar, Entally Market, Shyambazar Market, Ashubabur Bazar, Charles Atten Market, Lake Market, Bansdroni Market, Behala Bajar,” the chamber added. The CII has adopted the responsibility for sanitizing the New Alipore Market (NAM), Kolkata. A spokesperson of the apex body said that CII has distributed 400 pcs of 3 ply mask, 15 litres of sanitiser, 90 litres liquid handwash and 200 pair of gloves among 200 stall owners at New Alipore Market in the presence Mehul Mohanka, chairman, CII West Bengal State Council. EEPC India has taken over the sanitisation project of Hazra Market in Kolkata while the Merhant’s Chamber of Commerce initiated hygiene drive in College Street Market and Ramlal Bazaar. “We are distributing thermal guns, mask, sanitizers in these markets,” said S Roy, deputy director general of MCCI. The president of Indian Chamber of Commerce and chairman of Keventer Group had adopted Lake Market and Nilganj market in Barasat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/biz-bodies-adopt-local-mkts-in-covid-fight/articleshow/75416490.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Tobacco auctions resume at five centres||GUNTUR: Ending the month-long deadlock, the Tobacco Board resumed auctions at five platforms in the state on Monday. The board regulated the arrival of stocks to the auction platforms adhering to social distancing and containment measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The auctions were launched at Tangutu-I, Tangutrur-II and Kondapi platforms in Prakasam district and Jangareddigudem-I and II platforms in West Godavari district. About 218 of the total 260 bales arrived at the five centres were sold on the first day. The lowest bid was Rs.123 per kg and the highest Rs.175 per kg. “We are planning to slowly increase transactions at the auction platforms keeping in view of the situation. We are closely monitoring the Covid-19 situation and the guidelines issued by the state and central governments,” said a board official. He said they have secured all required clearances from the respective district administrations to launch the operations. YSRC legislators Tellam Balaraju and Eliza visited Jangareddigudem platforms to oversee the transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-auctions-resume-at-5-centres/articleshow/75416500.cms||Samdani MN
April 28, 2020||India||3 senior IRS men shunted, given notice for hike-tax call||NEW DELHI: The government on Monday issued notices to initiate an inquiry against three senior revenue service officers for their alleged involvement in the preparation and release of a policy paper titled Fiscal Options and Response to Covid (FORCE), which had suggested higher taxes on the rich as well as a covid cess to help the government raise resources. The officers have also been divested of their responsibilities. Prashant Bhushan (principal commissioner), Sanjay Bahadur (principal director of investigation) and Prakash Dubey (director in the department of personnel and training) have been asked to explain their position on the charges — ranging from creating policy uncertainty during a pandemic, to criticism of government policy and causing “avoidable embarrassment”. Bhushan is general secretary of the Indian Revenue Service Association, which released the report on social media on Saturday, while the other two officers are accused of getting nearly 50 junior officers to prepare the report without authorisation. The Central Board of Direct Taxes has so far not acted against the junior officers. Among a host of suggestions, the report had proposed inheritance tax apart from a host of taxpayer welfare measures. Amount spent on coronavirus treat ment was proposed to be allowed for tax deduction. While the report was meant for internal discussion and submitted to the CBDT chairman a few days ago, the IRS Association decided to make it public on Saturday night, creating furore that prompted the government to quickly disown it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-senior-irs-men-shunted-given-notice-for-hike-tax-call/articleshow/75418615.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Noida||Eight healthcare workers test positive for Covid-19 in Noida||NOIDA: Eight healthcare workers in Noida, of whom only one worked with Covid-19 patients, tested positive for the virus on Monday. They were among 14 new cases, the single biggest surge in a day the district has seen so far, which took the Covid count to 129. Six of the healthcare workers are from Child PGI Hospital — four nurses, an attendant and a kitchen staff. Another was from ESI Hospital, a surgeon who lives in Delhi, and one from the District Hospital, a 45-year-old nurse who worked in the maternity ward. Only a nurse from Child PGI worked in a Covid ward, which means she was the only one who wore protective equipment. “Since most of them worked in the emergency and triage area, they did not wear PPE. However, protocol was being followed — the staff was tested every 15 days. We have now shut the emergency and other wards. Only the neonatal ICU is operational,” said Dr DK Gupta, director of Child PGI. “We are going to step up protection for our staff.” The hospital has quarantined 26 primary contacts of the six staff members. The emergency ward, triage, paediatric ICU and kitchen are being sanitised. Health officials said contact tracing is being done. For the nurse at the district hospital, too, contact reports are yet to come in. Nithari village, where she lives, was sealed on Monday. “There were only two patients in the hospital. They will be tested and quarantined until reports come in,” said Dr Vandana Sharma, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital. Also among the 14 cases is a plumber from Chauda village who works in the quarantine ward of the district hospital building. District magistrate Suhas LY said protective measures in hospitals may have to be stepped up. “Child PGI has been following the protocol strictly. Despite that, if there is spread of infection, it means we have to take more precautions, even while seeing non-Covid patients. We will try to get all staff, even those not treating Covid patients, to use PPE,” he said, adding that GIMS and WHO teams will train hospitals in management of non-Covid cases. The surge in cases on Monday, meanwhile, was attributed to the bunching of reports from labs. “Nearly 200 reports came in on Monday,” an official said. The district has 58 active cases now. Those reported positive on Monday include a 23-year-old man from Jonchana village who had gone to GIMS to get his child treated. “The baby was brought dead. The family was tested and only the man tested positive,” Brigadier RK Gupta (retired), director of GIMS, said. A 36-year-old woman from Chotpur (near Sector 63) who was referred from ESI Hospital to AIIMS, a 30-year-old pregnant woman from Kulesara village, a 40-year-old man from Sector Pi 1 in Greater Noida who had influenza-like illness symptoms and a nine-year-old from Acchar village were the others who tested positive. “Sanitation and sealing is underway in areas where the new cases were reported,” Noida chief medical officer Deepak Ohri said. Level 2 Covid wards in 3 Noida hospitalsThe state government on Monday approved the establishment of Level 2 Covid wards in 42 hospitals across the state, including GIMS, Child PGI and Sharda Hospital. So far, Noida has no L2 ward and only one L3 ward (at Sharda Hospital). Watch COVID-19: Noida registers 14 new cases, city tally climbs to 129||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/8-health-staff-test-ve-7-werent-in-covid-ward/articleshow/75416672.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Virus cases, non-Covid-19 deaths shut up Kolkata's Jorabagan||KOLKATA: A dozen people testing positive to Covid-19 and five other non-Covid deaths have spooked the residents in one of Kolkata’s oldest neighbourhoods where the affluent lived a century ago in palatial homes that are now in disrepair and hemmed in by overcrowded coolie quarters. Fear has gripped locals in Tagore Castle Street, Pathuriaghata Street and PK Tagore Street following the spate of Covid cases and rumours that the virus had claimed lives in the neighbourhoods. What appears to have caused widespread alarm is that three of the five deaths occured in one family. Though two of them weren't Covid positive and the report of the third person is yet to arrive, locals are convinced there is a co-relation with the virus. “Reports of the first two deceased said that they were not Covid-19 positive. But there is something mysterious about consecutive deaths in the same family and we are very afraid,” said local resident Laltu Palit. Congested localities like Joragaban, where these thickly populated neighbourhoods with over 9,000 migrant labourers are situated, pose a challenge to both civic authorities and police to monitor and enforce lockdown. But in the past few days, people have disappeared from the streets, an indication of how afraid everyone is. “The family had 14 members. While those who have died did not test positive, we are making arrangements to get the others tested,” said Ward 24 councillor Elora Saha. Apprehending trouble, municipal authorities have begun regular sanitization of roads and pavements in these localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virus-cases-non-ncov-deaths-shut-up-jorabagan/articleshow/75416688.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 28, 2020||Delhi||Corona scare: Delhi hospitals turn away family of ‘dying’ man||NEW DELHI: Losing a loved one is a wound that takes a lifetime to heal. Imagine then the trauma of a daughter who had to take her father who suffered a cardiac arrest from one hospital to another, hoping he would survive, only to be barred from entering with doctors refusing to touch his motionless body. She had to plead with the doctors for at least a death certificate, so that her father could be given a dignified cremation but was turned away. In a world living under the fear of Covid-19, a non-Covid-19 death, it seems, is not even a statistic. Those who knew Subrata Das, a 65-year-old resident of south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park who passed away on April 23, say he was a cheerful, genteel soul who took active part in Durga Puja celebrations. Shooed away by hospital staff, say kin of 65-year-oldFor residents of the area, not only Das’s sudden death but also the experience that his family had to go through has come as a shock. “I still don’t know what exactly happened to him. I feel that he could have been revived,” said his daughter, who doesn’t want to be identified. She had earlier taken to social media to share the ordeal she and her husband had to go through that day. Das’s daughter, who lives nearby with her husband and inlaws, rushed to his home after hearing her mother scream, only to find her father lying on the bed motionless. “I, along with my husband and a neighbour, called the police, emergency services, doctors and several ambulance services but no one responded with any prompt action,” she wrote in her post. After a lot of effort, an ambulance could be arranged and the family decided to take him to a nearby private hospital. “We weren’t still sure if he was gone and wanted to know if there was any chance of survival,” she said. At the hospital, they were not allowed inside and a doctor came out in full protective gear. “He treated us like animals, shooing us off saying ‘Chup chaap nikal jaao yahan se, gande log corona faila rahe ho’,” she recalled. She claimed the doctor said her father “looked” like a Covid-19 patient and refused to even check if he was alive. “We returned to the ambulance and the staff told us that this was the situation at every hospital and they were witnessing it every day. I requested them to take us to a nearby bigger hospital,” she said. At the well-known south Delhi hospital, the family was stopped at the entrance to the emergency. “A junior doctor asked us if we had been infected in any way. We said we will maintain a distance and all we wanted was for someone to check my dad and assess whether he had any chance of survival,” she said. “The doctor said they won’t deal with the case and asked us to leave,” she said. The family then returned to Chittaranjan Park, where a neighbourhood doctor finally checked Das’s body and gave a death certificate stating that he didn’t die of Covid-19. “We needed a certificate because without it, I wouldn’t have been able to even cremate my father,” she said. She said that while the government, doctors and police were doing an amazing job of fighting Covid-19, they should not lose focus on patients suffering from other life-threatening diseases. Citing this case, East Bengal Displaced Persons' (EBDP) Association, the nodal RWA of Chittaranjan Park, has written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain for framing guidelines for the lockdown period so that residents are made aware of hospital and emergency facilities, government or private, that would be available for those who are not suffering from Covid-19 but are in urgent need of medical attention. The secretary of EBDP Association, P K Paul, said a sizeable population of the area is above the age of 65 and the traumatic experience of the Das family has sent shock waves through the colony. “If this can happen to one family, it may very well happen to another in the present trying circumstances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-scare-delhi-hospitals-turn-away-family-of-dying-man/articleshow/75418677.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||50 per cent of Mumbai’s containment zone population now just in Dharavi||MUMBAI: Almost 15% of the nearly nine lakh residents of the city’s biggest slum, Dharavi, are now in Covid-19 containment zones, accounting for half the city’s containment zone population. On Monday, 16 more in the area tested positive for the virus, including three doctors, who are among the 24 private doctors testing slum dwellers for Covid-19 on the BMC’s request. The sprawl now has 288 confirmed cases of Covid, including 14 deaths. Dharavi’s toilet blocks are proving to be a big challenge in containing the virus. Not only are they proving to be points of contact, but also soaps that organisations provide get stolen. Each of the 225 blocks has 30-50 toilet seats, used by 150-200 people every day. “They remain the most probable contact zones. Given the high volume of people using each toilet seat, it becomes a point for low-risk contacts,” said assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar. “It is not possible to disinfect every toilet seat after each use.” Twice a week, the ward uses water tankers to wash every toilet block. A couple of FMCG companies recently donated over 5,000 handwash and soaps. “But these were filched,” said Dighavkar. The BMC is getting 20,000 soaps more to give slum dwellers and raising awareness on the regular use of soap and water. The latter, though, is a scare commodity in slums. Initially, when the BMC started its containment strategy in Dharavi, it had made use of the toilets free. But that made the operators go away as there was no money to be made. Unable to get staff to operate and maintain the toilets, the BMC reversed its policy and the toilets are once again pay-and-use. The biggest challenge, of course, remains the slum’s crushing population density. “It is so high here that it is not possible to put everyone from high-risk zones into institutional quarantine,” Dighavkar said. Sample this. There are 2.5 lakh people in Mumbai’s Covid-19 containment zones, of whom 1.25 lakh are in Dharavi alone. Dharavi emerged as one of the biggest worries of civic officials on April 1 when a 56-year-old man died the same day he was diagnosed with the virus. On April 9, when six persons tested positive, the BMC decided to start mass screening in the area, checking 47,500 people through its fever clinics. NGOs feel that since the fight against Covid will be a long-drawn one, the biggest solution would be providing every hutment with an inbuilt toilet. “Since 1996, we have been constructing collapsible toilet seats in the mori (bathroom) in 10x10 feet hutments,” said social worker Medha Somaiya. “I received grants, and so could implement the scheme here.” But Dighavkar said there is no space to lay sewer lines. “Even if we are to connect these lines to a septic tank, we need a slope for waste to flow into the septic tank,” he said. “Not even that much space is available.” (Inputs by Richa Pinto)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/50-per-cent-of-mumbais-containment-zone-population-now-just-in-dharavi/articleshow/75418688.cms||Clara Lewis
April 28, 2020||India||Doing a Trump: States build walls, trenches on borders||It is one thing to put up temporary barricades at state borders to stop people from crossing over amid the coronavirus pandemic. It becomes a completely different story when states take a leaf from US President Donald Trump’s playbook and try to seal themselves off from their neighbours by building walls and digging trenches. Officials in Tamil Nadu’s border district of Vellore surprised everyone recently by building two concrete walls overnight on roads near the Andhra border. Each wall stood three feet in width and five feet in height. Not only did this hinder traffic to Vellore, famous for its super-speciality medical services, it also blocked the movement of at least 10,000 litres of milk to AP. After the walls came up, dairy farmers in Vellore were forced to take a circuitous route. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesMeanwhile, Odisha had dug up some border roads after Srikakulam district in AP started reporting Covid-19 cases recently. The digging went largely unnoticed until Monday when a pregnant tribal woman had to be carried on a bamboo shaft across the trench to reach a hospital. A video of Savara Vanisri of Althi village being carried went viral on social media. Andhra dials Odisha, TN over road sealingFurther to the north, NCR’s vision of seamless travel and movement of people also seems to be unravelling with the pandemic. Last week, both Noida and Ghaziabad decided to seal their borders with Delhi. On Sunday, Noida went a step further, saying that it would not issue travel passes to medical staff not associated with Covid duty. On Monday, it partially relented and announced a tie-up with cab aggregator Uber for non-emergency medical transport. Faridabad in Haryana on Monday has announced “tightening” of its border with Delhi; even government employees who work in Delhi but live in the NCR city have been told to make living arrangements in the capital within the 72 hours. Read AlsoBe ready to woo companies quitting China, PM Modi tells CMsPM Modi, while interacting with CMs on Monday, is learnt to have suggested that states should explore the possibility of attracting investments in view of the likelihood of many companies exiting from Chinese cities in the wake of coronavirus. The govt has also blocked the automatic route for FDIThere are moves afoot to seal other state borders as well. Goa CM Pramod Sawant on Monday said he has recommended to PM Modi that its borders with Maharashtra and Karnataka stay shut even after May 3. Back in Andhra, officials were quick to object to the sealing drive, calling up their counterparts in TN and Odisha on Monday and telling them not to put up walls and dig up highways as these could lead to a crisis during a medical emergency. (With additional reporting by Shalabh, Snehil Sinha and Manu Aiyappa)Read this report in BengaliWatch Lockdown: Tamil Nadu builds walls at Andhra border to stop movement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doing-a-trump-states-build-walls-trenches-on-borders/articleshow/75418690.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 28, 2020||Thane||Thane: Essential service shops to be shut in Ulhasnagar||KALYAN: Essential services shops in Ulhasnagar have been ordered by the civic body to remain shut till Thursday after a local tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. However, medical services are exempted. This is the second case in the city. Eight more people tested positive within Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits, taking the total positive cases in the twin city to 137. After KDMC stopped people from stepping out to even buy essentials, except for medical emergencies, the city has been deserted. Late Monday evening, KDMC issued a fresh order, allowing shops selling milk to remain open till 10 am. The KDMC and police have asked shopkeepers dealing in essentials like groceries, vegetables and fruits to leave shutters half open to preempt crowding of customers. Grocery were dropped at doorsteps by volunteers appointed by KDMC. Some people complained that shopkeepers were refusing home delivery if the bill total was less than Rs 500, making it difficult for them to procure essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/essential-service-shops-to-be-shut-in-ulhasnagar/articleshow/75418706.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 28, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Centre, states wary of lifting curbs, graded easing on cards||NEW DELHI: The national lockdown is likely to be replaced with a graded and somewhat piecemeal lifting of restrictions with the least curbs in green zones or districts with low prevalence or no Covid-19 cases, while tough stipulations will remain in red zones, which currently include major cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad. The sum of consultations Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with chief ministers on Monday, official sources said, was that most states wanted the lockdown to continue with some easing of curbs, depending on the situation in a particular area. The CMs of north-eastern states, Himachal, Uttarakhand and some others like Odisha and Bihar felt it would be premature to lift the lockdown with fresh cases occurring and hotspots being notified every day. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesThe CMs indicated the focus would need to remain on saving lives, and the objective of restarting the economy might not be fully met by a staggered reopening of businesses. Modi, on his part, seemed to set out priorities for the states, highlighting the importance of enforcing guidelines strictly in hotspots and said efforts should be directed towards converting red zones into orange and the reafter to green zones. In his remarks, later released by the government, the PM said that the lockdown had yielded positive results and there was a need to think of the way ahead. Read AlsoBe ready to woo companies quitting China, PM Modi tells CMsPM Modi, while interacting with CMs on Monday, is learnt to have suggested that states should explore the possibility of attracting investments in view of the likelihood of many companies exiting from Chinese cities in the wake of coronavirus. The govt has also blocked the automatic route for FDIThe PM underlined that the lockdown has yielded positive results as the country has managed to save thousands of lives in the past one and a half months,” a government release said. The PM, however, warned the danger of the virus was far from over. He said according to experts, the impact of coronavirus would be visible in the coming months and reiterated his call for social distancing and that masks will be a part of life now. The PM said “we have to give importance to the economy as well as continue the fight against Covid-19”, emphasising the use of technology and to utilise time to embrace reforms that touch lives of common people. Though the post-May 3 ro ad map may become clearer in the coming days when the home ministry is expected to re vise its lockdown guidelines, the Centre could revisit its ban on market places in urban areas and delivery of non-essentials by e-commerce firms. Read AlsoCoronavirus: Centre, states wary of lifting curbs, graded easing on cardsThe sum of consultations PM Modi had with chief ministers on Monday, official sources said, was that most states wanted the lockdown to continue with some easing of curbs, depending on the situation in a particular area. Green zones may witness the piecemeal lifting of restrictions while toughThe opening of markets and more services is likely to be accompanied by norms on social distancing, alternate days of functioning or restrictions on staff attendance in green and orange zones. The district map of Covid-19 distribution in terms of case density shows that central and east India has a lighter imprint for the disease and these areas may see more curbs being eased. However, major cities with a higher number of industries and businesses are likely to remain affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-news-in-india-centre-states-wary-of-lifting-curbs-graded-easing-on-cards/articleshow/75417604.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||Pregnant woman without coronavirus report turned away by Bandra hospitals||MUMBAI: A nine months’ pregnant woman was allegedly refused admission to a private hospital in Bandra on Monday, despite her experiencing cramps, because she did not have a Covid-19 test report. Misbah Shaikh, 24, and her family spent nearly six hours at the hospital, requesting admission but in vain. Her family is worried she may deliver at any minute and will need immediate medical attention. Shaikh had registered at Holy Family Hospital for delivery and had paid a deposit. She had been consulting a gynaecologist there for four months. “My scheduled date of admission was April 28. But on Sunday night, I developed cramps and was uneasy. At 9 am on Monday, we reached Holy Family Hospital, where we were told I wouldn’t be given entry without a Covid-19 test report. Nobody had asked us to do this test during our previous visits,” said Shaikh. Till 3pm, she waited in the car outside. A doctor agreed to see her in the emergency section and handed her a prescription for a Covid-19 test. From the hospital, Shaikh’s family then took her to Bhabha Hospital, Bandra, to get the Covid-19 test done. But the hospital said she would need to get admitted, which the family was unwilling to do. “The cramps have reduced but haven’t gone. My due date for delivery is close," said Shaikh. Her family has taken an appointment at an Andheri lab for Tuesday, where she will undergo thetest. Following many such refusals, BMC has designated BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central and Nanavati in Parle to perform deliveries of Covid-positive women. Nair has carried out over 20 deliveries so far. While authorities at Holy Family Hospital couldn’t be reached, a medical staffer at the gynaecology ward told TOI women have been asked to get admitted two days prior to their due date. “We carry out a Covid-19 test and if she comes negative, we go ahead with the delivery. If the woman is positive, we refer her to another hospital. We also ask one attendant accompanying the woman to take the test,” the staffer said. There have been many such instances. Those from hotspots suffer more. A 32-year-old woman from Dadar was turned away from 3 hospitals despite having a positive report for malaria last week. “Since I had fever, nobody wanted to admit me,” she said. A 40-year-old man with gastrointestinal issues said he was asked to get a Covid-19 test done before coming to hospital after he developed pain and vomiting. Bhiwandi MLA and Byculla corporator Rais Shaikh said he has written to the BMC chief in this regard. “These test results take more than 24-72 hours, and treatment for such patients can’t wait. Also, many struggle to fund their own treatment and can’t pay for such tests,” he said. Dr Lalit Kapoor of Association of Medical Consultants said a hospital keen on protecting staff was probably justified in asking for such a report if it was for a surgery. “For routine exams, it would be unfair to ask for a report,” he said. Gynaecologist Dr Kiran Coelho, who consults with Lilavati Hospital, said they have informed all registered women, who have entered 38 weeks of gestation, to get the test done. “ICMR guidelines say pregnant women and an attendant should have a Covid-19 negative report with a validity of 15 days. The validity period is 5 days for those coming from hotspots,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pregnant-woman-without-coronavirus-report-turned-away-by-bandra-hospitals/articleshow/75418724.cms||Nitasha Natu
April 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad’s death rate is higher than Mumbai, Delhi||AHMEDABAD: While India records a death rate of 3.1% for Covid-19 patients, this is much higher at 4.71% for patients in Ahmedabad. Against 899 deaths in 28,622 cases in India, Ahmedabad recorded 102 deaths of 2,167 cases till Monday. This is higher than Mumbai which has recorded 204 deaths out of 5,407( 3.77%) and Delhi’s deaths of 54 to the infected 2,919 cases ( 1.85%). Ahmedabad – accounting for 67.5% of Gujarat’s deaths – also has higher death rate than Gujarat, recording 151deaths of 3,301positive cases (4.57%). As of Monday , Gujarat’s death rate is higher than Maharashtra (4.24%), Rajasthan (2.05%), Uttar Pradesh (1.51%) and Tamil Nadu (1.24%). All these states have recorded over 1,500 cases so far. Only Madhya Pradesh with 4.93% is ahead. Vijay Nehra, city municipal commissioner, thus appealed to citizens to take care o those above 60 years of age and have co-morbidities. “The young patients are recovering and responding to treatment. We have to take care of elderly,” he said. “This situation will stay and we can be safe by staying indoors.” On Monday, Gujarat added 247 positive cases, taking the total tally to 3548. The new cases included 197 from Ahmedabad and 30 from Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-ahmedabads-death-rate-is-higher-than-mumbai-delhi/articleshow/75418745.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal eyes dynamic plan till May 21, allows home delivery of non-essentials||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee left it to the Centre to decide on the nationwide lockdown after May 3 but said PM Narendra Modi’s “body language” — during Monday’s video-conference with chief ministers — indicated that there might be an extension. Bengal, Banerjee said, would allow home delivery of non-essential items while going for a dynamic Covid-management plan till May 21 with changing restrictions and relaxations for red, orange and green zones. More specifics on sectors that would be allowed to resume functioning would be released on Wednesday, she said, announcing the establishment of a cabinet committee to decide on the modalities of Bengal’s fight against the virus. Banerjee wanted the Centre to clarify several issues before firming up the state’s plans on Wednesday. “The Centre has been issuing orders to open shops. But, if shops are opened, people will go there to buy stuff and streets will be crowded and that will lead to the lockdown being flouted. One cannot keep shops open and enforce a lockdown,” she said, giving an example of how central decisions were leading to “lack of clarity”. The CM then asked chief secretary Rajiva Sinha to get a clarification from the union cabinet secretary on this apparent mismatch in the lockdown plan, referring to central team members in Bengal clicking pictures of people on the road in the middle of the lockdown. Banerjee said she wanted to raise those issues during the three-hour video-conferencing with the PM but added that she could not speak. “We only listened to him for three hours. Our situation, with due respect to Lord Jagannath, was like thunto Jagannath’s. I would have liked to ask the PM about the need for sending central teams here. Our chief secretary has to meet them, our home secretary and our health secretary have to answer their questions, our district magistrates have to attend to them. When will they work? Central team members are welcome if they come to assist us and not to add to a state’s problems,” the CM said. She then focused on the dire economic situation. “The PM said this situation might continue for quite a long time. So what will happen to our revenues and sectors like agriculture, industry and micro-small-and-medium enterprises? The centre wants jute mills and tea gardens to resume work but workers are yet to get their pay,” she said, adding: “There have been cuts in MPLAD funds. Some states could not pay employees their full salary. There has been a freeze on central government employees’ dearness allowance and increments. Bengal has not taken any such decision as we want to tackle this with a human face despite incurring a Rs-5,000 crore loss in revenue till date. We have increased isolation beds, set up quarantine centres and Covid hospitals and provided personal protective equipment (PPE) to frontline health workers despite not getting anything from the centre.” Banerjee wanted the centre to release funds immediately for fighting the virus. “It should also announce financial packages for MSMEs and the unorganised sector. It should give Rs 10,000 for two months for poor households,” the CM said. She also gave examples of how people from other states kept coming to Bengal despite the lockdown. “Forty-three people from Jharkhand came to Bengal on Sunday. A group of patients were found waiting on the Bengal-Odisha border near Digha on their way back here from Chennai a few days ago. How is this possible if other states have enforced the lockdown?” Banerjee asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-eyes-dynamic-plan-till-may-21-allows-home-delivery-of-non-essentials/articleshow/75417682.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Central team in S Bengal escorted by BSF jawans||Haldia/Jalpaiguri: The central team visiting East Midnapore on Monday to assess Covid-19 management in Haldia and Panskura was accompanied by BSF jawans. No state police personnel was seen with the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) in Haldia. The four-member team touring north Bengal was particularly irked to see a crowded Dinbazar in Jalpaiguri even at 2.30pm. “There is ample room to improve enforcement of lockdown in all three districts — Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri — we visited,” team leader Vineet Joshi said. In south Bengal, the five-member central team touring Covid hotspots reached East Midnapore’s Panskura around 10.30am. Its convoy of six vehicles headed straight to the Panskura corona centre, a Covid hospital that was till a few weeks ago the Boroma hospital, a private healthcare facility. Led by Apurva Chandra, additional secretary to GoI, the team members, wearing plastic shoes and caps, went around the wards and inspected the infrastructure. No state official was present during the team’s visit. About half an hour later, the team left for Haldia, where it inspected for about 15 minutes a Covid quarantine centre at the Balaji hostel of Haldia Institute of Technology. The team next visited the quarantine centre housed at the Sati Samanta Trade Centre. At the Haldia subdivisional hospital, the members toured the facility and spoke to its superintendent. The north Bengal team visited Jalpaiguri’s Kadamtala and then the Covid hospital housed at the Biswa Bangla Kirangan, where members toured the room for doctors and nurses. With Jalpaiguri hospital superintendent Dayaram Naskar accompanying them, the members also toured the hospital’s Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (Sari) unit that houses 34 patients at present. Team leader Joshi expressed satisfaction over the infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-team-in-s-bengal-escorted-by-bsf-jawans/articleshow/75417594.cms||Suman Mondal
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||Home safest for patient’s contacts: West Bengal CM||KOLKATA: Bengal seems to be entering the next stage in the fight against the pandemic, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying on Monday — followed by an official circular some hours later — that contacts of Covid-19 patients may opt for home quarantine but they should inform the government. One’s home, Banerjee said, was the safest place and assured citizens that her government would extend help through telemedicine services. Later, a notification issued by principal secretary Vivek Kumar echoed what the CM had said: “Even in home quarantine, the persons concerned will be under close surveillance of the local health authorities and their health status will be monitored closely”. “We have taken a decision today,” Banerjee had said earlier in the day. “Those who have come in touch with a corona patient can isolate themselves and stay in home quarantine; all they have to do is inform us. The state government will set up a telemedicine facility and issue a detailed guideline for such individuals. It helps because the government then doesn’t have to get all asymptomatic contacts of Covid-positive cases into a quarantine facility. Lakhs and lakhs of people can’t be quarantined. The government has its limits.” A notification issued by principal secretary Vivek Kumar later in the evening said that ‘from now on, the primary/secondary contacts of Covid positive cases and who have reasonable living/physical spaces in their homes, may be put under home quarantine instead of institutional quarantine, with the necessary advice on social and physical distancing, use of masks, and other dos and don’t’s.’ It added that ‘even in-home quarantine, the persons concerned will be under close surveillance of the local health authorities and their health status will be monitored closely, for appropriate interventions as may be necessary.’A private hospital consultant pointed out that though home isolation could work for the vast majority of patients who have mild symptoms, the rest could remain unmonitored which is risky. “It won’t be possible for family members to gauge if a patient suffers a sudden and sharp deterioration. For instance, if a patient has a renal shutdown, it would be impossible for those at home to monitor urine output and act before it’s too late. Some could also suffer dehydration or have symptoms like vomiting or diarrhea that could turn unmanageable at home,” he said.The chief minister said hospitals wouldn’t be entirely safe for a Covid patient’s potential contacts, particularly if that person is prone to infections. “In a hospital, several types of patients are treated. Home is completely under your control. You can keep it clean and stay safe. This model is an accepted practice in many countries. In some, they advise Covid patients who have not shown symptoms to stay at home. We will take care of your treatment. The health department will introduce telemedicine facilities and apps to stay in touch,” she assured. If someone remains asymptomatic after coming in contact with a positive patient, 14-day home isolation/quarantine is the best option, according to Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “But if the person develops symptoms like fever and cough, they must seek medical attention. In some patients, the virus sheds very fast without creating much trouble to the patient, whereas in others, the disease progresses very fast,” said Dhar, who is heading the Covid team at Fortis, Anandapur. The government’s institutional quarantine facilities should be for those who stay in cramped homes, felt the CM. “Ten to 20 people often stay in one home. Plus, there is a constant stress and fear in the minds of people that they will be dragged away from their home should they come in touch with a positive patient. We want to allay those fears. This is also the reason why people hide facts. So, please don’t worry and be at home. But do not fail to inform us,” Banerjee said. Institute of Child Health director Apurba Ghosh felt this made sense. “Even if someone develops symptoms like mild fever with no pre-existing disease, he/she can take paracetamol to deal with the symptoms and stay at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-safest-for-patients-contacts-cm/articleshow/75417700.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay professor duped of Rs 2 lakh sent to ‘Covid-19-hit’ colleague, his kin||MUMBAI: Online fraudsters are cashing in on the Covid pandemic to dupe unsuspecting people. A professor at the IIT-Bombay was duped of Rs 2 lakh he transferred by way of cash vouchers to treat his colleague and a relative “affected by Covid”. A professor lodged a complaint at Powai police station on Saturday, stating that he had received an email in his official email account from the personal email account of his colleague saying he and a relative of his had been diagnosed with Covid-19 and were admitted to intensive care. The mail sought financial help and went on to explain that a mail was being sent as they could not call up while being in the intensive care unit. The professor , who saw the mail on Friday evening, said he had no reason to doubt its genuineness as it had come in from his colleague ’s account through which the two communicated often. The complaint states that soon after checking his mail, he sent details of online vouchers worth Rs 2 lakh to an email address given in the email he had got. Soon after, he received another request for Rs 50,000 more. “The professor found that intriguing and suspicious,” said a police officer. He at once called up his colleague only to be told that neither was any of his relatives hospitalised nor had he made any request for money. That is when he realised that he had been duped, said the officer. The police are trying to get details of the internet protocol (IP) address used to hack into his colleague’s email account. Senior inspector of Powai police station, Sudhakar Kamble, said this is a new trend “fraudsters are taking advantage of the pandemic to cheat people,” he said. Cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said this scam is called a ‘family emergency scam’ or ‘grandparents scam’ in the US. “It is best to call and verify the authenticity of the mail before transferring any cash,” said Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-bombay-professor-duped-of-rs-2-lakh-sent-to-covid-19-hit-colleague-his-kin/articleshow/75418777.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
April 28, 2020||India||58 die of Covid infection, highest in a day; cases inch close to 30,000||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 count inched close to the 30,000-mark as a late-night rush of cases reported from Indore in Madhya Pradesh took the day’s count to 1,709 and the total cases to 29,571. Monday’s death toll from the virus zoomed to 58, the highest reported so far in a single day. While Maharashtra and Gujarat continued to reported high numbers, 522 and 247 new cases, respectively, the attention was shifting to cities where the infection rates remain a matter of concern. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesIndore reported 196 new cases, taking its total to 1,372. Mumbai added as many as 369 new cases. Delhi went past the 3,000-mark in Covid cases, with 190 more people testing positive, lower than Sunday’s 293, but nearly double of last week’s daily average. Maharashtra tops list with 27 more deathsBihar and Jharkhand, two states that had managed to keep the infection under control so far, recorded their highest single-day tallies of 68 and 20 new cases, respectively. Maharashtra recorded 27 new Covid-19 deaths, its highest single-day toll, followed by Gujarat (11), Rajasthan (9), Madhya Pradesh (7) and West Bengal (2). Read AlsoBe ready to woo companies quitting China, PM Modi tells CMsPM Modi, while interacting with CMs on Monday, is learnt to have suggested that states should explore the possibility of attracting investments in view of the likelihood of many companies exiting from Chinese cities in the wake of coronavirus. The govt has also blocked the automatic route for FDIOne death each was reported from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh as well. The number of deaths caused due to Covid-19 in the country has now risen to 937, with more than 50 deaths being for the third consecutive day. Of the 369 deaths recorded in Maharashtra, 219 have occurred in Mumbai alone, as per government data. The state reported 522 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its tally to 8,590. Of the new cases added in the state, Mumbai contributed to 70% or 369 cases. Mumbai case tally now stands at 5,776. Read AlsoCoronavirus: Centre, states wary of lifting curbs, graded easing on cardsThe sum of consultations PM Modi had with chief ministers on Monday, official sources said, was that most states wanted the lockdown to continue with some easing of curbs, depending on the situation in a particular area. Green zones may witness the piecemeal lifting of restrictions while toughAhmedabad too is emerging as a cause of concern as the city’s Covid-19 death rate is 4.7%, much higher than Mumbai’s (3.8%). Ahmedabad also accounts for 67.5% of Gujarat’s total deaths in the pandemic. Nine Covid-19 deaths were reported in Rajasthan, taking the state’s toll to 50. The state also recorded 77 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its cumulative total to 2,262.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/58-die-of-covid-infection-highest-in-a-day-cases-inch-close-to-30000/articleshow/75418782.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 28, 2020||Noida||Covid-19 lockdown: Cleaner at Noida firm kills self||NOIDA: A 45-year-old man who worked as a cleaner at an export company in Noida and had been asked not to go to work since the lockdown began on March 24 was found dead in his house in the early hours of Monday. Rajesh Kumar’s body was discovered hanging from an iron grille in his room, which had been locked from inside. Rajesh lived with his wife, two children and a granddaughter in a rented house in Salarpur village. The family said Rajesh had only received half the salary for March. Since he was the sole bread-winner, the family has appealed for help. The family said it had little money and rations left. Rajesh also allegedly owed money to multiple lenders and late Sunday night, he disclosed this to his wife before going to sleep. “I asked him how much he owed but he did not share. I tried to console him by saying nobody could repay money during the lockdown,” his wife Anita said. The next morning, Anita found his room locked from inside. “He was in the room opposite to the one where my children and I were sleeping. When I got up at around 6.30 am, I tried to open the door of the room but it was shut. When I peeped in through the window, I saw him hanging from the window grille with a cloth,” she said. Their daughter Amrita said over the past few days, Rajesh had grown silent and was seen counting his savings multiple times. “We don’t know if someone had been pressuring him for money. I know he owed money to grocery shop owners and vegetable vendors,” she said. Anita said that there isn’t enough food left in the house. “We never received any ration from anyone but today, the cops left a sack of rice. Apart from that, just 3kg of wheat is left. I used to work at nearby kothis but that also stopped with the lockdown. We hope the government helps us,” said Anita. Station officer of Sector 49 police station Dharmendra Sharma said they had received information about the suicide and a team was sent to the spot. The body has been taken for a post mortem, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/family-to-feed-debts-to-repay-income-hit-45-year-old-kills-self/articleshow/75416862.cms||Shikha Salaria
April 28, 2020||Business||RBI opens a Rs 50,000 crore special funding line for MFs||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday provided a special facility with an initial corpus of Rs 50,000 crore for mutual funds to borrow from it using the banking channel. Last week’s surprise step by Franklin Templeton MF to wind down six of its debt funds, that was managing nearly Rs 25,900 crore before closing down, is believed to have expedited the central bank’s decision to open such a facility. It is open till May 11. Under RBI’s new facility, named Special Liquidity Facility for Mutual Funds (SLF-MF), banks are allowed to borrow from the central bank for a maximum of 90 days and then in turn lend the money to mutual funds against collateral in their portfolio. After 90 days, the fund houses will have to repay the bank and take back the collateral deposited. The banks in turn will return the money to RBI. “This will be available to all liquidity adjustment facility — eligible banks against eligible collateral and can be availed only for onlending to mutual funds,” an RBI release noted. Mutual fund body upbeat, but banks remain cautiousSince March 27, the day RBI announced its first stimulus package to help the economy cope with the exigencies of coronavirus pandemic-related disruptions, fund houses have been demanding a similar line of funding from the central bank. Earlier, such special fund facilities were used during the global financial crisis in 2008 and during the currency crisis in 2013. Nilesh Shah, chairman of the fund industry trade body AMFI, said the RBI move was a “confidence-building measure” which will ensure continued confidence of MF investors and also normal functioning of the markets. “The MF industry continues to be on sound footing both on portfolio quality as also on the liquidity front, despite an isolated incident in these challenging times,” Shah said.  On Friday, top office-bearers at AMFI had said that Franklin Templeton MF’s decision to close six funds was an ‘isolated incident’ and did not reflect the state of the fund industry as a whole. Banks, however, are cautious. Top bankers said that since the credit risk would be on their books, they would be willing to pass on liquidity support to mutual funds if they are confident of the quality of collateral offered. This means that while mutual funds would find it easy to raise money selling bonds of public sector undertakings or triple A-rated companies, they may find it difficult to offload bonds of those availing a moratorium on payments. Sector analysts believe the RBI announcement is likely to reduce volatility in bond yields which is being witnessed due to spike in redemptions. According to Karthik Srinivasan, group head, financial sector rating, ICRA, “With excess liquidity of around Rs 4.85 lakh crore as on April 24, banks, however, continue to remain largely risk-averse. We expect the liquidity of the higher-rated papers to improve on the back of this facility. Accordingly, active participation from the banks will be key to the success of this scheme.” Watch Former Finance Minister Chidambaram welcomes RBI's liquidity boost of Rs 50,000 crore for mutual funds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-opens-a-rs-50000-crore-special-funding-line-for-mfs/articleshow/75418815.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Kolkata||12 coronavirus survivors discharged from Bangur||KOLKATA: The state recorded the highest single-day discharge of cured Covid patients on Monday. 12 persons were sent home from MR Bangur Hospital (MRBH), the state’s biggest Covid-designated facility. The 12 included two healthcare workers and a 62-year-old woman. All 12 have tested negative to two consecutive tests. “It is a good feeling that we have won the battle against corona. I feel overwhelmed that I am going home. I am more than willing to donate my plasma if that helps in the fight against the virus,” said the young nurse of Charnock Hospital. The other nurse is attached with MRBH itself. She also expressed her willingness to donate plasma if she was eligible for it. Both the healthcare workers vowed to go back to their jobs once they complete another 14-days home isolation. “There is no looking back and shunning the profession of a healthcare worker just because one got infected. I will go back on my job once I am through the home isolation period,” said the other nurse. Out of the 12 discharged, 10 were women from different parts of the city while the two were men. “The doctors and nurses took good care of us and the treatment facility was good. It feels good to be back home finally,” said the 62-year-old woman. The senior citizen was admitted about two weeks ago at BM Birla Heart Research Institute for a pace maker surgery. On finding Covid-19 symptoms, doctors sent her swab samples. She was later shifted to MRBH hospital when the samples tested positive. “We are happy to send the 12 home after following protocols and guidelines of discharging Covid positive patients. We appeal to people to follow social distancing measures and hand hygiene to keep the virus at bay,” said Sisir Naskar, superintendent MRBH. The hospital officials clapped and presented bouquets while seeing off the Covid survivors. So far, 109 patients have recovered in the state and have been sent home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-coronavirus-survivors-discharged-from-bangur/articleshow/75416685.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 28, 2020||Chennai||What the Covid map tells about Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The western districts might account for one fourth of Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, but it holds several signs of hope in the battle against the deadly virus. In spite of the high number of cases, the region with eight districts has recorded just one death due to Covid-19 so far. Erode district, where the lone death was reported, however, has zero cases for the past 12 days. It has managed to contain the spread effectively. So is Nilgiris with no new cases for several days. Coimbatore has brought down the rate of increase and for several days had no fresh cases. Despite the region sharing a border with Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, a vulnerable proposition during pandemics, the rate of increase dropped to single digits in the border districts and eventually dropped to zero cases in some. The region also boasts of the only district in the state --Krishnagiri--without a single Covid-19 case so far. On Monday, the western belt recorded no new cases even as 26 patients from ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. “We have discharged 211 patients totally from ESI hospital while 49 are under treatment,” said dean of ESI Hospital, Dr K Nirmala. The recovery rate has touched 80 % and at present the number of people recovered is far higher than those under treatment. While Coimbatore hardly has another 20 patients in hospital, Erode has four them of them. One of the reasons for the high recovery rates and no deaths is that very few patients developed complications and required ventilation. “In Coimbatore only one patient, a 51-year-old diabetic, required ventilation. Of the remaining, only 20% had symptoms but we ensured that they did not develop complications,” said Dr Nirmala. The health authorities identified 28 covid patients who were vulnerable with comorbid conditions and ensured that their blood sugar and pressure levels were under check. All the districts attribute this development to aggressive containment measures. “The measures include isolation of all primary contacts, screening all them, finding secondary positive contacts, further tracing them and isolating them,” said Tirupur collector K Vijaykarthikeyan. 9||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-the-covid-map-tells-about-tamil-nadu/articleshow/75418859.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||21 of 33 districts in Telangana will be rid of coronavirus on Tuesday: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: More than 60% of Telangana will be free of Covid-19 on Tuesday. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday announced that 21of 33 districts would have no novel coronavirus active cases on April 28. “The rate of recovery is 97% in the state. New cases and containment zones are decreasing daily,” KCR said. At the same time, there will be no easing of the lockdown till May 7 as decided by the state earlier. He urged people not to step out during the lockdown as well as to continue praying at home during Ramzan. On Monday Telangana reported only two new cases, which is the lowest in more than 40 days. The new cases came from Greater Hyderabad. Sixteen patients were also discharged on Monday. While the total cases reached 1,003, there were 646 people being treated in various hospitals at present. The CM held a review meeting with health minister Eatala Rajender and other officials and said he was relieved to see adrop in the number of new cases. He added that almost all contacts of the Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the Delhi meet were being identified and tested. “Going by the current trend, the cases are decreasing. Even if new positive cases are reported, the government is ready to face the situation,” KCR said. He added the state could contain the spread of the virus only because of the lockdown. He also said Hyderabad, Suryapet, Gadwal and Vikarabad have more cases than other districts. “In the coming days, restrictions will be lifted as cases reduce,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-of-33-districts-in-telangana-will-be-rid-of-coronavirus-on-tuesday-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao/articleshow/75418868.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu for staggered lockdown exit after May 3||CHENNAI: On a day when some of his counterparts requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the national lockdown, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami remained noncommittal. There was no mention of extension or otherwise in the letter he sent to Modi soon after the conference. He confined himself to seeking funds and PCR kits for more aggressive testing in his state. On Monday, Tamil Nadu recorded 52 fresh cases, taking its Covid-19 tally to 1,937. In the last video conference on April 11, the CM had sought two weeks’ extension of the lockdown, a view expressed by many other states. On Monday, he chaired a meeting with an inter-ministerial central team after the Covid situation in Chennai was termed “serious”. TN officials apprised the team of the anti-Covid measures. The state government is more focused on post-lockdown measures rather than whether it should end or extend. “The state won’t lift lockdown completely even if the Centre did after May 3. If they lift it, we will decide if it will be partial or staggered,” said a senior official. Policy makers say the purpose of the lockdown is to help prepare the population for social distancing and allow government agencies enough time to prepare for the exit. More stringent measures will have to be implemented in the next phase in terms of surveillance, contact tracing and quarantine. New social norms such as social distancing should be in place for six months, they say. With more patients coming out of hospitals, the state is weighing the option of a staggered exit post May 3. Representatives of industrial bodies holding talks with government are for moving on to the next stage. “Even if the lockdown ends, it does not mean the fight against Covid is over. People have to live a near-normal life. How long can you imprison them at home?” asked a member of the government’s expert committee, seeking anonymity. “So, normal activities have to be pursued step by step to get the economy to move forward,” said the member. For certain activities, like malls, multiplexes and large public events, where the possibility of spread is high, the return to normalcy would be delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-for-staggered-lockdown-exit-after-may-3/articleshow/75418897.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Remote pacemakers ensure doctors don’t skip a beat during lockdown||CHENNAI: At a time when people are being forced to stay indoors and doctors are on the frontline fighting to save lives from Covid-19, a matchbox size pacemaker is protecting nearly 1,000 patients in the country by updating their doctors working in remote locations on the heart condition. These pacemakers with remote monitoring technology send out alerts and predict possible emergency situation to the patients and the doctors on their smartphones and computers, and help medical experts reach out to patients when required. Dr Ulhas Pandurangi, cardiologist and electrophysiologist, said 12 of the 15 patients, who recently got a pacemaker implanted with the remote monitoring technology, and were up for their first review during the lockdown, are now being monitored from remote location because the device sends them crucial data. “Patients with these pacemakers are connected to the doctors or the hospital all the time. The information we get from this device is as good as the information which we get when the patient comes to our clinic,” the doctor said. The tiny device placed under the skin carries a computer chip which is connected through multiple wires sensitive to electrical activities of the heart. The device transmits information, through a Wifi facility, on various parameters like the electrical activities, mechanical contraction and the rhythm of the heart, besides data from sensors that monitor motion, sleeping and breathing. “This technology is in no way a treatment modality or consultation modality during an emergency. This technology cannot provide emergency service,” the doctor. Consultant urologist and transplant surgeon Dr Sunil S Shroff said there are many devices like smartwatches, which have become useful tools for doctors to monitor certain parameters of their patients in real time and provide teleconsultation during the lockdown. He said more doctors and patients are now interacting through teleconsultation during the lockdown period than before. “I am inundated with more calls now than before,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/remote-pacemakers-ensure-doctors-dont-skip-a-beat-during-lockdown/articleshow/75418904.cms||U Tejonmayam
April 28, 2020||Chennai||Walls razed to aid mobility||A day after two walls were built to seal the border with Andhra Pradesh, the Vellore district administration on Monday pulled them down as they hindered movement of essential commodities. Vellore collector A Shanmuga Sundaram and SP K Pravesh Kumar visited the spots interacted with the villagers and dairy farmers. Following their request, the walls were razed. Every day, at least 10,000 litres of milk is transported through Synagunda check post. But after the wall came up here, farmers were forced to travel an additional 80km to reach the dairy farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/walls-razed-to-aid-mobility/articleshow/75418906.cms||Karal Marx
April 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Amid coronavirus gloom, 732 NIT-Warangal students bag plum jobs||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 pandemic may have triggered an economic downturn, but it has not stopped 732 students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal, from securing offers from leading recruiters, with 14 receiving Rs 43 lakh pay packets each, the highest this season. NIT-Warangal’s training and placement section (TAPS) announced that these 732 students (over 80%) have been hired by 177 companies with an average compensation of Rs 12.15 lakh per annum (LPA), which is more when compared with last year’s 9.93 LPA. “As of now, none of the 177 companies have revoked any offers. In fact, many are asking how soon we can conduct final examinations so that students can join them immediately,” NIT director NV Ramana Rao told TOI. Majority of these firms belong to the IT sector and have an option of work from home (WFH) and cited it as a possible reason for firms not withdrawing any offers. Unlike IITs, the majority of campus recruiters visiting the institute were from within the country, he added. Thirty-three students received offers from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and Indian Telephone Industries (ITI) and publicsector units (PSUs) — Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL). Of the 33 students, six were hired by ISRO, and 16 students received offered from ITI. Altogether, 551 under-graduate students (B Tech) and 181post-graduate students have received full-time employment offers, including preplacement offers (PPOs) and the recruitment process would continue till July 31, 2020. 289 students receive offers of packages above Rs 10LIn all, 289 students have received offers with an annual salary of over Rs 10 LPA. Among B Tech students, the highest percentage of placements, 93.22%, were received from computer science & engineering branch. Students from the bio-technology were at the bottom with only 52.63% of them getting placed. Some of the firms that visited NIT-Warangal for campus recruitment this year include Microsoft India Private Limited, DE Shaw Group, Arcesium India Private Limited, Sprinklr, Adobe Ltd., Oracle India Private Limited, SAP Labs, Citrix R&D India Private Limited, Qualcomm, Goldman Sachs, Salesforce, Uber, Service Now, F5 Networks, VMware India, Black Buck, Texas Instruments, Morgan Stanley, Samsung R&D Institute, Citi Bank among others. Apart from job offers, 243 pre-final year students from the institute have also received internship offers with one student securing the highest stipend of Rs 1.6 lakh per month. Several educational institutes are planning on how they can run classes once lockdown is eased and academic work resumes across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-coronavirus-gloom-732-nit-warangal-students-bag-plum-jobs/articleshow/75418898.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 28, 2020||Chandigarh||CM’s task force: Ease lockdown to save Punjab economy||CHANDIGARH: The 20-member task force, constituted by the Punjab government to suggest measures to deal with Covid-19 pandemic has recommended that in view of the largescale impact on the state economy, there was no other option but to ‘methodically and gradually’ ease the lockdown. The task force said since there is no certainty on the behaviour of the epdemological curve, it is near impossible to to predict the ideal time frame to ease the lockdown. “What is certain, though, is that the lockdown as a strategy cannot be permanent as it has devastating effect on the livelihood of the citizens,” reads the 46-page report submitted on Monday. The task force has recommended that operation of all categories of industries should be allowed and not restricted to those listed in “Para 15 of the MHA consolidated revised guidelines dated April 15 and GoP order dated April 18.” It reasoned this is critical to ensure that the manufacturing chain, especially of MSMEs, is not broken. The task force also recommended to consider freeze on wage and dearness allowance (DA) for around 3.7 lakh state employees for the current year. As Haryana pays its employees salaries equivalent to the central government employees, Punjab pays about 25% more. Therefore, the task force has recommended that the 7th Pay Commission should keep this aspect in view while recommending pay revision. Rs 6,000 crore revenue loss/yr due closed liquor vendsThere is a strong case for extending the deadline for the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the states beyond June 2022, till the time GST revenue stabilises. Otherwise, the Punjab government will be staring at an annual loss of over Ra 10,000 corer. The borrowing limit of the state government needs to be enhanced at least to 4% of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for the current and next fiscal year, as per the task force. The Punjab government has also been advised to project the additional expenditure on Covid-19 during financial year 2020-21 and 2021-22 to the Union government and insist that this be monetized and made available to Punjab by RBI through the Repo window. Punjab is facing Rs 6,000 crore annual revenue loss due to closure of liquor vends. “The irony is that, the liquor is being sold, but the state government is not getting any revenue. This source of revenue needs to be safeguarded, before it is lost,” reads the report. As Punjab's MSMEs have been hit badly due to Covid-19, therefore, it is a triple whammy after demonetisation and introduction of GST. The task force has noticed that most of the subsidised industrial power supply goes to a few large power-guzzling units due to the given industrial tariff structure. Thus this distortion needs to be corrected to provide relief to MSMEs. To meet the credit requirements of MSMEs, RBI, through the Union government can be requested to provide a Targeted Long-Term Repo Operations (TLTRO) window to MSMEs through Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI). It has been recommended that the hospitality industry is one of the biggest employment generators and the lockdown has hit them the hardest. Therefore the hospitality industry should be charged industrial tariff rather than commercial tariff as at present. The Punjab agencies are required to square up the gap in cash credit limit (CCL) of the previous crop before the CCL for the ensuing crop is sanctioned. Thus it burdens the state's budget by at least Ra 1,500 crore per annum. “As procurement is a no-profit-no-loss operation, the Centre may be requested to relieve the state of this undue burden,” reads the report. Currently, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is carrying a debt of over Ra 30,000 crores without substantial assistance from the Punjab government and it may totally lack wherewithal to ensure adequate power supply in the ensuing peak demand season. Therefore, it has been recommended that state government must come out to clasp support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cms-task-force-ease-lockdown-to-save-punjab-economy/articleshow/75418896.cms||Sanjeev Verma
April 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM: 10,000 students stranded in Prayagraj to be sent home||LUCKNOW: Around 10,000 students from other districts, who have been stuck in Prayagraj during the lockdown, will be sent to their homes beginning Tuesday. If there are students from other states, they, too, will be sent home if their state governments agree to take them back, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath here on Monday during the meeting of his core team handling Covid crisis. The government will also start bringing back UP students stuck in Madhya Pradesh via buses. On Tuesday evening, Yogi will also hold a video conference with UP students who were brought back from Kota in Rajasthan last week. “When chief minister Yogi Adityanath came to know about around 10,000 students stuck in Prayagraj he said if we can get back our students from Kota, we can definitely send back students who are stuck in the state. These students will be sent home in two phases for which we are deploying about 300 UP Roadways buses,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi. Police will be deployed in buses ferrying studentsIn the first phase, the buses will take students to Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, Chandauli, Varanasi, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Fatehpur and Chitrakoot. The same buses will then take the remaining students to all other parts of the state. Awasthi added that for the sake of the students’ safety, police personnel will be deployed in all the buses. These buses will start from three designated points in the city. Meanwhile, the CM has asked the district administrations across the state to ensure that they have sufficient facility to quarantine 15,000-20,000 people each. This will ensure that the state has capacity for 10-15 lakh people over the next few weeks as it seeks to bring back migrant labourers of UP who are in other states. The state brought back 12,200 workers from Haryana over the past two days. Awasthi denied that a person, who had apparently tested positive, had travelled back with the workers. “There was nobody who had tested positive who travelled back in the buses,” Awasthi said. An official said that an error had been made on part of the Haryana government which had accidentally listed a worker as positive while he was not. “The CM has made it clear that only those people who have been in quarantine for 14 days will be allowed to return. Not only will they be tested in the state where they are but will be tested once again when they reach UP and then will be kept in 14 days quarantine at the district headquarters. He directly spoke to the Haryana CM and worked out a plan for the return of these workers,” he said. On Saturday, 2,224 people had returned from Haryana and were taken directly to their respective districts. On Sunday, 328 buses brought back another 9,992 people but only up to the border. Out of these, 74 buses reached Saharanpur, 55 arrived in Shamli, 47 in Baghpat, 63 in Mathura and 83in Moradabad. The workers were then sent to their respective districts by 349 buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cm-10000-students-stranded-in-prayagraj-to-be-sent-home/articleshow/75418934.cms||---
April 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 350 contacts traced, isolated at home||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation (MC) has home quarantined 350 contacts of the 15 people who tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday and Monday. On Sunday night, the civic body quarantined 15 contacts of the male nurse of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. He was living in a rented accommodation with four others in Sector 32. All of them along with members of a shop from where the nurse used to buy essential items and of a mess in the hospital were quarantined. On Monday morning, cops sealed the locality in Sector 32. “The man belongs to Sikar district of Rajasthan. He has been residing in the rented accommodation for seven months. He is a bachelor,” sources said. After five family members of the Bapu Dham Colony resident, who used to work in GMCH, were found positive, their 190 contacts have been quarantined in different places. Besides, 30 contacts of one of the neighbours of the Bapu Dham Colony resident who was found positive were also home quarantined. Moreover, as two doctors of GMCH were found positive on Monday, teams of the MC visited th||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-350-contacts-traced-isolated-at-home/articleshow/75418941.cms||Deepak Yadav
