April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru DJs sing Heal the World for the welfare of the community||If you have been wondering what your favourite DJs and party organisers have been up to since the lockdown brought their worklife and your weekend plans to a halt, here it is. As part of an initiative called The Bangalore Collective, they have procured the rights to the late Michael Jackson’s Heal The World, and recorded two versions — one in English and another in Hindi with lyrics by DJ Sasha Sammbi — the proceeds of which will go towards the ones in need in their community as well as the F&B industry. DJ TT, who helped bring this entire initiative together, says, “There are people within our community who have no work and are struggling to make ends meet. This is when we decided to do something for them.” The songs feature vocals and music by singers, DJs, nightlife promoters and other prominent members of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-djs-sing-heal-the-world-for-the-welfare-of-the-community/articleshow/75435813.cms||Sunayana Suresh
April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||I’m giving Nograj a break. I have so many other characters to experiment with: Danish Sait||If there is one person who seems to have effectively made use of the lockdown to engage and entertain, it has to be Danish Sait. The comic, writer and actor has been putting up videos that have not only gone viral, but also got him quite a starry fan following. In a quick video chat with us, Danish opens up about the videos, the appreciation he received and the changing face of internet entertainment. Excerpts... How did the lockdown spoof vines come about?In the first week of the lockdown, I was brain fried. I didn't know what to do and felt that I’d lose my mind only doing domestic chores. So, I began having telephone conversations with my friends. They were all the same and it struck me that I could do a video on these conversations with my friends. It just took off and suddenly, I had something to do. Once I got started, I had to improvise and bring in additions, including the sheep, which I did with an app filter a friend told me about. Your avatars have really taken off well. Did you expect this kind of response?Honestly, no. I had started the videos for fun, but they spread like wildfire. In the last one week, I have had Vidya Balan, Anushka Sharma and Rhea Kapoor following the posts. Dulquer Salmaan has been appreciative, as have Rana Daggubati and Anirudh Ravichander. These are people you read about or have seen at some award night. For them to like your work is amazing. One of your avatars, Raziya, is extremely popular. Tell us about her…My mum used to talk like Raziya to entertain us when we were kids. I picked up the tone, dialect and mannerisms from her. Also, I have been doing Nograj for a while, and wanted a break from it. Nograj has had his journey and I don't have to push him anymore. I have so many other characters that I can experiment with. In fact, I was told that these new videos work because they are reminiscent of my prank calling days. One of the best compliments I have received is when someone wrote that I was, hands down, the lockdown king and that I was the only one effectively making use of the lockdown period. Humour is a great way to battle anxiety. In fact, you've spoken about mental health issues earlier too. What have you been doing to keep your mind engaged?I love gaming, but had stopped it for a while. I have gone back to it now. I am catching up on games that released over the past couple of years. I began the lockdown like a lot of others, by watching a lot of shows, but that has kind of worn out now. Visuals are just not interesting me anymore, so I have taken a break from watching those. I try and work out daily for an hour. I'm not working out for aesthetic purposes, but to keep my mind stress free. When I was going through my own anxiety problems, my psychologist said it is important for me to work out for at least an hour a day, as it releases endorphins, which will make me feel better, fresher and nicer. Have you found the time to do any new writing?To be honest, not really. I had around eight months of work lined up for this year. I was supposed to be in New Zealand, Australia and then at the IPL. While there is little work happening parallelly, I am focusing on myself and having fun doing what I like doing best, which is doing accents, throw one-liners and relive my childhood. Even if we are to write a show or do anything right now, it is going to take a while before things can change. Internet entertainment is here to stay, but it’s all about how well you utilise the one minute you have. I am looking at the immediate future and not long term. It is fascinating to think of what you could have in five years, but my immediate focus is to do solo content. I am happy doing that. I am not discouraging anyone to do something collaborative, but you also need to focus on what you can do as an individual creator. A lot of creators, who are surviving in this period, are all solo writers. This is why they are able to produce content right now. The moment you're dependant on the frills, it won't work. Reason se kaam nahi chalega, you have to figure whatever the season is and go ahead with whatever you want to do. Watch Danish Sait gets candid about his viral videos||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/im-giving-nograj-a-break-i-have-so-many-other-characters-to-experiment-with-danish-sait/articleshow/75435652.cms||Sunayana Suresh
April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Kitchen hacks to keep your plants pest-free during the lockdown||Garden pests are a common problem around this time of the year. While under normal circumstances, plant lovers would protect their potted beauties with pesticides and other disinfectants, given the lockdown, these resources have been limited. Experts recommend that simple and quick DIY solutions can help keep your green patch at home pest-free. “To get rid of Aphids, one of the most common pests that reproduce at a fast rate take over a plant, plant owners can go for a soapnut cleaning solution. This homemade remedy immobilises the pests and limits their spreading,” says Anoop Kumar CP, Bengaluru-based organic farming consultant. Adding to that, Rajendra Hegde – Chairman and Managing Director of Biological Research Innovation Centre and Solutions LLP and agricultural entomologist – says that we can control the growth of insects such as mealy bugs and aphids using ingredients from our own kitchen during lockdown. “These easy-to-make solutions do not kill the insects, but protect your plant from them. The smell of these solutions turn the bugs away from your plants, following which they either die of starvation or leave the plant,” he explains. Green chilli, garlic and ginger to your rescueOne of the easiest home remedy that one can prepare during lockdown is by mixing the 3Gs – green chilli, garlic and ginger. Together, they should weight about 50 gms. Pound them into a coarse paste. Add a cup of water to it and let it rest overnight. The next day, strain the solution and add one litre of water to it. Spray this solution, and not pour, on the plants. Neem oil for the protective coatingAdd 10 ml of neem oil to one litre of water. Also, add a few drops of shampoo to it. Avoid using a liquid detergent, as they may tenderise the shoot and leaves. Spray this on your plants. If you do not have neem oil, just a few drops of shampoo dissolved in water also will do the trick. A dose of hing and buttermilkAsafoetida or hing can be helpful to tackle curling of leaves. Add 5 gms of hing in a litre of sour butter milk and spray it on the plants. Turmeric trickAnother home remedy that one can try is by properly dissolving 25 gms of turmeric powder in water, and spraying it on plants. Soapnut solutionSoak one soapnut in 200 ml of water and leave it overnight. Next morning, squeeze the pulp of the soapnut and filter it. Add more water to this, so that the solution measures about one litre. Spray this solution on the plants. Soapnut water coats the aphids and crushes their eggs. Whatever is left is consumed by the ladybirds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kitchen-tricks-to-keep-your-plants-pest-free-during-the-lockdown/articleshow/75433546.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
April 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra village reports 5 jaundice cases||KURUKSHETRA: As many as five confirmed cases of jaundice have been reported from Pipli village in Kurukshetra district. The district administration found some faulty water supply connections in the area which were later repaired, said district civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. On Monday, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) unit received the information of jaundice outbreak in the village. A team of health department officials led by district survey officer Dr SK Sahota immediately rushed to the spot and inspected the area. Dr SK Sahota told, “Eight people were found with jaundice symptoms in a densely-populated area of Pipli. Out of which, blood samples of six people were collected and sent for jaundice inspection on Monday. The samples of water were also collected from the area and the immediate OT (orthotolidine test) samples were found acceptable for drinking, while the BT (bacteriological test) samples were sent for inspection at the lab of the public health department.” "On Tuesday, samples of three more jaundice suspects were sent for inspection from Pipli area," added Dr SK Sahota. “We found 2-3 three faulty water supply connections in the Pipli village, which were touching the drainage. The leakages were later fixed,” XeN Arvind Rohilla said, Dr Sukhbir said, “five persons reported positive for jaundice from a densely-populated area. The public health department was called to check the water supply and found some faults which were rectified. The situation is entirely under control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kurukshetra-village-reports-5-jaundice-cases/articleshow/75437139.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goan crew on Karnika appeal to CM Pramod Sawant to return home after 42 days of self-imposed quarantine||PANAJI: The 93 Goans working as crew on board the ship Karnika have written to chief minister Pramod Sawant requesting that they be placed under home quarantine and not the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine upon their return to Goa. In their letter, the crew said that they’ve been under self-imposed quarantine on board the vessel for 42 days, and that they cannot afford to pay the daily quarantine charge of Rs 3,000. They said that most of them haven’t completed their contracts, and thus they haven’t got their expected wages. They also said that they’re mostly the sole earning member of the family, and that they have no other income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-crew-on-karnika-appeal-to-cm-pramod-sawant-to-return-home-after-42-days-of-self-imposed-quarantine/articleshow/75437755.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 29, 2020||Goa||Cavin returns ‘home’ at East Bengal||Panaji: Cavin Lobo didn’t have to think twice before making an emotional comeback to East Bengal on a three-year deal. The 32-year-old midfielder had first joined the Kolkata giants in 2012 and left in 2018 to join ATK and feature in the Indian Super League (ISL). He struggled to cement his place and was eventually loaned out to Churchill Brothers FC at the fag end of the I-League season last year. The times as well he was not in coach Antonio Habas’ plans as ATK went on to win a record third ISL title. This time, Cavin was loaned out to Punjab FC in September where he impressed with 15 appearances in the I-League. “For me East Bengal is like a family, but I need to prove myself there also just like every time I do,” Cavin told TOI on Tuesday. East Bengal announced Cavin’s return on Tuesday, alongside midfielder Sehnaj Singh, who played eight matches for ATK this season, and Jamshedpur FC’s Bikash Jairu. East Bengal are eager to play in the ISL after their arch-rivals Mohun Bagan joined hands with ATK. The former India midfielder is a fan favourite at East Bengal and was even offered the captaincy before leaving the club. Apart from Alvito D’Cunha, no other Goan footballer has tasted success in Kolkata as much as Cavin. Cavin does regrets rejecting the East Bengal captaincy, but is clear about his future goals. “I just left East Bengal to play in the ISL and nothing else. Can’t say about the captaincy, it depends on the club and coach. I have to be fitter to get regular chances,” said Cavin. East Bengal have never won the I-League and it hurts them dearly. This seasons as well, they were second behind fierce rivals and champions Mohun Bagan with a massive 16-point gap. “We will try to get as much as trophies for the club. It’s been a very long time since we won any major trophy besides, the Calcutta Football League. I hope we can play ISL also,” said Cavin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cavin-returns-home-at-east-bengal/articleshow/75437948.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
April 29, 2020||Goa||Scenario ‘grim’ but Goa prepares for National Games||Panaji: Goa has told the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) that they will continue with preparations for the National Games 2020 until a review about the ground reality is done post May 31. With the coronavirus pandemic bringing the world to a standstill and huge doubts over restarting of sporting activities anytime soon, the state government has had several meetings over the National Games. Despite the uncertainty, Goa will not put a full stop to its preparations. Last week, secretary (sports) J Ashok Kumar issued a circular telling everyone concerned they should go ahead with procurement of sports goods. Kumar, also CEO for the National Games, has now briefed the IOA, making it clear that the state will continue to prepare for the much-delayed multi-sport event. Goa is scheduled to host the National Games from October 20 to November 4. “The hosting of the National Games had come up for discussion with authorities and it has been internally decided to proceed with all required arrangements till May 31, 2020, post which, after assessing the Covid-19 situation at that point in time, and in consultation with IOA, a suitable decision could be arrived on the conduct of the National Games, for which the assured participation by the qualified teams will be the single most important factor,” Kumar wrote in a recent letter to IOA general secretary Rajeev Mehta. The National Games CEO admitted that the scenario is “grim” but assured IOA that “government of Goa and organising committee is working alongside to attend to all National Games related matters with the commitment it deserves.” “I write to you on the backdrop of a global pandemic that has not only affected the health and lifestyle of our populace, but has also affected the lives, livelihood of our economy. The situation is unprecedented and unusual with no definite horizon in sight that can predict the end of this pandemic. Likewise, the pandemic has also had an adverse effect on the global sports scenario resulting n postponing all major events, including Tokyo Olympics,” said Kumar. Like Kumar pointed out, sporting activities across the world have come to a standstill, and even if there is permission to kickstart action and provide some cheer, competitive sports are likely to be played behind closed doors. The National Games will attract 10,000 athletes from across the country, and it remains to be seen how the state government will allow such major events at a time when officials, including state health minister Vishwajit Rane, advocated social distancing for a minimum of six months. Besides preparations of athletes, the coronavirus has also affected completion of infrastructure. The hockey turf that has to be replaced at Peddem sports complex, for example, will now be delayed with the onset of monsoon making it even more complicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scenario-grim-but-goa-prepares-for-national-games/articleshow/75437979.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
April 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: District administration conditionally allows construction activity in some sectors||LUDHIANA: Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has informed that as per the orders of Union government as well as the Punjab government, the district administration has allowed the operation of following construction activities except in Covid-19 hotspots/containment zones. These activities include construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings, water supply and sanitation, laying/erection of power transmission lines and laying of telecom optical fibre and cable along with related activities, and all kinds of industrial projects, including MSMEs, in rural areas, ie, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities; and all kinds of projects in industrial estates, the construction of renewable energy projects. The district administration has also allowed the start of continuation of works in construction projects, within the limits of the municipal corporations and municipalities, where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside (on construction site). He informed that all these works could be started only after getting permission from the district administration. He stated that the performa to take permission has been uploaded on the official website of district administration Ludhiana, www.ludhiana.nic.in and the official Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/dproludhianapage/) and twitter handle (@LudhianaDpro) of District Public Relations Officer, Ludhiana. After filling, this performa along with details of employees, labourers and vehicles which will be engaged in the construction activity can be sent to email ID, acgludhiana@gmail.com. He informed that before starting any work, due permission from the district administration is required and the person applying for start of work would be have to follow all directions of the Punjab government, such as social distancing, providing hand sanitisers and masks for workers, and the workers would have to remain at site. Agrawal informed that the permission letter will be sent to concerned through email and the permission will be cancelled without notice if anyone is found violating the terms and conditions of Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOP) guidelines. He further informed that till April 28, 2020, 1991 samples have been taken in the district, out of which report of 1670 has been received, and 1649 samples are negative. He informed that 21 samples were found to be positive, that includes 18 from Ludhiana and three from other districts. He informed that unfortunately five patients have lost their lives, while seven patients have been fully cured after treatment and have been discharged from hospital. He stated that now, 9 (8 from district Ludhiana and one from another district) active patients are left in the district. He informed that no positive case have been reported from the district in last 24 hours. He assured that the health of active patients in the district is improving and the second sample of three such patients have been sent today, and if that report is negative, another test would be done after 24 hours (of the second test) and if that report is also negative, then the patients would be discharged from the hospital. He informed that the second sample of patients is taken after 14 days (when they tested positive). He informed that as per the latest protocol of the health department, testing of all persons who returned from Nanded (Maharashtra) and Kota (Rajasthan) is being done and they have been kept in isolation/quarantine. He assured that the situation is under control and people should not panic and do not believe in any rumours on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-administration-conditionally-allows-construction-activity-in-some-sectors/articleshow/75438088.cms||Shariq Majeed
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Marathons, art exhibitions and stand-up comedy: Jaipurites move events online||Amid the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, almost all social events and gatherings have been cancelled. This, however, hasn't stopped the people of Jaipur from organising virtual events. Mukesh Mishra, a running enthusiast and the co-founder of the 20 Minutes Of Running community, organised an indoor marathon on April 26. As many as 1,280 runners, professional and amateur, from across the nation participated in the event. Participants during indoor marathon“The participants ran within the confines of their homes, in gardens, living rooms, terraces and even balconies. They first installed and activated the Benefit app on their phones or smart-watches to track the distance they covered. The marathon was divided into 5 categories - 42km, 21km, 10km, 5km, and 2km runs. We gave e-certificates to all participants. The objective was to motivate runners to maintain a healthy lifestyle at home. Also, we dedicated the event to the corona warriors across the country,” Mukesh says. Lohitaksh Tatiwala, co-founder of Socialize, a youth club in Jaipur that provides platform to amateur artistes, has organised two virtual open-mic events, so far. The first featured a stand-up comedian, a rapper and a beat-boxer. The second event featured two singers - one from Jaipur and the other one from Delhi, and a dancer. “The demand for virtual events is on a rise. The idea was to help amateur artistes showcase their talent on social media platforms. Our next event is a panel discussion, for which we have roped in principals of various schools,” Lohitaksh says. One of the artworks to be displayed during the online exhibition and sale of paintingsAlso, an online exhibition and sale of paintings to support young artists is being organised in Jaipur on May 9. “The sale proceeds will be transferred directly to the artists’ accounts to help them tide over these difficult times," says Himanshu Jangid, organiser and vintage car restorer and founder of the Cartist Automobile Art Festival. Himanshu will also be auctioning 50 of his paintings, proceeds of which will be donated to the PM Cares fund. At the same time, organisers of Dunes Music Festival, an electronic music festival organised in Jaipur every year, are also live-streaming the performances of various DJs as part of their virtual event titled ‘Isolation Instagram Takeover’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/marathons-art-exhibitions-and-stand-up-comedy-jaipuriites-move-events-online/articleshow/75434685.cms||Neha Chaudhary
April 29, 2020||India||5 students of Delhi-based business school win Global Case Competition at Harvard||NOIDA: A group of five students have managed to beat world’s most prestigious business schools at an annual event hosted by Harvard Graduate Business Club. Students of Delhi-based Shaheed Sukhdev College bagged the first position in the Global Case Competition among 140 teams that had participated from all over the world. Students of bachelor of business administration (financial investment analysis), Noida-based Raghav Nath, Anand Negi, Kunal Vats, Sparsh Sehgal and Ojas Jhamb had to compete with PhD level scholars from some of the top business schools in the world including London Business School, HEC Paris, Johns Hopkins University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, ESSEC business school and Chinese University of Hong Kong. “For the preliminary round all the teams were required to prepare pitch-books covering financial valuation, financial analysis and strategic analysis of a hypothetical merger and acquisition scenario,” said Raghav over the phone who worked on the hypothesis – shall Amazon acquire Netflix. The 126-page pitch-book prepared by the five students was shortlisted among the top-10 entries and the group was invited to present the case study through a video format in the third week of April followed by a question and answer session with judges. Late on April 26, results were declared live on Facebook and the five were adjudged as the winners of the competition. Besides certificate, the group would also get a cash reward of $ 10,000 for coming up with the best case solution. The group of five, however, were a little disappointed since they will not be able to go to the US to collect their prize money and certificate despite winning the competition due to the travel restrictions. “But we would certainly celebrate their victory in a big way once lockdown restrictions are relaxed. For the first time, an Indian institute has bagged the prestigious award,” said Poonam Verma, principal of the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/group-of-5-delhi-students-win-global-case-competition-at-harvard/articleshow/75438167.cms||Shalabh
April 29, 2020||India||Hospitals can’t insist on coronavirus test before treatment, says govt||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns over many private hospitals across India either turning away critical patients or having closed down, the Centre on Tuesday asked states to ensure the hospitals kept functioning and also did not insist on Covid-19 tests for every patient needing medical care. In a letter to state chief secretaries, Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said the Centre had received reports that many private hospitals were hesitating to provide critical services such as dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy and institutional deliveries even to their regular patients either due to fear of the staff contracting Covid-19 or because they were not functioning. “For patients who need these critical services, it must be ensured all health facilities, especially those in private sector, continue to be functional... so that such patients do not face any hardship,” Sudan said. On hospitals insisting on Covid-19 tests before providing services, she said, “Healthcare providers may be advised to take necessary precautions for personal protection.” Sudan’s letter referred to guidelines issued to states on April 20 which said there shouldn’t be disruption in essential services such as reproductive and child healthcare, immunisation, treatment of cancer and kidney ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hospitals-cant-insist-on-covid-test-before-treatment-govt/articleshow/75438835.cms||---
April 29, 2020||India||Plasma therapy not approved as treatment, use only for trial: Govt||NEW DELHI: The health ministry on Tuesday came out with a categorical and emphatic warning that it has not approved plasma therapy for treatment of coronavirus and this should be used only for research and trial purposes till there is robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy. The announcement came as a surprise as some private hospitals have used plasma or immune therapy on patients needing enhanced respiratory support. Delhi’s Max Saket hospital recently claimed success with a middle-aged patient though the method failed to save the person’s father who was much older and in his late 80s. The Centre’s views indicate that it feels the treatment carries an unacceptable risk and Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said if it is not administered properly, it could be life-threatening. Trials involving plasma therapy will, however, continue with ICMR awaiting more clinical evidence. The government’s virtual prohibition of plasma therapy as a line of treatment comes at a time when several states feel it might be a promising option. States like Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Karnataka have sought permission from ICMR to treat critically-ill Covid-19 patients with this therapy. “There is no approved therapy for Covid-19 in the country, including plasma therapy. Plasma therapy is being experimented with and there is no evidence to support it as a treatment. It is only at an experimental stage,” Agarwal said. “ICMR has launched a national-level study to find out the efficacy of plasma therapy in the treatment of Covid-19. Till ICMR concludes its study and a robust scientific proof is available, plasma therapy should be used only for research or trial purpose. If plasma therapy is not used in a proper manner un der the proper guidelines, then it can also cause lifethreatening complications,” he added. Worldwide studies are currently under way on various therapies with plasma being one of them. Even the US FDA has approved the use of plasma therapy only for experimental purposes and not for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/plasma-therapy-not-approved-as-treatment-use-only-for-trial-govt/articleshow/75439012.cms||Sushmi Dey
April 29, 2020||India||With governor non-committal on council seat for Uddhav Thackeray, his fate as CM hangs in balance||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s fate appears to hang in the balance as governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was apparently noncommittal on his nomination as member of the legislative council during an interaction with state ministers. A delegation of cabinet members comprising NCP’s Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil, Shiv Sena’s Eknath Shinde and Anil Parab, and the Congress’ Balasaheb Thorat and Aslam Shaikh knocked at Koshyari’s doors on Tuesday with a revised state cabinet re commendation to appoint Thackeray to the council. “Koshyari heard our case but was non-committal, so we do not know if our plea will be accepted or otherwise,” a senior cabinet member said. He said in view of the uncertainty over Thackeray’s nomination, the government is considering approaching the Election Commission for early polls to the legislative council. As per the original plan, elections for nine seats were scheduled to be held on April 24, and Thackeray was to contest the polls. However, the EC postponed the elections in view of crisis, so the CM wanted to be a nominee of the governor as two such nominated posts were lying vacant. The cabinet submitted a proposal for his nomination to the Raj Bhavan on April 9, but it was informed recently that no decision had been taken on the plea on technical grounds. The cabinet then passed a fresh resolution on Monday. Uddhav Thackeray was sworn in as chief minister on November 27, 2019. Since he was not a member of either House of the state legislature, it is binding on him to become a member within six months, that is, before May 27. “A cabinet meeting has been convened on Wednesday to review the tackling of coronavirus. We may pass a resolution urging the EC to hold elections to the council as early as possible, preferably before May 20. We will follow social distancing norms. The EC has powers to reduce the notice period for the election. It should concede our plea for the sake of stability of the state government,” the cabinet member said. Secondly, the member said there was a proposal to knock at the doors of the Supreme Court for suspending the provision of the election within six months. “In view of the lockdown, the government has postponed the last dates for all statutory activities by three months. Similarly, we feel the apex court should suspend the provision of six months as a special case. Thackeray was unable to contest the elec tions as these were postponed due to the lockdown,” he said. He admitted that in the event Thackeray is not nominated on the council, he would have to quit. Thackeray can then be sworn in as CM again and get elected to either House within six months or a new CM would have to be elected. Watch Constitutional crisis? Uddhav's fate as Maharashtra CM hangs in balance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-governor-non-committal-on-council-seat-for-uddhav-thackeray-his-fate-as-cm-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/75439139.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||TV actors support #9PM9Minutes initiative with full zeal!||When the entire nation followed PM Narendra Modi's request to shut off all electricity at homes this Sunday at 9PM for 9Minutes and lit candles, diyas, torches and mobile phone lights, our popular celebs from entertainment industry too contributed their bit and followed the initiative #9PM9Minutes. Here is what they have to say:Chhahat Khanna'I lit candles at 9pm and felt really good. If felt like lighting a ray of hope, which gave positive vibrations. I was looking forward to do this that turned out to be an amazing experience all over nation. Hopefully we fight this out soon and resume our lives like earlier.' Vijayendra Kumeria'It is a way of appreciating yourself and others who have complied with the lock down for one's own safety and the safety of other fellow citizens. I see this as a way of conserving energy as well. And I am overwhelmed to know that people of our nation did it with all sincerity.' Vikas Sethi'It's so wonderful initiative where everyone connected with positive energy and the whole nation came together on one page. Doing it with loved ones around, was an enriching feeling.' Payal Ghosh'I gladly participated in the #9pm9minutes and lit the flashlight at 9pm that was my way of doing a bit. And I did it all being confined to my home, following the example of social distancing as our part of duty during such times. I believe, 'Unity is strength' and its a way to fight the 'darkness of coronavirus pandemic'. And it was overwhelming to see all Indians standing together for the cause.' Amal Sehrawat'Lighting a diya/ candle or torch was a great initiative and an encouraging step to realize that in this tough time of COVID 19, the entire nation is together. That is what this initiative reflects and I was all for it.' Rohitashv Gour'The initiative taken by our PM encouraging our Indian citizens at Sunday 9 pm for nine-minutes was amazing. It talks about our fighting spirit and was a great step. It is said that if we throw positive energy in the universe, then we will get back the same positivity from the universe.' Ssharad Malhotra'I did shut off the electricity and lit up a big candle in my house and balcony keeping the belief that there is and will be no shortage of positivity and brightness. And it was amazing to see the entire nation coming together and doing it with belief, hope and vigor.' Arjun Bijlani'I lit diyas in the balcony of my house that was a one-of-its kind initiative where, firstly, I assume, a lot of electricity was saved for nine minutes and I am sure that it will go into crores and that money is much-needed right now for the benefit of people. Apart from that, it helped in boosting the morale of so many people and seeing visuals like that would be a great thing. It will also create a hope that we are in this together.' Parull Chaudhry'I think it was a great activity that encouraged citizens in different ways. Earlier, the clapping at 5 pm for 5 minutes was yet another amazing moment. It brought a sense of togetherness in people because everybody came out at the same and started clapping. This time also, the concept behind at 9 pm for 9 minutes, reflected the same with an aim to spread light, hope while bringing all of us together to fight against this virus.' Aparna Dixit'I lit diyas while shutting off the electricity at 9 pm for 9 minutes. The positivity of this activity was infectious and so supporting that brought all the more brightness all over. I do believe in the power of positive vibrations and lighting of diyas/ candles made me feel that way.' Rahul Sharma'Lighting diya at 9 pm for 9 minutes was something that I anxiously waited for and did with zeal. I really felt bright and positive and I hope Corona will go away soon.' Rishina Kandhari'I also lit a big candle at the terrace of my house and I must say it was quite a motivating and positive feeling. Lighting of diya generated a ray of hope within that we all are looking out for in this time of darkness. I just pray that this light of hope brings brightness and removes all negativity around.' Amrita Prakash'I believe PMs directive to ask all of us to clap or make some noise together was a good idea to reinforce solidarity in this time of isolation. I participated in that as well and the resonance from every house made me tear up. I am an actor and believe in the power of expression. However, I do think along with these displays of expression, we need more action-based ways to show appreciation. While the government has done a fantastic job of containing the virus in a country in which the demographic changes every few hundred kilometres, a lot still needs to be addressed.' Another celebrity couple Vatshal Sheth-Ishita Dutta  and Rupal Patel also participated in #9pm9minutes initiative and lit candles with electricity shut off and did their bit with a feeling of positivism. Watch Television actors followed PM Narendra Modi's #9pm9min initiative!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tv-actors-support-9pm9minutes-initiative-with-full-zeal/articleshow/75009992.cms||Manyaekta Gugliani
April 29, 2020||India||Record 1,840 cases & 69 deaths on Tuesday; Covid toll passes 1,000||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic crossed two grim milestones in India, with the total number of cases topping 30,000 — ending the day at 31,411 — and the death toll going past 1,000. Both the number of new cases, at 1,840, and fatalities (69) on Tuesday were the highest reported in a single day so far. Maharashtra recorded its highest daily death toll of 31, followed by Gujarat (19), Madhya Pradesh (10) and Uttar Pradesh (3). Mumbai and Ahmedabad saw their highest number of deaths in a day, 25 and 19, respectively. Maharashtra again reported a surge in cases, 729 during the day, and Tamil Nadu saw its highest number of new cases (121) on Tuesday. And with the count of cases remaining high in Gujarat (226), Delhi (206) and Madhya Pradesh, India added 1,840 new coronavirus infections, going past the previous single-day peak of 1,755 recorded on April 23. Rajasthan and J&K recorded two new deaths each while Karnataka and TN recorded one fatality each. Delhi did not record any death for the second consecutive day. However, with 206 more persons testing positive for the disease, Delhi’s Covid-19 count has now reached 3,314, the third highest in the country after Maharashtra (9,318) and Gujarat (3,774). Maharashtra’s death toll from the virus has touched 400, with Mumbai alone acco unting for 244. Gujarat has recorded 69 deaths, of which 59 have occurred in Ahmedabad. MP recorded 10 deaths from Covid-19 — one of the highest single-day tolls in the state since the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/record-1840-cases-69-deaths-on-tuesday-covid-toll-passes-1000/articleshow/75439303.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 29, 2020||India||Misrepresentation of India has reached a new level: Centre||NEW DELHI/WASHINGTON: The government rejected the observations on India in the USCIRF annual report, which had accused India of allowing harassment of Muslims and violence against them, saying the US federal government entity’s misrepresentation of India had reached new levels. The report on India was rejected by two of its own commissioners. “Its biased and tendentious comments against India are not new. But on this occasion, its misrepresentation has reached new levels,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), which claims to monitor religious freedom around the world, asked the state department to designate 14 nations, including India, as countries of particular concern (CPC), alleging that religious minorities were under increasing assault in these nations. However, two of its nine members expressed dissent over USCIRF recommendation to place India in the CPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/misrepresentation-of-india-has-reached-anew-level-centre/articleshow/75439457.cms||---
April 29, 2020||India||‘Monsoon to be normal, but June-July may see less rains’||NEW DELHI: India is forecast to get an overall ‘normal’ monsoon rainfall this year, but an initial month-wise prediction suggests ‘below normal’ rainfall during June, long dry spells in July and the rains then making up with ‘excess rainfall’ during August and September — almost similar to last year’s pattern, says an internal assessment note available with the government. Though the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast for spatial and month-wise distribution of monsoon is still a month away, the note shows that coastal region of Odisha, West Bengal and Mizoram may get ‘below normal’ rainfall while southern part of Tamil Nadu and Kerala are expected to receive ‘above normal rainfall’. The note, carrying map on spatial forecast on monsoon, shows near normal rainfall with 40-50% probability for large part of the country. It indicates near normal rainfall for Gujarat, Rajasthan, western part of MP and northwestern part of Maharashtra with a probability of 50-60%. The IMD had on April 15 predicted normal rainfall (96-104% of long period average) with a model error of ± 5% over India during southwest monsoon season (June to September). The long period average of the season rainfall for the period 1961-2010 is 88cm. The country’s national weather forecaster, however, didn’t then speak about spatial distribution of rainfall as this aspect is predicted only in May last week or June first week. Later, the South Asia Seasonal Climate outlook Forum (SASCOF) - which involves various international agencies led by WMO - too indicated normal rainfall for large part of the country and the forecast is almost in line with that of IMD. “While IMD provides probabilistic estimates of seasonal rainfall for the India as a whole, other agencies provide spatial information on probabilistic rainfall for India/South Asia. These spatial maps for the country and states are extracted from South Asia maps by superimposing map of India with state boundaries,” says the note. Referring to the forecast map, the note also talks about possibility of dwindling rainfall in June and July in rainfed regions of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Marathwada and Vidharbha regions of Maharashtra, which may impact rainfed crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/monsoon-to-be-normal-but-june-july-may-see-less-rains/articleshow/75439622.cms||Vishwa Mohan
April 29, 2020||India||Coronavirus: No green zone in Delhi, test result delay a hurdle||NEW DELHI: There is no green zone in Delhi. Nine out of 11 districts in the capital are red zones, which means they have a high Covid-19 load, according to the Union health ministry, while two others qualify as orange zones, which means they are getting two to three cases daily. A district is considered to be a green zone if it is unaffected by Covid-19. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a meeting on Tuesday to review the situation in Delhi, voiced his concern. “When I see Delhi’s Covid-19 map, I see only red and orange colours, which is extremely worrying,” he said. Delhi is the third-most-affected state in the country after Maharashtra and Gujarat. “Delay in testing results is the biggest challenge we are facing. It is taking more than a week for the labs to send results, which is affec ting containment measures,” said a Delhi official at the meeting. A district categorised as a red zone is moved to orange if it doesn’t see a single new case for 14 days and green if there are no cases for another 14 days. Budhlani was ultimately allowed to go across. “I am grateful they heard me out and let me enter, though on the condition that I wouldn’t return to Delhi,” he said. Hundreds of others weren’t so lucky. The cops yelled, “Aapne news nahi dekhi? Jao wapis.” And cars and motorcycles making an about-turn began driving into the flow of traffic, creating a big mess. The commuters’ exasperation was understandable because there was a constant verification even then by Haryana Police and DSRAF and it took longer to exit the area. Harbeer and Sunil Kumar, operation theatre technicians at AIIMS, didn’t have Budhlani’s luck. After a patient wait, they were turned away from the border. “We are doing vital work during this lockdown,” sighed Harbeer. “We can’t afford to deal with this situation every day. And we need to go home too, don’t we? Police say we need to apply for a pass. Now we have to find someone to stay with in Delhi.” Police officer at the barricades claimed to TOI that ample warnings had been given for two days that entry into Faridabad would be stopped. But most commuters swore there had been no action before Tuesday. “We are following instructions as given by our home minister. Only movement of essential goods will be allowed,” explained Sube Singh, PRO, Faridabad Police. “All these are being done to ensure Faridabad does not become a Covid-19 red zone.” Delhi health department employees and Delhi Police personnel were badly affected. A nurse was reduced to tears after being rudely told off by a woman Haryana Police officer. Praveen Sahay, who works in the CGHS dispensary in Sarita Vihar and resides at Greenfields colony in Faridabad, said in a disappointed tone, all the more because his pass was not recognised by the police, “I am a medical worker and they asked me to return to Delhi. Every day we are fighting the coronavirus and they treat us like this.” A senior Delhi government functionary indignantly declared, “This action of Haryana is against the guidelines of the Centre. The high number of corona cases in Delhi is not of its own doing. It is because big groups of Indians were brought home from abroad in February and March. They might have belonged to different states, but Delhi took care of them.” The official added that the authorities across the border should understand that both Haryana and Delhi were part of India. “Haryana’s attitude is against the spirit of India. It is against PM Narendra Modi’s endeavour to take the whole country along during the pandemic,” he bristled. Meanwhile, the municipal corporations and Delhi Police are making temporary lodging arrangements for employees who live in Haryana. While south corporation has set up two such centres, Delhi Police has booked hotel rooms for its personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-no-green-zone-in-delhi-test-result-delay-a-hurdle/articleshow/75439662.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 29, 2020||Surat||Restrictions eased in Covid-free Daman, Diu, DNH||SURAT: Restrictions have been eased in the the union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), Daman and Diu, which have been successful in keeping the Covid-19 pandemic at bay. The administration allowed the neighbourhood and standalone shops to start business as usual from Tuesday, but shopping malls, multi-brand showrooms, bars and restaurants will not open soon. The UT administration issued order on Monday night stating that the shops registered under the Shops and Establishments Act will be functioning with 50% workforce and by strictly adhering to the precautions which include social distancing and wearing of masks. The order further stated that the sale of liquor, tobacco and cigarettes and non-essential items through e-commerce platforms will continue to remain shut. Also, the bars, gyms, parlours, saloons and restaurants will continue to be prohibited. However, the restaurants in the UT have been allowed to undertake takeaway orders. Since the first Covid-19 positive patient was detected from Silvassa in DNH, about 2,000 samples collected from all the three territories have tested negative. On an average, about 400 samples are being collected daily and random testing of five samples are done at the laboratory set up in DNH. Administrator of DNH, Daman and Diu, Praful Patel told TOI, “The borders of DNH, Daman and Diu will continue to remain sealed for outsiders. Our dedicated transport vehicles will continue to bring essential goods, medicines, vegetables, fruits and poultry etc. in DNH and Daman from Vapi. I have appealed to the people not to venture out frequently to purchase things.” "We have eased the restrictions, but the residents in the Uinon Territories will have to religiously follow the rules and regulations" added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/restrictions-eased-in-covid-free-daman-diu-dnh/articleshow/75436891.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||BSE commex segment to test negative crude price||MUMBAI: The BSE’s commodities derivatives trading segment said on Tuesday it has changed its trading algorithms to accommodate the negative price of crude oil on its platform. BSE’s commex platform will open the system on May 4 for testing by its members, a notice by the exchange said. The move comes as issues related to the negative crude oil price in India have reached the high courts. “This is pursuant to recent global developments in the crude oil derivatives markets where trading of derivatives contracts happened at negative prices owing to various underlying factors. It is hereby informed to all trading members of commodity derivatives segment that exchange’s BOLT Plus trading system has been modified to accept orders and execute trades at negative prices,” the notice said. As a result, brokers will be able to place test orders and trade in these contracts at those price levels. “This will help members in checking the readiness of their internal systems and make suitable modifications, if any required.” Commodity brokers, however, feel since the settlement of crude oil futures contracts in India is in cash, and unlike on Nymex where it’s delivery-based, the lowest price should be at Re 1 and should never dip into the negative zone. Commodity Participants Association of India president Narinder Wadhwa said BSE’s initiative was a positive development relating to contract specifications and infrastructure capability, especially after the recent crude oil fiasco on the MCX and Nymex. “Although we have realised after this episode that they are non-comparable contracts for our settlement reference rates because of deliverability factor in Nymex. Since crude oil contracts on our exchanges are cash-settled, in our opinion it should not be negative. At lower end, it should be Re 1,” Wadhwa said. On April 20, due to several unusual factors, the settlement price for crude futures for May delivery on Nymex had closed at a negative $37.63 per barrel. As a result, the next day MCX, which is a price taker from Nymex for its crude oil futures, had to announce the settlement price at a negative Rs 2,884. This forced buyers of this contract to pay around Rs 410 crore to the sellers. Subsequently, several brokers approached the high courts around the country against markets regulator Sebi, MCX and the exchange’s clearing corporation, MCX-CC, with a plea to order nullification of the negative settlement price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bse-commex-segment-to-test-ve-crude-price/articleshow/75437612.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Patna||Patna HC seeks Centre’s reply on Kota issue in a week||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday asked the central government to file a reply within a week on protocol to be followed for interstate movement of students from Bihar stranded at Kota in Rajasthan due to the lockdown. The court also asked the Bihar government to provide help to the stranded students in close coordination with the Rajasthan government. Three individuals – Pawan Kumar, Prakash Tiwary and Nelam Deo from Patna, Muzaffarpur and East Champaran, respectively – had moved the high court urging it to direct the authorities concerned to allow them to bring their stranded daughters from Kota. Advocate Ajay Thakur had also filed a PIL in the high court, urging it to direct the state government to bring back stranded students from Kota and other places. A Patna high court division bench of Justice Hemant Kumar Srivastava and Justice Rajendra Kumar Mishra heard the four matters together via videoconferencing for almost two hours and fixed May 5 as the next date of hearing. Counsels Prakritita Sharma, Amrendra Kumar and Ansul appeared for the individual petitioners. Sharma pleaded that since some other state governments have already brought back their stranded students, the central government can’t object if Bihar follows the suit. Appearing for Centre, additional solicitor general S D Sanjay informed the bench about a litigation filed in Supreme Court on interstate movement of migrant workers which was taken up for hearing on Monday and the central government was asked to inform the court about the protocol for such movement. Advocate general Lalit Kishore and additional advocate general Anjani Kumar, who appeared for the state government, told the court that the state was bound to follow the central government’s guidelines as far as bringing back stranded students from Kota and other places amid lockdown is concerned. After petitioners’ counsels contended that the lockdown was enforced by “incompetent authority”, AAG Kumar opposed it and said Union home secretary had enforced the lockdown under National Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-hc-seeks-centres-reply-on-kota-issue-in-a-week/articleshow/75434496.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 29, 2020||Patna||40% drain desilting done, PMC sets mid-May target||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has claimed to have completed around 40% of the desilting of major drains in its six circles in the state capital ahead of the monsoon season. The civic body, which is cleaning the drains through machines and manual labour, has set mid-May- as the target for completing the work. Desilting of small and medium drains, which requires manual work, started on April 21 after a partial relaxation in the second phase of the lockdown. As the full workforce returned to duty, the civic body assigned the work to sanitation workers in two shifts to adhere to social distancing norms. To clear the garbage heaps and silt from big drains, the PMC has hired poclain machines, super-suction machines, tractors, tippers, skid-steer loader and earth-moving machines. Officials said two long-arm poclain machines have arrived from Chennai. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said, “The total length of nine major drains in the city is 33,662 meters or over 33km. At present, sanitation workers have dredged 11,250m. In spite of limited resources, up to 40% of the work of cleaning of all major drains has been completed within just 19 days,” he said. He added: “The desilting of big drains is being done through machines, while we have started manual work in small and medium drains, catchpits and manholes in the last week.” Secretary of urban development and housing department Anand Kishore has also instructed PMC officials to increase resources and carry out the work in two shifts to complete the work within the targeted timeframe. He set the target to complete the de- silting of big drains by May 3 and the other drains, catch pits and manholes by mid-May. The PMC has formed special teams for cleaning each major drain, which is constantly being monitored from the headquarters. At the same time, the sanitation workers are being trained daily by the PMC in collaboration with team of experts of the United Nations Population Fund to protect them from Covid-19 virus. Harshita, a PMC communications official, said sanitation workers were provided with safety gear such as gloves, face masks, body harness, suit and safety belt as a precautionary measure. “All staff are maintaining social distancing norms,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40-drain-desilting-done-pmc-sets-mid-may-target/articleshow/75435355.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 29, 2020||Patna||Parties for staggered exit from lockdown||PATNA: Political parties in state have expressed mixed opinions on the government’s future course of action after the end of lockdown-II on May 3. Though most parties are concerned over spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the state, they are looking forward to a staggered exit plan, which could provide some respite to the stressed economy, migrant workers and people in unorganised sector. RJD state president Jagdanand Singh said although any decision on the lockdown was discretion of the government, the party is of the view that migrant workers from Bihar stuck in other states should be brought back. “More than the pandemic, tens of hundreds of such workers are facing hardships due to hunger and homelessness. The state government is also unable to ensure doorstep supply of essential commodities, thereby forcing people to venture out of their houses,” he said. Ruling JD(U)’s senior functionary and state water resources minister Sanjay Jha, on the other hand, said the state government was taking all possible measures to fight the pandemic apart from extending assistance to migrant workers stranded in other states. “As far as lockdown is concerned, Centre will take a call. CM Nitish Kumar has already said that Bihar government will follow the Centre’s decision. My personal opinion is that districts with minimum or no Covid-19 cases should be allowed to resume some economic activities and red zone districts should continue to remain under restrictions,” he said. Bihar Congress’s working president Kaukab Quadri batted for staggered exit from the lockdown. “People have followed lockdown despite facing hardships. There should be a staggered exit from the lockdown. People have now adopted ‘work-from-home’ culture and online studies,” he said, adding restrictions should continue in red zones. BJP’s Bihar unit vice-president Devesh Kumar said there should not be relaxations in red zone districts, but some relaxations should be allowed in orange and green zones for economic activities. RLSP’s national secretary general Madhav Anand said lockdown should be extended and social distancing norms should be followed even in green zones. “I have also demanded announcement of a special financial package of Rs 1.50 lakh crore by the Centre for Bihar so that alternative sources of livelihood could be provided to migrant workers who have returned to the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parties-for-staggered-exit-from-lockdown/articleshow/75435436.cms||Piyush Tripathi
April 29, 2020||Patna||ECR offices go paperless||PATNA: Offices in all five divisions of the East Central Railway (ECR) have gone paperless with a view to maintaining social distancing and minimizing physical movement of files. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar told this newspaper on Tuesday that the railways had launched an e-Office platform for quick disposal of files. “The new system will help maintain transparency as all the documents and papers will be digitized and preserved for records,” Kumar said and added, “At present, approximately 4,000 employees of the DRM’s office have been trained to handle the platform and adopt paperless work culture. Even leave applications are being approved by the officials concerned using e-Office.” ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar claimed that majority of the railway officials had started working from home during the lockdown period. “The e-Office system promotes paperless culture that will save operational cost and reduce the carbon footprint,” the CPRO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-offices-go-paperless/articleshow/75434572.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Former IL&FS VC gets 8-wk bail for Rs 50k||Swati Deshpande | TNN Mumbai: In a relief to former vice-chairperson of Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS), Hari Sankaran, a special trial judge at the sessions court on Tuesday granted him an interim bail of Rs 50,000 for eight weeks. He got the bail in a case of alleged fraud and ever-greening of companies. The bail order comes a week after the Bombay high court had quashed the criminal case — registered last year by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) — as being “untenable”. A bench led by Bombay HC Chief Justice B P Dharmadhikari had quashed the Centre’s order to SFIO to initiate criminal prosecution after holding it as “being unsustainable” and quashed the prosecution before the sessions court in Mumbai as “not maintainable”. The HC had directed that he can apply for his release or for bail. Recently, Sankaran was granted an interim bail during the lockdown on medical grounds by the trial court, but that was stayed by the HC. With the latest HC order in hand, his counsel Aabad Ponda once again argued for bail on Monday. SFIO counsel Hiten Venegaonkar opposed the bail plea and said, since the HC had stayed its order regarding the quashing of prosecution for eight weeks to enable the agency to approach the Supreme Court, bail ought not to be granted. But Ponda cited three judgments on the law point — two of the Bombay high court and one of the SC — to argue that a stay would not operate against a lower court, especially when the statutory power to take cognisance of a crime was held to be untenable. The bail, however, may be difficult to execute since the lockdown has meant that court staff are at a bare minimum. “During the last order, before the HC stayed it, the SFIO was refusing to take cash bail,” said Ponda. Significantly, the HC had noted in its judgment in Sankaran’s case, “SFIO admits that the trial court has yet to take cognisance of its report. In such a case, the court may not have power to remand and the detention of company’s director may not be legal.” The HC bench of Chief Justice Dharmadhikari and N R Borkar said there appeared to be non-application of mind in the manner the Centre directed the SFIO to initiate prosecution last May within 30 hours of a 732-page report of the agency with 32,000 pages as annexures. “It is humanly impossible to read and appreciate such a large report of the SFIO, apply mind and give appropriate directions within 30 hours. The Centre claims that two officers independently and separately read all these papers…and applied their mind within that time,” the HC bench had observed. The prosecution was initiated against Sankaran and even former statutory auditors of IL&FS Financial Services (IFIN), whose prosecution too the HC had quashed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/former-ilfs-vc-gets-8-wk-bail-for-rs-50k/articleshow/75437551.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Garbage piles up in Malligaipuram streets||Trichy: Though public movement has come down owing to the curfew, waste mounds have started appearing at Malligaipuram and the foul smell emanating from them is troubling the residents in the neighbourhood. Trichy Corporation’s waste collection vehicles often skip the households in Malligaipuram forcing the residents to dump garbage in the streets. While the government is stressing the importance of hygiene, the corporation has to ensure public health, residents said. Falling under ward number 22 in Ariyamangalam zone, Annai Nagar in Malligaipuram has seven streets with hundreds of houses. The civic body’s mini truck visits the area on alternative days, but the vehicle will become fully loaded by the time it reaches Annai Nagar, the residents said. “The mini-truck has no adequate space to collect our waste at the doorstep. It doesn’t have announcement system to alert the residents about its arrival,” I Augustine, an ex-serviceman from Annai Nagar, said. Left with no other option, residents dump their waste on the streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/garbage-piles-up-in-malligaipuram-streets/articleshow/75438098.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Job losses, pay cuts shatter private sector staff||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus has impacted individuals as well as businesses. While many in the informal sector have got the axe, several employees in the formal sector are also facing pay cuts with the companies citing revenue losses for the move. Md Shamshad, a native of Araria working in a construction company, lost his job a week after the beginning of lockdown. “I have been jobless for a month now. My son, who is stuck in Aligarh, has no money with him and I am unable able to help him,” Shamshad said. Employees in the corporate sector are also affected by the lockdown. Shashank Saurabh, human resource manager in an automobile company, said 26 of his colleagues have already lost job. “I apprehend that the company might show the door to more employees in the coming days due to lack of revenue,” he said. Amit Sinha, employee of a private firm and a Bailey Road resident, said, “I am getting 70% of my salary and my boss has told me that it might be reduced further if the lockdown continues.” Young professionals from Bihar working in other big cities or IT hubs are also staring at job losses. Indraneel Biswas, a resident of S K Nagar, who works in an ITes firm in Noida, said his firm has asked several employees to go on leave without pay for two months. “My company’s clients are mostly based in the UK, Germany and France and all these three countries are badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Consequently, there are no fresh work orders with the company. The company has thus asked many employees to go on leave without pay for two months. This means that their retention will depend on work orders,” he said. Businesses are also bearing the brunt of lockdown. Subhash Agarwal, a businessman, said paying interests to banks is a major problem as the retail business is badly affected. “The government should stop taking fixed electricity charges and do something for the businessmen too,” he said. Ashish Bhandari, managing director of a digital cinema server, said, “It’s not possible for business firms to give salary to the employees when the revenue is zero. Still we are trying to give at least 70% of the total salary to the employees.” Meanwhile, experts said those working in aviation, hotel, tourism and corporate sectors are at the higher risk of losing jobs. D M Diwakar, a social scientist and professor of economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said job losses in the non-essential service sectors would see a major spike if the lockdown continues. “In Bihar, the agricultural sector has been badly hit due to transportation issues,” he said. Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan said employees in micro, small and medium enterprises have so far not faced pay cut but if the lockdown continues, nothing can be said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/job-losses-and-pay-cuts-shatter-private-sector-staff/articleshow/75434266.cms||Archi Rani
April 29, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation ramps up surveillance in five most-affected wards||PUNE: The civic authorities have deployed 75 more survey teams as well as 10 mobile dispensaries with doctors and health staffers in the five most coronavirus-affected wards of the Pune Municipal Corporation to ramp up check-ups besides, activating service rapid response teams for rigorous contact tracing. Rubal Agarwal, the additional municipal commissioner, said, “The administration has decided to focus on the hotspots. Dedicated survey teams are checking the residents. The focus is now on deeper cleaning and isolation of people who show symptoms, while the rapid response teams are engaged in contact tracing.” Out of over 1,200 positive cases of Covid-19 in the city, almost 66% (about 800) are from the five wards, including Bhavani Peth (over 200 cases), Dhole Patil Road, Shivajinagar-Ghole Road, Kasba Peth-Vishrambaug and Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori. The presence of slums has been the prime reason for the spread of coronavirus in these wards. The ward officers of the most-affected areas have been told to conduct daily follow-up of the surveillance work. A total of 15 wards are there in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. An official from PMC’s health department said, “Though a containment plan is in place at all the hotspots and a rigorous contact tracing has been under way, people from many areas are not cooperating with the surveyors. Since people are avoiding screening, we are now going to every household. At many places, the administration is taking help of social groups and police for reaching out to people.” Another official from the civic administration said the slum pockets from all over the city were being closely monitored. About 350 teams will now be conducting checks in those areas. There would be on-the-spot checking of people showing symptoms and they would be told to go for institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-mobile-dispensaries-75-survey-teams-to-ramp-up-surveillance-in-5-most-affected-wards-get/articleshow/75438814.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 29, 2020||Surat||Surat: One killed for stopping five men from hiding in society||SURAT: A group of five men allegedly stabbed a 30-year-old man to death and seriously injured his friend on Monday in Dindoli after dispute over not allowing them to enter a residential society while escaping from police. The murder accused often hang around railway track near Mahadev Nagar 5 and used to hide in the society when police came for checking. Residents of the society had warned the accused from entering in society fearing spread of coronavirus, police investigation revealed. Police booked Ajay alias Jekiya, Sahil and three others in Dindoli police station for murder, attempt to murder, rioting and other sections under Indian Penal Code. The deceased was identified as Rahul Patil, while his friend Raja Gayakwad suffered serious injuries. The complaint was lodged by Gayakwad's elder brother Kishore on Tuesday. The incident took place when Patil and Gayakwad along with others stopped the accused from entering their society. “There was a fight between residents during which the accused stabbed Patil and attacked Gayakwad with a knife. Patil died on the spot,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-killed-for-stopping-five-men-from-hiding-in-society/articleshow/75436980.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Surat||Buying veggies daily earns woman bro-in-law’s wrath||SURAT: A 32-year-old woman paid a heavy price for buying fresh vegetables and milk daily. Over a dispute for her daily purchases which may invite spread of virus into the household, the wife of a diamond artisan earned the wrath of his elder brother who attacked her over her disobedience. The couple, who could retort to their elder, however, sought the help of 181 Abhayam helpline, which counselled the man. According to the helpline workers, Sangita, (all names changed) a resident of Varachha, was being forced to cook pulses and beans only and not to serve vegetables by Ashwin, elder brother of Piyush, her husband. While the brothers live separately, Ashwin, who is employed in a private company and stays alone, comes to have his meals at his brother’s house as the eateries are closed due to the lockdown. “Ashwin started instructing Piyush and his wife that they should not buy vegetables or milk from outside as it may invite infection of the dreaded virus. But the couple continued to buy vegetables and milk and Ashwin fought with them and also attacked his sister-in-law,” said an official at 181 Abhayam helpline. “Out of respect for his elder sibling, Piyush could not do much and they didn’t wish to lodge police complaint in the current situation. Hence the couple sought help of 181," the official informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/buying-veggies-daily-earns-woman-bro-in-laws-wrath/articleshow/75436920.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Patna||‘Steps taken for safe disposal of Covid-19 victims’ bodies in Bihar’||PATNA: Even though the Covid-19 fatality rate in Bihar is much low, just two so far, all possible measures are being taken to ensure scientific disposal of the bodies of the ones dying due to the infection. Patna district epidemiologist Prashant Kumar said several guidelines have been issued by the state health department in this regard, including presence of limited number of people during the last rites. “The guidelines also prohibit family members from touching the body in order to avoid the risk of virus transmission. For health workers attending to the body, use of personal protective equipment (PPE), such as water-resistant apron, goggles, mask and gloves, has been made mandatory,” he said. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said all necessary guidelines issued by the health department were being followed as far as handling of the bodies of Covid-19 victims is concerned. “Two people – one from Munger and another from Vaishali – have so far died in the state due to Covid-19. While the Munger man was buried according to Islamic rituals, the one from Vaishali was cremated in Patna,” he said. The DM said the body of the Vaishali man, who died in Patna, was sanitized with antiseptic solution and covered with a leakproof plastic body bag. “PPE kits were given to all those involved in the cremation. The family members were allowed to see the last rites from a distance,” he said. He added, “Even though there’s a high risk of getting infected by the virus through a body, the power of virus reduces after death as it stops getting the nutrition.” Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore said several initiatives have been taken to spread awareness among people. “Health workers are trying their best to inform people about the spread of virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/steps-taken-for-safe-disposal-of-covid-19-victims-bodies/articleshow/75435377.cms||Archi Rani
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Entire CRPF battalion quarantined in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The CRPF on Wednesday placed an entire battalion — the 31st battalion based in Mayur Vihar — under quarantine following the death of a sub-inspector due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. As many as 45 others from the battalion have also tested positive and around 500 personnel living at the camp, which has now been sealed, had their swabs taken on Tuesday, the results for which are awaited. The development came amid suspicion in CRPF that the primary source of infection — a nursing attendant who had reported at the facility from J&K on April 7 and lived under quarantine for next 10 days as advised, before testing positive for Covid-19 — had failed to strictly observe the quarantine, leading to contact with others personnel inside common facilities such as canteen/toilets, before he developed symptoms around April 17. “It is possible that the quarantine was not enforced strictly and in line with health ministry norms that require a minimum quarantine period of 14 days. The nursing attendant was advised, as per a directive issued by Director (Medical) of CRPF, to be under quarantine for five days, which was later extended by another five days. By the end of this 10-day quarantine, however, he developed flu-like symptoms and was made to undergo Covid-19 test on April 17. The test returned a positive outcome on April 19 and he was shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. During contact tracing, it turned out that the attendant came in touch with 65 others at the camp, of which 32, including SI Mohammad Ikram Hussain who died on Tuesday, came out positive. On Tuesday, 12 more personnel tested positive, taking the total to 45. “Given that 45 personnel have come out positive a call was taken to seal the camp and place the entire battalion personnel lodged at the camp, under quarantine. All personnel, totalling around 500, have also been made to undergo the Covid-19 test and their results are awaited,” a senior CRPF official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/entire-crpf-battalion-quarantined/articleshow/75460671.cms||Bharti Jain
April 29, 2020||Patna||AES kills twin sisters in Muz||PATNA: The Muzaffarpur district authorities swung into action following the death of twin sisters at Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur due to acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) within 24 hours on Tuesday. On March 29, a three year-old boy from Sakra in Muzaffarpur district had died due to AES. SKMCH superintendent Dr Sunil Kumar Shahi said four patients from East Champaran, Vaishali and Muzaffarpur districts were undergoing treatment for AES. On Monday, the test report of a six-month old girl from East Champaran district was tested positive for AES,” he added. Muzaffarpur civil surgeon Dr S K Singh said a four-year-old girl died in the paediatric intensive care unit (IPCU) on Tuesday afternoon, barely 24 hours after her sister’s death on Monday. The twins belonged to Raushanpur under Musahari block in the district. Singh said the elder Sukhi Kumari alias Sukki was admitted to the hospital on Thursday. On Friday, Mausami Kumari was brought to the hospital around 3pm. “Their relatives told us that they had visited a private hospital before reaching SKMCH. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the reason for delayed arrival of the victims to the hospital,” he added. According to sources, a two-member team comprising Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma (medical officer) and Dr Satish Kumar will conduct a probe as the victims were allegedly brought to the hospital from their village on a motorbike or bicycle. The primary health centre (PHC) incharge of Musahari has been served a show cause notice. Singh said a meeting with local people’s representatives was also held to create awareness about the deadly disease, known as ‘Chamki Bukhar’ in local parlance. The mukhiyas have been asked to tag the vehicles of the area with the hospital so that they were transported directly to the government hospital. In the twin sisters’ case, they were brought to the hospital almost eight to 10 hours after complaining of high fever, acute body ache, vomiting tendency etc. “It clearly shows that the awareness campaign was launched on paper only,” said a social activist, preferring anonymity. The civil surgeon, however, claimed that intensive awareness campaign has been launched in the villages from where AES cases were reported earlier. Till date, altogether 15 AES patients were admitted to the SKMCH. Of them, three died and eight were released after their condition improved. Four others — Chanchla Kumari (East Champaran), Anurag (Vaishali), Md Subaid and S Parveen (both from Muzaffarpur) were undergoing treatment there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aes-kills-twin-sisters-in-muz/articleshow/75435109.cms||Ramashankar
April 29, 2020||Business||Axis will buy 29% in Max Life, awaits regulatory nod||TNN Mumbai: Axis Bank’s board on Monday approved a deal with Max Financial Services to buy a 29% stake in Max Life Insurance for an undisclosed cash consideration. The bank has said that the purchase will require approval from the banking and insurance regulators and the Competition Commission of India. Max Financial Services (MFS) currently holds a 72.5% stake in Max Life and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (MSI) owns a 25.5% stake. Axis Bank also has a minor stake in the life insurer. The transaction with Axis Bank follows the ongoing swapping by the Japanese partner of a 20.6% stake that it holds in Max Life with a 21.9% stake in the parent MFS. The parent also plans to purchase MSI’s balance stake in Max Life. After completion of this series of transactions, Max Life will become a 70:30 joint-venture between MFS and Axis Bank. While the deal value has not been disclosed, MFS, the life insurer’s holding company, currently has a market cap of Rs 12,887 crore. “We will run the organisation as if it’s an equal partnership — a philosophy which has held us in good stead earlier as well,” said Max Group founder and chairman Analjit Singh. The deal has been in the works for some time. On February 20, Axis Bank had said that it had entered into a confidentiality and exclusivity agreement. The bank has been the insurer’s corporate agent for several years and had even held a small stake. “We see this joint venture creating immense value for our stakeholders given our long-standing, high-performing partnership with Max Life. We believe this transaction will allow us to deepen our working relationship leading to better-integrated teams and infrastructure and a superior alignment in our approach,” said Axis Bank MD and CEO Amitabh Chaudhry. Chaudhry, who was formerly CEO of HDFC Life, had in 2017 pursued a merger of Max Life with HDFC Life. The HDFC-Max Life deal was not approved at that time as it involved a reverse merger with a listed non-bank holding company. Even in the current deal, regulatory approval is seen as crucial, considering that the RBI had recently asked banks to conserve capital and not release any dividend. Although Axis Bank is a corporate agent for the life company, the bank said that the acquisition will not fall within the related party transaction as shares will be acquired from the listed parent entity of the target company, that is, from Max Financial Services Limited. In a filing with the BSE, Axis Bank said that the objective is to strengthen the bank’s position in life insurance as banks are allowed to engage in this business. The bank also said that the transaction would be concluded within six-nine months, subject to regulatory approval. After the acquisition, MFS and Axis Bank will get to nominate four and three directors respectively on the board of Max Life. Should the merger not happen in time, the partners have agreed on a value-creation option to swap up Axis Bank’s shareholding to Max Financial, the tax consequence of which will be equally borne by the parties. If the value-creation option is not finalised in 63 months from the closing, the transactions provide for a put option for Axis Bank on the company to sell all shares held by the bank in Max Life for Rs 294 per share within 9 months of exercising such a put option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-will-buy-29-in-max-life-awaits-regulatory-nod/articleshow/75437670.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||IVCA suggests exemption for AIFs on China FDI clearance||Bengaluru: Industry body IVCA has recommended that alternative investment funds (AIFs), which are private equity and venture capital funds registered with markets regulator Sebi, remain exempt from seeking approvals even if they have Chinese backers. This comes as DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade) is expected to finalise the fine prints for the policy on clearance from FDI from neighbouring countries, including China. The concerns for PE and VC funds — who raise capital from endowments, pension funds, family offices, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutions across the world — is that even if one of their backers is from China it could delay the transaction. The DPIIT notification talks about both direct and indirect investments through beneficial ownership, which has raised concerns in the industry. “Funds are pooling vehicles and LPs (investors in PE/VC funds) are passive investors. A lot of fund of funds which are based out of Hong Kong could be pooling together money primarily from the US,” said Rehan Yar Khan, co-chair of venture capital at IVCA. PE and VC investments in 2019 stood at $48 billion in 2019, one of the key sources of FDI in the country. The government is said to be looking at ways to fast track approval in 15 days, according to reports. Rehan added that IVCA is not making any requests for regarding relaxation during takeover situations, which is the main concern. “The distinction that needs to be made is between control and investments. AIFs are controlled by Indian residents,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ivca-suggests-exemption-for-aifs-on-china-fdi-clearance/articleshow/75437697.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Limited impact of Franklin MF scheme closure: Morgan Stanley||The impact of Franklin Templeton MF’s decision to close six debt funds could result into some strong outflow from credit risk funds but the impact on the overall MF industry could be limited since fund houses have been reducing their funding of lower rated NBFCs since the IL&FS debt default in September 2018, a report by Morgan Stanley said. Recent events at credit risk funds have increased risk of redemptions at debt mutual funds. However, we think a big shift in AUM mix over the past 18 months towards stronger borrowers should mitigate this risk, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/limited-impact-of-franklin-mf-scheme-closure-morgan-stanley/articleshow/75437528.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Traffic cop lauded for giving pregnant woman ride home||Trichy: A traffic police inspector has been receiving praises from the Perambalur police and residents of Palakkarai for dropping a pregnant woman at her residence on Monday. A minute-long video, showing the police personnel politely insisting the woman not to walk alone on the road during the curfew, has gone viral on social media. As Perambalur police were enforcing the curfew at the Palakkarai roundabout on Monday afternoon, Perambalur traffic police inspector T S Gopinath spotted S Dhanam, 32, who is nine-months pregnant, walking alone. After being stopped by the police, she told the inspector that she was returning from Duraimangalam Primary Health Centre (PHC) as she was requested to give a swab sample for Covid-19 test. With her husband stuck at Sendurai town during the lockdown, she had to walk alone for 2km from her residence located in Sangupettai to reach the PHC. “It was a sultry afternoon, how could we let a pregnant woman to walk that too without anyone’s support. So I insisted the driver of my official vehicle drop Dhanam at her residence,” Gopinath told TOI. Gopinath also confirmed whether the woman had reached home safe. The entire event was recorded by a journalist who shared the good Samaritan act of Perambalur police on social media. As the video went viral, the 56-year-old inspector was appreciated for his humanitarian gesture by the Perambalur police and common public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traffic-cop-lauded-for-giving-pregnant-woman-ride-home/articleshow/75438104.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Patna||Rs 511 crore for Bihar students to buy books: Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma||PATNA: Education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma said on Tuesday that the state government would soon disburse Rs 511 crore in the bank accounts of students of government and government-aided schools for purchasing textbooks under Samagra Shiksha programme. The minister said children in classes I to VIII would get the amount through direct benefit transfer (DBT). About 2.16 crore students are enrolled in state government schools. Verma, who along with education ministers of other states had a videoconference with Union minister of human resource department Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Tuesday, said the state government has started one-hour classes for students of classes IX and X on Doordarshan since April 20. “From May 4, we are going to start classes on Doordarshan for classes VI to VIII. We are also planning to start virtual classes for classes XI and XII. The department is also encouraging the students to use e-contents and study materials provided by the Centre,” he said. “The education department has also provided study materials, e- contents, online books and videos on mobile application ‘Mera School Mera Vidyalaya’. It has been developed with the technical help of United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Bihar. About 6 lakh students are using this app to study at home,” the minister said, while discussing the education scenario in Bihar amid the lockdown. Verma said the state government has already sanctioned and disbursed Rs151.48 crore in the bank accounts of schoolchildren through DBT for midday meal till May 3. “We will continue with the midday meal supply even though the schools are shut due to the lockdown,” he said. During the videoconference, Verma urged the Centre to disburse the backlog funds of 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21 for different schemes and salary of government schoolteachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-511-crore-for-students-to-buy-books-minister/articleshow/75434309.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sushil Kumar Modi seeks ‘aarogya’ wrist band for Covid-19 patients||PATNA: Responding to a suggestion from deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) regarding the supply of Aarogya embedded wrist band (AEWB), Union minister for electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday that soon the users of smart and feature phones would be able to download the Aarogya Setu app (ASA) to know their individual position vis-à-vis coronavirus infection. SuMo, who is also the state’s IT minister, gave his suggestion to Prasad during the latter’s interaction with the IT ministers of various states. Modi said the Centre should provide AEWB which could be tied on the wrists of Covid-19 patients and those in quarantine, so that they could read their body temperature and symptoms of Covid-19 infection and track their movement. He said 38 lakh people in the state had downloaded the ASA, including the maximum 5.62 lakh in Patna and 1.8 lakh from Muzaffarpur. Referring to the IT-enabled steps taken by the state government in the backdrop of coronavirus outbreak, SuMo said migrant Biharis trapped in other states have been provided Rs1,000 each under CM special assistance programme using the geo-fencing technique in which no person living in Bihar or Nepal can click it. While the UP and Jharkhand governments have also shared it, a beneficiary has to furnish his selfie photograph, Aadhaar number and bank account for proper verification of his identity for matching. Conversations between prison inmates and their ‘mulakatis (acquaintances)’ have been enabled through videoconferencing. Further, bank account details and Aadhaar numbers of the 1 crore beneficiaries have also been procured to provide them assistance, Bihar Aapda Sahyog portal was being used to collect Aadhaar numbers and bank account details to prevent duplication of ration cards to be issued to the non-ration card holders, while e-curfew passes were being issued through online mechanism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-seeks-aarogya-wrist-band-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75435248.cms||Abhay Singh
April 29, 2020||Patna||Form teams to combat AES and JE: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said the accredited social health activists (ASHA) and Anganwadi workers concerned should form teams and visit every household in their respective areas, asking the families concerned to immediately send their children showing symptoms of acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) and Japanese Encephalitis (JE) to hospitals for treatment and recovery. The teams should also consist of auxiliary nursing maids (ANMs), Jeevika ‘didis’ and local public representatives, the CM said. The teams doing survey for coronavirus should also inquire about the perceived symptoms of AES and JE among children, Nitish said. Two kids died due to AES atSKMCH since Monday evening. The CM was reviewing the measures taken for the containment and treatment of AES and JE cases in the districts concerned. He said all preparations should be made before opening the paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) and noted that paediatrics wards in other hospitals should be kept ready with doctors and health workers 24x7. The vehicles tagged with villages should also be kept ready to bring symptomatic children to the hospitals and their payments should also be cleared without any delay. Nitish ordered the launch of immunization drive against JE, besides setting up units of viral research diagnostic laboratories. The CM asked the education department to start midday meal scheme in the schools of five most vulnerable blocks of Muzaffarpur district with provision for 200gm of milk and nutritional support diet. Earlier, principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar, making his presentation at the meet, said the 30-bed ward for the AES at SKMCH would become functional from April 30, while the 70 other beds at the 100-bed PICU at Muzaffarpur hospital would also be ready for use by the end of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-form-teams-to-combat-aes-and-je/articleshow/75435227.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Patna||Online classes: Challenges galore for teachers, pupils||PATNA: Several schoolteachers, who are conducting online classes amid the Covid-19 lockdown, have claimed that they are facing multiple challenges. From technical glitches and poor internet connectivity to intrusive parents and unruly students, the list seems endless. Notre Dame Academy chemistry teacher Abha Chaudhary takes almost three hours to shoot a 60-minute video for her students. “Making videos for five different classes every day is no joke. After that, I conduct online classes on the Zoom app and make sure that the students’ queries have been resolved,” she told this newspaper on Tuesday. Litera Valley School teachers are using three online platforms to reach out to every kid. Headmistress Shabnam Bhowmick said, “Our teachers conduct live classes on Zoom, upload videos to YouTube and give assignments on the Snap Homework app. However, the biggest challenge is that most of them are not tech-savvy.” Shabnam also claimed that many teachers had complained about the unruly behaviour of some students during the online classes, but managed to control them. Not just teachers, many students of different city schools also believe that online classes are not their cup of tea. Aditya Sinha of DAV Public School said, “There is no fixed time for the classes and we have to attend them no matter what. Many a time, the internet connectivity is also poor.” St Michael’s High School’s Class XII student Kanishka Verma pointed out that online classes had not been started yet. “We receive assignments on WhatsApp groups where teachers explain different topics using voice recordings. These, however, are not really helpful,” she said and thanked one of her English teachers, who uploads videos to her YouTube channel regularly. Parents, on the other hand, are not happy because of “limited resources”. Agamkuan resident Anand Kumar, a father of two, said, “My kids’ online classes, which are mandatory, begin from 8am and continue till 1pm. Since I have only one laptop and a cellphone, problems occur when I too have to attend official meetings during the same period.” Another parent, Babita Kumari, has to sit next to her daughter, a Class I student, while her online classes are being held. “There are times when the teacher’s voice is inaudible and kids are unable to understand the topic being taught to them. In that case, parents intervene and it gets annoying,” she rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-classes-challenges-galore-for-teachers-pupils/articleshow/75434348.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Condition of Famida Khatun improving||AHMEDABAD: The condition of Famida Khatun, the wife of the late senior Congress councillor Badruddin Shaikh, is improving. She had tested Covid-19 positive and had been admitted to SVP Hospital. “Reports from SVP Hospital indicate that Famida Khatun’s condition is improving,” said Samir Shaikh, the son-in-law of Badruddin Shaikh. “She is at present stable and is on oxygen. She is not on ventilator. Her condition is getting better.” Samir expressed the hope that she will soon be able to leave the hospital. She has not been informed yet about the demise of Badruddin Shaikh on Sunday night. He was admitted to SVP Hospital on April 15. She tested positive two days after he did.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/condition-of-famida-improving/articleshow/75437312.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Surat||Bus ride home costs them 5 times more||SURAT: Home-bound migrants from Surat are willing to spend five times more than the normal fares to travel to the safety of their own sanctuaries. Amit Srivastava, a textile worker from Uttar Pradesh, who has booked a ticket paying Rs2000 to travel to his home district Gonda by a private bus, said the the same travel in ordinary times would have been a meagre Rs 450 by train. “I don’t mind spending five times more to reach home and be with my wife and children. If I survive, I will earn the same amount. Life is crucial and I want to be with my family,” he said. And he isn’t alone as all harassed migrants are seen willing to pay any astronomical sum quoted only in their effort to reach their own states and the warmth of their kin. “About 95% of migrant Odiya workers are travelling in buses for the first time. They have always been going in trains spending Rs 800 to Rs 1,000 but now, such is their desperation to meet their family members, that they are willingly shelling out five times more and paying Rs 3,500 to private bus owners,” said Bhagirath Bahera, vice-president of Surat Odiya Welfare Association (SOWA). Over two lakh migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh and Odisha are expected to move out of the city in the next few days. Official sources said the administration has been flooded with more than 10,000 applications — 1,500 online and 7,500 offline applications — from such migrant workers. “In the next few days, we will be issuing vehicle passes to majority of the applications submitted online and offline to allow migrant workers travel home as early as possible. It takes time in scrutinising the forms and other documents,” said a senior officer in district collector’s office. He further said that the vehicle passes are issued only to workers from UP and Odisha. People from other states will have to wait till their respective state governments approve their entry, he added. Navsari MP, CR Paatil who is coordinating with the district administration told TOI that authorities have been urged to sanction permits in bulk of 50s and 100s so that the workers don’t have to wait for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bus-ride-home-costs-them-5-times-more/articleshow/75436856.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Empty manufacturing plants may lose property cover||MUMBAI: Large manufacturing plants that have fallen silent due to the lockdown risk losing their insurance cover if the Covid-19 induced restrictions get extended beyond May 3. Risk managers are in a panic as insurers have reminded them of a clause whereby the cover ceases if plants are unoccupied for over a month and said that they will give a one-time dispensation and allow coverage until May 3. Normally, if a unit is left unoccupied for a month, the insurance company has the right to reassess the risk. If companies insist on examining every fire policy in force after May 3, there would be uncertainty over coverage if the lockdown extends beyond that date. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThe ‘unoccupied premises’ clause is present in every fire insurance policy. This clause is aimed at ensuring that companies do not leave plants unattended, thereby increasing the risk of loss. However, it did not envisage a lockdown situation. National reinsurer GIC Re had indicated that large plants that are shut will not be automatically covered unless insurers expressly agree. Subsequently, insurers wrote to their clients, stating that the extension of cover from May 3 will be based on further government orders aimed at controlling the Covid-19 outbreak. They also said that extension beyond May 3 would be subject to review. The General Insurance Council on Tuesday clarified, “We do understand that in the current crisis, it might not have been possible for some policyholders to send communication to insurance companies for the continuation of coverage and obtain endorsements. Therefore, it has been decided that a one-time relaxation is given to all policyholders whose property is unoccupied on or after March 25, 2020 till May 3, 2020. Properties of such policyholders shall be deemed to be covered subject to the policy being in force.” More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsInsurance CEOs contacted by TOI did not want to comment as they were awaiting directions form industry regulator Irdai. They pointed out that the policy terms and conditions were approved by the regulator and could not be changed by companies. In a letter to Irdai, Insurance Brokers Association of India president Sanjay Kedia said, “The current period of lockdown should not constitute either unoccupancy or cessation of work or any material change in the risk, which hampers the continuity of cover.” While the council’s clarification gives companies time until May 3, there is still some confusion. The clarification applies only to fire insurance policy, while the clause is present in other package policies as well. Another cause of concern is that insurers have told companies that cover will cease if there is a change in the use of premises. Many companies engaged in the Covid fight have shifted use, with Alcobev companies manufacturing hand sanitisers, textile companies making masks and others making ventilators. One public sector insurer has informed clients that the cover will cease in both cases — if the premises remain unoccupied or even if the premises continue to be operational in violation of the government orders on lockdown. One broker described the situation as bizarre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/empty-plants-may-lose-property-cover/articleshow/75437777.cms||Mayur Shetty
April 29, 2020||Vadodara||Mother, daughter among eight discharged in Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: Walking out of the isolation ward of Anand general hospital five-year-old Trisha Rana, accompanied by her 31-year-old mother Payal Rana, was left pleasantly surprised. The corridor was lined by medical team of the Anand general hospital along with top brass of the district administration who not only cheered them at every step they took towards home, but also gave her a gift. Trisha was overjoyed to receive a packet of chocolates from Anand’s district superintendent of police, Ajit Rajian, who along with Anand district collector R G Gohil had specially remained present to bid six patients goodbye after their recovery from Covid-19. A total of eight patients — six from Anand general hospital and two from Shree Krishna Hospital, Karamsad — were discharged in Anand district on Tuesday. Trisha and her mother were among five patients from Aling crossroads area, the hotspot of Gujarat’s coastal town Khambhat from where majority of positive cases have been recorded in Anand district. From Karamsad hospital, Khambhat’s first Covid patient Ketan Rana and Hadgud village’s first patient Shahid Pathan were also discharged on Tuesday. “So far, 65 positive cases have been recorded in Anand district, of which 48 alone are from Khambhat. But the recovery rate of patients in Anand is also good. With the new patients getting discharged, we have total 25 patients who have been discharged of which 17 from Khambhat have also fully recovered,” said Gohil. The day witnessed addition of one new positive case as a 65-year-old female from Khambhat’s Kadiya pole area tested positive. With this, there are 36 active cases being handled in Anand and are being treated at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mother-daughter-among-eight-discharged-in-anand/articleshow/75434944.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Agra||Agra’s tally of Covid-19 positive cases crosses 400, highest in Uttar Pradesh||AGRA: 15 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Agra on Tuesday, taking the district's tally to 404, highest in the state. Among the new cases, one is related to a pregnant women who had gone for a check-up at a private hospital, two cases are that of the mother and the wife of a tourist guide who was tested positive earlier, one case is related to the wife of businessman who had died last week due to Covid-19. A ward boy of SN Medical College and a personal driver of a government official had tested positive last week. Two of the new positive cases that surfaced on Tuesday are related to them. A dialysis patient of a private centre and two patients of private clinics have also been tested positive. Besides, another vegetable seller tested positive for the virus. Chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the areas around their house and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check-up of all those people." According to the health department, of the 327 cases that have surfaced in Agra, at least 104 cases are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts. Nearly 92 cases are linked to a private hospital located on national highway-2. Another 25 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 58 cases are related to health care workers and their contacts in Agra. Twenty-six cases are linked to people who had overseas travel history and their contacts. Meanwhile, six vegetable sellers, a medicine seller and a milk seller have been tested Covid-19 positive. These people are not aware about their source of infection. “So far, 54 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. All the people who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patient are being screened. The areas in the vicinity of places where the infected people were staying are being sanitized. Fourteen spots have been completely neutralized, and 30 active hotspots are being closely monitored. We are doing massive sampling in these areas to identify all the infected patients and send them to institutional quarantine,” the CMO said. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Firozabad, two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported, including a 72-year-old man who died on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases in the district to 98, according to the administration. According to the health department, the 72-year-old victim had returned from the US in February and he complained of breathlessness only on April 25. “The victim was shifted to a Firozabad hospital on Monday and his sample was collected, but he died later in the day. On Tuesday, his sample was tested positive. As a precautionary measure, we have asked his family members to remain in home quarantine until their samples are examined,” said Firozabad CMO Dr SK Dixit. “The second Covid-19 patient is an 18-year-old youth and hails from Mohalla Nali Ki Pulia, a hotspot. The victim’s case is linked with attendees of Jamaat,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-tally-of-positive-cases-crosses-400-highest-in-state/articleshow/75435926.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hubballi||VIMS, KIMS seek nod for plasma therapy||HUBBALLI: Convalescent plasma therapy reportedly showing positive results on Covid-19 patients in a Delhi hospital has prompted medical institutions in Karnataka to try the same as a treatment in their hospitals. After Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru commenced clinical trials for plasma therapy, Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, (KIMS), Hubballi, and Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Ballari, too have sought ICMR nod to start the trials. KIMS director Dr Ramlingappa Antartani said, “We are conducting 80 to 100 Covid-19 tests per day. As plasma therapy is showing good results on Covid-19 patients in a Delhi hospital, we are planning to begin clinical trials. We have submitted a proposal to the Indian Council of Medical Research seeking permission to begin the trials.” Dr Antartani said KIMS has the facility to provide plasma therapy and will upgrade the same as per requirement. Two Covid-19 patients who were treated at KIMS have agreed to donate their plasma to be used as a treatment option, he added. VIMS in Ballari too has sought permission from ICMR to start clinical trials for plasma therapy, said director Dr B Devanand. “If we get the approval, we will immediately start the trials,” he said, adding that the institute has the technical know-how and infrastructure to carry out plasma therapy. Some districts in North Karnataka are worst hit by Covid-19. The number of positive cases is rising in Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Gadag, Kalaburagi and other districts with every passing day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vims-kims-seek-nod-for-plasma-therapy/articleshow/75435945.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 29, 2020||Business||Amazon to offer credit for grocery, utility bills||BENGALURU: At a time when consumers are facing a liquidity crunch, Amazon India is set to allow purchase of low-ticket size products like grocery & other essentials, and payment of utility bills on credit, a person directly aware of the matter said. Typically, such financing options by e-tailers are reserved for large-ticket size purchases, like consumer electronics, that happen once or twice a year. Amazon has been running a pilot of ‘Amazon Pay Later’ in Bengaluru. It would be rolling this out later this week to more users, where they can choose to pay the full amount of their purchases after one month without any additional interest. Another option would be to convert it into EMIs of up to 12 months. The credit line will depend on a consumer’s purchase history with Amazon. In the case of a customer opting for EMIs, the interest rate would be in the range of 1-1.5% on a monthly basis. Amazon has partnered with Capital Float and Karur Vysya Bank for the pilot, but it is in talks with other banks to ramp this up in the coming months. “We are always looking for ways to improve our customers’ payment experience,” said Amazon Pay India CEO Mahendra Nerurkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-to-offer-credit-for-grocery-utility-bills/articleshow/75437702.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 29, 2020||Surat||Jobless migrant workers turn violent in Surat, 19 held||SURAT: Migrant workers stranded in Surat due to lockdown resorted to violence in two separate incidents reported from Surat Diamond Bourse (SDB) site in Khajod and Dindoli on Tuesday. On Tuesday morning, a group of over 1,000 construction workers barged into the office of SDB and ransacked it. They broke the glass doors and windows and damaged the furniture, computers kept in the officer. The angry workers also damaged the cars and overturned a couple of them, parked outside the site office in Khajod, police said. “The workers were angry as the project developers had brought 40 labourers from outside. The labourers feared that they could get coronavirus infection from the outsiders. They also feared that the new workers would result in their job loss,” said a police officer at Khatodara police station. It was only after senior police officials counselled the workers the situation was brought under control. At least 11 persons have been arrested from the SDB site and booked for rioting. Police said that they were examining CCTV footages to identify the others involved. Meanwhile, the police also registered a separate offence against the SDB project developer for bringing labourers from outside, which is in violation of the lockdown rule. Couple of weeks ago too, the workers at SDB had created ruckus with demand to go to their natives and better food. Over 3,500 workers are employed in the prestigious project, most of whom live at the construction site. The construction work has been suspended since the lockdown. In Dindoli, violence broke out when police tried to disperse a crowd that had gathered at a vegetable market. One person suffered injury while trying to escape from police. People thought that the man was beaten up by cops, so they started pelting stones on police, said a police officer of Dindoli police station. Six persons were arrested for rioting in which one police constable was injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jobless-migrant-workers-turn-violent-in-surat-19-held/articleshow/75436836.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||WhatsApp looks at lending after payments nod||BENGALURU: WhatsApp is looking at lending to its customers in India, according to one of its objectives of operations listed in its memorandum of association (MoA) in a regulatory filing of its local entity last month. The filings of WhatsApp Application Services showed this would potentially be explored through partnerships with banks because it said it won’t undertake any banking business according to the law. The regulatory documents were sourced from Tofler, a business intelligence platform. The development comes as WhatsApp’s payments business is expected to get a green light in the coming months. The Facebook-owned company also entered into a partnership with Reliance Retail last month for an online-to-offline (O2O) commerce play, which is likely to boost usage of WhatsApp Business — a separate app for small merchants. This platform had over a million such users as of last year. The commerce partnership between Jio and WhatsApp has been started in Mumbai suburbs already. “To advance money or give credit on such terms as may seem expedient, and with or without security, to customers and others,” the filing said. Industry sources had told TOI last year that the company had looked at lending “seriously enough”. But it was waiting for a final nod on its payments services on the UPI platform from the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). This would include small loans for the merchants using WhatsApp for their businesses. According to sources, regulators have not received any new communication from WhatsApp following the Reliance and Facebook deal last week. “Things should accelerate now but they (WhatsApp) are yet to achieve 100% data-localisation compliance,” a person aware of the matter said. Before the virus outbreak in India, NPCI was actively thinking of allowing WhatsApp to gradually roll out its payments services to 10 million users, up from its current base of 1 million, as TOI had reported in February. Separately, there is a court proceeding under way in the Supreme Court which challenged WhatsApp’s data-localisation compliance. While the RBI said in November last year that WhatsApp wasn’t compliant, it was expected the central bank would update its stance when the matter was supposed to be heard this month. But the virus outbreak has postponed the same. WhatsApp had submitted a revised proposal to NPCI in January. The filings also showed WhatsApp’s Indian entity has increased its authorised share capital to Rs 1.6 crore from Rs 10 lakh earlier. This is typically an indication of more capital coming into a firm. An email sent to the WhatsApp India spokesperson did not elicit any response on the matter. Globally, tech majors like Google are entering the financial services space by offering customers the ability to check their account balances, while Apple launched a credit card with Goldman Sachs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-looks-at-lending-after-payments-nod/articleshow/75437642.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 29, 2020||Business||Disaster planning top priority for India Inc||MUMBAI: Disaster planning for business continuity and survival has emerged as the top priority for organisations as recovery from Covid-19 is expected to take longer than what was earlier envisaged. In a survey by Executive Access India conducted exclusively for TOI, a majority (65%) of senior executives said they are expected to incorporate such changes for business continuity, while 59% said the way people work will change. The survey was conducted among approximately 200 executives from across industries, 35% of them being CEOs. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesExecutive Access India managing director Ronesh Puri said, “Business continuity and survival appear to be the top most priority. Some organisations had business continuity plans regularly updated, but few anticipated the quantum and magnitude of Covid-19. Working contingency plans for various scenarios seem to be the priority. However, in private, a number of organisations confess that this will be a huge challenge as planners do not know how much will the consumer change and for what duration.” Although respondents were optimistic about the time frame of recovery from the coronavirus crisis, with 35% citing around two quarters and 61% assuming business will be back to normal within three quarters at the most, a fifth believe it might take more than one year. However, a significant majority of 91% respondents said the crisis will have a long-term impact on the way their organisation does business. KPMG India chairman & CEO Arun M Kumar said, “In the immediate term, uncertainty is likely to remain elevated. The economic impact could be broader than anything seen in the past — both globally and in India. The recovery in India is expected to be smoother than some of the other major western economies.” Kumar said there’s interest among businesses in protecting revenues, preserving value and business continuity planning, among other aspects. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsFears about the external economic threats are coupled with the perceived impact of the Covid-19 crisis on the financial performance of the organisation. As many as 73% of the sample estimate an impact of 10-40% on the top line, while 57% estimate an impact of 10-40% on the bottom line. Tarun Rai, chairman & group CEO of Wunderman Thompson, South Asia, said, “In my discussions with many of our clients, the question on people’s minds is whether the recovery will be V-shaped or a longer U-shaped one, and the consensus seems to be on the latter. However, most are hopeful that the year is not lost and we have time to recover in the second half to catch the festive season.” Rai said Covid-19 will have a long-term impact on the way business is conducted. “From de-risking of supply chains to a renewed focus on e-commerce, more automised production…there will certainly be a ‘new normal’ in various aspects of business in the post-Covid world,” Rai said. Additionally, 73% said right-sizing would be the biggest impact of Covid-19 on talent management, according to the survey’s findings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/disaster-planning-top-priority-for-india-inc/articleshow/75437751.cms||Namrata Singh
April 29, 2020||Surat||17, biggest single-day discharge in Surat||SURAT: “I feel like a warrior. I have defeated coronavirus that has killed many innocent people. I thank god that I am not one of them” says Dharmendra Diwakar, 35, a tailor from Maan Darwaja tenament, who was discharged from the COVID care centre at Samras hostel. Diwakar is not alone. For the first time after the Covid-19 outbreak in th ecity, 17 asymptomatic patients were discharged en masse from the Covid care hospital on Tuesday. Diwakar, who stitches the lenghas and cholis at the Kohinoor textile market, had tested positive during the community sampling drive of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) at Maan Darwaja tenement on April 14. “A woman living in the house adjoining mine had tested positive. As the cases from Maan Darwaja tenement increased, we were told to undergo testing at the health centre. I was suffering from mild cough and that my report was positive” says Diwakar, whose wife and two children are at the Covid care centre at Bhatena. Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said the negative results of these 17 people have given a big hope that the city will fight off the pandemic. Another patient, Shabnam Ansari, 29, a nurse with the Lokhat general hospital, who was discharged on Tuesday said, “I thank the almighty Allah who listened to my prayers in this pious month of Ramzan. I had come in the contact of a positive patient, who later died at SMIMER. However, all our staff was quarantined and were tested for the infection.” Deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital), Dr Ashish Naik said, “This is first time that 17 patients have been discharged in a single day. About 195 asymptomatic patients are undergoing treatment at the Covid care hospital. The 17 patients were the first lot discharged from the hospital. All other patients are responding well to the treatment” In all, 34 patients have recovered and discharged in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/17-biggest-single-day-discharge-in-surat/articleshow/75437026.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Looking at ‘repurposing’ drugs, exploring vaccine for Covid: Biocon||MUMBAI: Bengaluru-based biotech major Biocon is working on multiple fronts — therapeutic vaccines, new drugs and ‘repurposing’ medicines — to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. The company, with revenues over Rs 5,600 crore, hopes to “repurpose” its existing novel biologic Itolizumab to treat complications caused by Covid-19, while another drug Cytosorb, used for sepsis treatment, may also help in reducing mortality, its chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said. Biocon, with earlier breakthroughs of affordable oncology therapies including biosimilars of trastuzumab and pegfilgrastim, is exploring opportunities to collaborate with US companies to develop antibody-based therapeutic vaccines through Indian-American oncologist Siddhartha Mukherjee, she told TOI. Excerpts from an exclusive interview: Several pharma companies are using existing drugs to see if they work for Covid-19. Is Biocon “repurposing” drugs from its portfolio?We are working to repurpose our novel monoclonal antibody Itolizumab (used in psoriasis) to treat complications caused by Covid-19 infection. If we can successfully establish the potential role for our molecule in treating Covid-19 complications, it will enable us to address a critical unmet need. In addition, Cytosorb, a product that Biocon has licensed from a US company, has recently been approved by the USFDA for emergency treatment of Covid-19. Cytosorb — introduced in India for sepsis treatment in 2013 — is a safe and well-tolerated innovative therapy for managing cytokine storm in critically-ill patients. We hope that it will help in bringing down mortality in Covid -19 patients as well. Biocon is understood to have partnered noted oncologist Siddhartha Mukherjee for developing Covid-19 drugs. Are these plasma-derived therapies or anti-virals?Through Siddhartha Mukherjee, we are in contact with several US companies developing antibody-based therapeutic vaccines. We want to explore opportunities to collaborate with these US companies to develop these antibody-based vaccines together. There is no formal tie-up as yet. What is the status of test kits which Biocon’s subsidiary Syngene is developing? Are these antibody testing kits or PCR ones?At Syngene, my team is working on developing PCR-based diagnostic as well as a serological antibody testing kits. Serological testing can be used to detect antibodies present in the blood to identify the real number of people in a population who have come in contact with the Covid-19 virus. This test can actually also identify people who may not even have shown any symptoms and recovered. If serologic testing can be done on a large number of people across the country, it would also reveal if India as a country has developed ‘herd immunity’ against the disease, it will give the government a key data matrix to gradually lift curfews\ lockdown from specific areas. Are these developed in the country or imported?We are developing these kits in Bengaluru at Syngene’s R&D where we have high-end research labs and equipment. Will the industry/Biocon see an increase in R&D spends this year due to Covid?The Covid-19 crisis will certainly lead to an increase in R&D spends across the world. Over the last decade or so, non-communicable diseases, and personalised & precision medicine, have cornered the bulk of research dollars. And research in infectious diseases has languished, unfortunately. This will change now. I can see more investments will flow into researching on infectious diseases, and I think India will have a very important role to play in this, given our years of accumulated experience and scientific knowledge in preventing and treating infectious diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/looking-at-repurposing-drugs-exploring-vaccine-for-covid-biocon/articleshow/75437560.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 29, 2020||Patna||Several patients miss chemo, dialysis||PATNA: Many patients are missing their regular dialysis, chemotherapy or other medical treatment due to the lockdown. The condition of those living in interior parts of Bihar is worse. Mahavir Cancer Sansthan is giving chemotherapy treatment to 60 to 65 patients and around 150 radiations daily. However, on normal days, over 200 patients used to get chemotherapy and 300 radiation treatment daily. Hospital superintendent Dr LB Singh said the plunge in such treatment was because many people are unable to reach hospital as there is no public transport available. “At present, 25% patients are fresh admissions, who are either refused treatment at other hospitals or cannot go to Mumbai or other cities. We don’t refuse anyone,” Dr Singh said. A Patna-based cancer patient, whose major operation is scheduled in the first week of May at AIIMS-Delhi, expressed his problem. “I am suffering from metastatic cancer and doctors in Patna advised me to get operated as soon as possible. Since the operation is complicated, I was referred to AIIMS-Delhi in December. However, due to rush over there, I was given May 8 date for my operation. I was told by the hospital administration that I will be informed before operation as I will have to undergo few tests. But I have not got any information from the hospital so far and now my pain has also increased” he said. Many people have also expressed their problem on social media platforms and requested for government help. Tanya Sahay, a health worker at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), tweeted on April 14 about urgent need of chemotherapy for her mother. Tanya said she was the lone care giver and at present was deployed at corona ward and could not reach her mother. Yadunandan Tripathi (72) of Bankmen’s Colony at Chitragupta Nagar has missed his regular check-up for more than a month now. Tripathi, who is a diabetic, used to regularly visit his doctor. “The lab where I used to go for blood test is closed,” said the septuagenarian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/several-patients-miss-chemo-dialysis/articleshow/75434432.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 29, 2020||Patna||Appoint nodal officer for relief work: HC to govt||PATNA: The Patna high court has asked the state government to consider appointing a nodal officer to coordinate with registered civil society organisations and NGOs in order to extend help to the needy during lockdown. The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar also directed the state government to create a website where members of civil societies and NGOs can place requests for extending help to the needy, including orphans, elderly and specially-abled people. It also directed the secretary of Union ministry of home affairs to come up with a reply by April 30 on whether NITI Aayog’s letter for involving civil society organisations and NGOs by state governments was mandatory or just a guideline. Additional solicitor general S D Sanjay appeared for the Centre and additional advocate general P N Shahi for the state government. Shahi pleaded that state has no obligation to follow NITI Aayog’s letter but it relies on its own mechanism under the regulation. The HC passed the order while hearing a PIL filed by advocate Parul Prasad, who had urged the court to ask the state government to involve civil society organisations and NGOs in carrying out relief work. She also pleaded that the state government be directed to make improve facilities at the centres sheltering orphans, elderly and specially-abled people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/appoint-nodal-officer-for-relief-work-hc-to-govt/articleshow/75434524.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Industrialists seek easing of lockdown||Mumbai: Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra (top) on Tuesday suggested a “comprehensive” lifting of lockdown after 49 days. “Research suggests a 49-day lockdown is optimal. If true, then post that duration, I believe the lifting of the lockout should be comprehensive,” he said. “If a ‘calibrated’ lifting of the lockdown means the sequential opening of different parts of the country, then industrial recovery will be painfully slow. In manufacturing, if even one feeder factory is still locked down, then the final product assembly will be stalled,” he said. Industrialist Sajjan Jindal said early measures are needed to prevent the country’s economy from falling into a slumber. “The lockdown has had a positive effect, but it is imperative to also move focus on economic wellbeing, the JSW Group chairman said. “We need to rise now to ensure that the economy does not fall into a slumber that will take huge efforts to awaken. A depression in the economy is also a threat to this nation,” he said in a statement. He added that we need to find ways to work within a ‘new normal’ to bring the economy back to capacity fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/industrialists-seek-easing-of-lockdown/articleshow/75437604.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Amid business talks, UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s model for Covid-19 fight echoes in US||LUCKNOW: While promising to consider shifting of their business base to Uttar Pradesh from the trouble-torn China, US businessmen echoed Yogi government’s success stories in containing the new coronavirus infection in the state. Giving this information, MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh, who held an hour-long webinar with the US-based industries under banner of the United States-India Strategic Partnership Forum on Tuesday evening, told TOI that the US companies sounded very positive on their plan to move out of China and consider UP as their new destination. While the minister along with senior officers, including industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon and principal secretary, MSME and exports, Navneet Sehgal, represented the state, the US side was represented by over 100 companies, including Adobe, Boston Scientific Master Cards and UPS. The webinar was organised by the MSME minister amidst the growing Covid-19 crisis in China. Representatives of the US firms said that they would definitely prefer UP as their next business destination as the state besides having a strong customer base also has adequate skilled manpower and a conducive working atmosphere. The minister said that at the webinar he told the US companies about chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s sector-specific policies mainly in the defence, pharmaceuticals, food processing, electronics and education sectors. “The US investors took a keen interest in setting up academic campuses in UP after they were told about the Private Universities Act of the state and the impressive growth of the private universities during the Yogi regime,” he added. Meanwhile, Sehgal said that the US businessmen also hailed the Yogi government for its fight against Covid-19. They were apprised of the Team-11 which was set up by the CM to check spread of the virus in the state, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amid-biz-talks-yogis-model-for-covid-fight-echoes-in-us/articleshow/75438824.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 29, 2020||Patna||IIT-Patna club members provide ration to poor around Bihta||PATNA: The Bhaktivedanta Club of IIT-Patna has been providing dry ration to the poor people in 10 villages around its Bihta campus during the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. The club, which carries out social work, has 50 volunteers. Meghna, professor-in-charge of public relations at IIT-Patna said: “We initially started grocery distribution among 100 families. As we learnt about more people looking for food, we expanded our area of operation. The club distributes 3kg rice, 1kg of pulses and 1.5kg of potatoes to each family in villages surrounding the IIT campus. After that, many people approached us to distribute essential commodities among the poor in other villages,” she said. Now, the club members, with the help of donations from individuals, are distributing dry ration to 1,500 families in the nearby Raghopur, Allahanpur, Padey Chak, Sohra, Sahwajpur, Dilawarpur, Rampurtola, Amhara and Bihta. Many of the villagers are daily wage workers. They worked as washerwoman, cleaner, sweeper and domestic help around Bihta. Now they are without any means to sustain during the lockdown. “We started this programme to help the unprivileged families of Bihta block. Several IIT-P alumni are helping us in this endeavour and few students and faculty members also contributed for the same,” Megha said. She added: “Every day, I get calls from many people for foodgrains and we immediately try to provide them the necessary help. The requirement is very high and we have limited resources. We also encourage everyone to contribute in this mission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-p-club-members-provide-ration-to-poor-around-bihta/articleshow/75435400.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||RBI extends curbs on Madgaum urban bank||PANAJI: Financial sanctions imposed on The Madgaum urban cooperative bank (TMUCB) have been extended by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for another three months till August 2, said RBI general manager NJ Nampoothiri on Tuesday. The extension of the curbs come just after RBI cancelled the banking license of Mapusa urban co-operative bank of Goa (MUCB). Vice-chairman of TMUCB Rupesh Mahatme said that the Margao-based bank would not meet the same fate of MUCB. He added that a merger between Madgaum Urban and Thane Janata Sahakari Bank (TJSB) is on the cards and talks could work out after the lockdown is lifted. “The Reserve Bank of India is satisfied that in the public interest, it is necessary to extend the period of operation of the directives dated April 16, 2019,” said Nampoothiri. He said that the restrictions on the bank will continue to apply till August 2, subject to review. RBI has not modified its sanctions on the bank, which include a limit on withdrawal by depositors and restriction on fresh loans. “The financial position of our bank is much better than Mapusa urban. We have just 93 staff members which is half of what Mapusa urban had,” said Mahatme. The bank has a customer base of 54,000 but most of the customers can no longer deposit or withdraw funds from their accounts. These depositors will have to wait till the bank merges with another bank or improves its financial position. Sanctions were imposed on Madgaum urban cooperative bank after the bank’s cash reserve ratio fell below RBI’s recommended 9%. RBI’s sanctions limit TMUCB from issuing or renewing loans, making new investments and accepting fresh deposits. The restrictions are expected to be in place for a six-month period following which they are subject to review. Sources said that the merger process, including permissions from the registrar of co-operative societies and the RBI, could take as long as six months. TJSB’s board of directors has yet to meet and give the go-ahead for the merger, said Mahatme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rbi-extends-curbs-on-madgaum-urban-bank/articleshow/75438145.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||All 28 fresh cases are from city & surrounding areas||Kolkata: All the fresh cases reported on Tuesday are from the city and its neighbourhood — Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas — bearing out that there is no let up in the danger at the doorstep. A micro-mapping of the fresh 28 cases shows a total 75% has come from Kolkata, Howrah and North 24 Parganas, said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha. The government has also brought about a change to ensure that people can easily get access to testing lab. “Earlier, these laboratories used to test samples collected and sent by hospitals only. We have changed the system to enable individuals to go to these labs for Covid tests,” the chief secretary said. The health department has taken over Desun Hospital for treatment of Covid patients. The hospital off EM Bypass has 300 beds, including 90 ICU beds. At present, 100 patients are undergoing treatment there. Talks are on with the health department officials on shifting these patients to another hospital. “Once these patients are shifted, we should be able to start taking in Covid patients. We are coordinating with state officials,” said an official at Desun Hospital. Beliaghata ID Hospital, too, is all set to have 20 ICU beds to cater to Covid-positive patients. Even as the state had designated ID Hospital and AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake as referral facilities for patients with high co-morbidities, the ID Hospital had been referring patients needing intensive care to the Salt Lake facility, as it did not have ICU beds for Covid patients. Work on the 20 ICU beds at the state-run hospital is on the verge of completion. Sources said it took time to get these beds ready as the ICU cabins need negative pressure air-conditioning. Earlier, the hospital had increased the number of isolation beds to 82 for patients who do not need ventilation. “PWD officials are giving final touches. We are expecting it to be handed over to us by May 1,” said Anima Haldar, principal, ID&BG Hospital. Kolkata’s neighbouring districts, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas, are also under lens as one or two cases keep coming from these two districts every day, Sinha said. With an eye on asymptomatic carriers, the state has made it mandatory for citizens to wear masks so that mucous or droplets of the Covid nuclei do not splurge on others. The chief secretary also insisted on social distancing. The sunny side of the Covid scene is that Kalimpong has reported no case for the last 26 days while the last Covid case reported from Jalpaiguri was on April 4. The doubling time of Covid cases has also registered a marginal slide from six to nine days even as it is too early to jump to conclusion. The state is still chasing the national average over testing of Covid though it has ramped up trace and tests to a large extent in the last one week. “Test rate in the state is 142 per million. We will catch up the national average within a few days. Testing laboratories, public and private, functioning in the state are 14 with a total capacity of performing 1,400 tests in a day. We have suspended testing in one laboratory which is why our tests per day are 1,180,” Sinha said. The state has also taken note of the problems doctors and paramedical staff are facing on their way to workplace and back home. “There are some glitches in providing transport to frontline health workers in private hospitals. We will take care of them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-28-fresh-cases-are-from-city-surrounding-areas/articleshow/75437333.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Two held for illegal arrack sale after digital payment||Trichy: Bootleggers have come up with innovative ideas to meet the desperate demand for liquor during the lockdown, which left liquor outlets closed. The Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) in Perambalur arrested two men for delivering illicit arrack to customers, for which the payment was received through a digital wallet platform. Police have identified the accused as A Raviraja, 38, of Mangalamedu, and his accomplice S Mutharasan, 32, natives of Mangalamedu and Sengunam in Perambalur district. The PEW personnel headed by ADSP R Rajaram stopped an SUV on suspicion, while inspecting vehicles at Esanai village. PEW recovered six litres of distilled arrack in a can from the vehicle. On questioning, the accused confessed that they had procured the arrack from Kallakurichi district bordering Perambalur. The duo will receive payment for the illicit arrack from people through Google Pay digital wallet. On Monday, the duo procured 10 litres of illicit liquor at the Perambalur district border and sold about four litres for Rs 2,000 a litre. “After receiving the digital payment, the accused will inform the buyer to come at spot for delivering arrack in a plastic bottle. We have confiscated the SUV,” ADSP Rajaram told TOI. Police have registered a case under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and an investigating is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-held-for-illegal-arrack-sale-after-digital-payment/articleshow/75438113.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi government says trials for plasma therapy to go on||NEW DELHI: Trials for plasma therapy will continue in Delhi though the Centre has said it’s not an approved treatment for Covid-19 yet. “Delhi government has already received Centre’s permission for trials. It is conducted only on serious patients and all prescribed procedures are strictly followed before patients undergo it,” said an official. The results will be shared with the Centre once the trials are over, he said. Four patients who underwent plasma therapy recently in a city hospital showed improvement in their health conditions. The Centre has said plasma therapy is a technical work that is at an experimental stage and nobody should try this without its permission, said health minister Satyendar Jain. “The trial has offered a ray of hope and the government is following all laid-down measures. Only some big institutions have the permission to conduct it,” he added. The trial involves extracting plasma from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19. Delhi government has appealed to the recovered people to donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-trials-for-plasma-therapy-to-go-on-in-city/articleshow/75460114.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Quake warning shakes Indians stranded in Japan||New Delhi: Rohini resident Anirudh Mathur has been working on a construction project in Japan for a year now. Mathur was supposed to return home in April — his wife is expecting their second child — but he is not only stranded in Japan, but also horrified by the government warning of an imminent 9 magnitude earthquake and a tsunami thereafter. Like Mathur, hundreds of other Indians are pleading with the Indian ministry of external affairs to be brought home, but there has been little progress on their request. “We are somehow managing with the novel coronavirus pandemic, but the quake forecast has frightened us,” said the 35-year-old structural engineer, already stressed by several tremors these past couple of weeks in the city where he lives. “My wife is tense. I wish I had booked an earlier flight, but now I am trapped.” A Japanese government panel stated this week that a megaquake centred on the Japan Trench and the Kuril Trench in the Pacific Ocean off the north coast of the island country was “imminent” and a tsunami “as high as 30 metres” could hit Hokkaido in northern Japan and Iwate in the northeast if such a quake occurred. Kamal Vijayvargiya, 58, a Jaipur resident, too found himself in Japan at the wrong time. The herbal products businessman reached there on March 18 and was to have left by April 22. But the janata curfew in India meant he couldn’t book a flight. Staying at the home of a client in Japan, he said, “I found all flights booked and then within a day or two airline operations were suspended. We can stay indoors to avoid the coronavirus, but what if an earthquake strikes?” Vijayvargiya has been coordinating efforts to bring together all stranded Indians. “By posting in several groups on social media sites for Indians in Japan, we have already discovered 220 people who want to leave, but there must be hundreds more,” he said. Their attempts at contacting the Indian embassy and MEA have not yielded any results so far. “We have tweeted or sent email to officials hoping one of them listens and arranges an evacuation flight. Some Indians are already seriously ill,” the businessman claimed. More than 13,800 people have been infected by the novel coronavirus in Japan and around 400 have died. Though there is no official lockdown, those with mild symptoms have been instructed to stay home in self-quarantine. Akhilesh Kumar Sharma, 43, noted that if Indians fell sick, admission to hospital would be a problem because they mostly don’t have medical insurance. “Language is a barrier too,” said Sharma, who is in Japan on a three-month contract with a car manufacturer. “Even for buying vegetables, I use sign language. Most people here don’t understand English. And with limited hospital beds, it is unlikely that Indians will be hospitalised.” Sharma’s family of wife and three children live in Indirapuram and are worried sick. “I am almost in depression, helpless about them, but there is nothing I can do,” despaired Sharma. Amit Sharma felt the mental pressure outweighed everything at the moment. “We’re in a foreign land, trying not to catch the virus and there’s the added fear of the earthquake. I barely sleep for four hours each day,” said the Noida resident, requesting the government to evacuate them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/quake-warning-shakes-indians-stranded-in-japan/articleshow/75460686.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Man held for preventing officials from discharging duty gets bail||Madurai: The Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court on Monday granted bail to a man who was arrested for preventing the officials from placing nine fishermen under quarantine at a government hostel in the district. S Pullani, along with 12 others were involved in unlawful assembly by violating the curfew conditions and prevented the government officials from discharging their duty at Pokaranenthal village near Thiruppullani on March 31. The Thiruppullani police had registered a case under sections 188, 147, 341, 353, 269, 270,271, 278 IPC, section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, 51(B) of Disaster Management Act and 58(4) of Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. Pullani who was arrested in the case filed an e-bail application before the court which was heard through video conferencing. The petitioner’s counsel submitted the petitioner is the elected representative of a local body and was falsely implicated in this case due to political motive. Since his earlier bail application was dismissed, the counsel sought to grant bail to Pullani by considering the extreme circumstances. The public prosecutor submitted that the nine Ramanathapuram district fishermen had returned back from Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district. He submitted that when the officials were planning to place these nine fishermen under quarantine in a government hostel at Pokaranenthal on March 31, these 13 people, including the petitioner gathered and prevented the officials from discharging their duty. On perusal of the submissions, the principal district and sessions judge R Shanmugasundaram granted bail to Pullani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-preventing-officials-from-discharging-duty-gets-bail/articleshow/75438108.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 positive cases cross 100 mark in PCMC||PUNE: The total Covid-19 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits breached 100-mark on Tuesday, with 21 more people turning positive in the last two days. The PCMC said about 2,300 samples have been tested in the civic limits so far. The PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the numbers were little worrying, but there were ways to deal with it. “We have to live with it. About 80% of the over 100 patients in PCMC have been fully asymptomatic. So, when things open up in phases, we have to know how to deal with this,” he told an audience of 600 people on Facebook. As many as 120 people were quarantined in the PCMC limits on Tuesday due to which the total number of quarantined people has reached 3,461. Besides, 179 suspected patients were admitted on Tuesday, taking the total count of suspected patients to 2,378 so far. Negative reports of 154 people were received on Tuesday due to which negative samples of a total of 2,102 persons have been received till now. Of the state’s 36 districts, 27 continue to record cases regularly. There are only two districts — Wardha and Gadchiroli — which are completely unaffected and in the green zone, while seven districts have shown improvement, having not added new cases in the last 7 to 28 days or more. The progression time from the state’s seventh and eighth 1,000 cases was just a day, unlike the sixth, fifth and latest (ninth) 1,000s that came in two days and the previous ones that had come in four and six days. For Mumbai, the time taken for the past 1,000 cases was three days. The city continued to see a steep rise in cases. Of 393 reported on Tuesday, the BMC said 102 people who had tested positive in various private labs between April 25 to 26 have been added to the tally. Mumbai’s civic report said that out of the 25 deaths, five had occurred between April 23 and 25. Around 17 patients had comorbidities, an official said. As on Tuesday, 40 Covid-19 patients were critical across hospitals in Mumbai. As per the update from the Union health ministry, two districts -- Chandrapur and Parbhani – have had no cases for 7 days or more now. Two districts -- Sindhudurg and Beed --have had no cases for 14 days or more, and two — Washim and Osmanabad — have had no cases for 21days or more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-positive-cases-cross-100-mark-in-pcmc/articleshow/75438834.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 29, 2020||Agra||100 unidentified people booked for violating lockdown rules||AGRA: Aligarh police on Monday booked 100 unidentified people in the district’s Jangalgadhi area, where residents allegedly violated lockdown rules and came out of their houses for shopping without wearing masks or following social distancing norms. Three people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the area. The action was taken after a video purportedly shot by a resident, clearly showing a large number of people shopping for essentials without following social distancing norms, went viral. Earlier, three members from the same family in Jangalgadhi area had tested positive for novel coronavirus. Abhishek, Aligarh SP (city), said a case was registered after verifying the video. He said all the violators have been booked under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and provisions of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, at Delhi Gate police station. After this incident, district magistrate CB Singh on Tuesday called a meeting of the mayor and city cleric along with other community members to instruct them to appeal in their brethren to follow lockdown rules and maintain social distancing. He told TOI, “I have asked them to spread information at their own level as people are not following the norms and are putting their and the lives of others at risk.” When contacted, Aligarh mayor Mohammad Furkan said, “I and shahar mufti, Khalid Hameed, have decided to appeal through newspapers and have also directed local councillors to visit their respective areas and inform residents about the importance of Covid-19 lockdown." He said this lockdown is necessary not only for the nation and city but for the people and their family members, too. “We will do our best to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown,” he said, adding that many people are not taking it seriously, which could be disastrous for the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/100-unidentified-people-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules/articleshow/75435986.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Robot is frontline medical worker in Pune Cantonment hospital’s Covid-19 ward||PUNE: A robot is hard at work in the Covid-19 ward of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital at Golibar Maidan in Pune. The machine moves from bed to bed serving medicines and food to the 33 patients in the ward. The robot, developed by the Industrial Training Institute, has been deployed by the Pune Cantonment Board. It cuts back on direct contact with the patients, minimising the possibility of the medical staff and frontline workers catching the coronavirus infection. A group of teaching staff from the PCB-run Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar ITI Centre developed the robot with assistance from the cantonment board’s engineering branch. Built at a cost of Rs 5 lakh, the remotely operated robot has a battery and a motor that can work for a day. Chief executive officer of the cantonment board Amit Kumar said, the robot saved at least four to five rounds of their medical staffers who would have had to go to the Covid-19 ward to deliver food, water bottles and medicines. “This is a big relief for our staff,” he said. The ITI staff, who are engineers, procured the material to build the robot from the Pune Municipal Corporation to make printed circuit boards and incorporate a motor and a path finder camera in the robot. “We have mounted a trolley, which has two separate shelves, on the robot. The medical staff put medicines, water bottles and food packets on them. The operator controls the robot with a remote standing at a distance of 50 metre. At present, the operator stands at the entrance of the ward guiding the robot,” Vijay Chavan, principal of the institute, told TOI. The 33 positive patients at the hospital include 32 from the Pune Municipal Corporation limits. One is a cantonment resident. “Around 200 medical staff, including doctors, are working in the ward every day. Their safety is of paramount importance to us as there are many cases in the country where they have got infected. By using robot, we are reducing direct interaction of our staffers with the patients for small tasks thus enhancing their safety,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/robot-is-frontline-medical-worker-in-pune-cantt-hospitals-covid-19-ward/articleshow/75438827.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Agra||Priest found dead in Mathura||AGRA: A 60-year-old temple priest, Gulab Das, was found dead in Mathura’s Aduki village under the Refinery police jurisdiction on Tuesday. A cop also committed suicide by shooting himself in barracks of the Highway police station. According to police, the priest had died after allegedly falling while he had gone to relieve himself around 7 am, as his body was found with facial injuries. He had been associated with the temple as a priest for the past 15 years. Superintendent of police (city) Ashok Kumar Meena said that the postmortem report had revealed that the priest had died due to a cardiac arrest. He said that further investigations are on. Meanwhile, a head constable, Ghanshyam, allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself in the Highway police station’s barrack where he was staying. His body has been sent for the postmortem and his family members have been informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/priest-found-dead-in-mathura/articleshow/75436012.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Three Covid-19 cases reported in AIIMS-Rishikesh, all from non-covid wards||DEHRADUN: In an unprecedented rise, three new positive cases of Covid-19 were reported from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh – the biggest healthcare institution in the state -- in one day, on Tuesday. All the new cases were reported from non-Covid wards of the hospital, including a patient of brain hemorrhage. The hospital administration is planning to quarantine around 70 hospital staffers who have come in contact of the affected patients. With the three new cases, the total number of coronavirus patients reached 54 in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, with one patient getting discharged from a Haridwar hospital on Tuesday, total cured cases have now touched 34. The state currently has 20 active cases. According to the AIIMS-Rishikesh administration, a 56-year-old woman from Nainital, was admitted here on April 22. The hospital authorities said that the patient became symptomatic on April 27 and her samples were thereafter sent for test. "She tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. The patient was suffering from brain hemorrhage since March 2 2020 and was initially admitted to Brijlal hospital in Haldwani. On March 28, she was moved to Vivekanand Hospital and the family has also taken the patient to Rammurthi hospital in Bareilly. She is currently in ICU in AIIMS," informed AIIMS dean hospital affairs, UB Mishra who added that both the hospitals where she was treated initially have mentioned her status to be ‘Covid-19 negative’. Meanwhile, another 26-year-old female staff nurse in General Surgery Ward was found corona virus-positive in AIIMS on Tuesday. She was on duty till April 27. Her roommate and others who she came in contact with in the past 10 days are being tested and quarantined. The third Covid-19-positive case reported at AIIMS Rishikesh on Tuesday was an attendant of a 56-year-old female patient admitted in the hospital with gastric outlet obstruction, in urology ward."We are expecting that the staff nurse must have come in contact with the Nainital woman while the attendant was in Urology department from where one of our staff nurses found to be positive two days ago. All the cases have no travel history," said an official of AIIMS. Meanwhile, panic gripped the medical fraternity of the hospital after two cases of Covid-19 were reported from non-Covid wards. Over 70 doctors, nurses and residents have been ordered to be quarantined in AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-covid-19-cases-reported-in-aiims-rishikesh-all-from-non-covid-wards/articleshow/75436003.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Natives returning from other states under lens in Pudukottai||Trichy: Health officials in Pudukottai district have shifted their focus from foreign returnees and TJ delegates to people, who were working as guest workers, returning to Pudukottai from different parts of the country. Like the guest workers who have come from many states to Tamil Nadu, there have been groups from Pudukottai who were stranded in many parts of the country. Such people are finding novel ways to return home by making arrangements for transportation and even on foot. As they can do potential damage to containment measures in Pudukottai, if they turn out to be carriers of Covid-19, health officials are keenly observing such arrivals into the district. Speaking to TOI, Pudukottai deputy director of health services K V Arjun Kumar said that so far over 30 such people who have entered the district from other states have been screened and they have tested negative. This includes 10 people who returned from Madhya Pradesh a few days back. They took a truck to reach Pudukottai. Steps are being taken to have health workers along with revenue and police personnel stationed at 10 inter-district check posts in the district, he said, adding that such people will be checked for symptoms and shifted to nearby primary health centres. Others will be under strict home quarantine. “The possibility of community spread has been mostly ruled out within the district especially after the contacts of the lone positive case in Pudukottai district were traced and tested negative. Any new infection can only happen with the entry of an infected person, we are trying all options to rule out such possibility,” said Arjun Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/natives-returning-from-other-states-under-lens-in-pudukottai/articleshow/75438120.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||AP to follow guidelines on pre-symptomatic patients||VIJAYAWADA: After the Union health ministry issued guidelines on home isolation for pre-symptomatic or patients with mild Covid-19 symptoms, the state health department has decided to implement the same in AP. The move comes as a relief for pre-symptomatic or mild cases who want to be treated from home. But the facility comes with several caveats. First, the Covid case should be clinically declared as very mild or pre-symptomatic case by treating medical officer. And such cases should have a designated setting at their residence for home isolation and facility for quarantining the family contacts. A 24x7 caregiver is a must for availing the facility. Currently, all suspected (awaiting the test results) and confirmed cases of Covid-19 are being isolated and clinically managed in the hospital setting with an intent of breaking the transmission chain. But as per the new guidelines, a communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the duration of home isolation of patients who opt for the facility. Special chief secretary, medical, health and family welfare, KS Jawahar Reddy, said they will provide asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms the option of home isolation as per the guidelines of the Union government. “We will instruct the district collectors to do so in today’s video conference. If the patient does not have any home isolation facility, they can stay at the Covid care centres under doctor supervision without necessarily being admitted to the Covid treating facility. We are in the process of converting a 300-bed quarantine centre in every district to Covid care centre,” said Jawahar Reddy. The caregiver as well as close contacts should be placed on chemoprophylaxis with hydroxychloroquine as prescribed by the treating medical officer. The patients opting for home isolation should also download Arogya Setu app and keep it active throughout the day. Besides agreeing to self-monitor their health, patients should inform the status of their health to district surveillance officer for follow-up by surveillance teams. The patients are also required to fill in an undertaking on self-isolation. The patient or the caregiver should seek immediate medical attention in case of difficulty in breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, mental confusion or inability to arouse, developing bluish discoloration of lips or face, and/or any other symptoms as advised by the treating medical officer. Home isolation will be discontinued when symptoms are clinically resolved or if the patient is certified to be free of infection by surveillance medical officer after lab testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-to-follow-guidelines-on-pre-symptomatic-patients/articleshow/75435997.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
April 29, 2020||Agra||Boys, 12 & 7, die after multiple hospitals turn them away||Agra/Amritsar: Two minor boys, one suffering from abdominal ailment in Agra and the other with breathing problems in Pathankot, died allegedly after being turned away by multiple hospitals in their respective cities. In both cases, doctors were “reluctant” to touch patients whose Covid-19 status wasn’t known. Nihal Singh, 12, a student of Class V in Agra, was refused admission by six private hospitals, his father said. The boy was undergoing treatment for stomach ache since January. On April 24, after Nihal developed acute pain, his father Lakhan took him to the hospitals but one after the other they all refused to take him. After exhausting all the options, the child was rushed to the government’s SN Medical College. But doctors there allegedly asked Lakhan to take the child to the isolation ward meant for Covid-19 patients. Lakhan, who works in a shoe factory, questioned the doctors over this as his son was suffering from a stomach-related ailment and had no Covid-19 symptoms. He feared that Nihal could, in fact, catch the disease there. “So, the next day, we again took him to a private hospital at Fatehabad road, the sixth one, but doctors there, too, wouldn’t admit him,” he told TOI. “We then approached police and district administration for help. They, in turn, asked us to go right back to SN Medical College,” Nihal’s cousin Pradeep said, adding that Nihal’s condition had deteriorated by then. “Nihal was declared brought dead at the medical college on Saturday morning.” The family has written to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking action against the six nursing homes. They have also demanded FIR against owners of the hospitals. Indian Medical Association’s Agra unit secretary Sanjay Chaturvedi, also a nodal officer of the health team constituted by the UP government, said, “The patient had to be admitted at the Covid-19 quarantine ward as a precautionary measure. But the family refused to do so and took him away without treatment.” Some 700km away in Pathankot, a seven-year-old boy died on Tuesday after doctors in six hospitals, including two government ones, refused to treat him. The child was suffering from serious respiratory problems. Dr Dheeraj Singh, a London-based medical practitioner on a visit to his home town Sujanpur in Pathankot, told TOI that the child was the son of Upinder Joshi, his father’s employee. Joshi had called Dheeraj for help when his son Krishna became very ill. Krishna had some blockage which the UK-based doctor couldn’t examine in detail as he did not have any equipment, including a stethoscope. They rushed him to a nearby hospital but the doctor did not examine the child. Five other hospitals responded exactly the same way. “Though I was trying to revive the child all this time, he needed a specialist’s attention,” Dheeraj said. “He died on his way to yet another hospital.” Pathankot civil surgeon Dr Vinod Sareen denied any negligence on part of the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/boys-12-7-die-after-multiple-hospitals-turn-them-away/articleshow/75436002.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
April 29, 2020||India||Unfair to brand Chinese kits faulty, says embassy||NEW DELHI: After ICMR’s rejection of Chinese rapid test kits, China on Tuesday said it was unfair and irresponsible for “certain individuals” to label Chinese products as faulty and look at issues with “preemptive prejudice”. Recalling statements by the manufacturers that the kits had been validated and approved by ICMR, the embassy here expressed hope that India will respect China’s “goodwill and sincerity” and strengthen communication with relevant Chinese companies “based on facts” to resolve the issue “reasonably”. The controversy over the kits comes hard on the heels of the investment row which saw the government tweaking rules to ensure Chinese FDI into India came through the approval route at a time when many Indian firms seemed vulnerable to hostile takeovers. Chi na had then too strongly objected to the move. However, as the government had said last week, India continues to procure more and more medical equipment from China. The embassy said it attached great importance to the quality of its medical exports and the same kits had been “well recognised” in Europe, Asia and Latin America. ICMR carried out tests using the kits after some states reported that the apparatus was giving divergent results. ICMR concluded that the variations were too large and asked states to return the kits to be sent back to the Chinese firms. The Indian government said no money had been paid for the kits. “We have also learned that there are strict requirements for the storage, transportation and use of Covid-19 antibody rapid test kits. Any operation which is not carried out by professionals in accordance with the product specifications will lead to testing accuracy variations. ICMR also made it clear that rapid antibody test kits should only be used for surveillance purposes,” the embassy spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unfair-to-brand-chinese-kits-faulty-says-embassy/articleshow/75439785.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Agra||Roadways official tests positive, Aligarh tally 23||AGRA: A 54-year-old assistant regional manager (ARM) in UP roadways in Aligarh tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally in the district to 24, including one death. Health officials said the patient had recently returned from his home town, Ghaziabad. While, he has been admitted in hospital, his family members has been quarantined in Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/roadways-official-tests-positive-aligarh-tally-23/articleshow/75436022.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Girl, 16, suffers injuries after her phone explodes||Tiruvarur: A 16-year-old girl in Needamangalam in Tiruvarur district suffered injuries to her face after a mobile phone exploded while she was talking on it. The victim was identified as S Arthi, who was speaking to her father over the mobile phone on Monday evening while simultaneously charging the phone. The phone suddenly exploded causing injuries to her eye, ear, cheeks and hand.  Her family members immediately rushed her to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur where she was treated and discharged on Tuesday. On information Needamangalam police registered a case and conducted an inquiry with the girl. Police said that the girl s was peaking over the phone while it was being charged and that could have caused the mobile phone to explode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girl-16-suffers-injuries-after-her-phone-explodes/articleshow/75438133.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Amaravati||Do not ignore other emergencies: AP CM||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy at a review meet at his camp office on Tuesday directed officials to further strengthen the YSR telemedicine system to help people get relief in cases of emergency. He said officials should explore innovative ways to ensure that medicines prescribed through telemedicine are supplied to patients at their doorstep. The chief minister said the fight against Covid-19 has to be multi-pronged as the government needs to address grievances of all sections. “We should not neglect the medical emergencies of other health complications while focusing on the prime agenda of containing the coronavirus. Take all possible measures to further strengthen the YSR telemedicine, which could be a future solution,” said the chief minister. Special chief secretary (health) KS Jawahar Reddy who participated in the meet via videoconference said the death rate in Covid-19 cases in AP is lower than the national average. The death rate in AP is 2.46% of the total positive cases while the country’s average is 3.19%. Similarly, AP’s Covid-19 positivity rate is among the lowest in the country as AP has so far reported just 1.57% positive cases among all the people screened, while it is 4.13% at the national level, he said. Officials told the chief minister that a majority of positive cases are being reported from containment zones and measures have been taken to further tighten measures in those areas. Nearly 80,334 people have been screened, or 1,504 tests per each million. Jawahar Reddy said laboratories in Srikakulam and Nellore are almost ready and labs are being set up in West Godavari and Vizianagaram districts. “We will have labs in all the 13 districts once these four are ready,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/do-not-ignore-other-emergencies-jagan/articleshow/75436030.cms||Samdani MN
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Monitoring slums a tough task on Raja Dinendra Street||KOLKATA: The 4km stretch along Raja Dinendra Street — from Shyambazar to Rajabazar has become a cause for concern for the civic authorities after at least four Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the area. Raja Dinendra Street cuts across Shyambazar, Maniktala, Garpar Road and Rajabazar, running parallel to Acharya Prafulla Chandra Roy Road. The area along Dinendra Street comprises wards 12, 15, parts of wards 16 and 28. Kolkata Municipal Corporation data shows that Ward 15 has reported three Covid-19 positive cases in past few days. While no case was reported from Ward 28, one person was found positive in Ward 12. The last one to be found Covid-19 positive was from a multi-storied building on Raja Dinendra Street. “There are around six multi-storied housing societies along the road. Residents come out at times to buy groceries that increases the risk,” felt Shukla Bhar, councillor of Ward 15. The area came under scanner when a medical officer of the KMC working in the area was put in home quarantine after he came in contact with a patient, who later tested positive, at a KMC clinic. “A thorough search was initiated in the neighbourhoods and within a few days three more cases were reported from Raja Dinendra Street alone. We have demarcated multiple pockets of the street as containment zones,” said an official with the KMC health department. But the toughest challenge for the officials and the local councillors lies in monitoring slums and keeping the densely populated areas free from infection. “Several members of one family live in rented one-room houses in these areas. There is not enough space for all of them inside the room. Many of them share common toilets. So, it becomes challenging to maintain social-distancing,” said Sadhan Saha, chairman of the Borough I and councillor of Ward 16. “Slums are far behind in maintaining Covid-19 safety guidelines,” Saha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/monitoring-slums-a-tough-task-on-raja-dinendra-st/articleshow/75438132.cms||Rohit Khanna
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Special AC rooms for bodies in hospitals||KOLKATA: Bodies can’t be kept in the same ward where Covid-19 patients are being treated, says the latest health department directive for hospitals dealing with Covid-19 patients. As per the directive, when a patient stops showing signs of life, his body should be immediately removed from the bed in isolation ward, where other Covid patients are being treated. All hospitals handling corona patients must have separate and designated air-conditioned rooms where the body will be kept for four hours before confirmation of death. The directive comes after a video grab showing suspected patients kept in close proximity to dead bodies at MR Bangur Hospital went viral last week. A senior health official was not willing to link the video with the decision. A doctor said private hospitals dealing with Covid-19 cases follow the guidelines, but the transition room is not required. Ajoy Sarkar, clinical director, intensive care unit (ICU), Peerless Hospital, said, “Time and again, every patient may be isolated in the ward by drawing curtains. We can clearly see on monitor that the patient is not coming back. We inform his or her family, clean the body and change clothes. Everything takes two hours or so. The body then is shifted to the mortuary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spl-ac-rooms-for-bodies-in-hospitals/articleshow/75437354.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown, rain make Kolkata’s air cleanest in recorded history||KOLKATA: Long-term lockdown and a downpour pushed all pollutants — PM2.5, PM10, SO2 NO2, CO, benzene and ammonia — below the stringent WHO standard, making city’s air the cleanest in the entire country. It was also the cleanest in Kolkata’s recorded history. Experts said such air quality will help people suffering from heart, lung and kidney ailments in battling the Covid-19 far more effectively. “Lockdown has transformed the air and water quality significantly. Hundreds of emission-controlling measures worth hundreds of crores could not have brought the pollution level down so effectively,” said Subhas Datta, city’s foremost environment crusader. Track the pollution level in your city“Air pollution contributes to co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases and make people vulnerable to Covid-19. The clean air, on the other hand, enables one to fight the pandemic effectively,” said Arun Sharma, professor-director (community medicine), University College of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi. Moreover, a polluted area will have more dust particles that can act as a carrier for the virus. “The cleaning up of air significantly coincides with introduction of BS-VI emission standard. The superior emission technology will reduce the pollution. But at the same time, we have to phase out old polluting vehicles more effectively,” said Prabir Bose, a leading automobile expert. While the lockdown brought down the overall pollution level drastically, Tuesday’s downpour did the rest, cleaning up the air to such an extent that the presence of pollutants in the air was negligible. The lockdown evidently has had an even bigger impact on NO2 levels. “It is now our collective responsibility to maintain the air quality. If we can dot that, we can get rid many of diseases. Otherwise, we would invite more trouble,” said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, environment activist and automobile emission consultant. Ghosh added that people must understand that polluted air can make a pandemic more potent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-rain-make-kolkatas-air-cleanest-in-recorded-history/articleshow/75437347.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 29, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: 35% increase seen in pregnant women seeking ambulances||CHENNAI: With all other transport options shut, ambulances come to the rescue of pregnant women in Tamil Nadu. There has been a significant increase in number of pregnant women transported through 108 ambulances, said M Selva Kumar, state head of operations, GVK-EMRI, which works with the health department to run these vehicles. According to official data, there are 950 odd ambulances available for emergency services across the state. Of this, 120 have been earmarked only for transporting Covid-19 positive and suspected cases. Usually, the 108 service handles about 3,500 emergencies and 700 out of this would be related to road accidents. With travel restrictions in place, road accident calls have dropped to double-digit figures. On fourth week of April, only around 70 road accidents were reported. On the other hand, number of pregnant women opting for ambulances has increased from 20% to 35% now, which roughly translates to around 1,000 cases per day. “This included calls deliveries and regular check-up calls,” Selva kumar of GVK-EMRI added. Some of these patients suffered from acute labour pain on their way to hospitals and deliveries were conducted form them in the ambulances itself. In one such case, a 19-year-old woman, residing at Mottur village near Jawadhu Hills, developed acute labour pain on Sunday late night. Since it was a complete lockdown, the family couldn’t find any vehicle to take her to nearby Primary Health Care (PHC) centre. So they called up 108 and in a matter of few minutes, a vehicle was at her doorstep to take her to nearby government hospital. As the vehicle crossed Kalyanamanthai village, membrane started to rupture. So the technical crew at the ambulance decided to conduct the delivery in the ambulance itself. She delivered a baby boy. Not only such emergencies, 108 is also transporting stoke and dialysis patients to hospitals for regular care, says data. Latha Kumaraswami, managing trustee of Tanker foundation, which runs three dialysis centres in Chennai in association with Greater Chennai Corporation, said that alongside 108 ambulances some good samaritarins help patients in reach their centres. Though there was a slight delay, they have extended a helping hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/35-increase-seen-in-pregnant-women-seeking-ambulances/articleshow/75446522.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 35% increase seen in pregnant women seeking ambulances||CHENNAI: With all other transport options shut, ambulances come to the rescue of pregnant women in Tamil Nadu. There has been a significant increase in number of pregnant women transported through 108 ambulances, said M Selva Kumar, state head of operations, GVK-EMRI, which works with the health department to run these vehicles. According to official data, there are 950 odd ambulances available for emergency services across the state. Of this, 120 have been earmarked only for transporting Covid-19 positive and suspected cases. Usually, the 108 service handles about 3,500 emergencies and 700 out of this would be related to road accidents. With travel restrictions in place, road accident calls have dropped to double-digit figures. On fourth week of April, only around 70 road accidents were reported. On the other hand, number of pregnant women opting for ambulances has increased from 20% to 35% now, which roughly translates to around 1,000 cases per day. “This included calls deliveries and regular check-up calls,” Selva kumar of GVK-EMRI added. Some of these patients suffered from acute labour pain on their way to hospitals and deliveries were conducted form them in the ambulances itself. In one such case, a 19-year-old woman, residing at Mottur village near Jawadhu Hills, developed acute labour pain on Sunday late night. Since it was a complete lockdown, the family couldn’t find any vehicle to take her to nearby Primary Health Care (PHC) centre. So they called up 108 and in a matter of few minutes, a vehicle was at her doorstep to take her to nearby government hospital. As the vehicle crossed Kalyanamanthai village, membrane started to rupture. So the technical crew at the ambulance decided to conduct the delivery in the ambulance itself. She delivered a baby boy. Not only such emergencies, 108 is also transporting stoke and dialysis patients to hospitals for regular care, says data. Latha Kumaraswami, managing trustee of Tanker foundation, which runs three dialysis centres in Chennai in association with Greater Chennai Corporation, said that alongside 108 ambulances some good samaritarins help patients in reach their centres. Though there was a slight delay, they have extended a helping hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/35-increase-seen-in-pregnant-women-seeking-ambulances/articleshow/75438128.cms||Ram Sundaram
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Teachers pitch in with essentials for students||TRICHY: Teachers of three government and government aided schools in Trichy and Thanjavur have come forward to help the families of their students who have been going through difficult times under the lockdown. Most students in these schools are children of daily wage labourers. At the government higher secondary school in Poovalur village, science teacher Satheesh Kumar reached out to 46 families of his students. The school, located about 22 km from Trichy city near Lalgudi, has about 250 students. After coming to know about their hand-to-mouth existence, he decided to offer grocery for a month to around 46 families in five nearby villages. “Students in the primary classes come solely because of the noon meal scheme. The extended lockdown has left many families penniless after managing for the last one month,” he said. His gesture prompted other teachers in his school also to join him in supporting the families. “Some of my teacher friends came to know about it and offered to contribute. We are now tracing families of children to know their needs and help them appropriately,” ,” said Satheesh. Similarly, teachers of RC middle school at Ariyamangalam contributed Rs 7,000 each to get essentials for at least a week for the families of about 100 students. School correspondent A Stanislas said the school had already helped families of 82 students. “Subsequently, all our eight teachers came forward to help the families and essentials worth Rs 56,000 were distributed on Tuesday,” he said. In Thanjavur, teachers of Government Adi Dravidar welfare high school at Manojipatti contributed essential commodities worth Rs 1,000 to every student’s family. A total of 198 students are studying in the school and the parents of most of them are daily wage labourers. “If they don’t go for work, they will have nothing to eat that day, that was their condition,” a teacher said. That was how nine teachers decided to extend a helping hand to these families. They pooled money to mobilize Rs 50,000 with which they arranged 50 bags of essentials, each containing 10 kg rice, one kg dal and spices as well as bathing and washing soaps, altogether worth Rs 1,000. On Tuesday, the teachers handed over the bags to 50 parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teachers-pitch-in-with-essentials-for-students/articleshow/75438140.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||Toddler, 80-yr-old among 28 to head home from hosp||Bhopal: A two-year-old child and an 80-year-old woman, were among 28 discharged from Bhopal hospital, here on Tuesday. Five of the 28 are residents of Itarsi, rest are Bhopalis. The cases of novel coronavirus may be increasing, but the number of people recovering from it is also increasing, said a private hospital doctor. On Tuesday, 28 people were discharged from Chirayu Medical College and Hospital. This is the fifth list of people discharged from the hospital in Bhopal. As of now, 185 people have gone to their homes after being declared recovered of Covid-19. One of them is Sharmila Lodhi. Her husband is an employee in the health department. The husband contracted the infection and transmitted it to his wife and two-year-old daughter Pari. When the three members of the family came to the hospital to be admitted, Sharmila insisted on taking her second daughter Prachi too. The non-Covid-19 daughter was also allowed to meet with the positive mother. While Pari is only 2 years old, Prachi is 9 years old. Sharmila said that when she was admitted to the hospital, the doctors here had explained very strongly that she should not lose heart. “Whenever my courage broke, I used to see the face of both my daughters,” she said. Eighty-year-old Abida Begum is also among the 28 people discharged. Abida Begum’s grandson Hashim said that her grandmother is very fit even at this age, just that she sometimes complains of high blood pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/toddler-80-yr-old-among-28-to-head-home-from-hosp/articleshow/75438141.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Gang chops off rival’s head, takes it to cops in Srirangam||TRICHY: A three-member gang murdered a notorious anti-social at Srirangam here on Tuesday by chopping off his head in front of his 2-year-old daughter. The killers surrendered before police later with the man’s head. The deceased has been identified as Chandra Mohan alias Thalaivetti Chandru, 38, of Drainage Street in Srirangam. He was involved in several criminal cases. The accused were identified as M Saravanan, 35, his brother M Suresh, 30, and their relative A Selvam, 24, of railway block in Srirangam. The gang that came in a car intercepted Chandru who was riding on a two-wheeler with his daughter on a bridge near Devi theatre. They got down from the car and attacked Chandru with sharp weapons, including a machete and sword, but spared his daughter. Chandru murdered over previous enmity: CopsAs Chandru collapsed on the spot, the assailants chopped off his head, went to the Srirangam police station with it and surrendered. Police took them into custody and sent Chandru’s body to the government hospital in Srirangam for postmortem. Police also admitted his daughter to the hospital as she was visibly shaken after the incident. Police said previous enmity was the reason behind the murder. Chandru was involved in several petty crimes in the area and Saravanan and his brothers were at loggerheads with him over minor issues for a long time. “Their previous enmity with each other over petty issues was the motive behind the murder,” police commissioner V Varadharaju told TOI. Chandru was earlier remanded at the Trichy central prison over a criminal case and released on bail on April 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gang-chops-off-rivals-head-takes-it-to-cops-in-srirangam/articleshow/75438148.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown: More than half of Gujarat’s shops remain closed||GANDHINAGAR: Although the state government is yet to carry out an in-depth survey on the adverse impact that the coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown has had on employment, figures from the state labour and employment department suggest that a large majority of the 9.8 lakh shops and establishments which employ 12.70 lakh people, have remained shut during the lockdown. More than a month into the lockdown, the state government, on April 26, granted permission to shops and establishments to function albeit under stringent precautions. However, shops and establishments have not been allowed to open in the four major cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot as they have registered high number of Covid-19 cases. The majority of shops and establishments in the state are in these four cities. Despite the relaxation, around 5.60 lakh shops in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat are still waiting to open. Labour department figures say that there are 6.59 lakh shops and establishments in these four districts, employing between 8.50 lakh and 9 lakh people. Key sources said that these figures are of registered shops and establishments, and and do not include the very large number of small roadside shops. “Temporary and long-term unemployment figures for this section, which is not registered with the government, must also be documented and they must be given some relief,” a source said. Jayendra Tanna, president, Traders’ Federation, said that Gujarat is a state of traders and only about 10% of shops are registered under the Shops and Establishments Act. “About ten lakh shopkeepers are registered under the Act, and all of them have suffered huge losses. Although the government has permitted opening of shops in places other than four big cities, the trader community is still facing huge losses,” he said. He added that if restrictions continue after May 3, shopkeepers will face serious problems and there is a need to announce an economic support package for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-more-than-half-of-states-shops-remain-closed/articleshow/75437364.cms||Kapil Dave
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Garhwal University's online course in academic writing gets awarded||DEHRADUN: The Class Central (a free online course also known as MOOC aggregator from top universities like Stanford, MIT, Harvard, among others) has released the list of 30 best online courses of 2019. Among these best courses, six are from the "Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds" (SWAYAM), an integrated platform for online courses that uses information and communication technology (ICT) for students from school (Class IX to XII) to post-graduate level. “In the list, released by Press Information Bureau (PIB) on April 27, the Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University stood first in online course that teaches academic writing. Last year, the HNB Garhwal University received the highest number of enrollments for their MOOCs (Massive Open Online Course) across the country,” said Ajay Semalty, the in-charge of MOOC at the university and a faculty member of the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences at HNBGU. Apart from HNBHU’s academic writing, Mathematical Economics course from Doon University also bagged the fourth position in the list released by the government on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/garhwal-universitys-online-course-in-academic-writing-gets-awarded/articleshow/75436050.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Varsity chief medical officer offers free service to cops, covid warriors||Mysuru: While several private clinics and nursing homes stopped functioning in Mysuru fearing close contact with coronavirus-infected patients, the chief medical officer of University of Mysore Dr MS Basavaraj not only continues to offer free consultation at the varsity’s health unit, but has also opened doors to the general public. Basavaraj, the chief medical officer (CMO) and the Covid-19 nodal officer of the varsity, did not not shut the clinic for a even a single day after the outbreak was reported, showing the way to fight the pandemic. The varsity’s health unit currently functions without its aged as well as group ‘D’ employees. It has the support of lab technicians and nursing staff. Business as usual continues here with all precautionary measures intact. “Of late, the unit which is mainly for varsity students, employees and retired staff has also opened its door to public owing to prevailing situation due to the pandemic. Few police personnel too visited the clinic and obtained free medical aid previous week,” they said. What inspired Basavaraj to run the health unit is the dedication of hundreds of pourakarmikas in the city who work without adequate safety gear to keep cities clean amid the fight against Covid-19. “They’re tirelessly working to ensure the city is clean. While we the have opportunity to work under some degree of protection by wearing protective gears, they do not,” he said. “On an average, nearly two dozen patients of all age groups visit the clinic everyday as against 80-90 patients before the outbreak. Numbers have come down with the students vacating hostels. However, we have regular patients with diabetes, hyper tension, asthma and cardiac related ailments. We also have a dispensing unit that caters to our monthly requirement,” he added. Recently, 17-year-old twins, both PU students, who visited the clinic with complaints of fever were diagnosed with dengue and were hospitalised following advice. “We are very cautious about patients visiting the clinic with fever and other flu-like symptoms. We don’t allow them to spend much time at the unit either,” he added With the capacity of medical facilities around the country stretched by the surge of Covid-19 patients non-coronavirus patients are finding it difficult seek care. Speaking to TOI, medical superintendent of KR Hospital Dr BL Nanjanjundaswamy said, “The OPD block is completely non-functional at the facility. We are, however, attending emergency cases. OPDs are mostly overcrowded. On an average we receive 1,800 out patients everyday, but now it has come down to around 100. “We’re ensuring services at all Public Health Centres to facilitate public,” said district health officer Dr Venkatesh. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar had recently appealed private medical practitioners to start running clinics to avoid causing inconvenience to patients. Cops may visit varsity clinic Varsity CMO Dr MS Basavaraj has offered free service to police personnel who work round -the-clock to ensure strict implementation of lockdown regulation. IMA urges pvt clinics to function Indian Medical Association Karnataka chapter vice president Dr MS Jayanth has urged its members to run clinics. “However, some have expressed difficulty owing to staff issues and infrastructure. But nevertheless private hospitals have to function as usual and take necessary precautions,” he said. ----- Photo caption University of Mysore chief medical officer Dr MS Basavaraj shows the way to fight novel coronavirus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/varsity-chief-medical-officer-offers-free-service-to-cops-covid-warriors/articleshow/75434705.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goa may see rain in next three days||PANAJI: The India meteorological department (IMD) has forecast light rain and thundershowers in parts of the state from April 29 to May 1. They have attributed the rains to summer showers that are occurring due to the development of a trough in the Arabian Sea. There was an overcast above the Arabian Sea near the South Maharashtra coast on Tuesday. IMD also forecast Indications of a seasonal trough forming on the Karnataka side, which impacts parts of state when in close proximity. “Due to these phenomena, we can expect thundershowers in Goa for three days,” IMD scientist MC Rahul said. Once the clouds are fully formed, the IMD will determine the precise location of the clouds and accordingly issue a nowcast. Since the period from March to May is called the pre-monsoon season, IMD Goa said that the rainfall now can be classified as pre-monsoon showers or summer rains. IMD has forecast that light rain may prevail in the first week of May, however, a clear picture will be visible only next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-may-see-rain-in-next-three-days/articleshow/75438172.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra government arranges special buses, starts sending back migrant workers||AMARAVATI: In a relief to the migrant workers stranded in the state, the government has begun transporting them to their home towns. The public transport department begun plying special buses on Tuesday to ferry them. The state government, however, directed the district collectors to follow Covid-19 protocols before allowing the workers to go home. Only those workers are allowed to return if their present stay and native place both are designated green zones. Most of the workers migrated from Kurnool, Anantapuram, and Prakasam districts to Guntur, Krishna, West and East Godavari districts for agriculture works. Following YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s directive, Covid-19 transport taskforce chairman and principal secretary MT Krishnababu issued detailed guidelines to district collectors and PTD regional managers to take immediate measures to transport workers to their native places. Subsequently, the collectors readied lists of the migrant workers and directed local regional managers of PTD and tahsildars to look into the issue. Once the workers reach their native places, they would not be allowed to go home immediately as they would have to stay at a temporary quarantine unit set up in their native village for 14 days. The Guntur district administration has identified about 30,000 migrant workers of 7,500 families staying in temporary shelters in different mandals and operated special buses from Narasaraopet, Ponnur, Chilakaluripet, Sattenapalle, Mangalagiri and Guntur. “We will transport the workers in a phased manner over the next few days as we can allow only 20 people to travel in one bus with a capacity of 50 in order to maintain social distancing,” said Guntur PTD regional manager Raghava Kumar. He said they have readied nearly 800 special buses to transport the workers to Kurnool and other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-arranges-spl-buses-starts-sending-back-migrant-workers/articleshow/75436074.cms||Samdani MN
April 29, 2020||Trichy||No new Covid-19 cases in central dists for third day||Trichy: The central region of the state remained free of new Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day, and Trichy city emerged with zero positive cases on Tuesday after the recovery of the last three patients in the city limits. For the third straight day, no one tested positive for Covid-19 in the eight districts – Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam districts in the central region. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy has discharged five patients after their complete recovery. Three of them are residents of Trichy city while two others are from Ariyalur district. With this, Trichy city joined the club of Covid-19-free cities. However, the Trichy district has six more patients undergoing treatment at MGMGH. “A couple of patients from Somarasampettai and four patients from Thuvarankurichi are undergoing treatment. They are also likely to be discharged at the earliest,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu told ToI on Tuesday. So far 45 patients have been discharged out of the 51 positive cases in Trichy. While finishing the task of tracing family and secondary contacts, Trichy district administration has shifted its focus to random sampling in the containment zones. Pregnant women and people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like infection (ILI) were tracked for taking samples. Thanjavur also discharged nine patients including four women and five men from the government medical college hospital on Tuesday. The patients included a seven-year-old girl from Ammapettai, four patients from Adhirampattinam and two patients from Vallam. With this, the count of positive cases has dropped to 22 from 51 in Thanjavur. In Karur, seven Covid-19 patients were discharged from the government medical college hospital on Tuesday. Among them, four are from Dindigul and three from Namakkal district. At present, there are 35 Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital which include 11 from Dindigul, eight from Namakkal and one from Karur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-new-covid-19-cases-in-central-dists-for-third-day/articleshow/75438157.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Trio arrested for poisoning peacocks in Pudukottai||Trichy: A farm owner was booked and three of his farmhands were arrested by the forest department for poisoning at least 7 peacocks in Utchani village near Keeranur of Pudukottai district on Tuesday. The arrested are identified as M Arumugam, 62, P Palanivel, 50 and P Rajamani, 60 who were working in the farmland owned by the main accused P Dhanapal, 60. Dhanapal had instructed the trio to poison peacocks that had been damaging their crops. Peacock in India’s national bird and is protected under scheduled I of Wildlife Protection act 1972. Killing of peacocks is prohibited under section 51 of the act which can attract imprisonment up to 7 years and a fine of not less than Rs 10000. The forest department was on Sunday informed about carcases of the peacocks lying near the farmland. When the team reached the spot, they could only find feathers of the peacocks scattered in some places, apart from limbs and bones of the birds. The peacocks were killed over a week ago and were eaten by stray dogs. After carrying out an investigation in the neighbourhood, forest personnel picked up the three farm workers for inquiry. The trio had confessed to have poisoned the peacock by making balls of paddy grains and ground nut laced with poison which were consumed by the birds. They were arrested following their confession. Speaking to TOI, Pudukottai district forest officer, M Anand Kumar said the samples of peacock remains have been sent for forensic analysis to confirm poisoning. A retired district education officer, Dhanapal, is on the run and forest department personnel are on the lookout for him. Forest officials say that he could have poisoned peacocks in the past as well. His father was also accused of killing peacocks a few years back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trio-arrested-for-poisoning-peacocks-in-pudukottai/articleshow/75438164.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Vadodara||Ravi Varma brought goddesses, gods inside people’s homes||VADODARA: Had it not been for Raja Ravi Varma’s ingenuity, gods and goddesses would have been faceless entities to be revered in temples only. And if the master painter did not ‘disrupt’ the prevalent system in the 20th century and made paintings of the deities, lockdown would have been a real trial by fire for the Hindu devouts. Thanks to the visionary painter, today every Hindu household has their own version of the Hindu gods and goddesses where they can offer prayers without having to go to the temples. “Earlier, people had to visit temples to worship or pray to the god. But temples were not accessible to everyone in those times. And so, lithographs of different gods and goddesses produced at Varma’s printing press made it to almost every home in 20th century. Varma changed the way people worshipped. He was a disruptor of that era,” said Sachin Kaluskar, talking to TOI on the eve of his web discourse on the topic, ‘Unfolding the success story of Raja Ravi Varma’ on Wednesday. The webinar has been organized by San Fransisco chapter of ICAI jointly with the Vadodara chapter to celebrate 172nd birthday of the legendary artist. “Varma was commissioned by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of erstwhile Baroda state in late 19th century. It was in this era that he painted Hindu gods and goddesses along with other mythological characters,” Kaluskar said. With the help of Maharaja Sayajirao, Varma set up a printing press at Mumbai in 1894 where mass production of lithographs of gods and goddesses began. “The lithographs were available in different sizes and a variety of paper qualities. Most importantly, they were affordable and hence became very popular,” Kaluskar said. His paintings had lot of drama and his use of vivid colours captured imagination of the contemporary artists in that era.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ravi-varma-brought-goddesses-gods-inside-peoples-homes/articleshow/75434982.cms||Tushar Tere
April 29, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Kitchen gardening on terrace helps beat lockdown anxiety||AGRA: Four years ago, when Vijay Nagar-based Vibha Gupta (65) started gardening on her terrace, growing some vegetables and fruits, her neighbours and relatives were not sure if it was a good idea as the task demanded constant care and labour. However, today amid the corona scare lockdown, Gupta's garden is inspiring others to follow suit and enjoy the fruits of their labour in time of scarcity, “I started it as a hobby, but today, my rooftop garden is the only source of green vegetables and some seasonal fruits for my four-member family. The quality and taste of the home grown vegetables and fruits are way better than those brought from the market. At least, my kitchen is not affected by coronavirus scare or the lockdown,” said Gupta. Like her, Hindi poet Ramesh Muskan and his wife, Renu Sharma, have turned their terrace into a kitchen garden, toiling over it over the past five years. Today, this couple, who lives at their Pushpanjali Garden Estate-based house, hardly buys vegetables for their joint family of 14 members. “Our terrace has seasonal vegetablea round the year. Currently, we have ladyfinger, tomato, spinach, capsicum, broad beans and green onion. Our garden has inspired our neighbours to take up gardening. Today, in these trying times of the lockdown, this hobby has come as a boon to us and our acquaintances," said Ramesh (45). In neighbouring district Firozabad, a railway guard, Amit Pal, posted at Tundla railway station, too, has turned his 1,350 square foot terrace into an organic farm. “Last year, I had grown 5,550 kg of tomato and this year, I have grown 10 quintals of baby corn. All this fetches me good amount of money apart from regular vegetable supply for my kitchen. In my absence, my wife, Rachna Singh, takes care of our terrace garden. I have passed on my skills to at least 150 farmers of Firozabad, which has benefited them during the lockdown.” Prashant Pacheriwala, 40, an Agra-based farming entrepreneur, who takes classes of terrace gardening, said, “The concept is still spreading in Agra and neighbouring districts. A mere outlay of Rs 3,000-Rs 5,000, can help any family to have round-the-year vegetable supply for their respective kitchens. “In terrace farming, we don’t use soil, but organic manure, coco peat, drip irrigation system to grow seasonal vegetables and fruits, which are much better in quality and taste as compared to market products. Amid the lockdown, we have also supplied vegetables and fruits to the local market," said Prashant, who owns 153 acre of farming land and also has a terrace garden at Tanishq Rajshree Estate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kitchen-gardening-helps-beat-lockdown-anxiety/articleshow/75436097.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Gloom and doom across industry, as Uttarakhand body estimates Rs 5,000 crore losses due to lockdown||DEHRADUN: Industries in the state have suffered losses of over Rs 5,000 crore in the ongoing lockdown, as all three components — production, supply and retail — have come to a grinding halt for over a month now, said Pankaj Gupta, president of Industries Association of Uttarakhand (IAU). The IAU has over 1,500 members from a large array of sectors, like manufacturing, hospitality, retail and freight carriers, across the state. “The loss figure of Rs 5,000 crore is based on our assessment, gathered from members spread both in the hills and plains. There is no production barring those in essential commodities, raw material supply has crashed and there are no fresh orders,” said Gupta. The lockdown has not hit private industry alone, but the state government exchequer as well. State finance secretary Amit Negi has estimated the total government revenue loss at Rs 1,500 crore — both tax and non-tax — during the lockdown. On being asked how these losses can be recovered, Negi said, “We will not be able to recover these losses, as it is consumption-based. Only future consumption can fill the revenue lost in the lockdown.” Industry owners and experts said manpower issues and liquidity crisis are likely to crop up in the next three months. “Flow of liquidity in the market has been disrupted due the corona crisis. The effect has started showing on industry. For example, many industrialists are not being able to recover outstanding payments from their clients, who are also affected by the crisis,” said industrialist Rajeev Verma. How to pay salaries over the next three months is another problem staring at industry owners in Uttarakhand. A BPO owner, Ritesh Arora, said, “Industry owners might be having contingency funds to pay rent, salaries and other operational costs for some time, but not for the next six months. Ultimately, the government will have to revive the economy.”  A city-based hotelier, Kanti Kumar, said, “Tourism sector will bear the brunt of the crisis. If there are no tourists, how will hoteliers survive in Uttarakhand? The next three months will be very difficult for the survival of this industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gloom-doom-across-industry-as-state-body-estimates-rs-5000-crore-losses-due-to-lockdown/articleshow/75436107.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Provide midday meal during summer vacation: Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank||DEHRADUN: In a meeting organised via video conference with state education ministers, Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Tuesday directed all the states to ensure that midday meals (MDM) are distributed to students even during summer vacations, via Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode. The ministry has released Rs 957 crore for the same. Before this, the students were not getting MDM during summer vacations. Education minister Arvind Pandey took part in the meeting and informed the HRD minister that classes for government schools are being run on Doordarshan. He also suggested the HRD minister to speak to the telecom companies to strengthened network connectivity in remote hills of Uttarakhand. Pandey also thanked Nishank for releasing four week study material for classes I to VIII which will benefit students to channelise the time and syllabus. The meeting was also attended by the secretary education, R Meenakshi Sundaram who was directed by education minister to ensure that all private schools in four districts -- Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital -- to use NCERT books in curriculum. Action will be taken against schools found hiking fees for the ongoing academic session, the minister added. He has also sought report of officials from the education department who have failed to ensure that schools in their areas only prescribe NCERT books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/provide-midday-meal-during-summer-vacation-nishank/articleshow/75436135.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 29, 2020||Pune||Salunke Vihar Road vendors packed off, residents upset||PUNE: Residents of Salunke Vihar Road in Kondhwa are an annoyed lot after the civic body acted against vegetable vendors who set up stalls by the roadside on Tuesday. Around 11.40am, Pune Municipal Corporation authorities came to the area, crowded with vendors and customers, and confiscated several handcarts. “They have told us not to come here from Wednesday,” a vegetable vendor said. Many residents complained that they now have to walk 2.5km under the hot sun to buy essentials. They accused Pune Municipal Corporation of making their lives more difficult, rather than make them easier. “PMC appears bent on worsening the problems of people who are already in distress. Most of the roads are barricaded — how does PMC expect us to walk such a distance to buy vegetables? The authorities don’t allow us to take vehicles for shopping. Why can’t vendors be allowed in an organized manner?” Prakash Shirodkar, a resident of the area, said. “In other cities, authorities have allowed vendors in different areas and also manage the crowds. But in Pune, the authorities are only increasing the hassles faced by people. They keep talking about making vegetables available at the doorstep but nothing happened,” Samir Lankad, another resident, said. PMC authorities said they had to take action as these vendors were illegal and also that social distancing norms were not being followed. “The road is becoming overcrowded and social distancing norms are not being followed. Similar action has been taken on the Shivarkar Road too,” assistant municipal commissioner Kunjan Jadhav, in charge of the Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward office, told TOI. He said PMC has two designated spots in the area for sale of vegetables and fruits — Nullah Garden Vegetable Market and Shantai Market in Kondhwa Gaonthan area. As the former is shut, he said people could go to Shantai Market to meet their needs. Narayan Lonkar, social worker and husband of Kondhwa corporator Nanda Lonkar, said he would take this matter up with the administration. “I will try to ensure vendors are allowed to do business here as long as the lockdown and curfew remain in force,” he said. Maithali Manakawad, secretary of Wanowrie Residents Association urged the authorities to open the Nullah Park Market “so that people don’t face problems”. The police too took a sympathetic view of the situation. “I will discuss the issue with my superiors and will try to resolve the residents’ problems at the earliest. We can instruct vendors to sell produce on handcarts at housing societies for the time being if a request is made to the police station and PMC ward office,” senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad from the Kondhwa police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salunke-vihar-rd-vendors-packed-off-residents-upset/articleshow/75438169.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19 forces short-term policy to aid tourism||Mysuru: Tourism minister C T Ravi on Tuesday said his department is planning a short-term policy to provide immediate support to the tourism sector which is hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. Ravi said survival and revival are the two major challenges before the ailing industry. “This is an extraordinary situation; so extraordinary measures are required. Our immediate goal is to revive the sector. For that, the Covid-19 tourism policy will be framed,” he told TOI. Ravi admitted that the Mysuru Dasara celebrations could be scaled down if the lockdown continues beyond May 3. “A final decision on the celebrations will be taken after consultation with all the stakeholders, including the chief minister, Mysuru district minister and district administration,” he said. Mysuru Dasara is a major tourist attraction in the state with lakhs visiting the city during the festival season spanning two months. The tourism department wanted to start preparing for the festival in March, but the Covid-10 lockdown poured cold water on its plans. At a video conference on Monday, Ravi said the stakeholders’ requests like tax relief, support for cab drivers, relief from payments including loan instalment are under review. BS Prashanth, honorary president of Mysuru Travels Association, said the government needs to protect the interests of skilled manpower in the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-19-forces-short-term-policy-to-aid-tourism/articleshow/75434753.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civic body to take over 10% beds in private hospitals||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to take over 10% beds in private hospitals to ensure availability as there is an increasing demand for testing and quarantine facilities. The civic body will also look into reserving beds in the intensive care units (ICU) at the private hospitals. In total, the civic body expects to get 900 beds in the general wards and 45 in ICUs. According to PMC officials, the administration is trying to boost the treatment facility in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 patients within the municipal limits. “There are limited civic medical facilities and a majority of them are already full. So we have to make sure that more beds are available when needed. These beds will be reserved for treatment of Covid-19 positive patients,” said a senior PMC official. The officer added that the total capacity of general wards in private hospitals across the city is around 9,000 beds of which 10% will be reserved. The total capacity of ICUs is 450 beds whereas the civic administration will seek 45 beds. The administration has tied up with private hospitals and Covid-19 positive cases are being referred to these hospitals as well. The current availability is around 4,200 beds and 150 ICU beds in total. The beds will be categorized into mild symptoms, medium symptoms and serious on the basis of the need and severity of infection. The civic administration has developed 25 Covid-19 centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-take-over-10-beds-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/75438165.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Enforcing lockdown, four cops injured in clash||HOWRAH: Allegations of police assaulting a middle-aged woman turned Howrah’s Tikiapara into a battlefield with a mob of over 200 locals clashing with police for about an hour from 4.45pm on Tuesday. Four cops were injured, two police vehicles damaged and the Tikiapara police outpost was vandalised as the mob threw bricks. The situation was brought under control after RAF personnel were deployed. The epicentre of trouble were Belilious Road and East-West Bypass. Howrah City Police Commissioner Kunal Agarwal said trouble broke out when cops pointed out that a large crowd was out on the road with no one wearing masks. No one has been arrested till reports last came in, but police were raiding multiple places. Provisions of the disaster management Act will be invoked, said police. The congested area is under total lockdown. So, crowding and moving about without masks will not be allowed, loudspeaker messages said later in the evening. Locals alleged that the woman had stepped out of her home to buy fruits. When cops explained to her that she should remain indoors, the woman began arguing with cops. Soon, locals came forward in support of her and an altercation began. Locals alleged that police assaulted the woman and attacked cops. Police allegedly lathicharged the crowd of some 30 people who were outdoors in the Covid containment zone. Soon, people across Tikiapara rushed out of their houses and started hurling bricks and stones at police. Initially, policemen were seen retreating to save themselves from the fury of the assembled mob of over 200. Some officers started appealing to the crowd to maintain peace. They also appealed to people to go back to their homes. Cops also asked people to call the special control room and place orders for food and fruits. The mob, however, refused to relent and continued hurling bricks at police. However, amid this violent attack, some locals were seen coming to the aid of policemen. They lifted injured policemen and rescued them to safety. Some religious leaders appealed to people to stop attacking police. Soon, RAF personnel were deployed and chased the crowd. Seeing RAF men, people ran for cover and the situation started returning to normal. Trinamool leader Md Selim alleged, “Locals and police have been having verbal duels for the last few days. Locals were demanding that police allow fruit and vegetable traders to sit along Belilious Road in the afternoon.” Agarwal rushed to Tikiapara when news reached him that the Tikiapara police outpost had been vandalised. “We are talking to locals. A large number of people have come forward to help out in this time of crisis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/enforcing-lockdown-4-cops-injured-in-clash/articleshow/75437395.cms||Rupak Banerjee
April 29, 2020||Amaravati||Fee reimbursement scheme to benefit 14 lakh in Andhra||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday launched Jagananna Vidya Deevena, which provides full fees reimbursement. The scheme is set to benefit about 14 lakh students in the state. The chief minister interacted with a few students and mothers via video-conference after launching the new scheme. He released Rs 4,000 crore, which includes Rs 2,120 crore as reimbursement for 2019-20 academic year and Rs 1,880 crore dues of the previous TDP government, to educational institutions. The state government has decided to remit the fee-reimbursement amounts directly to the bank accounts of mothers from the upcoming academic year. Speaking after the launch, the chief minister said education is the only asset they can offer to future generations. He said no child should be left out without education in the state. The chief minister noted that an educated child can transform the economy of an entire family. Jaganmohan Reddy said they would be extending full fee reimbursement to about 14 lakh students across the state and remit Rs 20,000 to each student for food and accommodation costs under Jagannana Vasathi Deevana scheme. “Education and health are at the top of our agenda. No family will be allowed to fall into a debt trap for the sake of education and health,” the chief minister assured. He said they have decided to release funds for fee-reimbursement and public welfare despite facing financial constraints due to the pandemic. “Money under Jagananna Vidya Deevena will be directly credited into the accounts of the mothers of the students in four installments every year. If parents pay the fees, it will give them a say in the management of the institution, including the studies of their child and infrastructure,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/fee-reimbursement-scheme-to-benefit-14l/articleshow/75436124.cms||Samdani MN
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Top cops to lead operations in new red zones in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After Kottayam and Idukki were classified as hotspots on Monday, government deputed ADGP (coastal security) K Padmakumar to coordinate various lockdown measures in both districts. “Lockdown will be strictly enforced. Borders will be sealed in Idukki through joint patrolling with forest authorities. Hotspots have been cordoned off and entry and exit will be allowed via a single point. Essentials will be delivered at doorsteps in hotspots. Adequate police personnel have been mobilized and we are fully alert,” he said. Government also appointed IG (south zone) Harshitha Attalluri to Idukki to supervise the activities of police, especially to seal the porous border with Tamil Nadu. Government has also appointed Vaibhav Saxena, who is the commandant of Kerala armed police battalion-1 as the special officer for Idukki and R Vishwanath, commandant of Kerala armed police battalion-5 as the special officer for Kottayam. Special officers will work under Padmakumar to coordinate police bandobast in both districts along with respective district police chiefs.  Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha have sealed borders with Idukki and Kottayam, respectively. Except the movement of essential goods and medical services, movement of people across the border from Kottayam and Idukki to these districts will not be allowed. Relaxation reason behind spike in cases, says doc  No fresh cases were reported from Kottayam and Idukki, which together has 31 covid-19 cases currently. However, confusion prevailed over three new cases in Idukki. Though on Tuesday morning, Idukki collector said three people were confirmed with Covid-19, the chief minister, in his press conference in the evening, said those cases were yet to be confirmed. Dr Sajith Kumar R, head of the department, infectious diseases, Kottayam Medical College said the situation was not worrisome and it has not reached an epidemic stage. “The relaxation that came in the middle of the lockdown in Kottayam and Idukki districts could be one of the reasons for the spike in the cases,” he said. He also ruled out local spread of the virus. Each one have come from various places. The mother of a nurse and those who had come into contact with a head load worker in the market were the ones who got infected, he said. Going by numbers, it may appear alarming but it has not reached a serious epidemic stage, he added. None of the patients are serious and they all have mild symptoms only, Kumar said. Following the surge in the number of cases, the administration is prioritizing testing of more people. Apart from the four sample collection centres, six mobile collection centres are also functioning. Those who have come in contact with the Covid patients, pregnant women, health workers and elderly people are being given priority. Entry into and exit from the district have been banned. Strict vigil is being maintained in the 14 check posts in Kottayam district. No testing facility in IdukkiPeople of Idukki are currently being tested at Thalappady in Kottayam district. Authorities are planning to send samples to Ernakulam and Alappuzha as well as the number of suspected cases are rising. Power minister M M Mani said the district has no facility for installing the machine used for testing Covid-19. It will take a minimum of one month to make a new one operational, he said. (With inputs from Kottayam bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/top-cops-to-lead-ops-in-new-red-zones/articleshow/75434754.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||PCMC chief starts talk show on living with coronavirus||PUNE: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar has taken to the social media to talk on the topic of “living with coronavirus” as many places in the city are slowly opening up. In the first of the five talk shows planned by him on Facebook, Hardikar on Tuesday gave out statistics on how the growth rate has been across the township since the first case on March 11, 2020. The show was viewed by about 600 people. He said when things opened up, it would be imperative for people to behave differently to beat the virus. “It is not that the virus will disappear when the lockdown opens. We have to learn to live with it,” Hardikar said, adding, “The city has successfully managed to navigate similar threats, like the swine flu.” The positive cases in areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) limits surpassed 100 on Tuesday. The commissioner said over 80 of them were “completely asymptomatic” and signed an order extending the hours of business in the city’s non-hotspot zones. Except for 16 containment zones, the commissioner said vegetable and grocery stores would remain open from 10am to 4pm. This is an extension of two hours over the previous version. In the containment zones, the shops will be open for two hours, from 10am to noon. “We have to focus on how our habits have to change when the industries and markets open. All of us are slaves to our habits,” Hardikar said, citing how he has personally given up his habit of biting nails following the Covid-19 outbreak. Positive Covid-19 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad doubled in 11 days and one in every 23 people tested was found infected. “Though eight among 10 patients are asymptomatic, the problem is with them being carriers who can affect other people,” the commissioner said. Hardikar said the subsequent sessions woud focus on social distancing and hand hygiene during the time when various sectors started opening up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-chief-starts-talk-show-on-living-with-coronavirus/articleshow/75438178.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
April 29, 2020||Agra||In attempt to flee ‘quarantine centre with no facilities’, inmates force open gate, caught after search operation||AGRA: A group of about 12 people in a quarantine centre in Agra forced open the gate of the facility on Tuesday in a desperate bid to escape and allegedly misbehaved with doctors on duty. The district administration has launched a probe into the matter even as a video of the incident was widely circulated on social media. Officials said there was chaos in the centre located on the National Highway-2 on Tuesday morning when inmates forced open the gate and managed to reach an open field nearby. A search operation was launched as soon as police and district officials reached the centre. The officials said all those who fled were caught and sent to their rooms. Chief development officer (CDO) J Reebha said officials at the quarantine centre assisted in the search. Officials said one of the inmates snatched a doctor’s phone and others verbally abused them. The inmates were alleging lack of arrangements at the facility, sources said. On Monday, a video purportedly showing poor and unhygienic conditions at the same quarantine centre had appeared on social media. The district administration had recommended that the state government suspend the block development officer (BDO), in charge of maintenance and operations of the centre. The quarantine centre is a private college with the capacity to house 600 people. At present, 117 people have been quarantined there. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Those who tried to escape are being identified. Suitable action will be taken against those who misbehaved with the staffers on duty.” Singh denied that the facility lacked proper arrangements. “Adequate arrangements of food, water and toilets have been made at the centre. Some people quarantined at the centre want to go home, they are the ones causing a disturbance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-attempt-to-flee-quarantine-centre-with-no-facilities-inmates-force-open-gate-caught-after-search-op/articleshow/75436138.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand seeks special relief package from MORTH||DEHRADUN: In wake of heavy financial losses, the Uttarakhand government has requested a special package from the ministry of road transport and highways on Tuesday. Minister for MORTH Nitin Gadkari and minister of state MORTH Gen V K Singh held a video conference with state urban development minister Madan Kaushik and transport minister Yashpal Arya to gauge the present situation in Uttarakhand arising after Covid-19. Kaushik said, "We informed them that with the limited resources, we have started the highway and other construction projects. We, however, raised three requests before them as they were crucial to speed up work." Kaushik added that the first permission was sought to bring back the skilled labourers, who were working in different projects and in wake of Covid-19 scare had returned to their native state. "They are extremely important for the project, therefore we have requested a special permission to bring them back," he added. The second permission was for purchase and availability of raw material like iron, steel and cement. "We have given permission for mining but that will not be all as there is a shortage of iron, steel and cement for major projects like All Weather Road and other highway works," said Kaushik. The Uttarakhand government in its third request has sought a special package from the Centre for transport employees and other works. "Despite the heavy financial losses, we have to pay the salaries and focus on other projects, therefore we have sought a special package from the transport ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhandseeks-special-relief-package-from-morth/articleshow/75436147.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 29, 2020||Pune||GRP staffer among 3 held for attacking constable in Pune||PUNE: The Wakad police on Tuesday arrested three men, including a constable attached to the Government Railway Police (GRP), on the charge of attacking a police constable on duty in Kalewadi on Monday evening. Police have identified the accused as Yunus Attar (50) and his sons Matin (28)—the GRP constable—and Moin (24). The injured, Shankar Kalkute, has lodged an FIR with the Wakad police. The incident occurred when Kalkute saw Yunus loitering in violation of the lockdown and told him to go home. “Yunus got aggressive and told Kalkute that his sons were part of the police department. His two sons reached the spot some time later,” a police officer said. “Matin snatched Kalkute’s baton and hit him, while Moin kicked him,” the officer added. A video clip of the incident was circulated on social media. The police arrested the trio late on Monday night and charged them under IPC sections 353, 188, 269, 270, 353 and 332 and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. The suspects were produced before the court on Tuesday and were remanded in police custody for a day. Senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police said the police were on anti-encroahment duty with civic officials at Shri Krishna Colony in Kalewadi on Monday evening, when Kalkute, attached to the anti-encroachment squad, noticed a few men loitering at Bharatmata Chowk and told them to go home. “Yunus Attar was one of them,” Mugalikar said. The officer said that Kalkute stated the trio also threatened to kill him. Assistant inspector of police Harish Mane said Matin had joined the GRP, Pune in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grp-staffer-among-3-held-for-attacking-constable/articleshow/75438175.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||With exports on hold, tuna catch sees a dip||PANAJI: Though the government is allowing transportation of essential commodities into the state during the lockdown, the catch of lesser consumed fish in Goa, like tuna, which is usually exported to Kerala, is seeing a decline. “What mackerel is to Goans, tuna is to Keralites,” said Sebastiao Cardozo, general secretary of the all Goa purse seine boat owners’ association. “The market is really bad. We cannot sell even 1,000 kgs of fish a day, like we used to prior to the lockdown. Fishermen are therefore limiting their activities to a few nautical miles only,” he said. Deep sea fishing nets tuna, horse mackerel, catfish and other varieties that are not commonly consumed in Goa. The markets in Kerala have not opened fully as yet and hence the demand for fish exported from Goa is less. The less demand from vendors has translated into a lowered price to suppliers. “Fishermen, therefore avoid going into deep seas except for a few operating on a no-profit-no-loss model. Currently, we are getting only 60-65% of the pre-lockdown price for the exported fish,” said purse seine boat owner Harshad Dhond. Catching the fish available in shallow waters like mackerel, kingfish, squids and others consumed in Goa is not a profitable venture for big boat owners. “We spend on diesel, ration for the crew and ice for the fish so they can sustain the journey. Taking such a big infrastructure into shallow waters to catch fish for local consumption is not economically viable,” Dhond added. Export fish landings in the state’s fishing jetties have been on the rise over the past few years, with tuna accounting for maximum landings. A total of 8,861 tonnes of fish was unloaded in 2018, a massive jump from 1,368 tonnes in 2014, according to data from the directorate of fisheries. About 10 tonnes tuna still arrives at the Malim jetty every day. With the foreign export trade shut due to the lockdown, the fish is now only being supplied to Kerala. “There is a lot of fish in the sea but we are not venturing deep enough due these issues. A prolonged disruption in this trade will affect livelihoods and income of such fishermen who bank of the sale of local tuna,” Francisco Fernandes, director of the Mandovi fishermen cooperative society limited said. The export fish cargoes delivered from the city must be loaded on insulated trucks in the night to ensure the freshness of the commodity. Boat owners said that there are constant checks at the Kerala checkpost to ensure the hygiene and freshness standards. FDA and health officers in Kerala are keeping a check on the quality of the exported fish in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, owners said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-exports-on-hold-tuna-catch-sees-a-dip/articleshow/75438201.cms||Nida Sayed
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Advocates with less than 5 years of practise to get up to Rs 5,000 relief||NAINITAL: The state government on Tuesday informed the Uttarakhand high court that it has released money for the welfare of advocates while the advocate general said that the Advocate Welfare Trust Committee has set up a mechanism to provide financial assistance to lawyers in the state. The submissions were made before the bench of Justice Manoj Tiwari and Justice Sharad Sharma on Tuesday while they were hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by a group of lawyers. The PIL has demanded that the lawyers should be given Rs 10000 by the Bar Council of Uttarakhand and Bar Council of India as relief measure during the Coronavirus pandemic crisis since it has led to a temporary suspension of the all the court work except the emergency proceedings. The petition, among many other suggestions, has also asked the court to issue directions regarding payment of Rs 5000 to the lawyers’ clerks. While written order by the court was still awaited at the time of the filing of the report, Kartikey Hari Gupta, the counsel appearing for the petitioners told TOI that the government and the advocate general have said that the financial assistance will be given to all the advocates who have been registered with the Bar for a period not exceeding five years. "A maximum amount of Rs 5000 will be paid to the advocates who sign up for the financial assistance. The Advocate Welfare Fund Trustee Committee has said that it has prepared which will soon be given to the several bars across the state," Gupta said. Gupta added that the money will be disbursed by the Bar Council of Uttarakhand to the lawyers. "The state government as well as the Trustee Committee has sent the money to the Bar Council. The council also has money and it will be disbursed accordingly," Gupta said. Though the number of advocates having less than five years of practice is not known, there are around 16000 lawyers registered with the Uttarkhand Bar Council. "The HC has further observed that most needy advocates may be helped by framing a scheme in the time bound manner. All the advocates are thankful to the HC for showing concern to their welfare," Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/advocates-with-less-than-5-years-of-practise-to-get-up-o-rs-5000-relief/articleshow/75436177.cms||Prashant Jha
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Nine test positive in Rajkot||Rajkot: Nine persons tested positive in Rajkot on Tuesday. All had come in contact with persons who have been infected with the Covid-19 virus earlier and are under treatment. According to district health department, a 55-year-old woman and 15-year-old boy tested positive on Monday night, while seven others tested positive on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nine-test-positive-in-rajkot/articleshow/75436169.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: To free up hospitals, experts advise home isolation for people with mild symptoms||KOLKATA: Don’t rush to a Covid-designated hospital in panic at the slightest hint of sore throat or fever. Instead, remain in home isolation and ask a relatively young family member with no major ailments to monitor the person’s health. Seek immediate medical attention if the signs and symptoms become serious, health experts said, seconding the message that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had sent during the evening briefing at Nabanna on Monday. “Family members who are the primary caregivers of a Covid suspect must look out for serious signs or symptoms like difficulty in breathing, persistent pain or pressure in chest, muscle pain, mental confusion, bluish discoloration of lips and face, low urine output, or diarrhoea. Any one or more of these symptoms will require immediate medical attention. It would be advisable to quickly transfer the patient from home to a hospital,” said Debashish Saha, a consultant at AMRI Hospitals. While all suspected cases with Covid-like symptoms and either yet to be tested or awaiting test results were required to be kept in institutional quarantine facilities like the Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in New Town, those who tested positive for Covid-19 had to be admitted to the designated hospitals. A steady rise in fresh positive cases and exponential increase in suspects started straining the available facilities. This has led to the Centre realigning the strategy and calling for very mild or pre-symptomatic patients to go in for self-isolation if there is space available at the person’s home. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, on Tuesday, clarified that the state’s advisory, issued on Monday, referred to home quarantine for primary and secondary contacts of Covid positive cases and not home isolation of mild or asymptomatic cases mentioned in the Centre’s guidelines that were issued on Tuesday. “The state health department issued a circular at 10.30pm on Monday, making it mandatory for Covid-positive patients to take admission in designated hospitals. The state is not shirking its responsibility of treating Covid patients when there are 7,000-odd hospital beds available,” said the chief secretary. As per the global evidence, 80% Covid cases are mild and the remaining 20% may develop complications requiring hospitalisation. Out of the hospitalized Covid-19 cases, only 5% may require ICU care. If a section of the 80% Covid cases gets treatment through home isolation, it will free up the healthcare facilities for those with moderate or severe conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/to-free-up-hospitals-experts-advise-home-isolation-for-people-with-mild-symptoms/articleshow/75437417.cms||Subhro Niyogi
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Baga House offers rooms for quarantine||SALIGAO: The Goa Province of the Society of Jesus has decided to provide their rooms free as quarantine centres for seafarers returning to Goa. In this regard, the provincial of Jesuits Goa Province, Fr Roland Coelho, SJ, has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant over the availability of the Xavier Retreat House at Baga and the Pedro Arrupe Institute at Raia to quarantine seafarers. Fr Jovito D’Souza from the Xavier Retreat House at Baga said they have also handed over a letter to ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo regarding the availability of the retreat house, which is on the hillock at Baga. “We have a 30-room facility which is not self-contained, but the Pedro Arrupe Institute at Raia has 35 self-contained rooms. The government has informed us that they will be coming to check the site,” said D’Souza told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/baga-house-offers-rooms-for-quarantine/articleshow/75438189.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Haat closure blow to tribal economy||Koraput: The closure of weekly haats because of the lockdown has taken a toll on tribal economy. The haats sit at a particular place at intervals of seven days and offer tribal farmers and traders business. The products sold are earthy, essential to rural living and comprise items such as rice, mahua flowers, vegetables, tobacco, various forest produce and a few factory products. “I used to sell vegetables grown on my field at the haat. Now, I have no option of selling them as I can’t travel to any urban area because of the lockdown,” said Mangala Kirsani of Baligaon under Boipariguda block in Koraput. Official data says the district hosts about 200 haats a week. While Ramagiri and Boipariguda haats are famous for bamboo products and rare forest produce, Kunduli haat of Pottangi block is known for vegetable trade. Truckloads of vegetables are sent from the haat to Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. The Jeypore haat, which sits every Tuesday, is famous for cattle trade. And if you are a music lover, the haat of Kakrigumma under Laxmipur block, which sits every Monday, offers traditional drums and other tribal musical items for purchase. “The closure of the haats has virtually left us jobless. We use to earn by selling bamboo items at Ramagiri and Boipariguda haats, but we don’t know what to do now,” said Sabar Kirsani of Ramagiri. A tribal researcher said the haat was not only a marketplace, it provides a peek into the socio-cultural life of tribal communities. “Tribals use the haat as a meeting place,” said Chakrapani Paricha, a Koraput-based poet. In Rayagada, too, tribals depend on the collection and sale of minor forest produce. They collect tamarind, hill brooms, mahua seeds, sal seeds from the forests and sell them at the haats. “During the tamarind season that lasts from March to May, I used to earn around Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000. The lockdown has spelt doom for me,” said Tirupati Puala of Lumbesu village under Rayagada block. There is huge demand for tamarind from Rayagada district. Tribals sell it for Rs 42 to Rs 45 per kg against the government’s fixed MSP of Rs 31 a kg. Official sources said every year tribals sell around 10,000 quintal of tamarind and 2,000 quintal of mahua seeds. The MSP of mahua seeds has been fixed at Rs 25 per kg by the government. Branch manager of Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation of Odisha Ltd, Rayagada, Ashok Kumar Patra, said, “We plan to procure forest produce from them at MSP through women’s self-help groups under the Van Dhan Vikas Yojana but after the lockdown ends,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/haat-closure-blow-to-tribal-economy/articleshow/75434779.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||HC: Govt reply on virus spread via papers ‘general statement’||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Monday took exception to the reply filed by the government expressing apprehension about the spread of the coronavirus through newspapers.While posting the next date of hearing on the suo motu petition to June 11, Justice Prasanna Varale of the bench observed, “It seems that this is only a general and sweeping statement made in the affidavit in reply. There is no reference to any comment of the experts in the field or any opinion formed by anybody working in the health area.”On April 20, the bench had questioned the state government for prohibiting the delivery of newspapers and magazines to homes. It had asked the government to file its reply.Justice Varale said, “On the contrary, the statements of certain experts published in the newspapers are to the effect that there is no need to carry an impression that the newspaper is a medium for spreading of coronavirus. ‘’He said, “At the cost of repetition, I may state that in the order dated April 20, 2020, this court specifically observed that the state government, having regard to the spread of coronavirus, can certainly consider restricting door-to-door delivery of newspapers in particular areas. No reason or data is coming forth to provide a logical explanation to the addendum order dated April 18, 2020, whereby blanket ban was imposed on door-to-door delivery.’’Justice Varale also pointed to newspaper reports that suggested “that in the lockdown period, not only the readership of newspapers has increased but the average time spent on reading newspapers has also increased. The general public is interested in knowing latest updates and information through newspapers.”The court conducted its hearing through video conferencing.Para 9 of the affidavit filed by Aurangabad district collector Uday Chaudhary on behalf the state government stated, “According to experts, the Covid-19 virus can stay on various surfaces for a considerable amount of time and the newspaper is something that will be passed on hand to hand by various people, which can increase the chances of infection spreading to more people.”The affidavit stated that “newspaper cannot be considered an essential need unlike food items. Hence the comparison between food and newspaper cannot be considered as fair. I further say that citizens can still get e-papers through the Internet for daily reading. Hence the non-circulation of the newspaper by no means infringes upon the right of freedom of press.’’However, the court said, “On the backdrop of the above referred facts, one fails to understand the logic behind the statement that the newspaper is something that will be passed on hand to hand by various people which can increase the chances of infection spreading to more people.’’Satyajit Bora, amicus curiae appointed by the court, and D R Kale, additional government pleader, drew the attention of the court to the Nagpur bench order on a similar petition. The Nagpur bench has posted the next hearing for June 15. Bora also pointed to a Madras high court verdict which had dismissed a petition seeking a ban on distribution of newspapers.On April 20, the bench had taken suo motu cognisance of news reports regarding the state government prohibiting the door-to-door distribution of newspapers. Justice Varale had asked Bora to submit a PIL on or before April 22. The court had also issued a notice to the principal secretary of the state government’s general administration department and others, asking them to file an affidavit in reply by April 27.The bench had then said that it failed to understand why door-to-door delivery of newspapers was prohibited when the government was permitting their sale at stalls.On April 21, state chief secretary Ajoy Mehta had issued amended guidelines to an earlier order prohibiting delivery of newspapers and magazines to homes. He allowed door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines in the state, except in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Municipal Corporation limits as well as in all containment zones “as may be desired by the district magistrate”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-govt-reply-on-virus-spread-via-papers-general-statement/articleshow/75436174.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
April 29, 2020||Pune||Pune Cantonment Board to use drones for disinfecting, surveillance||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board has received a nod from the Southern Command to use drones for surveillance, making public announcements and disinfecting areas under its jurisdiction to contain the spread of Covid-19. The use of drones will reduce direct involvement of PCB staffers in these type of work. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, PCB, said, "The board had submitted a request to the HQ, Southern Command, which granted special permission to it in the view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city." "We need to rope in our staffers for every small work. They have been working in containment zones for hours and it may jeopardise their health. As a result, we have decided to use technology to reduce the direct involvement of staffers," Kumar added. The PCB has hired a private agency which has trained and experienced staffers and briefed it about the security implications. The drones will be used only in civil areas, officials said. The board has conducted trials of all the drones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-use-drones-for-disinfecting-surveillance/articleshow/75438190.cms||Sandip Dighe
April 29, 2020||Amaravati||Lockdown adds Rs 132 crore to AP Transco savings||VIJAYAWADA: AP Transco on Tuesday announced that the corporation has managed to save Rs 132 crore in the last month with the lockdown in place. According to officials, all high cost conventional sources of energy have been kept under reserve shutdown. Bulk consumers, such as industries, railways, commercial establishments, HT consumers, function halls, malls and theatres are shut and only critical healthcare, government offices and domestic and agriculture loads are being serviced by the grid. In a bid to ensure uninterrupted power supply, all thermal stations have been asked to stock coal for meeting exigencies for May. Currently, peak demand in the state has fallen from 11,000 megawatts (MW) to 8,500 MW and minimum demand is pegged at 6,000 MW instead of 8,000 MW during this time of the year. All high cost conventional energy sources have been kept under reserve shutdown and these thermal stations have been asked to stock coal for meeting the exigencies. As of date, the Genco stations have stocks that are sufficient for two to three weeks of operation. Vijayawada Thermal Power Station (VTPS) has a buffer for 18.93 days, Rayalaseema Thermal Power Station (RTPP) for 27.65 days and Krishnapatnam units have stocked coal for the next 14 days. Officials said continuous availability of coal, fall in international gas and oil prices have ensured adequate supply while demand is hovering at 65 to 70% of the usual peak loads experienced in summer. “After exhausting all must run stations like hydel, wind, solar and nuclear, central generating stations (CGS) and gas stations are operated as per the grid demand and strictly as per the merit order and retail supply tariff orders as approved by the APERC,” joint managing director of AP Transco, KVN Chakradhar Babu stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/lockdown-adds-rs-132cr-to-ap-transco-savings/articleshow/75436157.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kochi||Nipah helped prepare better against Covid-19||KOCHI: The experience of Nipah outbreak, which claimed 17 lives in 2018 and its relapse in June 2019, came handy for Kerala when the state started its fight against Covid-19 by January 2020 end. Training and preparations to prevent Nipah outbreak were the key factors which helped the state health department to face Covid-19 situation in the initial stage. There was a stock of around 28,000 PPE kits and 50,000 N95 masks which were procured during Nipah outbreak. “This was enough for meeting the requirements in the first phase of Covid-19 in the state during January 25-March 5. Simultaneously, we started inquiries for procurement of equipment, testing kits and consumables required for diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said an official with Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd (KMSCL). When the students from Wuhan returned to Kerala by the end of January 2020, authorities of government medical college, Ernakulam, could handle the situation without much embarrassment. “We could set up a 30-room isolation ward within five days. Devices to set up the isolation facility were kept in various departments of the medical college after use during Nipah period. We installed them in the isolation rooms,” said an official with government medical college, Ernakulam. “Moreover, the training imparted to us by various internationally- and nationally-acclaimed agencies during Nipah was also helpful,” the official added. Initially, there were only four labs to test suspected Covid-19 cases in the state. Besides, shortage of machines for testing also created problems for the authorities. “More testing labs were installed and now there 14 labs which can conduct RT-PCR tests to diagnose Covid-19 cases. A total of 17 machines were taken from various laboratories in universities and shifted to newly set up labs. Some additional machines were purchased. Now, there are 45 machines at 14 RT-PCR labs across the state. KSMCL used its fleet for transporting the machines and drugs from various south Indian cities,” the KMSCL official said. To popularize ‘break the chain campaign’, government procured a million 500ml bottles of hand sanitizers and supplied it to hospitals and other government institutions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nipah-helped-prepare-better-against-covid-19/articleshow/75434815.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fringe areas report high number of positive cases||PUNE: The sparsely populated fringe areas such as Moshi, Charholi and Dighi in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have reported a significantly high number of Covid-19 positive cases. Officials said 26 of the 100 Covid-19 positive cases reported so far in the PCMC limits were from the fringes. This is in contrast to Pune’s densely populated central or peth areas reporting high number of Covid-19 cases. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI, “A bulk of those found positive from the fringe areas were people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi in March. The other cases are of people engaged in essential services, such as police and healthcare.” Four localities — Vijanagar, Roade Hospital area in Dighi, Tanisha Arcade area in Charoli and Fatima Mashid Gandharvanagri area in Moshi — have been declared containment zones by till May 3. “We have quarantined over 50 people and the door-to-door survey to identify people who have come in contact with the positive patients is on. Besides, our health official and staffers with are monitoring the health of patients with co-morbidities,” a senior health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fringe-areas-report-high-number-of-positive-cases/articleshow/75438184.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||A day after warning, ‘tisreo’ gatherers raid Chicalim bay||PANAJI: A day after the Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) of Chicalim prevented scores of shellfish gatherers from entering the bay in a bid to prevent over exploitation of marine resources, more than a dozen of them managed to extract clams on Tuesday at the spot till police arrived. The panel members called Vasco police after some persons, who were not local to the area, entered the water for fishing around the sandbar at Vareg island, which is a tisreo (clam) habitat. “They were stopped because of lockdown violation, but we want locals to benefit as they have a right to sustainably utilise village resources,” chairman of BMC, Rui M Costa Araujo said. The police ordered the clam collectors to emerge from the water and allowed them to go after a warning. On Sunday, more than 500 persons had descended into the water and carried away huge quantities of clams. Villagers expressed regret about people’s lack of awareness about the impact of overexploitation. “They don’t understand the changed circumstances — the reduction in fish yield due to pollution caused by industrial and other activity,” chairman of the biodiversity heritage site committee Cyril Fernandes said. This committee has launched an initiative to seek a heritage tag to the village on the basis of a few assets, which includes the highly endangered window pane oysters and ancient caves, among others. Former sarpanch Inacio Caitan Fernandes said that the Covid-19 crisis may be driving people to look for ways to earn money. “But it is difficult to explain to them problems of overexploitation of resources, as some think more about their financial problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-day-after-warning-tisreo-gatherers-raid-chicalim-bay/articleshow/75438224.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Bangur plaint: Covid -ve man turns +ve, dies||Kolkata: A 68-year-old Amherst Street resident, who had been declared Covid-negative and discharged from MR Bangur Hospital, was admitted to the hospital just 12 hours later and found to be suffering from Covid-19, his son said. The man, Om Prakash Gupta, died in the hospital. The family has urged the health department to probe the matter. An MRBH official said, “Tests are not conducted in the hospital. We have to depend on the health department. Gupta had been released since we were told that he had tested negative. We were then asked to re-admit him. He died later.” Calls, text and WhatsApp messages to director health services and MRBH superintendent were not answered. According to the kin, Gupta was admitted to MRBH on April 22 after he complained of fever, cold and sore throat. On April 25, his son got a call from health department saying Gupta was Covid positive and the family should stay in home quarantine. “We got a call from the hospital on the evening the next day saying that my father was Covid negative. We brought him home on April 26,” said son Rajyabardhan Gupta. “On Monday afternoon we got a call from Swasthya Bhawan saying that my father was positive and that an ambulance was being sent to take him back to hospital,” said Rajyabardhan. On Tuesday morning, Gupta passed away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangur-plaint-covid-ve-man-turns-ve-dies/articleshow/75437431.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Court grants bail to two in assault case||Madurai: Two people, who were arrested for assaulting forest department personnel involved in a vehicle check near Sathankudi in Ramanathapuram district, have been granted bail by the principal district and sessions court. The petitioners - Manickam and Kajendra Pandian of Kadaladi taluk along with few other accused had assaulted the personnel who were involved in vehicle inspection to prevent poaching activities. Manickam and Pandian who were arrested after the Kadaladi police registered a case under sections 147, 148, 294(b), 323, 324,326, 353 and 506(ii) of IPC, filed an e-bail application, which was heard through video-conferencing. The public prosecutor submitted that there are totally 18 accused in this case and the petitioners are arrayed as accused number one and two. He submitted that based on a tip-off about poaching activities a team of forest department personnel were involved in vehicle inspection on the East Coast Road near Sathankudi junction on April 21. When they intercepted a two-wheeler which was passing on the road, the petitioners and other accused gathered there and assaulted the personnel. Considering the facts and circumstances, Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions judge R Shanmugasundaram granted bail to the petitioners. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-grants-bail-to-two-in-assault-case/articleshow/75438207.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Labourers from Surat to arrive in Ganjam today||Berhampur: More than 200 migrant labourers from Ganjam district, who were stuck in Surat, have left the Gujarat city in four buses. They are likely to reach on Wednesday morning. The labourers, who are from different areas of the district, made their own travel arrangements. The district administration said it had not received any communication from its counterpart in Gujarat about the return of the workers. “We have not received any official information from the Gujarat government about the return of Odia migrants from Surat,” said Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. “When they arrive here, they will be placed under institutional quarantine for 14 days as per regulations,” said the collector. “We know that the buses left from the Mendasara area of Surat on Monday evening,” said Tutu Sahu, a worker who lives in Surat. He, however, could not provide any information on how the travellers got permission to leave. “All these details can only be known after the workers arrive here,” said a senior officer in Ganjam district. “We have readied quarantine centres. The workers will stay there for 14 days before heading to their villages. Their health will be checked,” the collector said. The buses too would be checked before being allowed into Ganjam, he added. Meanwhile, labourers from Khariaguda, Jarada and Patrapur panchayats and Tikrapada, Goudagaon, Karapada and Bhrmarapur under Digapahandi block have requested for return from Mumbai, where they have been stuck. “They could not leave Mumbai as they did not get permission to go out. We requested chief minister Naveen Patnaik to take up the issue with his Maharashtra counterpart,” said Srikant Padhy, an advocate living in Mumbai, who has been looking after the workers with some of his friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/labourers-from-surat-to-arrive-in-ganjam-today/articleshow/75434811.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 29, 2020||Goa||Covid courses by 2 colleges draws global interest||PANAJI: As the Covid-19 pandemic has altered living conditions across the globe, two colleges in the state have introduced online certificate programmes which help citizens learn all they need to know about the pandemic, as well as encourage students to take up research on pandemics in the future. Principal of Dnyanprassarak Mandal’s College and Research Centre in Assagao, D B Arolkar, said when the college floated the one-week long online certificate course, it did not expect to receive 377 registrations within the first day of the programme being introduced. “We had to restrict the number of participants due to logistical problem, especially network issues. There were 52 participants from states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, which included 13 participants with PhD degrees. The participants included 129 students and 148 faculty members and industry personnel and others,” he said. The main objective of this programme, called ‘Pandemics: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow’, was to encourage students to pursue research and higher education related to pandemics and the evolution of antiviral drugs. Similarly, Shree Mallikarjun College of Arts and Commerce of Canacona has created an app, where any can citizen test their awareness about Covid-19. “The app has been created by the college faculty and within a few days of its launch we saw that over 1,000 persons had taken the test. Those who took the test included citizens of Germany and UK, among others,” said college principal Manoj Kamat. The app includes videos in Konkani, English and Kannada disseminating verified information related to the novel coronavirus. “After completion of the quiz, a certificate is generated declaring the participant a warrior against corona,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-courses-by-2-colleges-draws-global-interest/articleshow/75438204.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Stranded Odias put off return to honour fellow villagers’ request||Berhampur: At a time when stranded Odia workers in different states and abroad are eager to return to their native places, some residents of Satrushol village in Ganjam block who are far away from their homes have decided not to come back to honour the request of their fellow villagers. Satrushol under Ganjam block’s Subalaya panchayat has around 150 families. Around 25 people of the village are stuck in different states and abroad, including the US, the UK and Oman, as well as in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka and Kerala. Most of them had registered their names on the government’s portal, seeking to return, but changed their decision when the villagers requested them not to come back. “Almost all the stranded workers have kept our request and changed their decision of immediate return,” said former chairperson of Ganjam panchayat samiti, Surath Pahan, who is also a resident of Satrushol. Pahan said the workers had agreed to return after some months, when the situation normalises. “Some of them communicated their decision to the villagers as well as the sarpanch of Subalaya panchayat, Kabita Swain,” he added. “We have also communicated this to the block development officer (BDO), Ganjam,” said Pahan. “The villagers have told us about their decision and the decision of the residents who were stranded outside the country and the state,” said BDO, Ganjam, Jyoti Shankar Ray. “It is a welcome decision,” he said, adding that the stranded villagers had not directly spoken to him in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/stranded-odias-put-off-return-to-honour-fellow-villagers-request/articleshow/75434822.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fitness enthusiasts exercise to raise money to buy ration kits for the underprivileged||PUNE: Nearly 40 cyclists and fitness enthusiasts from the city raised over Rs1.5 lakh through a special fund-raiser called Wheels for Meals since April 19. The money raised has been used to purchase ration kits for the underprivileged affected due to the lockdown. Cyclists mounted their bicycles on home trainers and pedalled 100km, runners ran 21km within their building premises and fitness enthusiasts engaged in strength exercises at home on the morning of April 26 to raise funds for the cause. The fund-raiser was organized in association with Power Peaks Athlete Lab and NGO Mashal. “We launched the fund-raiser on April 19 and it will run for a few more days. We had initially planned to raise Rs1 lakh but, after seeing the response, we set our target at Rs2.5 lakh. Maximum funds were raised on April 26. By Tuesday evening, we had raised close to Rs1.54 lakh,” said Abhishek Bhagwat, one of the organizers. City-based working professional Kapil Patwardhan pitched the initial idea of fitness for this cause after getting inspired by James Campbell, a British national who ran for charity. “I wanted to do something unique to raise funds and a 100km indoor cycling ride seemed like a novel idea to spread the message about hunger challenge faced by thousands in Pune,” Patwardhan said. Head coach of Power Peaks Chaitanya Velhal said, “When I was told about the initiative, I knew we could come together to do something for the community. I pitched the idea to my team and everyone rose to the occasion.” Founder of Mashal Sharad Mahajan said, “The funds will help feed 250 families for almost 10 days. Having people step up and help is critical at this juncture. Although I am too old to cycle such long distances, my son joined the group for 20km.” According to Bhagwat, another aim to host the activity was to promote fitness. “Everyone is now working from home and this is a good time for to work on fitness goals. We wanted to raise awareness about fitness and help the society,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fitness-enthusiasts-exercise-to-raise-money-to-buy-ration-kits-for-the-underprivileged/articleshow/75438198.cms||Rujuta Parekh
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government sanctions Rs 3 crore to bring home stranded fishermen||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government will spend Rs 3 crore to bring back the 3,900-odd fishermen stranded in Gujarat since March 23 due to the nationwide lockdown. The fishermen, most of them from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, have been forced to stay in the cabin of their boats since the lockdown was imposed. They made several calls to the officials here and to their relatives who represented the issue to the respective district collectors and officials of the state fisheries department. The AP government had written to its Gujarat counterpart to help the fishermen during the lockdown and help them return home. With the lockdown likely to end by next week and the threat of coronavirus still active, officials decided to bring them back to the state. On Tuesday, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy cleared the release of Rs 3 crore from the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF) to meet expenses to bring back the fishermen from Gujarat. “The state government held talks with the Gujarat government. Around 70 buses have been arranged by the government to bring them here. Around 30 buses will start on Tuesday night and another 40 buses will start on Wednesday,” a senior official of the state fisheries department told TOI over phone. “The fishermen got stranded at Veraval in Gir Somnath district. The Veraval fishermen’s association has also been helping them. They would now be coming to their native places and should reach here by the end of the week,” said the official. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas had also written to his counterpart in Gir Somnath district to make arrangements for the transport of the fishermen. The district collector also promised to meet the transport and other expenses and clear the advance payments made for the transport by the Somnath district administration. “They should reach Vijayawada on Friday night or Saturday morning,” said Arijili Dasu, who is a member of the monitoring team formed by the state government to ensure a safe return for the stranded fishermen. Every year around 10,000 fishermen from the coastal villages of Srikakulam district migrate to Gujarat for eight months in August and September. The 3,900 fishermen had gone to Gujarat in September last year. The state government first tried to bring them by sea, but as no passenger ships are available, it was decided to bring them back by road and the Gujarat government was requested to arrange the buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-sanctions-rs-3cr-to-bring-home-stranded-fishermen/articleshow/75436197.cms||Gopi Dara
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Conduct TY final exams, varsity instructs institutes||PANAJI: Goa University (GU) has decided that paper setting, as well as paper correction, for the third year final exam for BA, BSc and BCom will be carried out by the colleges themselves. ‘Usually, both these tasks for the final year degree exams for the general stream would be conducted by the university. “This year, because the lockdown was imposed while the academic year was still on, some of the syllabus was yet to be covered. GU then asked colleges to carry out online classes as best possible for them. Due to this, there is no uniformity in the syllabus completed by each institute. Therefore, colleges have been asked to set the papers as per the portion completed by them,” an official said. The restrictions in movement also means logistical issues in transporting papers for correction. Besides, maintaining social distancing and other norms during the large-scale correction of papers is an problem. GU has also left it to colleges themselves to draw up the exam timetable as the tests will be conducted at the college-level. Goa University has 33 affiliated colleges across the state offering programmes in the general stream. The final exams for the undergraduate programmes were deferred due to the 21-day lockdown, in force till April 14. After the lockdown was extended, GU issued directives stating that pending examinations can be conducted from June 1. On April 5, GU had issued instructions to affiliated colleges to complete the leftover syllabus online. But colleges teachers had pointed to many issues such as lack of experience in conducting classes online and the class sizes being too big to manage virtually. Some teachers said they had left their course material in the college itself due to the sudden lockdown announcement. Teachers also said that the online mode is suitable to some subjects only and not to those like accountancy or science subjects which require problem-solving. GU had, however, in the same April 5 circular, said that the course content taught online will not be evaluated at the semester-end exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/conduct-ty-final-exams-varsity-instructs-institutes/articleshow/75438213.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 29, 2020||Pune||100 MSRTC buses to bring Kota students||PUNE: A total of 100 buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will start for Kota on Wednesday morning to bring back 1,750 state students stranded there because of the Covid-19 lockdown. State transport minister Anil Parab said that the buses will start from Dhule in northwestern Maharashtra with each of the buses expected to carry anywhere between 20-22 students. "Dhule has been chosen as it is only 580km from Kota. The red buses (lal pari) of the MSRTC have been deployed for this. We are hoping that all the students will be able to return to their homes in different areas of the state in a couple of days," said Parab. Sources told TOI that the state government had been in touch with their counterparts in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh on the issue. "The students belong to different cities of the state and we have planned to segregate them. For instance, if there are 20 students from Sangli, they will be put in one bus. There won’t be any problem in maintaining social distancing," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/100-msrtc-buses-to-bring-kota-students/articleshow/75438208.cms||Joy Sengupta
April 29, 2020||Vadodara||Five cop attackers in Nagarwada test +ve||VADODARA: Five rioters among 10 people who were arrested on Monday for attacking cops from Karelibaug police station tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. The 10 rioters were among 17 who were booked on Monday for pelting stones and glass bottles on police near Kasamhala mosque in Nagarwada area. The five accused have been identified as Fazal Deraiya, Rameez Deraiya, Riyaz Sindhi, Javed Ghanchi and Asif Sahilya. After they tested positive, five policemen too will have to undergo home quarantine and get themselves tested for Coid-19. “Our men were wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kits when they went to arrest the accused. But for precaution a sub-inspector, three constables and a state reserve police (SRP) jawan have been put under quarantine and their samples will be taken for tests,” said B B Rathod, assistant commissioner of police. “We are randomly testing our staff members already who are deployed in the red zone area. All of them, however, have tested negative so far,” he added. Around three dozen cops were tested two days back and with these five, some more policemen will also be tested soon. Cops took the 10 accused to the SSG Hospital on Monday for tests. On Tuesday, reports of remaining five arrived negative and they were paraded from the hospital to Karelibaug police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5-cop-attackers-in-nagarwada-test-ve/articleshow/75435038.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Tremors from 3.4 magnitude earthquake in Hingoli district felt in 3 talukas||Aurangabad: Hingoli district reported an earthquake of magnitude 3.4 on the Richter scale on Monday night. The tremors were felt in three talukas of the district, forcing people to step out of their houses and spend the night in the open.On Sunday, some parts of the district had reported rumbling sounds from underground. Hingoli district disaster management officer Abhay Kanje said that the epicentre of the earthquake was 9 km below the ground level and 131 km northwest of Nizamabad. “The earthquake was felt in about 40 villages of Vasmat, Kalamnuri and Aundha talukas at 10.54 pm on Sunday. While no loss of life was reported due to earthquake, no reports of damage to houses or properties have been reported either till Tuesday evening,” he said.As per official data, about 19 villages in the Vasmat taluka felt the tremors, followed by 12 in Kalamnuri and nine in Aundha, among other villages in Hingoli district.Rural areas comprising Potra, Sindagi and Yehlegaon, among other villages from Kalamnuri taluka of Hingoli district, which reported multiple rumbling sounds from the earth did not experience the tremors, authorities said.Hingoli MP Hemant Patil, who visited the areas where the tremors were felt, said that he appealed to people not to panic due to the earthquake or rumbling sounds coming from from the earth’s surface. “Hingoli district had felt tremors during June last year too and rumbling sounds followed by earthquake has caused panic among locals. People are already worried due to Covid-19 pandemic situation. However, there is no need to panic as the entire district administration is with public during the current testing times,” he said. The number of Covid-19 cases in Hingoli district has surged to 14, the second highest in Marathwada after Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tremors-from-3-4-magnitude-earthquake-in-hingoli-district-felt-in-3-talukas/articleshow/75436208.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Missive on safety of health staff||KOLKATA: The health department has issued a missive, stating that the health staff should go in for least interaction with patients and maintain distance from them, particularly those of non-emergency category. The missive, issued by the director medical education (DME) and director of health services (DHS) on April 25 to all hospitals, has asked for minimal patient admission in non-emergency cases. Medical staffers have been advised minimal interaction with paramedical staffers for safety. Any workshop or gathering on hospital premises has also been prohibited. Many government hospital doctors felt that it is difficult for them to maintain distance while treating patients or interacting with paramedical staffers who are not armed with PPE kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missive-on-safety-of-health-staff/articleshow/75437452.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||Margao market to remain closed||MARGAO: Attempts by the New Market Traders Association to persuade authorities to allow the new municipal market to reopen failed as Margao municipality chief officer Ajit Panchwadkar refused to entertain any “walk-in” visitors on Tuesday. Association members had on Monday disclosed plans of meeting Panchwadkar on Tuesday with a plea to allow one of the two lanes of the market to function on alternate days. Panchwadkar when contacted said no such meeting with the association took place on Tuesday as he didn’t entertain any walk-in visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-market-to-remain-closed/articleshow/75438221.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Villagers throng wine shop mistaking it to be open||Chikkamagaluru/ Belagavi: Some people of Yellabalase village in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru district, who saw the shutters of a wine shop open on Tuesday morning, did the obvious — spread the word that the shop is open, and it caught the village like a wildfire. But what seemed the start of “happy hours” ended abruptly with them realising that only the front shutter of the shop was open. The trigger for the early-morning drama was the burglary attempt that the thieves had made in the wee hours of Tuesday. Though they could open the front shutter of the shop, they failed in opening the second one. After they returned from the shop empty-handed, hundreds of villagers came there with the hope to buy booze. Yagati police, in whoses limits the shop comes, said burglars have made an attempt to break its doors open. “As it has been secured with double lock, the burglars realised it would take them time and gave up. Nothing has been stolen from the shop. But (seeing the front shutter open), people thought that district administration has allowed liquor shops to open,” they said. Officials from Yagati station and Kadur taluk excise dispersed the crowd. As case has been registered and investigation into the incident is on. Meanwhile the excise department has seized liquor worth Rs 1 crore in Belagavi ever since the enforcement of lockdown. The excise deputy commissioner stated that the department staff have been striving to curb bootlegging and sale of liquor. The seized consignment is worth Rs 1 crore and includes IMFL and alcoholic beverages: 4,662.7 litre raw spirit, 95.9 litre Goa spirit, 10.2 litre Maharashtra spirit, 1,207 litre beer, 53 litre bootlegged liquor, 170 litre jaggery wash, 79.6 litre santra, 93 litre cashew liquid, 50kg jaggery, and 7 litre wine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/villagers-throng-wine-shop-mistaking-it-to-be-open/articleshow/75434853.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Seismic activitity not a matter of serious concern for LIGO, says expert||Aurangabad: Monday night’s earthquake in Hingoli district was the second such noticeable seismic activity since June last year in Marathwada area. However, this is not a matter of serious concern, said experts on Tuesday. Marathwada is home to the upcoming first Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO) outside the US. It will established near Aundha, around 200km from here. Tarun Souradeep, spokesperson for LIGO India, said, “Scientists were not so concerned about seismic activities observed in the recent past at Hingoli. “The fairly infrequent, mild earthquakes (observed in Hingoli) would only spoil the data over small chunks of time — these are removed from the science data,” he said. “In our seismic characterisation, we primarily focus on the level of the continuous rumble of the ground. This continuum seismic noise level is what sets limitations on the detector performance. This was studied during site selection and found to be very good,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/seismic-activitity-not-a-matter-of-serious-concern-for-ligo-says-expert/articleshow/75436237.cms||Prasad Joshi
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||Four test Covid-19 positive in Moradabad, Sambhal districts||BAREILLY: Three members of a family, including two sisters and their aunt, tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Moradabad on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 92, while one positive case was reported from neighbouring Sambhal, taking the district tally to 16. The 45-year-old woman is a sister-in-law of the doctor who succumbed to the deadly virus in Moradabad, while the two sisters, aged 23 and 12, are his nieces. Notably, six people have been discharged, while four patients succumbed to the disease in Moradabad district, so far. Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said that on Tuesday, five people, including three Tablighi Jamaatis and two residents of neighbouring Amroha district, were discharged from different quarantine centres. District magistrate RK Singh said private medical practitioners associated with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) too joined the fight against Covid-19 and strengthen the telemedicine facility started by the district administration to provide relief to the people suffering from various diseases as they were unable to visit doctors in the lockdown. The district administration has also issued a list of nine IMA doctors with their contact numbers for a free consultation over the phone. Notably, the telemedicine service was launched by government doctors on Monday. On the other hand, a 27-year-old woman, who along with her husband arrived in Sambhal from Ghaziabad recently, tested positive. Sambhal CMO Dr Anita Singh said the family was quarantined and their samples were sent for the test. The reports confirmed only the woman to be positive for Covid-19, said the CMO, adding that her husband is a vegetable seller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-test-covid-positive-inmoradabad-sambhal-dists/articleshow/75434898.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rules in her favour, Rourkela woman still unable to travel for surgery||Rourkela: An elderly cancer patient from Rourkela, who was scheduled to go for surgery at a Kolkata hospital, has been unable to travel even though the lockdown rules allow people with emergency medical needs to travel from one state to another. Kitabun Nisha, a 65-year-old resident of Diesel Colony, Bondamunda, suffered from severe pain in her abdomen in the first week of March and was advised to go for surgery in Kolkata, latest by April. Her son, Md. Asgar Husain, 35, tried to get a pass for three people — the lady and two attendants — from the Rourkela SP’s office but to no avail. “We contacted the district information bureau office and Rourkela Police for the pass,” said Husain, adding, “We learnt from them that only permission for inter-district travel on medical grounds is being granted.” As per the order of the state government’s disaster management department dated April 17, interstate movement of individuals is prohibited except for medical reasons. This suggests that people can move to other states for emergency medical needs. The family, which is in constant touch with the SP’s office, says it is unable to understand the formalities needed for a pass. Husain’s plight was confirmed by the district authorities. “We are giving permission only for inter-district movement. We have no idea about the formalities for interstate movement in medical cases,” said L Buda, DSP of district information bureau, Rourkela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rules-in-her-favour-rourkela-woman-still-unable-to-travel-for-surgery/articleshow/75434875.cms||Mihir Ray
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A makeshift police mobile salon that is turning heads in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The desire for a well-coiffured head has been proving a distant dream of many as salons — identified as potential petri dishes for exchange of germs and spread of the new coronavirus — remain closed as part of the national lockdown. But then, this period of crisis has been rewriting the rules of engagement: with government agencies and business establishments taking services to end-users. Though policemen, as per regulations, are supposed to maintain short cropped hair, with salons closed, this is proving impossible and most of them have been sweating it out in the scorching sun. But it didn’t take the Kerala armed police battalion-1 in Tripunithura much head scratching before come up with a solution: a makeshift mobile salon-cum-refreshment vehicle. “The idea was mooted by an Army doctor in Jammu, Vikas Yadav, during a discussion on Covid-19 mitigation efforts. With the necessary permission from senior officials, we decided to customize the idea using available resources and expertise,” said Vaibhav Saxena, commandant of KAP-1. A Tata-407 minibus, originally belonging to the dog squad, that was lying unused was chosen for the purpose, and modified by policemen of the battalion using their own equipment, including chairs, mirrors, etc. A television set also has been installed to play Covid-19 awareness films. Two additional batteries power the TV and salon services which are being provided in highly sanitized conditions using devices such as electronic sterilizers for the equipment and a mini-refrigerator for storing essential items. The vehicle also carries a stock of masks, gloves and sanitizers, a vacuum cleaner and fumigation equipment for cleaning the vehicle, disposable towels and a first-aid box with adequate stock of essential medicines. In addition, the vehicle also carries adequate supply of ayurvedic tea and lime juice and glucose water for police personnel on duty. It also doubles up as a waiting room for women cops and officers feeling ill during duty. The mobile salon mostly plies the central districts, where policemen under KAP-1 are deployed, while also catering to other police officers on duty. The first canteens in the country to go fully digital in 2012, the police canteens have gone one step further and introduced door-to-door delivery, as families of police officers find it extremely difficult to avail their services in the wake of lockdown. A special mobile application has been developed for the purpose, which lists all the available grocery items. The orders are delivered to the stations or houses of police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-police-mobile-salon-that-is-turning-heads/articleshow/75434887.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||Angriya not to sign-off Goan crew, ship to evacuate Indians overseas||PANAJI: Angriya, the domestic cruise ship with 80 crew currently berthed at Mumbai port, will not be signing off the 23 Goan crew members for now. In a press release, its management has said that it is instead responding to the government of India’s call to assist in the evacuation of Indians stuck overseas. “The process of sign off by Goan crew and return to Goa will now be completed after the overseas evacuation operations are finished,” said executive vice-chairman of Angriya Sea Eagle Ltd, Leena Kamat Prabhu, in a press release issued on Tuesday. Managing director and captain Nitin Dhond said that the Goan crew are required on board to assist in the operations. “We have to deliver to the nation in this time of crisis, and the 23 Goans are an integral part of our team of marine crew,” Dhond told TOI. “Repatriating them or bringing them back to Goa is not a priority for now. We cannot relieve marine crew without replacements on board. A running ship requires crew to be on board, where each one carries out his responsibilities. These are unprecedented times. We are ready to sail for this mission.” He added that the company would continue with the same crew until it finds suitable relievers and a proper place to relieve them. Teams on Angriya are now preparing for ‘sail on command’, while a second team is on standby on land and is also coordinating logistics and operational preparedness for the voyages, Prabhu said. “It is a matter of pride as a Goan seafarer to be able to rise to the occasion to combat Covid-19 and assist the Indian government to get our fellow Indians back to their motherland,” Dhond said. Prabhu added, “We have decided to rise to this call of duty in service of the nation and have communicated the same to the government.” The domestic cruise will assist in evacuations along the Indian coast, Arabian sea and Gulf countries. “It could be anybody — workers, stranded fishermen, seafarers. It could also be anyone stuck in ports of locations away from India,” Dhond said. The domestic cruise can increase its capacity from 400 passengers to 1,000 for the evacuation. “All those being evacuated will be tested for Covid-19 before they board,” said Dhond. “There will be proper social distancing on the vessel, and the crew will use protective equipment. All precautions will be taken to protect the crew.” The crew will also have to render logistical support — carrying food, medical equipment, parademics and security — which the office is working on, he said. “We’ve been told to be ready. We could be called immediately or it could take a week or two.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/angriya-not-to-sign-off-goan-crew-ship-to-evacuate-indians-overseas/articleshow/75438228.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 29, 2020||Patna||Most migrant workers prefer to stay and work in native places||PATNA: Pramod Kumar, a migrant worker, is a relaxed man today. He started selling vegetables at his native village Belhar under Dulhin Bazar block in Patna district soon after he returned from Odisha following the nationwide lockdown announced on March 24. Pramod (35), who worked in a solar repairing company at Bhuvaneshwar in Odisha, was paid a monthly remuneration of Rs.10,000. Though his daily earning from the vegetable shop is far less compared to that in Odisha, he is satisfied as he is living with his near and dear ones. Recalling the hardship that he had to face in reaching home, Pramod said on Tuesday, “Hum mar jana pasand karenge lekin ab bahar kaam karne nahi jayenge (I will prefer to die than going outside in search of a job).” Manoj Kumar Kushwaha, (28), a resident of Supaul district, who worked in a cotton mill near Gurugram, came back to his native village after the lockdown. “I am jobless for almost a month now. But I am planning to start some business soon,” he said. Pramod and Manoj are among hundreds of Bihari migrant workers who returned to the state from places of their despite all odds. They were engaged in construction, garment manufacturing, mining and agriculture sectors and contributed to the economy of the states concerned. Ashok Kumar, (43), a native of Kaimur district said, “The factory owner in Nagpur (Maharashtra) asked all of us to leave the place within 24 hours. With the little money we had, we left for our home. Thank God, some people helped us on the way and we reached home safely, although tired and exhausted,” he said. Echoing similar views, Birendra Rai (50), a resident of Mahua in Vaishali district, said, “I have a small plot of fertile land. I will start growing vegetables on it. Besides, I will purchase two cows and a buffalo with my savings and start milk supply business but will never go outside the state to look for a job.” The state will see more migrants workers returning home after the lockdown is lifted. According to rough estimates, around 30 lakh Bihari migrant workers are still stranded outside the state and anxiously waiting to come home. Around 1.8lakh migrant workers have already returned. State labour department minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said, “We have given priority to sectors that help the rural population such as farmers, daily wage earners, unskilled people and migrant workers. The government has already started work in rural areas so that more people can get work and employment. The department of rural development and water resources have taken up a large number of schemes under —`Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan’, ‘Saat Nishchay’, flood protection work and MNAREGA. Construction works have have also been started by rural works department with proper social distancing techniques, he said, adding that the state government has also sought financial assistance from the centre.” Socio-economic analyst DM Diwakar, however, didn’t agree with the steps taken up by the state government to deal with the problem of migrant workers. “The report of the Bihar Economic Survey is itself explanatory so far job opportunities for workers are concerned,” he said. He added, “Not more than 15,000 workers were provided job opportunities for 100 days under MNREGA. The state is actually facing distress migration. Most of the Bihari workers go outside the state in the hope of earning more and more. If they are provided job opportunities in the home state, why should they stay away from families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/most-migrant-workers-prefer-to-stay-work-in-native-places/articleshow/75436256.cms||Ramashankar
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Techie tries to sneak home, quarantined||GUNTUR: A young techie working in Maharashtra managed to cross three states amid the nationwide lock and reached home in Guntur on Tuesday only to land up in quarantine facility. His dream to stay home with parents was short lived as neighbours informed authorities. Twenty-seven-year old PM Ramakrishna, a resident of Brodipet in Guntur city, has been working as a human resources manager with an IT firm in Aurangabad for the past couple of years. Worried over the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, particularly in Aurangabad, Ramakrishna decided to return to home. Aurangabad has reported over 50 positive cases and six deaths. But despite Guntur reporting double the number of cases, the techie decided to risk going home. He feared that the lockdown might be extended beyond May 3. He reportedly struck a deal with a cargo container driver and travelled to Hyderabad, sitting among stocks of pharmaceutical products. After reaching Hyderabad on Sunday, Ramakrishna reached Secunderabad railway station and reportedly waited for several hours to get into a goods train. Sources said that he got into an open wagon of a goods train at Secunderabad station and finally got down in the outskirts of Vijayawada. He contacted a friend, who picked him from Vijayawada at night and brought him home on Monday. However, Ramakrishna’s luck ran out when neighbours, who were aware of the fact that he worked in Maharashtra, immediately alerted the local police. The locals, who were worried about the high number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, reportedly complained to municipal corporation authorities as well. Soon a team of health workers and staff from the ward secretariat visited Ramakrishna’s residence and took a statement from all the family members. Upon recommendation of the health workers team, police reached Ramakrishna’s home and shifted him to a quarantine facility. Officials directed him to stay in quarantine for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/techie-tries-to-sneak-home-quarantined/articleshow/75436258.cms||Samdani MN
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||9-year-old donates Rs 11,000 of birthday fund for Covid fight||RAJKOT: A nine-year-old boy in Jamnagar celebrated his 10th birthday by donating Rs 11,000 to the chief minister relief fund on Tuesday. “When the entire country is fighting a war against coronavirus, I, too, would like to join the fight by making a contribution,” said Shlok Shah, the birthday boy. Chief minister Vijay Rupani congratulated Shlok by giving him a call. “Instead of spending lavishly on a birthday party or buying yourself an expensive gift, you thought of donating the money to us in our fight against coronavirus, which is commendable. You will always remember this day for the kind of noble work you have done,” Rupani reportedly told Shlok through video conferencing from Gandhinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/9-year-old-donates-rs-11000-of-birthday-fund-for-covid-fight/articleshow/75436284.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kochi||Random testing to increase, state orders 2 lakh antibody kits||KOCHI: In an effort to increase the number of random tests and ascertain the spread of Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the government is all set to procure more antibody testing kits. Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd (KMSCL) has ordered 1L antibody testing kits, each, from HLL Lifecare and a US pharmaceutical firm. The consignment is expected to reach here next week. KMSCL has already placed orders for procuring 8L personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 8L N-95 masks. KMSCL is trying to procure 3L RT-PCR kits. “We will get around 2 lakh antibody testing kits next week. We have also enhanced the purchase of other equipment needed while treating/diagnosing Covid-19 cases,” said KMSCL general manager Dileep Kumar. “We have 55,000 RT-PCR reagents and the same quantity of viral RNA extraction kits. We expect another consignment of 50,000 reagents and extractions kits this weekend. We have stock of all drugs and testing kits to meet demand for next 15-20 days,” he said. The number of RT-PCR tests done in Kerala every day average was 550 till April 26. Now, government has decided to increase it. Authorities have already purchased 4L PPE kits and its stock in various hospitals is 1. 16L. A consignment of 75,000 was distributed to various hospitals on Tuesday. Now, KMSCL has a stock of 1.25 lakh. Around 80,000 PPE kits were used by the healthcare workers and allied staff in the state so far. “Our plan is to ensure a stock of around 10,000 to 12,000 PPE kits in each district," Kumar said. In phase-I from Jan 25 to Mar 5, average use of PPE kits in state was 300. "In phase-II that started on March 6, the demand went up and the average use per day grew to 3,000. At this stage, we faced difficulties in procuring kits, other consumables. But, manufacturers who supply PPE kits increased supply. There are four or five big manufacturers of PPE kits in state. Initially, they were supplying 2,000-3,000 kits a day. They stopped production of other items and concentrated on PPE kits. We are getting around 7,000 PPE kits from them now," sources said. KMSCL plans to procure 8L N-95 masks. Of this, 6L has been stocked. More than 1.5L N-95 masks have been used. Besides, 60L triple layer surgical masks have been purchased. Of this, around 20L masks were used and there is a stock of 33L triple layer surgical masks at various hospitals in state. There is a stock of over 7L triple layer masks with KMSCL and the agency is awaiting a consignment of 20L. Around 25L hydroxychloroquine were distributed to various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/random-testing-to-increase-state-orders-2l-antibody-kits/articleshow/75434860.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||23 fresh cases takes Aurangabad district’s coronavirus tally to 105||AURANGABAD: As many as 23 new confirmed Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Tuesday, a day after the city recorded 29 cases in a single day on Monday. The addition of the fresh cases has taken the tally of Covid-19 patients to 105 in the district. Meanwhile, a 77-year-old woman, who was brought dead to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) early Tuesday, confirmed positive for Covid-19, taking the death toll to seven in Aurangabad. According to Arvind Gaikwad, GMCH’s nodal officer for media interaction, the woman was a resident of Qile Ark area of the city. “The woman had fainted at her residence around 7.30pm on Monday and was brought dead to the hospital around 1.30am on Tuesday. She was a suffering from diabetes and a mental condition. Her throat swab sample tested positive for the contagion,” said Gaikwad. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar said while 13 people confirmed positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday morning, 10 others tested positive in the evening. Of the 23 confirmed cases, 13 are from Qile Ark, four from Paithan Gate, two from Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura, two from Mukundwadi and one each from Daulatabad and Bada Takiya Masjid. Yelikar added seven of the confirmed cases identified were aged less than 15 years and four were above 50-years-old. Of the 105 Covid-19 cases in the district, 23 patients have recovered, seven have died and the remaining 75 patients are undergoing treatment at the district civil hospital and the GMCH. As many as 88 people were screened at the 13 fever clinics of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Tuesday. 16 people were referred to the district civil hospital. Of the 158 throat swab samples collected from GMCH, district civil hospital and the fever clinics and sent for Covid-19 analysis, 23 returned positive and 10 tested negative for the contagion. Reports of 125 patients are awaited. 10 locations in Aurangabad city sealed Municipal officer of health Nita Padalkar said that the containment zones have been chalked out in localities which have reported confirmed cases. “Covid-19 cases have been reported for the first time from Mukundwadi-Sanjay Nagar, Paithan Gate and Bada Takiya Masjid. The process to trace the source of infection and contact tracing has been initiated in these localities,” Padalkar said. As on Tuesday, Noor Colony, Kiradpura, Panchkuva-Qile Ark, Baijipura, Asifiya Colony, Bismillah Colony, Hilal Colony, Samata Nagar, Bhimnagar-Bhavsingpura and Pundalik Nagar localities were sealed under the cluster containment plan. A total of 81 teams have screened 22,058 people in 4,583 households in these 10 localities. As many as 97 people have been placed under institutional quarantine at Sant Tukaram hostel in Padampura and Kalagram. Menwhile, commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said that the shops would remain open from 7am to 11am on Wednesday. The decision was taken after Aurangabad MP Imtiyaz Jaleel held a meeting with divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar, district collector Uday Chaudhari and municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey on Tuesday. Jaleel jumped into action after the city registered a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. He sought the cooperation of religious and community leaders in asking people to stay at home. 5-year-old boy tests positive in Hingoli A 5-year-old boy from Government Quarantine Centre, Sengaon in Hingoli district tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. This has taken the tally of Covid-19 cases in the district to 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/23-fresh-cases-takes-aurangabad-districts-coronavirus-tally-to-105/articleshow/75436277.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Amaravati Metro is now AP Metro Rail||VIJAYAWADA: The state government issued orders on Tuesday changing the name of Amaravati Metro Rail Corporation Limited (AMRC) to Andhra Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (APMRC). The municipal administration department issued government order number 209 changing the name of AMRC. The government in its order stated that Amaravati Metro Rail Corporation Limited has been incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 and was also entrusted with the development of Visakhapatnam Metro Rail Project. As AMRC is preparing to execute other metro projects in the state it has been suggested by AMRC managing director to change the name to APMRC. The government cited the example of Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC), which was renamed Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UMRC) with responsibilities of implementing metro rail projects in important cities of Uttar Pradesh. Similarly, Nagpur Metro Rail Corporation Limited (NMRCL) was renamed Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited. Managing director of AMRC has been directed to take action to effect the change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amaravati-metro-is-now-ap-metro-rail/articleshow/75436296.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kochi||Police step up vigil in Kottayam border||KOCHI: Police have stepped up vigil at three wards in Edakattuvayal and Amballoor panchayats in Ernakulam as it has been confirmed that at least 33 people in these localities have had primary or secondary contact with a gangman at Kanjiramattam railway station who tested positive for Covid-19. All these people have been placed under home quarantine. Seven and two primary contacts of the gangman have been identified in Edakattuvayal and Amballur, respectively. Apart from them, two Bihar natives who came into contact with the Covid-19 patient have also been traced. Police have strengthened patrolling in these wards to prevent people from stepping out of their houses unnecessarily. The panchayats have also started making public announcements requesting people to wear mask in public places whenever they go out. “Both these panchayats share border with Kottayam. District panchayat has allotted Rs 50,000 to these panchayats to meet any emergency situation,” said A P Subash, district panchayat member from Udayamperoor division. Edakattuvayal panchayat president said they do not have fund to procure enough masks to be distributed among residents. “We have received only 1,000 masks so far and we need 13,000 more. Our only revenue is from property taxes. We do not have funds to buy clothes and make masks out of them, said panchayat president Jessy Peter. Both the panchayats share their border with Kottayam, which has recently witnessed a spike in the number of Covid-19 patients. Edakattuvayal shares border with Veloor panchayat, and Amballloor, with Chembu panchayat in Kottayam. The gangman, a native of Nagarcoil who tested positive for the virus, used to live in Veloor. Ernakulam district collector has issued an order closing the border with Idukki. The administration had ordered to close the borders with Kottayam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-step-up-vigil-in-kottayam-border/articleshow/75434936.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kochi||Air ticket prices may surge post lockdown||KOCHI: The uncertainty over when the lockdown and restrictions on air travel will be lifted is hindering airlines to open ticket-booking and it could lead to a massive surge in the ticket prices especially in international sector, says airline officials and travel agents. They said that there would be heavy rise in the number of passengers once the restrictions are lifted and if the advanced booking is not allowed it would be difficult to manage the demand and price surge. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has already twice forbid the airlines to open bookings and is yet to come out with a clear intimation about when it could be started. “Most low-cost airlines, especially those operating in Kerala with the focus on the gulf region, are already handling the backlogs of rescheduled tickets due to flight cancellations in the wake of lockdown in India and other countries. Once the restrictions are lifted all these passengers, who have the option of rescheduling the travel dates using the same tickets and it will be huge in numbers. Besides them, new bookings will also be there. All these together will create high demand for tickets and could lead to price surge,” said a top Air India Express official. The situation will be similar in domestic sector too, especially for one-way fares to major cities. “Many people are stuck in major cities due to lockdown and all these bookings will be happening post lockdown. In such demand the base slab for flight tickets will be much higher than normal due to the dynamic pricing. But the price surge will be comparatively lesser than international sector as it is peak season till June,” said an IndiGo official. Meanwhile, IATA Agents Association of India (IAAI) national president Biji Eapen said that the airlines, while opening advance booking of tickets, should ensure that the passengers will be given full refund of the tickets if preferred service must be cancelled due to extension of lockdown. “The option of rescheduling the ticket to another date will not be beneficial for many and airlines should offer full refund. A petition filed by IAAI regarding this is under the scrutiny of the Supreme Court at present,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/air-ticket-prices-may-surge-post-lockdown/articleshow/75434922.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Bungachhena: Two hurt in wild boar attack||PITHORAGAH: Two elderly persons, including one woman, sustained injuries in a wild boar attack in Bungachhena village of district’s Didihat Tehsil on Tuesday. Both the victims were admitted to district hospital and are currently undergoing treatment. The attack took place on Tuesday noon when Godawari Pande (60) was working in a field near her house which is located outside the village. Listening to Godawari’s screams, her brother Shyam Datt came to her rescue along with other villagers. The wild boar attacked Datt as well before running back to the jungle,” said Kundal Chauhan, an eye-witness to the attack. “Soon after the villagers informed us about the attack, a team of forest department reached the spot,” told Lavraj Singh, a forest ranger. The condition of the two victims is told to be stable now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-hurt-in-wild-boar-attack/articleshow/75436305.cms||Prem Punetha
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government draws up plans to keep returnees engaged in quarantine||BHUBANESWAR: To make the two-week stay pleasant at the state-sponsored quarantine facilities for those returning to Odisha after May 3, the government has decided to engage them in yoga, painting, “antakshari”, “purana patha” or mythological discussions. They will also be put through psycho-social counselling and exposed to motivational talks, story-telling and healthcare awareness programmes with the help of NGOs and trained personnel. They will be provided with personal hygiene kit that will have two double-layer face masks. Women and girls will get sanitary napkins as per their requirement during their stay with the help of ASHA and women self-help groups. On Tuesday, the revenue and disaster management department issued a detailed guideline for management of temporary medical camps or quarantine facility. More than 7,000 such facilities have already been developed with over 2.3 lakh beds. More quarantine facilities are being set up as the state expects a massive flow of people, including migrant labourers, students, professionals, stranded pilgrims, etc, after completion of the lockdown. It is mandatory for everyone to stay in the quarantine facilities for 14 days before going home. “Separate rooms, bathrooms and toilets must be arranged for men and women. In case there are people from the LGBT community, separate provisions should be made. Special needs of differently-abled people must also be looked into,” stated special relief commissioner P K Jena, in the guidelines. Jena stressed on safety of women and children and dignity of individuals. “Their religion, caste, faith and beliefs must be respected. No discrimination of any kind should be practised, promoted or tolerated,” he emphasised. Authorities have been asked to inform local police about the location of the camp and number of people staying in it. Common spaces like toilets and floors will be cleaned thrice a day while spitting, smoking and chewing of tobacco are strictly prohibited. Wearing masks is a must for everyone. Disposable plates will be be used and used plates disposed off in a pit at a safe distance and covered with soil. Also, the place is to be disinfected with bleaching powder from time to time. Jena said potable and safe drinking water should be provided. It should be preferably boiled, filtered and if required, treated with halazone tablets. He said people coming to the quarantine centres with fever and cold symptoms will be segregated from others and their condition brought to the notice of the local medical officer. People suspected with SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) and ILI (Influenza Like Infection) symptoms will be shifted to the designated health facility. The state government has sanctioned food expenditure of Rs 120 per adult/day and Rs 100 per child (below 14 years) per day. Also, Rs 300 has been sanctioned per person for personal hygiene kit, said Jena. Similarly, Rs 2,000 per day has been sanctioned for cleaning, sanitation and security at the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-draws-up-plans-to-keep-returnees-engaged-in-quarantine/articleshow/75434914.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Karnika crew urge CM to let them quarantine at home||PANAJI: The 93 Goans working as crew on board the ship Karnika have written to chief minister Pramod Sawant requesting that they be placed under home quarantine and not the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine upon their return to Goa. The crew said that they’ve been under self-imposed quarantine on board the vessel for 42 days, and that they cannot afford to pay the daily quarantine charge of Rs 3,000. They said that most of them haven’t completed their contracts, and thus they haven’t got their expected wages. They also said that they’re mostly the sole earning member of the family, and that they have no other income. Stating that they have aging parents and little children waiting for them, they asked Sawant to let them reach home without the mandatory quarantine. “We assure you that as a precautionary measure, we will be under home quarantine,” they said. A follow-up to their April 11 letter, they added that the cruise ship’s last operational trip was on March 1, when she left Mumbai and reached Dubai on March 5. The ship arrived in Mumbai on March 12 with only crew. “Upon arrival at Mumbai port, all crew members were medically cleared by the seaport public health office,” they stated. They added that the ship’s owners took the ship to outer anchorage as a self-imposed quarantine, which ended on March 26. Only those who were residing in and around Mumbai — 133 seafarers — were allowed to disembark on March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnika-crew-urge-cm-to-let-them-quarantine-at-home/articleshow/75438239.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Heavy rain and wind uproots trees, disrupts power in many places||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Hours after the district reported widespread rainfall, the India meteorological department (IMD) has issued yellow alert on Tuesday evening. As per the bulletin on Tuesday, the district will receive only light to moderate rainfall till May 2. In the day time till 5.30pm on Tuesday, the city city and airport region recorded 9.8mm and 42.9mm rainfall respectively. IMD considers rainfall between 64.5mm and 115.5mm in the heavy category. The district witnessed widespread rainfall accompanied by lightning. Interestingly, the recent spate of rainfall has resolved the deficiency of summer rainfall in the district. Last week, the summer rainfall was 33% deficient, which has reduced to 19% deficiency. A percentage departure (–19 to 19) is considered as normal as per IMD. The district was expected to receive a normal rainfall of 150.2mm by April 27. The district has received 121.3mm so far. The district has entered into the normal category for the first time in the pre-monsoon season this year. Last year, the district had received around 52% deficient rainfall this time. The pre-monsoon season ended with 56% deficiency by the end of May, 2019. Kollam has 28% deficiency in summer rainfall, while it is 58% excess for Pathanamthitta. As sea condition will be rough, fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea. The onset of southwest monsoon is expected by the end of next month or first week of June. The heavy rain accompanied by strong winds caused massive damages across the district. Numerous of incidents of tree falls were reported. In the city alone, as many as 62 incidents of tree falls were reported. Some important locations where trees fell across roads are Plamoodu, Palayam and Poojapura. There were several incidents in which trees fell over houses, causing damages. Many vehicles were damaged too. The rain also affected power supply to many locations in the city after trees fell over electric lines, causing the lines to snap. This also made way for fire outbreaks at three locations, at Statue–General Hospital Road, Brahmins’ Street at West Fort and Vazhuthacaud. The fire and rescue services department officials rushed to all three locations and doused the fire thereby preventing major fire incidents. The officials at Thiruvananthapuram fire station worked in three teams led by fire officers C Ashok Kumar, Suresh Kumar and Praveen and attended all distress calls, including the fire outbreaks. Outside the city, a tree that stood beside the national highway near Mangalapuram got uprooted and fell across the road. However, since there was very little vehicular movement owing to the lockdown no casualties were reported.  KSEB officials also launched emergency maintenance works to restore power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/heavy-rain-and-wind-uproots-trees-disrupts-power-in-many-places/articleshow/75436295.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||‘E-bazaar’ to link residents, retailers and wholesalers||Jaipur: The department of Information Technology and Communication (DITC) has begun an initiative to connect local residents, retailers and wholesale grocery dealers on a government-promoted application. Named as ‘e-bazaar COVID19’ is available on http://covid.ebazzar.rajasthan.gov.in/apk/covid.apk. As the name suggests, it is an effort to minimise physical presence and reduce possibilities of ‘Covid-19’ transmission. The department has asked the district collectors to promote use of the application while efforts are being made to make it available on the playstore for android phones. It’s, however, not a sole initiative. An agreement has also been inked by the department with a startup for connecting vendors, suppliers and wholesale dealers. DITC is optimistic of more such ventures in recent future. “An agreement has been signed with a startup firm dealshare. In future, collaborations would be made with startups and e-commerce institutes interested in supply of essential items,” says Abhay Kumar, principal secretary DITC. The dealshare application connects vendors with suppliers and wholesale dealers. It has been associated with the department’s ‘e-bazaar COVID19’ to ensure smooth supply of goods to the stores. The DITC promoted application is connecting all government consumer stores and targets to reach all registered retail stores. According to officials the application intends to extend users a platform to locate all registered vendors in radius of 1.5 kilometres and allow them to make online orders or connect with the vendor. The customer may book order with a vendor of his choice and may be extended cash on delivery or other delivery options as per capacity of the vendor. The application already has 750 vendors on it and has been downloaded nearly 10 times the number. Meanwhile, a circular has also been issued to all district collectors to promote the application use in their respective areas for an effective lockdown implementation. The e-commerce application comes in sequence of several IT-based solutions extended by the department of Information Technology for better administration of the lockdown and Covid-19 containment. The department has also developed applications for monitoring of patients in quarantine, movement of Covid vehicles and even worked for development of a social media-based channel for coordination and exchange of action taken reports on inter-state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/e-bazaar-to-link-residents-retailers-and-wholesalers/articleshow/75438244.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH quarantines 12 staff after contact with +ve case||AURANGABAD: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has sent as many as 12 employees, including doctors, nurses and an intern, to the quarantine ward after they came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient in the general ward. The GMCH had turned its medicine building into a dedicated Covid Hospital in the first week of April. The facility is designated to care for Covid-19 suspect and positive cases that are critical in nature or require ventilator support. For this purpose, the GMCH had discharged or moved all other non-Covid patients from the medicine building to the surgical building. However, it has been observed that due to lack of management and instructions many patients are not being screened for Covid-19 before they are moved to a particular ward. This poses a threat of getting infected not only for the health staff, but also for other patients. On Saturday, a 65-year-old woman from Qile Ark was initially admitted to the general ward of the hospital in the surgery building where a number of nurses, doctors and support staff came in contact with her. This woman later tested positive for Covid-19 after her throat swab sample was sent for testing. Following this, the hospital administration has quarantined the seven nurses, four resident doctors and an intern who came in contact with the patient in the quarantine facility.Arvind Gaikwad, nodal officer for media interaction at GMCH, told TOI that initially the woman was asymptomatic. "Later, when she started showing Covid-19 symptoms her swab sample was tested. The medical staff had exposure to the patient that is why they have been quarantined to be on a safer side," Gaikwad said. "Instructions have been issued to ensure that all suspected patients are moved to dedicated Covid Hospital in the medicine building and are kept there until they test negative for the virus," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-quarantines-12-staff-after-contact-with-ve-case/articleshow/75436318.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Devaswoms have a jumbo task at hand||THRISSUR: March-April used to be the busiest months for elephants belonging to various devaswoms in the state as the festival season would be at its peak during this period. Also, it provided devaswoms with some income in the form of rentals. However, Covid-19 has brought everything to a halt and major devaswoms in the state are now spending from their own funds to keep the elephants in good health. With Guruvayur, Travancore, and Cochin devaswoms allotting funds to feed elephants, the elephants are having a peaceful and unexpected vacation. Guruvayur devaswom, which has 47 elephants and over 100 mahouts, provides food and assistance to the mahouts and elephants during the lockdown period. “We provide a set of 10 palm leaves each, banana stem and grass to the elephants. Some elephants with health concerns are additionally fed with ‘palkanji’ (porridge cooked in milk) during the lockdown period,” said Guruvayur devaswom deputy administrator S Sasidharan. “We are also strictly following social distancing for mahouts and elephants in the camp. We have provided masks and sanitizers to the mahouts. The mahouts will continue to be at Punnathurkotta till the lockdown is withdrawn,” said Sasidharan. Of the 47 elephants, the devaswom normally sends 25 for parades. “Due to the cancellation of festivals, the devaswom incurred a loss of Rs 25 lakh this year. Per day, we spend Rs 3,000 to feed each elephant and Rs 5,000 to arrange food for mahouts,” he added. Travancore devaswom board (TDB) commissioner B S Thirumeni said the board has 27 elephants and the devaswom is providing food and treatment to all of them. The elephants are kept on the premises of various temples under TDB. “The board follows the Covid-19 restrictions for the elephant too,” said Thirumeni. Cochin devaswom board owns eight elephants and six of them are camped near Vadakkunnathan stand in Thrissur while two are kept on temple premises. “The board is providing food and medicines to the elephants. We have also directed to follow social distancing norms in the wake of Covid-19,” said Cochin devaswom board president A B Mohanan. Earlier, the state government had allotted Rs 5 crore to feed captive elephants under private owners during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/devaswoms-have-a-jumbo-task-at-hand/articleshow/75434949.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Two arrested for obstructing health workers in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: Six persons were booked on Tuesday in Haridwar for resisting and misbehaving with health workers in two different areas. While two have been arrested, four of the accused are absconding. In the first incident, a team of health workers had gone to conduct screenings in Makhanpur village, Bhagwanpur police station, which is close to the containment zone area of Bhagwanpur, where two cases of Covid-19 were found. Some villagers accused the health workers of collecting data for the National Register of Citizens (NRC), snatched their register and struck out information. They also stopped the team from continuing their survey. A case against them was registered under sections 147 (Punishment of rioting), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation), 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), of Indian Penal code and section 51 B of Disaster Management act. While one was arrested, four others are absconding. In the other case, a woman from Manglore area stopped health teams. She has been arrested. Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Health teams were conducting a survey in Bhagwanpur and Manglore region outside the containment zone, where they were obstructed by local residents. Two accused have been arrested and police are trying to nab the others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-arrested-for-obstructing-health-workers-in-haridwar/articleshow/75436332.cms||MS Nawaz
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||Trying to get high, 26-year-old consumes ethanol, dies||Bhopal: For a 26-year-old Ayurveda student, an attempt at getting high amid the nationwide Coronavirus curbs proved fatal. A postgraduate student of Ayurveda died on Monday, after he and his roommate allegedly consumed ethanol after mixing it in cold drink as a substitute for liquor in Kamla Nagar locality. The other roommate too fell ill and had also received treatment. Kamla Nagar police registered a case in the matter and were waiting for postmortem report to ascertain the cause of death. SHO Kamla Nagar SI Vijay Sisodia said that the deceased Ratnesh Sahu, 26, hailed from Garha town in Sagar district and was a postgraduate student in Ayurvedic Medical Science at a college in Bhopal. SHO Sisodia said that Sahu resided at a rented room in Shabri Nagar along with his roommate Aman Mehra, who hails from Gwalior, and is also a PG student in Ayurvedic Medical Sciences at another college. Mehra told police that on Saturday evening, Sahu brought ethanol from somewhere. Both mixed the alcohol solution in cold drink and consumed it. Next day on Sunday evening, Sahu complained of restlessness and pain in abdomen after which Mehra rushed him to JP hospital. They did not mention to the doctors that they had consumed ethanol. Later, when the doctors questioned the Mehra on what the duo had consumed, the roommate told them the truth. SI Sisodia said that Sahu died while undergoing treatment at the hospital around 5am on Monday. Around the same time, Mehra too fell ill and was admitted at the hospital. The doctors informed Kamla Nagar police about Sahu’s death after which cops reached the spot and recorded his roommate’s statements and registered a case. Meanwhile, Mehra has been discharged from hospital but his condition was not well, said SI Sisodia. He added that investigations are on but it seems that the roommates consumed ethanol as a substitute for liquor without realising that it was dangerous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/trying-to-get-high-26-year-old-consumes-ethanol-dies/articleshow/75438258.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||Industries pin hopes on Goa CM’s nod for lower power bills||PANAJI: Proposals addressing relief sought by local industries over waiver of fixed electricity charges and payment of wages through funds available with the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) have reached the chief minister’s office,industry officials said. Sectors like tourism, manufacturing, ship-building and industry bodies have now pinned their hopes on Pramod Sawant giving his nod as soon as possible. Goa State Industries Association, Confederation of Indian Industry and other industry bodies had asked the chief minister to waive off the additional power charges for the lockdown period as a majority of the factories were closed. “The chief electrical engineer has prepared a scheme and after going to the power mnister on Monday evening, it has reached the CMO. A decision is awaited from the chief minister’s side,” said GSIA president Damodar Kochkar. The industry had asked the power department to raise bills based on the actual consumption of power at the lowest tariffs for March 2020. Kochkar also said that the state labour commissioner has prepared a note to be sent to the Centre regarding the latter’s decision to pay the employee provident fund (EPF) contribution of both the employer and the employee for three months. The note has reached the CMO and will be sent to the Centre after Sawant grants approval. Kochkar said that a proposal to pay the wages of employees with funds lying with the ESIC has also been sent to Sawant so that he can take it up with the Centre. Regarding the industry’s call for ease of doing business and transparency, a revamped Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) website is being launched, said Kochkar. “GIDC’s online platform is ready. Final presentation to industries is pending before launch,” he said. However, an appeal to the state government to provide financial support to pay the wages of employees has elicited no response and the various sectors have now pinned their hopes on a stimulus package from the Centre. Industry heads have also pointed out that the state government has delayed payments to small enterprises in Goa. GSIA submitted a separate letter on this issue and also submitted the bills details to the government.The departments have now asked for details regarding the exact stage at which the bills are stuck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/industries-pin-hopes-on-cms-nod-for-lower-power-bills/articleshow/75438268.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Kodagu youth arrested for rape attempt on minor||MADIKERI: A youth from Nellihudikeri near Siddapur in Kodagu was arrested by police on Monday after he allegedly attempted to rape a minor girl. Accused Deepak, 25, was arrested under the POCSO Act. After he attempted to rape the girl, three persons from Bettadakadu village — Shabir, Najib and Basheer — assaulted him. Deepak sustained head injuries in the attack. Police registered a case against the trio and arrested them too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/youth-arrested-for-rape-attempt-on-minor/articleshow/75434946.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Lockdown forces zoo officials to source buffalo meat for big cats||JAIPUR: The shortage of red meat due to closure of shops in the city owing to lockdown has forced the authorities to procure buffaloes to meet the food requirements of 17 big cats at the Nahargarh Biological Park. According to officials, chickens can’t fulfil the food needs of lions, tigers and leopards. Therefore, buffaloes will be procured from nearby districts. One buffalo every day is enough to meet the food demand of big cats of park. The slaughter will take place within the park or at the government slaughter house at Chainpura in the city, officials said. Deputy conservator of forest and wildlife Sudarshan Sharma said animals need at least 100 kilogram of meat every day. “One buffalo every day is sufficient. This is an expensive procedure to transport the buffaloes to Jaipur but it is the need of the hour. We pay Rs 100 per kilogram of red meat. Though chicken can be provided but for the big cats, buffalo meat gives more energy,” said Sharma. Sharma said, “We usually slaughter buffaloes at our park and some at the slaughter house in Chainpura. As we do not have enough sanitation employees at the park premises due to pandemic, slaughtering animals every day is problematic. So, we take help from government slaughter house,” he explained. At the government slaughter house, a veterinary doctor is always present to conduct check-up of animals brought in for slaughter. The doctor gives fitness certificate to the animals. This process takes hours. Other carnivores like jackals usually prefer chicken which is available locally. The zoo keeper who gives meat to the animals is provided with PPE kit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-forces-zoo-officials-to-source-buffalo-meat-for-big-cats/articleshow/75438265.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
April 29, 2020||Delhi||‘Revert to open court hearing after lockdown’||New Delhi: At a time when courts are turning to virtual hearings to keep the wheels of justice moving during the lockdown, the Bar Council of India (BCI) expressed reservations over it becoming the norm.The statutory body for advocates in the country cautioned that virtual hearings could never replace open court hearings and urged the Chief Justice of India to revert to the latter once the lockdown ended.“If such practice was encouraged and allowed to continue, there was not an iota of doubt that more than 95% of the advocates of the country would become brief less and work less and the practice of law would be confined to a limited group of lawyers and justice delivery would be badly affected,” BCI chairman Manan Mishra said in a letter addressed to CJI SA Bobde on Tuesday.Manan’s letter argued that resorting to technology and video conference hearings in times of a pandemic could be the “need of the hour” but termed as “impractical” the notion that it should be extended once the lockdown ended. The BCI also wanted the courts to explore ways in which physical hearings could be conducted in case the lockdown got extended, where social distancing could be maintained yet courts too functioned.The letter countered those advocating a greater say for virtual hearings in court proceedings and said many lawyers, retired judges “and even some sitting judges of the Supreme Court were oblivious to the ground realities of India. They were thinking on such a tangent and making such utopian plans, which was as if, they were planning upon implementing and executing such ideas for a fully developed nation like UK, USA, or in some other country other than India.”Pointing out that justice should be able to permeate the rural as well as urban areas, the BCI chairman argued that technology could at best help in justice delivery system but “to propose to have court proceedings being heard and decided only on video with judge and two party concerned all sitting at different places” could not be accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/revert-to-open-court-hearing-after-lockdown/articleshow/75460255.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 29, 2020||Goa||Sigh of relief: Marella seafarers reach Goa, to be quarantined at Patto hotel for 14 days||PANAJI: Seafarers from Marella Discovery reached Goa on Tuesday. While two buses arrived by late night, one was delayed as the driver took a route through Pune to drop a seafarer off in the vicinity. Ports secretary P S Reddy, who was overseeing their return, said that the buses didn’t have the permit to travel via Karnataka as a result of which they travelled via Kolhapur, Kankavli and Sawantwadi to Goa. “The delay was also a result of the heavy checking at almost each taluka in Maharashtra where movement is restricted,” Reddy said, adding that they will be quarantined for 14 days at Ginger hotel at Patto, Panaji. The crew will not be made to pay for the quarantine. “Their samples will be taken and sent for testing on Wednesday,” Reddy said. The seafarers disembarked at Mumbai port on April 23 after the central government issued the SOP for sign off. They received clearance to leave the state after their Covid-19 test results came negative. Meanwhile the Goa Seamen Association of India met the ports secretary and NRI commission officials, appealing to them not to charge either seafarers or their companies for the quarantine facilities. President of the association Frank Viegas said Goa is the only state that is talking about paid quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sigh-of-relief-marella-seafarers-reach-goa-to-be-quarantined-at-patto-hotel-for-14-days/articleshow/75438253.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Garbage output dips 40% in city due to pandemic||Jaipur: Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has said there has been a 40% decline in trash generation in the city since lockdown. Before the city was shut, JMC was collecting around 1,450 tons of garbage every day which has now come down to 950 tons. According to the civic authorities, the reason for this decline is the closure of all public places, eateries, parks and tourist attractions. Executive engineer (projects) at JMC Banne Singh said, “There has been a sharp decline as people are not coming out of their houses. Roads are empty and there are no street vendors especially in the Walled City area. We are working every day but garbage generation is low.” When everything was normal, 580 hoopers in the city usually did 2,400 rounds every day. This has now gone down to 1,800 rounds as trash generation is low. Rajesh Chaudhary, manager of BVG company responsible for garbage collection in the city, said with low garbage, the number of rounds have been reduced. “Earlier one hooper was used for three colonies, but now it is covering four. In hotspot areas like Ramganj, only sanitation workers go inside and dump garbage outside at fixed points from where we pick up,” he said. The pandemic has also led to an increase in biomedical waste. PPE kits, masks and gloves consist of major portion of the biomedical waste in the city. There is a plant on Agra Road where such waste is dumped. A firm has been given the contract for the disposal of waste generated from hospitals and quarantines centres in Jaipur. The JMC is paying Rs 2,000 per quarantine centres as it is a highly toxic waste that cannot be disposed of on landfill sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/garbage-output-dips-40-in-city-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/75438255.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||20-year-old who returned from Mumbai ‘hidden in a truck’ tests positive||BAREILLY: A 20-year-old youth who returned from Mumbai to his village in Bareilly hidden in a truck over the weekend tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally of coronavirus patients to eight, including six people who have recovered. According to officials, the man had reached Shahbazpur Supalli village under Ramnagar block of Bareilly district on Sunday night along with another person. Upon learning of their return, the village residents sent the duo to the nearby community health centre (CHC) where doctors referred them to a hospital for Covid-19 test. The test results which came on Tuesday showed the youth had contracted the infection but the other person tested negative. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The patient reached here hiding in a truck. We will shift the patient to community health centre in Bithri Chainpur which has been designated as a Covid-19 level-one hospital.” The health department is now tracing all those the patient may have come in contact with, district surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said. Earlier, on Monday, a 35-year-old man — who the health department officials have identified as a quack — also tested positive for the virus. All 35 contacts of the man, a native of Hajiyapur in Bareilly city, tested negative. But since the man has no travel history and his family members have claimed that he hadn’t come in contact with anybody who tested positive, the health department has started pool testing of locals living in a radius of one km from the patient's house, which is now a containment zone. The containment zone has a population of nearly 1.97 lakh, according to health officials. A team led by district epidemiologist Dr Meesam Abbas also visited Hajiyapur to look for active cases and to trace those who came in contact with the patient. A mobile medical unit was deployed in Hajiyapur which collected the samples of the residents for pool testing of Covid-19. Besides, 30 teams are conducting door-to-door survey to identify suspected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-year-old-who-returned-from-mumbai-hidden-in-a-truck-tests-positive/articleshow/75434966.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goa University defers hike in PG course fees||PANAJI: Taking into account the disruption of the academic calendar caused due the lockdown, the Goa University (GU) has decided not to hike any fees for its postgraduate programmes for the upcoming academic year 2020-21. Neither tuition nor examination fees will be hiked, the officials said. Usually, an annual hike of 5% is implemented in the fees for postgraduate programmes by the university. In September 2019, GU had carried out a review of its fee structure after many years. Moving away from the norm of the annual 5% hike, the university had decided to up the examination fees for postgraduate programmes between 5% and 30%, depending on the course. This hike of upto 30% in exam fees for some programmes was effected due to an increase in the remuneration for examiners. But, after criticism, the GU academic council retracted its decision and decided to limit the hike in fees for 2019-20 to 5% for all programmes. This year, the lockdown and the uncertainty over when it will be lifted, has led GU to rule out a fee hike altogether. Already the lockdown came when syllabus was still remaining to be completed for the current academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-defers-hike-in-pg-course-fees/articleshow/75438286.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat lets asymptomatic patients self-isolate||AHMEDABAD: Based on guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 patients issued by the central government, Gujarat on Tuesday announced that the patients will be allowed to self-isolation but will have to follow strict conditions. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said that the notification from the central government arrived on Monday. “The provision is only for those who are asymptomatic or who have mild or moderate symptoms. The patient will have to follow several conditions. Whether these conditions are being fulfilled will be checked by designated officials,” she said. Another person will have to be designated as caretaker for the patient and will be given a hydroxychloroquine course, said Ravi. Dr Prakash Vaghela, additional director (health), in a notification on Tuesday, stated that the state has recorded 3,548 cases of Covid-19 so far. Of them, 70% are found to be asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. ‘These patients can be kept in home isolation based on the government of India guidelines,’ the notification states. As the number of cases increased, the state government had started shifting asymptomatic patients, mainly those between 15 and 55 years, to various Covid care centres such as Samras Hostel in Ahmedabad, to reduce the burden on the hospitals. These centres have medical staff deployed along with means to carry out regular health check-ups. In another announcement on Tuesday, Ravi said that they have approached members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and have asked the office-bearers to ensure functioning of hospitals and clinics. “We have told the associations in stern words that OPDs should be functional,” said Ravi. “The figures we got today indicate that about 605 hospitals and 400 clinics in Ahmedabad have started functioning. Across Gujarat, about 2,166 have become functional.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-lets-asymptomatic-patients-self-isolate/articleshow/75438289.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Capgemini suspends FY20 revenue outlook||BENGALUR: French IT services firm Capgemini has followed Accenture, Infosys and Wipro in suspending its revenue guidance due to the uncertainty generated by the pandemic. Its chairman and CEO Paul Hermelin said that in the new environment, the group expects the second quarter to be challenging, before a gradual recovery in the third and fourth quarters. He said the company can confidently rely on the higher resilience of its business model and sustained demand for digital and cloud services. “However, considering the level of uncertainty, specifically the speed of demand recovery exiting the lockdown, Capgemini is not in position to commit to an outlook for 2020 at this stage,” he said. Capgemini said 95% of its employees are working from home and the swift implementation enabled it to offer a host of client services that reflected in the first quarter growth performance. Capgemini posted revenue of 3.5 billion in the March quarter, up 2.3% in constant currency. Digital and cloud revenues continued to grow rapidly (about 20% at constant exchange rates) to account for over 50% of group revenues. North America, which accounts for 32% of its revenue, de-grew 0.6% compared to the same period last year. Paul Hermelin and Aiman Ezzat, who will become the group CEO following the shareholders’ meeting on May 20, have decided to forgo 25% of their 2020 total compensation as executive directors. “In addition, during the period of implementation of partial unemployment in France, their unpaid compensation as executive directors will be transferred to the Institut Pasteur to finance research initiatives on Covid-19. Significant efforts have also been requested from all the group’s senior executives with respect to their variable compensation,” the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/capgemini-suspends-fy20-revenue-outlook/articleshow/75437544.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||After youth tests Covid-19 positive, three Pilibhit villages sealed||PILIBHIT: Two days after a youth tested positive for coronavirus in Pilibhit's Amaria tehsil, district administration sealed three villages in the district. Barricades have been erected and police deployed at Tondarpur village in Amaria tehsil,where the youth was staying, and two villages he visited -- Sundarpur village under Pilibhit tehsil circle, and Tanaya village under Bisalpur tehsil. The samples of one resident of Sundarpur have been sent for testing. Chandra Bhan Singh, SDM, Bisalpur, said, “We have completely banned the entry and exit of people at the village and have got the entire village sanitised properly." Supply chain would be maintained in accordance with protocol, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-youth-tests-covid-19-positive-three-pilibhit-villages-sealed/articleshow/75434985.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Collectors of biomedical waste put lives on the line||BHUBANESWAR: At a time when the novel coronavirus has forced million to stay indoors, the biomedical waste collectors have been risking lives for their job and braving grave odds amid the pandemic. About 40 bio-medical waste collectors — who are engaged in the lone incineration facility in Khurda — have been gathering 700kg of biomedical waste from eight Covid-19 hospitals and testing laboratories (operating in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Jajpur) and transporting them to the facility for combustion on a daily basis. “We are taking proper care of all our workers. They have been given protective gear and food and multivitamin tablets that boost immunity. We have also assured them a pay hike for motivation,” Mahesh Agrawal, owner of Sani Clean Private Limited, said, adding that his company was strictly following the guidelines set out by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on handling hazardous waste. “Around 17 of our workers did not report to work when we first started collecting the waste from Covid-19 hospitals. While some said they were stranded owing to the country-wide lockdown, the others were just too scared,” Agrawal added. According to CPCB guidelines, all hospitals will have to pack the biomedical waste, including PPEs, used by Covid-19 patients and health workers treating them in air-tight biodegradable bags and seal them. The waste collectors will then collect the bags (wearing protective gear) from the hospitals in biohazard vans and directly put them in the incinerator. The vans are being sanitized before the loading and unloading of the waste. “We directly put the bags in the incinerator. It is my duty to serve the mankind in this unprecedented times, just like the doctors and the nurses,” Pramod Sani (40), one of the biomedical waste collectors, said. “It is important to do the work with extreme caution. A minor mistake on my part can put hundreds at risk. Though my family members are worried, I did not miss work for a single day,” Sani added. The company has been collecting waste from Tata Medica (Covid hospital) in Jajpur, Ashwini Covid Hospital in Cuttack, KIMS Covid Hospital, RMRC Covid collection unit, Apollo Hospital, Capital Hospital (Covid unit), SUM Covid Hospital and AIIMS (Covid hospital) in Bhubaneswar. “As non-covid patients are not visiting hospitals owing to the lockdown or fear over virus transmission, the collection of bio-medical waste from other healthcare facilities has drastically reduced. Currently, the focus is on Covid-19 hospitals,” Agrawal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/collectors-of-biomedical-waste-put-lives-on-the-line/articleshow/75435021.cms||Minati Singha
April 29, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Cop celebrates birthday violating lockdown norms||HAVERI: A video of Ranebennur rural circle inspector Suresh Sagari celebrating his birthday attended by hundreds of people at Medleri village has gone viral. Surprisingly, a rowdy-sheeter too is seen taking part in the party that was organised on April 24. The celebration in violation of lockdown orders has drawn flak from villagers. Some villagers submitted a memorandum to IGP East Davanegere S Ravi on Monday and demanded stern action against the police inspector. In the memorandum, villagers condemned the incident. They stated that the police officer, who was supposed to ensure people adhered to lockdown, himself violated the norms by inviting many people to his birthday. They alleged that people attending the birthday did not follow social distancing norms. They also took strong objection to the cop hobnobbing with the rowdy-sheeter as seen in the video. When contacted, IGP Ravi said he has received a complaint from the villagers. “I will order a probe into the incident and initiate action against the police circle inspector if necessary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cop-celebrates-birthday-violating-lockdown-norms/articleshow/75435024.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Chennai||TN sees highest-ever one-day spike of 121 cases; 103 in city||Chennai: For the first time, Chennai’s Covid-19 positive count rose by three digits on Tuesday as Tamil Nadu recorded its highest-ever daily count. Chennai accounted for 103 of the 121 new cases in the state. A 68-year-old man from Chennai admitted to a private hospital died taking the death toll to 25. On Tuesday, the daily average increase in infections in Chennai stood at 9.4% compared to 3.7% for all of Tamil Nadu and 7.1% for the country as a whole. Alarmed by the rate of infection in Chennai, the state health department has proposed aggressive city-specific containment measures. Each corporation zone will have a senior official each from administration and police to oversee disinfection, contact tracing, quarantine, testing and hospitalisation. Senior epidemiologists, public health officials and doctors, besides 300 multipurpose staff from the state health department, will be deputed to work in more than 200 containment zones of the city. The containment plan is at a micro level and is likely to be rolled out on Wednesday. “You will soon see officials making public announcements of a Covid-19 case in the area. Asking possible contacts to volunteer for testing,” said senior health department official. “The size and population of the city is huge. It need more support on all fronts to fight the war. That include people’s participation,” the official said. The decision was made after Chennai consistently reported a large number of clusters in the last one week. On Tuesday, at least four more vendors from Koyambedu market complex tested positive. So far there are at least a dozen vendors in the complex who have tested positive. Each of these vendors has infected at least five people. “What we are seeing these days is just clusters. When contacts of positive people are taken for testing many are positive,” said a corporation health department official. The police station in Nungambakkam had to be closed for disinfection after two police officials tested positive. Now two more have tested positive. When one of the enumeration staff at an apartment in Mylapore tested positive, the civic officials asked all residents in the block to come for testing. “So far ten of them in the block are positive. This includes two infants and a 55-year-old woman. None of them had any symptoms,” said a senior health officer in the zone. In another case, 10 people including a five-day-old child in Chengalpattu district were infected. During contact tracing, officials found that a pregnant woman from the district had attended a birthday party at Korukuppet. “A day later, she delivered at a private hospital. Two days after her delivery, she showed symptoms of Covid-19. Today, her baby and her close contacts are all positive,” a senior officialssaid. The district reported a dozen cases on Tuesday. Meanwhile, many other districts were able bring down the infections. At least two districts – Nilgiris and Erode – had no cases. While the first doubling period from 234 cases to 485 cases happened between April 1 and April 4, the second doubling period happened between April 4 and 11, when the number of cases rose to 969. On Monday, the state had one number less than 1,938, which was the exact double. On Tuesday, when the state crossed 2,058, epidemiologists recorded it as the third doubling period. At the end of the day, after the hospitals discharged 27 people, there were 902 people in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-sees-highest-ever-one-day-spike-of-121-cases-103-in-city/articleshow/75438287.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Active cases rose by 9% a day in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The city has seen a decline in the growth rate of active cases. After reporting 20% growth every day in terms of active cases, the city is now witnessing a growth rate of 9%. Data for the last four days reveals that on April 24, the city had 1,595 cases and on the evening of the 27th, the city had 2,016 cases. The daily growth was thus less than 9%. However, since April 24 there has been a 1.4 percentage point increase in the active case growth rate. The increase in active cases was 7.3% on April 25, 8.24% on April 26 and 8.73% on the evening of April 27. The increase in active cases was high in the western part of the city including areas such as Satellite, Bodakdev, Naranpura, Ellisbridge, Paldi, Ambawadi and Memnagar among others. On April 24 the West, North West and South West Zones had 191 cases, which increased by 63 to 259 in three days. The six ‘red zones’ areas of Jamalpur, Khadia, Shahpur , Dariapur, Behrampura and Danilimda continued to top the charts. The Central and South Zones, in which these areas lie, had 1,232 cases on April 24 and 1,455 cases on April 27. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said the AMC has been able bring down the active case growth rate because of its surveillance and testing strategy. Nehra said that on average, 600 teams surveyed one lakh houses a day and were able to identify a high number of positive cases. These teams have so far collected 18,220 samples and of these 1,263 persons tested positive. Nehra said that the AMC has conducted 23,702 tests so far, which was by far the highest tests per million figure in the country. “The city is now matching the per million tests ratio of developed countries and is almost three times higher than that of Delhi. On Wednesday, the city will touch the figure of 4,000 tests per million,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-rose-by-9-a-day/articleshow/75438288.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
April 29, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara sends home 29 patients||VADODARA: In yet another en masse discharge of Covid-19 patients, as many as 29 people returned home from the Covid care centre on Ajwa Road and two hospitals in the city on Tuesday. While 25 persons were discharged from the Ebrahim Bawani ITI on Ajwa Road, three recovered in GMERS, Gotri and one in Solace Hospital. The institute, which has been converted into Covid care centre, had earlier set a record by releasing 45 Covid-19 patients on a single day on April 23. All were from Nagarwada area, which has been declared a red zone, due to massive spike in coronavirus cases. The 25 patients discharged on Tuesday from here are also from the same area. Salman Dudhwala, a businessman from Nagarwada, who was one of the 25 discharged, said that he had stayed at the care centre for around 18 days. “We had minimum interaction with each other and maintained social distancing in the centre too. Most of our time was spent praying and reading. The facilities there were very good and doctors took good care of us,” said Dudhwala. Three persons were also discharged from the GMERS, Gotri hospital. These included a father-son duo from Nagarwada - Vijay Rajput (27) and his nine-year-old son Jigar. Jigar is the third child to have recovered in the hospital. Siddhi Patel, wife for former councillor Pranay Patel from Amdavadi Pol, also walked out fit from the Solace Hospital. A woman from Bodeli town in Chhota Udepur district was also discharged from the GMERS, Gotri hospital on Tuesday. Two other patients from Bodeli were discharged from a Covid care centre in Chhota Udepur.Social activist Zuber Gopalani, who is coordinating work at the ITI, said that the entire group discharged from the facility was keen on becoming plasma donors. “We do not have a facility for plasma treatment as of now. But as and when it's set up, they will donate plasma."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-sends-home-29-patients/articleshow/75435084.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Two women among 31 held for pelting stones at cops||AURANGABAD: Three policemen were injured in a stone-pelting incident that took place on Monday evening in Bidkin village of Paithan tehsil — falling under the jurisdiction of Aurangabad rural police. Following this 31 people, including two women, were arrested for violating the lockdown and pelting stones at the policemen. According to police, around 8pm, a cleric reached the mosque to offer prayers and he was soon joined by other people from the locality. After learning about the violation of lockdown, a police patrolling team reached the area. After the completion of prayers, the police team rounded up all those who had gathered at the mosque and put them in a police van. Bidkin police station’s assistant inspector Rajendra Bansode said, “While some of the suspects readily sat in the police van, some resisted. This resulted in to an altercation and was followed by stone pelting, leaving two constables and a police sub-inspector injured.” Taking advantage of the dark, some of them managed to flee the spot. However, 15 suspects were rounded up and brought to the police station. Later, with the help of locals, police managed to arrest 17 more suspects including two women. Aurangabad (rural) superintendent of police Mokshada Patil also rushed to the spot on Monday night. On Tuesday, too, she visited the village and reviewed the overall situation. Speaking to the reporters, she said, “So far, we have arrested 31 people. We will ensure time-bound completion of investigation and foolproof chargesheet ending in conviction in the court of law.” The police officer informed that the injured policemen were referred to a hospital in Aurangabad and have been discharged. Bansode said, “The cleric has claimed that there were only two to three people in the mosque, but soon others joined them. In one of the FIRs, the cleric has been named as an accused for violating the lockdown orders and has been slapped with sections of IPC, National Disaster Management Act as well as The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.” He added, “Sixty-three other identified accused have been booked on charges of using criminal force for obstructing government employees from performing their duties, unlawful assembly, rioting, voluntarily causing hurt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-women-among-31-held-for-pelting-stones-at-cops/articleshow/75436351.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Midday meals to run during summer vacation in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state education department has decided to extend the midday meal programme during summer vacations in order to provide a nutritious meal to government school students. The proposal to provide the meal in summer was approved by the Centre during a meeting between Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhariyal and state education ministers through video-conferencing on Tuesday. Interestingly, the proposal was moved by state education minister Govind Singh Dotasara in a letter to the Union minister almost a week ago. Several states have also shown interest in the proposal to provide midday meals to its students. ..हस्तक्षेप का निवेदन किया।4. ग्रीष्मकालीन अवकाश में भी पात्र बच्चों को #मिड-डे मील उनके घरों तक पहुँचाने के मेरे… https://t.co/0RqRuq8hAg— Govind Singh Dotasra (@GovindDotasra) 1588076701000“The lockdown has taken away the livelihood of people especially in the rural areas. The department is just ensuring that none of our student should suffer due to the lockdown. The midday meal will ensure nutritious diet to them at least once a day for 6 days a week,” said Dotasra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/midday-meals-to-run-during-summer-vacation/articleshow/75438282.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded university donates Rs 9.75 lakh||AURANGABAD: The Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwadad University (SRTMU), Nanded has donated a sum of Rs 9.75 lakh to the state government in its fight against Covid-19. The money was generated out of voluntarily contribution of one-day salary of employees and staff, an official release said. Earlier, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University, Aurangabad, had donated Rs 17.55 lakh towards chief minister’s Relief Fund during the outbreak of current pandemic. SRTMU public relations officer Ashok Kadam on Tuesday said that the statutory authorities and members of the teaching and non-teaching staff voluntarily contributed their day’s salary for the cause. “Chief minister Udhhav Thackeray and Nanded district guardian minister Ashok Chavan had appealed for donations in the government’s fight against Covid-19. The university authorities and staff responded well to the appeal and money worth over Rs 9.75 lakh has been generated. The cheque of the same was handed over to Chavan on Monday,” he said. SRTMU vice-chancellor Udhav Bhosle has also appealed to all affiliated colleges to contribute in battle against Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-university-donates-rs-9-75l/articleshow/75436379.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Heena, the ray of hope at Jodhpur Covid-19 hotspot||JODHPUR: At Nagori Gate, one of Jodhpur’s hotspot zones, Dr Heena Aftab is a familiar face. Heena is popular not because she heads a four-member medical team for screening and sampling in the area, but for her positive attitude. Amidst the pandemic gloom and scare in the area, Heena shines as a ray of hope. Even while warning residents about Covid-19, she tries to spread cheer and motivate local residents to fight the pandemic by taking proper precautions. And one of the favourite ways is to pick up the mike and sing ‘Jeet Jayenge Hum, Hum Agar Sang Hain.’ Nagori Gate is under curfew and has reported 75 positive cases till now. The zone continues to give jitters to the administration and medical teams because of the hostile behavior of residents. “Intitally, the atmosphere was extremely tense in this locality as the residents, mostly from the Muslim community, had their own concerns, perceptions and priorities,” says 30-year-old Heena, a unani doctor. The first few days were marked by utter misbehavior and non-cooperation by people. But then changing her approach, she decided to give patient hearing to their concerns. “Mostly people here are daily wagers, illiterate and underprivileged with about 12-15 members at least in a house. There concerns were food and milk. But they were not allowed to go out due to curfew,” said Heena, who is coordinating with the administration to address their basic needs. A local volunteer from the area Zakir Bhai said it was the determination and devotion of Heena that people here are now so forthcoming for screening and sampling, which was unimaginable earlier. Heena started interacting with people, learning about their lives and would often crack jokes about the ‘Chinese virus’ besides holding discussions about ‘Hindustan’s war on the virus.’ Gradually, she managed to convince them. “It is because of her that people are now coming to madrasas and mosques in their area to give swab samples for testing. They are doing it on her call,” Zakir said. Samplings, which was barely 50 per day in the area, has now shot up to more than double. So far, over 1,350 samples have been taken. She played a crucial role in tracing the chain of the first positive patient, who belonged to a big family and has now recovered and returned home. Uncle of the patient said Heena was so humble and cooperative that not only us, but all from the area have agreed to support her. Her husband, veterinary surgeon Zahim Ahmed Quazi, understands the importance of the work she has been doing. “I am proud of her,” he said. But her two children Faizan (4) and Shavez (1), currently under the care of her in-laws, have to wait for at least 90 minutes after she returns from duty to hop onto her lap. “Safety and precautions are of highest priority here. I could not risk the lives of my family members so I go to my children after disposing of medical accessories, washing my clothes and bathing,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/heena-the-ray-of-hope-at-jodhpur-hotspot/articleshow/75438290.cms||Ajay Parmar
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||90-year-old first slays nCov, then clot in lung||Rajkot: Family of 90-year-old Rasul Rathod was rapturous on learning that he had successfully fought back novel coronavirus infection on April 20. But unlike other 20 patients who recovered, Rathod could not walk out of the hospital.During his stay in Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital, Rathod developed pulmonary embolism, a blood clot in the artery in the lung that can be fatal many times. But eight days on, Rathod has slayed both life-threatening conditions and emerged victorious. In fact, he is the second oldest Covid-19 patient in Gujarat to have fully recovered. Earlier, 92-year-old Razaak Kadri, also a resident of Bhavnagar was discharged from the hospital on April 16. Rasul Rathod, 90, was discharged from the Sir T Hospital on Tuesday. The hospital staff gave him a rousing applause as Rathod was brought out on a wheel chair. Dr. Sunil Panjvani of Sir T Hospital said, “It’s fairly common that a patient develops embolism during the Covid. In some patients, blood pressure drops due to embolism and this can be fatal. In Rasulbhai’s case, his blood pressure did not drop and that’s why we could save him.” Interestingly, the state health department has asked Sir T Hospital to send the report of his treatment to all the government hospitals treating Covid patients as case study. A resident of Madhiya Fali in Vadva that adjoins other cluster quarantined areas, Rathod was admitted on April 3 as he had high fever and cough. He tested positive the next day. “As he did not use mobile phone, he did not know what was going on around him. However, we informed him that he needs to stay in isolation ward,” a doctor said. Rathod, who worked in a textile mill, has been living a retired life for the last four decades. His 25-year-old grandson had tested positive when samples of the family were taken. Rathod’s son Iqbal told TOI: “My father is very aged and can’t walk much. He goes out once in a day to sit with other persons of his age. We were surprised how he got infected with coronavirus. He doesn’t even have diabetes or blood pressure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/90-year-old-first-slays-ncov-then-clot-in-lung/articleshow/75436382.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Personal care, F&B to bounce back: EY||Bengaluru: Personal care, food & beverage, and home care are expected to recover faster as compared to other retail categories, as these products are essentials and will be consumed irrespective of whether an individual stays at home or not, according to a report by consulting firm EY. Furniture, electronics and appliances are expected to recover relatively slowly as consumers are expected to be frugal on spends on discretionary products in the near term. The unorganised retail and local kirana stores, which have performed better than bigger online ones, make a case for retailing to become even more localised in the future, it said. “Three possible trends that will emerge after this pandemic will be increased focus on health and wellbeing, higher demand for value brands, and accelerated adoption of online,” Pinakiranjan Mishra, partner and national leader, consumer products and retail at EY India, said. The report says that consumer behaviour is set to shift across three horizons - now, next and beyond phases. In the ‘now’ phase, consumers are stockpiling essential goods and there is significant surge in e-commerce and digital payments, while kirana stores continue to host smaller crowds, in both urban and rural areas. In the ‘next’ phase, daily life will resume, but health and economic concerns will reduce consumer confidence. Online adoption will continue to accelerate ‘beyond’ the crisis, EY said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/personal-care-fb-to-bounce-back-ey/articleshow/75437570.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Madurai||‘ Atrocities against dalits continue under lockdown too’||Madurai: Citing that caste atrocities against dalits continue to be prevalent in the state despite lockdown, Evidence, a Madurai-based NGO has urged the state government to detain all those involved in such incidents under the Goondas Act.In a statement, executive director of Evidence, A Kathir said that a survey undertaken by the NGO members has revealed that 25 incidents, including two murders were reported during the past one month.A dalit youth, Sudhakar, who was in love with a woman belonging to another community in Tiruvannamalai district was murdered by her father and relatives on March 29.In another incident, a police constable Eswaran attached to the Puthupalayam police station in Thiruvannamalai district assaulted a dalit, Gowthamapriyan for talking to a girl belonging to his (Eswaran’s) community on March 31. Kathir noted that as many as 15 people threatened the dalits to handover their lands in Tiruvannamalai district on April 24. Since they refused, people belonging to another community brutally assaulted them in which seven dalits sustained injuries. In yet another incident, about 50 people attacked dalits in Kottaipatti village near Nilakottai in Dindigul district on April 27 after one of them, Tamilselvan, who had married a woman from another community had returned to the village.The couple, who were residing in Theni district as they faced threat from the woman’s parents had returned to their village on April 22, after the woman gave birth to twins. When the woman’s brother came to know about this, he along with 50 people assaulted the dailts, Kathir claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/-atrocities-against-dalits-continue-under-lockdown-too/articleshow/75438278.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha: Two robots ready to lend helping hand in fight against Covid-19||BHUBANESWAR: The government ITI in Cuttack in association with SakRobotix, a robotics start-up, has developed two robots that can help in the fight against Covid-19. The robots can be used in the healthcare system and help in reducing risks for doctors, nurses and attendants attending to Covid-19 patients. These can also be used for surveillance and tele-consultation by doctors, who can interact remotely with patients through live video streaming. “Our trainers have taken 20 days to complete these robots. It was challenging to work with limited resources during the lockdown. SakRobotix was our knowledge partner and helped us with advanced technology to develop these robots,” said Hrushikesh Mohanty, principal of Government ITI, Cuttack. Out of the two robots, COBOT (Corona Combat Robot) is a service robot that has a humanoid structure and moves on wheels. It can carry load up to 20 kg in its hand-like structures and used in providing food, water and medicines to Covid-19 patients in hospitals. “It will reduce the health risks to nurses and attendants. The robots can also be controlled by using communication protocols,” Sakyasingh Mahapatra, founder of SakRobotix said. With a large number of doctors and healthcare service providers getting infected with Covid-19, the robot can be very helpful in hospitals. The second robot NIGABOT is a telepresence robot, which can be used for surveillance and teleconsultation by doctors. This robot can interact remotely with the patients through live video streaming. This robot is also movable and is enabled with a wheeled mobile platform and has an interactive device for video calling. It will be helpful for health workers who have to make several rounds of the patients’ bed to monitor their health. “This will reduce the risk of doctors and nurses from contracting the virus,” Mahapatra added. Earlier, several hospitals like Sawai Man Singh Hospital, Jaipur and a hospital in Kerala have used robots in providing care to Covid-19 patients. “We presented the robots to senior officers of Union MSME department and they highly appreciated it. We are working on adding some more features after discussing with doctors and asking about their needs. Now these robots are being operated through cellphones but we are working on adding computer programming to it so that it will be easy to operate. We are hopeful of hospital trails soon, said Mohanty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/2-robots-ready-to-lend-helping-hand-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75445955.cms||Minati Singha
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Engage migrant workers in farm activities’||AURANGABAD: Shetkari Kamgar Paksha and other activists from Latur on Tuesday demanded that the government engage migrant workers who have returned to their respective villages in farm-related activities under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGS). In a statement issued on Tuesday, a group of lawyers as well as activists, owing allegiance to the Shetkari Kamgar Paksha, said that the entire world was facing problems. Everybody, from the working class to the farmers, were going through a grim situation and could not find ways to make a living. “A large number of migrant workers have returned to their native villages. The sufferings of the farmers are also continuing unabated,” read the statement. It further read that in such a situation, the government should engage the migrant workers in farm-related works under the EGS and the MNREGS. A scheme could be worked out to suit the new situation so that the migrant workers could get some means of sustenance and even the farmers get some relief. Those who issued the statement included lawyers Uday Gaware, Sushil Somwanshi, Narayan Somwanshi, Shailesh Sarwade, Bhalchandra Kavthekar, Subhash Raichatte, N G Mane, Satish Deshmukh, Datta Somwanshi, Pandharinath Jadhav, eknath Kavthekar, Shivaji Surwase, Sugrive Kedar and Madhav Munde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/engage-migrant-workers-in-farm-activities/articleshow/75436403.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Two robots ready to lend helping hand in fight against Covid-19||BHUBANESWAR: The government ITI in Cuttack in association with SakRobotix, a robotics start-up, has developed two robots that can help in the fight against Covid-19. The robots can be used in the healthcare system and help in reducing risks for doctors, nurses and attendants attending to Covid-19 patients. These can also be used for surveillance and tele-consultation by doctors, who can interact remotely with patients through live video streaming. “Our trainers have taken 20 days to complete these robots. It was challenging to work with limited resources during the lockdown. SakRobotix was our knowledge partner and helped us with advanced technology to develop these robots,” said Hrushikesh Mohanty, principal of Government ITI, Cuttack. Out of the two robots, COBOT (Corona Combat Robot) is a service robot that has a humanoid structure and moves on wheels. It can carry load up to 20 kg in its hand-like structures and used in providing food, water and medicines to Covid-19 patients in hospitals. “It will reduce the health risks to nurses and attendants. The robots can also be controlled by using communication protocols,” Sakyasingh Mahapatra, founder of SakRobotix said. With a large number of doctors and healthcare service providers getting infected with Covid-19, the robot can be very helpful in hospitals. The second robot NIGABOT is a telepresence robot, which can be used for surveillance and teleconsultation by doctors. This robot can interact remotely with the patients through live video streaming. This robot is also movable and is enabled with a wheeled mobile platform and has an interactive device for video calling. It will be helpful for health workers who have to make several rounds of the patients’ bed to monitor their health. “This will reduce the risk of doctors and nurses from contracting the virus,” Mahapatra added. Earlier, several hospitals like Sawai Man Singh Hospital, Jaipur and a hospital in Kerala have used robots in providing care to Covid-19 patients. “We presented the robots to senior officers of Union MSME department and they highly appreciated it. We are working on adding some more features after discussing with doctors and asking about their needs. Now these robots are being operated through cellphones but we are working on adding computer programming to it so that it will be easy to operate. We are hopeful of hospital trails soon, said Mohanty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/2-robots-ready-to-lend-helping-hand-in-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/75435055.cms||Minati Singha
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government plans incentive for frontline warriors||GANDHINAGAR: The state government plans to give financial incentives to boost the morale of frontline workers posted at government hospitals designated as Covid-19 hospitals. The beneficiaries will include doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, and sanitation workers posted at government-run facilities. The incentives could be up to one month’s additional salary. Key sources in the state health & family welfare department said the government is addressing day-to-day issues being faced by the frontline Covid warriors and is providing them with the best possible lodging and other arrangements that include food, yoga facility, entertainment and psychological counselling. “However, to boost the morale of these frontline warriors, the state government has decided to provide them with financial incentives as well,” a source said. A proposal to this effect has been sent to the state government. “However, the Government of India is also planning to announce similar incentives,” the source said. “So, the state government is likely to wait for some time and merge the incentives of the GOI with state government sops.” In case the Centre’s proposal is delayed, the state government will announce its decision. “It may be up to one month’s additional salary,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-plans-incentive-for-frontline-warriors/articleshow/75438327.cms||Kapil Dave
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Emergency services, OPD resume at LG Hospital||AHMEDABAD: LG hospital, which was closed after 17 doctors tested Covid-19 positive, once again resumed its OPD and emergency services on Tuesday. Each patient will be screened thoroughly before he enters this non-Covid hospital. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) commissioner Vijay Nehra said that about 10 days ago, 17 doctors, five nursing staff and two patient care persons were found to be Covid-19 positive and even some of the orthopaedic patients were found to be infected with the coronavirus. The hospital was closed. After three-layer deep cleaning and fumigating the entire hospital and even the doctors rooms for the past one week, the OPD and emergency services resumed functioning from Tuesday morning. However, the orthopaedic treatment will not be given at the hospital as a corona positive patient had come in the orthopaedic department, and majority of the doctors from this department were infected. The AMC commissioner said that though this was a non-Covid hospital, the doctors and staff would have to wear PPE kits, and as soon as the patient arrived at the hospital, he would be sanitized. “The staff will screen the patients thoroughly before referring them to different departments for further treatment,” Nehra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/emergency-services-opd-resume-at-lg/articleshow/75438329.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC postpones municipal polls in 3 cities till August 31||JAIPUR: Amid Covid-19 outbreak, the Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday allowed the government and the municipal corporation to complete the elections in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota till August 31. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma allowed the applications seeking extension of time for completing the municipal elections at the corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. Earlier, the elections of six municipal corporations, including Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, were extended by the court due to the lockdown and Covid-19 outbreak in the state. The state Election Commission had also filed an application on Friday to extend the date of elections for the six municipal corporations in three places for not holding elections in the current situation. R B Mathur, counsel for the petitioner, said that the court allowed the two applications of completing the process till the end of August, 2020. The state Election Commission said that there is a lockdown in place till May 3 due to Covid-19 infection across the state. “The entire government machinery is engaged in controlling this epidemic. It will also take some time to maintain social distancing after the lockdown is removed. In such circumstances, it is not possible to conduct elections in the six municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota as per the order of March 18. Therefore, the court should give time till August 31 to conduct elections in these six municipal corporations,” the election commission said in the court. Earlier on March 18, six municipal elections proposed to be held in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota from April 5 onwards were postponed for six weeks by the Rajasthan High Court. Since the six week time was completing in June the petitioner and state election commission filed fresh applications to defer the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-postpones-municipal-polls-in-3-cities-till-aug-31/articleshow/75438304.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Rains damage 30% rabi crops across Haridwar||ROORKEE: The erratic weather throughout the season of Rabi crops has reportedly damaged 30% of the wheat crop in Haridwar district. In particular, the recent rains have damaged the harvested crop that was ready for thrashing. According to agriculture scientists, only 60% of the produce in the district had been thrashed when the unseasonal rains fell, damaging the remaining 40% wheat crop. Farmers said their produce needs to be sold fast, as the sowing of sugarcane crop is getting delayed by the wheat crop that is still standing in the fields.  Across Haridwar district, Rabi wheat was reportedly sown over 44,000 hectares by 48,000 farmers, who usually expect to harvest around 35 quintals per hectare. But erratic weather with heavy winds and hailstorms badly damaged the crop in February and March, just when fruit setting was to be done in seeds in the standing crop. Thereafter, more rains on Sunday and Monday hit the harvested crop that was lying in the fields waiting to get thrashed.  “Of the total wheat crop in the district, 60% had been thrashed before the weekend rains, with around 20% of the total already harvested but stacked in the fields. The remaining 20% is yet to be harvested. The recent rains affected the last two categories, in total up to 30% of the total crop. Nevertheless, the damage by recent rains is insignificant, compared to that wreaked by the rains in February and March,” said Purushottam Kumar, officer-in-charge of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Dhanouri, a field unit of GB Pant Agriculture University.  Farmers demanded that state-run wheat purchase centres be made operational soon, so that the crop still waiting to be thrashed or harvested is quickly disposed of, so that they can sow the sugarcane crop. “Though district administration has claimed wheat purchase centres have been made operational across the district, in reality they are not. We need to clear our fields so that we can sow the sugarcane crop in time,” said Rakesh Agarwal, a farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rains-damage-30-rabi-crops-across-haridwar/articleshow/75436366.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Pay power dues by May 2||Jaipur: The payment date for electricity bill which was issued in April has been extended from April 27 to May 2. This will be applicable to all categories of consumers except large industries.  Managing director of Jaipur discom A K Gupta said all categories of consumers (excluding large industries), electricity bills for April could be paid online till May 2 without late fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pay-power-dues-by-may-2/articleshow/75438296.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Chennai||Gang chops off rival’s head, takes it to cops in Srirangam||Trichy: A three-member gang murdered a notorious anti-social at Srirangam here on Tuesday by chopping off his head in front of his 2-year-old daughter. The killers surrendered before police later with the man’s head. The deceased has been identified as Chandra Mohan alias Thalaivetti Chandru, 38, of Drainage Street in Srirangam. He was involved in several criminal cases. The accused were identified as M Saravanan, 35, his brother M Suresh, 30, and their relative A Selvam, 24, of railway block in Srirangam. The gang that came in a car intercepted Chandru who was riding on a two-wheeler with his daughter on a bridge near Devi theatre. They got down from the car and attacked Chandru with sharp weapons, including a machete and sword, but spared his daughter.As Chandru collapsed on the spot, the assailants chopped off his head, went to the Srirangam police station with it and surrendered. Police took them into custody and visited the crime spot. They sent Chandru’s body to the government hospital in Srirangam for postmortem examination. Police also admitted his daughter at the hospital as she was visibly shaken after the incident. Police said previous enmity was the reason behind the murder. Chandru was involved in several petty crimes in the area and Saravanan and his brothers were at loggerheads with him over minor issues for a long time. “Their previous enmity with each other over petty issues was the motive behind the murder,” police commissioner V Varadharaju told TOI. Chandru was earlier remanded at the Trichy central prison over a criminal case and released on bail on April 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-chops-off-rivals-head-takes-it-to-cops-in-srirangam/articleshow/75438317.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Amazon will offer credit||Bengaluru: At a time when consumers are facing liquidity crunch, Amazon India is set to allow consumers to buy low-ticket size products like grocery and other essentials, pay utility bills and make other required purchases on credit, a person aware of the matter said. Typically, such credits by e-tailers are reserved for large-ticket size purchases, like consumer electronics, that happen once or twice a year. Amazon has been running a pilot of ‘Amazon Pay Later’ in Bengaluru. Amazon India, which has 150 million registered customers, will be rolling this out to more users later this week. Users can choose to pay the full amount after a month without any extra interest or convert it to EMI of up to 12 months. The credit line will depend on a consumer’s purchase history with Amazon. In case a customer is opting for EMIs, the interest will be in the range of 1-1.5% on monthly basis. “This is almost like a virtual credit card. There is no minimum purchase requirement unlike typical EMIs or co-branded credit cards on e-commerce platforms. Consumers won’t make large purchases immediately and everyone is trying to save cash. This will perhaps be the first time such credit or bridge loan will be given for your necessities or to pay monthly bills,” a person in the know of of the matter said. This comes at a time when some consumer lending startups have also stopped issuing new credit lines for online purchases amid worries on recoveries of the virus-hit economy. Amazon has partnered with Capital Float and Karur Vysya Bank for this and is also reaching out to other banks to ramp up the offering in coming months. An Amazon India spokesperson confirmed the development. “We are always looking for ways to improve the payment experience on Amazon and make purchases more affordable. In current times, Amazon Pay Later empowers our users to manage their monthly spends better ,” said Mahendra Nerurkar, CEO, Amazon Pay India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-will-offer-credit/articleshow/75437631.cms||Digbijay Mishra
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Two sarpanchs issued notice for allowing people into village||AURANGABAD: A show-cause notice has been issued by Beed police to two sarpanchs from Parli taluka for allowing two people, who had travelled from Pune, to enter their village without intimating the district administration. "The two travellers have developed flu-like symptoms and are being treated as suspected Covid-19 patients," authorities concerned said. "Sarpach of Jaygao village Indubai Baliramji Naywal and village head of Kaudgao-huda (Gavhane) Subhash Rangnath Rathod have been asked to furnish their side of the story. Unsatisfactory explanation would invoke legalaction against the duo," an official release said. In the show-cause notice served, the village heads have been told that they have violated the orders issued by the district administration and other competent authorities during the ongoing lockdown due to Covid-19. "Every sarpanch was asked to form a ‘Gram Suraksha Dal’ at the village-level and not allow entry to any outsider. without informing the district administration. Even if the outsider hails from the village, the arrangement for him/her has to be done outside the village till the period of self-quarantine is over," the notice read. Vilas Hazare, spokesperson of Beed rural police, said “Both the village heads have been accused of exhibiting careless and irresponsible attitude during the current pandemic and thereby jeopardising public health,” he said, highlighting that Pune was one of the urban areas in Maharashtra having maximum Covid-19 patients. "If found guilty, the village heads will face action under Epidemic Act, 1897, Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC among other legal provisions,” the release said. Till Tuesday evening, Beed district had only one confirmed Covid-19 case. The health authorities have tested 194 people, of which throat swab samples of 192 have returned negative, while the results of remaining two people are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-sarpanchs-issued-notice-for-allowing-people-into-village/articleshow/75436418.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Cops raid house where feast was organised, distribute food to poor||JAIPUR: Amid the lockdown, a team of police and district administration officials raided a house at Bijwadia village under Tiwari tehsil of Jodhpur district where mrityu bhoj (mass feast after death) was being organised. The administration seized all the food meant to be served to a gathering of almost 200 people and distributed it among poor and at quarantine centres. A case was registered against the family who organised the feast. Tehsildar of Tiwari tehsil Deepak Sankhla raided the village on Monday evening where the feast was organised. “With the help of police we dispersed people from the place while many fled. We seized the food and registered a case against the family members,” Sankhla told TOI on Tuesday. The administration also warned the family of the deceased and other villagers and participants of strict action if such an event was repeated. He said the family including Ruparam, who organised the feast after the death of his father Babulal Bhati, was asked not to repeat such events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cops-raid-house-where-feast-was-organised-distribute-food-to-poor/articleshow/75438314.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Two electrocuted while hunting hares||Madurai: Two youths were electrocuted when they came in contact with an illegally electrified fence while hunting hares near Alangulam in Tenkasi district in the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as V Vijayan, 22, and S Selvaganapathy, 25, of A Maruthapuram village near Nettur in the district. Alangulam police registered a case and began investigation. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the duo and a few others were working in a scrap shop in Kerala. They returned home due to the lockdown. On Monday night, they went for hunting with their friends -- Mukesh, Mari and Ganesh. They were hunting hares in fields at Arunachalapuram village near Nettur. In a cornfield, the fence was electrified illegally to protect the crop from wild boars. Selvaganapathy first stepped on the fence and was electrocuted. Vijayan, who tried to save his friend, was also electrocuted. Their friends alerted villagers. Their bodies were sent to the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital for postmortem. The police detained cornfield owner Krishnapandi for illegally electrifying the fence. Although banned, hare hunting with the help of native breed dogs is a sport and hobby for people in rural parts of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. The police have warned people from leaving their houses for such adventures when 144 is in effect. The police and forest department are also looking to tighten vigil to prevent such illegal hunting as it is punishable under The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-electrocuted-while-hunting-hares/articleshow/75438302.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Riots convict out on parole returns to jail with the virus||AHMEDABAD: A convict in the 2002 Naroda Patia massacre case who was released on parole by Sabarmati central prison authorities was found to be infected with the novel coronavirus on his return to jail on Saturday, said a jail official on Tuesday. Sabarmati jail DSP D V Rana on Tuesday said that two persons were found to have Covid-19 in the prison and they were admitted to newly set up Covid-19 hospital on the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus. Rana said that one of the prisoners was an undertrial from Millatnagar accused of raping his minor sister-in-law. He was arrested by Isanpur police and his test report confirmed Covid-19 on Monday, after which he was sent to the Covid-19 hospital. Another prisoner, a convict who was released on parole, has also been found positive, added Rana. A jail official told TOI, “The man released on parole, is a murder convict in the 2002 Naroda Patia case. He had opted for 90-day parole, the maximum period, and as his parole ended, he appeared before jail authorities on Saturday evening.”  “According to our protocol, we put him in an isolation ward for suspected Covid-19 cases in the jail. His report confirmed that had the virus on Monday night after which he was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital,” added the official.  Sources in jail said that the convict had applied for parole to look after his family but ended up getting the virus himself. This man was convicted by a special trial court along with 31 others in the Naroda Patia massacre case, where 97 persons were killed on February 28, 2002.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/riots-convict-out-on-parole-returns-to-jail-with-the-virus/articleshow/75438331.cms||Ashish Chauhan
April 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Parents of baby who died in Manjeri allege delay in test information||MALAPPURAM: Parents of 4-month-old girl in Manjeri, who died of Covid-19 recently, have alleged that medical authorities delayed informing them that their baby’s swab sample had tested positive, thus causing delay in isolating family members who maintained close contact with the child. Earlier, deputy leader of the opposition MLA M K Muneer had alleged that medical authorities had failed to convey the result to the doctors of private hospital where the baby was being treated and to the relatives, and they delayed official declaration for many hours. Refuting the allegation, health minister K K Shailaja had said that she informed the district medical officers of Kozhikode and Malappuram immediately after the result was received on April 21, and test results were communicated to doctors the next morning. But, Ashraf Payyanad, father of the baby, said that he came to know the test result through the live telecast of the chief minister’s press meet. On April 21, 4-month-old was Naiha Fathima admitted to Kozhikode medical college hospital with history of fever, cough and breathing difficulties and seizure. The baby’s swab sample was collected for testing immediately. Shailaja had said that the result was received around 7pm on the same day and it was communicated to district medical officers. “We had requested doctors of medical college to reveal the result, several times on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. But they didn’t. We came to know the result when chief minister announced it through television,” he said. Meanwhile district medical officer of Malappuram Dr K Sakkeena said that she had communicated the result to the doctors in Malappuram on time. Strict vigil on TN border As novel coronavirus was confirmed in a 38-year-old man who returned to Edappal, from Mumbai recently, the authorities have strengthened the inspection along border checkposts to check stowaways in trucks and other goods vehicles. “People who reach the district illegally during the lockdown period pose a threat to the fight against the pandemic. Hiding the travel history to Covid-hit areas is a crime. A case was registered against the person who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday in the district,” said district collector Jafer Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/parents-of-baby-who-died-allege-delay-in-test-info/articleshow/75435091.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Dhira’s romance with theatre continues||Bhubaneswar: The lockdown may have brought the curtain down on plays at least for the time being, but that has not deterred dramatist Dhira Mallick, 68, from engaging in the world of theatre. Currently, Mallick is pursuing his fellowship on the use of folk dance and music in Odia theatre granted to him by the Ministry of Culture. Mallick, who is in the second phase of the four-part research, has been concentrating on writers after submitting his work on dramatists in December last. “I have discovered that blending folk art with theatre makes plays more lovable and interesting to watch,” says Mallick. He had experimented with Odisha’s popular folk form, “Pala”, in his drama “Dasavatar”. The former secretary of Odisha Sangeet Natak Akademi and general secretary of Satabdira Kalakar goes on to add that such fusions have taken place in Odisha as early as 1877. “Since I am at home now full-time, I can call up writers and other personalities associated with theatre for my research,” smiles Mallick. With so much time at his disposal, Mallick has also dusted and arranged nearly 6,000 books owned by him and read up a few of them. “I am currently reading the Hindi translations of two plays, “The Miser” and “The Gentleman” written by French writer Moliere, the biography of Bengali dramatist Mohit Chattopadhyay and the Bengali plays written by Manoj Mitra,” says Mallick, who is also reading “Odia Natakara Udbhava ‘O’ Bikash” by Ratnakar Chayani for his research. Though the studies meant for research keep him occupied, it is teaching and playing with his eight-year-old grandchild that he enjoys the most. “My wife, my son and I have distributed the subjects among ourselves. I teach my granddaughter science and general knowledge after I receive the lessons on WhatsApp from school. The study sessions usually span four to five hours a day ending in a game of ludo,” says the indulgent grandfather. This apart, he spends his time watching epics like The Ramayana and The Mahabharata on TV..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/dhiras-romance-with-theatre-continues/articleshow/75435062.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
April 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Municipal commissioner takes charge as AMC administrator||AURANGABAD: Following directives of the state government, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey took charge as the civic body’s administrator on Tuesday evening. A letter issued to this effect was issued by the Maharashtra urban development department. Pandey took charge as the administrator after the term of the elected body of AMC ended at 6pm on Tuesday. Keeping in mind the expiry of the five-year term of 115-member AMC body on April 28, the state election commission had started the process of conducting civic elections. Accordingly, a draw to fix the ward reservation was held on February 3. Objections were invited for the process and hearing on the same was held on February 15. Subsequently, a final draft of ward formation and ward reservation was published. The election department of the AMC, on the directives of the state election commission, had issued a draft voters’ list which was met with severe opposition as corporators and residents alleged that around 1 lakh names were omitted from it.However, after Covid-19 outbreak turned severe in Maharashtra, the state government on March 16 recommended the EC to postpone the civic body elections for three months. Two days later, the EC issued a notification directing all processes related to the civic body polls to be stalled until further notice. According to AMC legal expert Aparna Thete, it is mandatory for model code of conduct for elections to be announced a month prior to the elections. However, as the one month time line was missed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it had become evident that the new body could not be elected before the expiry of the existing body. “Therefore, an administrator had to be appointed as per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/municipal-commissioner-takes-charge-as-amc-administrator/articleshow/75436446.cms||Arpita Sharad
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Another carcass of lion recovered from Gir east||RAJKOT: Carcass of another lion was found from Gir east division forest on Tuesday. While the body of the male lion, aged between 3 and 5 years, was found in a decomposed state in Nitali revenue area of Kothariya beat in Tulsishyam range, forest department is denying any suspicions behind the death of the lion. According to forest department officers, they went to the spot after receiving information about the carcass and during observation found that lion must have died around 8-10 days ago. “The exact cause of the death could not ascertained at present as the internal organs were autolyzed. External examination of the carcass primarily revealed nothing suspicious. All claws were found intact,” officials said. This is one of the many lion carcasses that the department has been discovering in various ranges of Gir east division including Tulsishyam, Hadala and Savarkundla since January this year. Raising doubts that the lions could be suffering from some serious infectious disease, wildlife activists have demanded full tests of the dead and sick lions. However, the forest department has been continuously dismissing all such suspicions. Meanwhile, forest officers have rescued three lion cubs from Mitiyala sanctuary area on Saturday who were found to be low on haemoglobin. The cubs were shifted to Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh, where 17 lions, including adults rescued in April, are under treatment. When contacted, the chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle) D T Vasavda said, “There is nothing suspicious regarding the health of Gir lions. We don’t feel any requirement to send samples of dead lions to the laboratory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/another-carcass-of-lion-recovered-from-gir-east/articleshow/75436445.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Homestay owner held with hashish worth Rs 2 crore in Varkala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When police at Varkala found a German tourist in an intoxicated condition at Papanasam beach they were curious to know from where he managed to get the intoxicants during lockdown.  A probe to find out his source ended in a massive catch of hashish that cost Rs 2 crore in international market. Police arrested a homestay owner, who supplied the contraband to the tourist and seized 1.5kg hashish from him. Police said the accused, Jayakumar of Punnammoodu near Varkala, was a habitual offender, who had been supplying drugs and other narcotic substances to foreign tourists at Varkala and Kovalam. Even though he owned a supermarket and a resort at Varkala, he continued to sell drugs as it was more lucrative. He had been arrested multiple times by the police and excise officials in the past two decades. Varkala station house officer inspector G Gopakumar said the contraband seized from the accused was part of the supply he sourced from Goa before the lockdown. "He had purchased the stuff at a rate of Rs 5 lakh/kg. He was selling it to tourists at Rs 30 lakh/kg," the inspector said adding that he had sold 2g of hashish to the German tourist for Rs.6,000. As per the estimate of narcotics control bureau, one kg of hashish is worth Rs.1.5 crore in the international market,” Gopakumar said. The inspector added that Jayakumar sold drugs only to foreign tourists and tourists from north Indian states. This was done to keep his activities confidential and avoid law enforcers who might approach him pretending as buyers. Besides being a regular supplier of drugs, Jayakumar was also involved in several cases related to counterfeiting. He started his illegal activities in 2000. He was first arrested in 2003 by Varkala police for possessing hashish and charas. In 2004, he was arrested again for a similar offence. A few years later, a district court sentenced him for five years of imprisonment in connection with the case. However, he was released two years later after he filed an appeal against the sentence before a higher court.  In 2005 and 2006, he was arrested for possession of counterfeit currencies. In 2008, he was arrested again by excise officials for selling hashish. He was last arrested by Nedumangad police with hashish in 2011. The arrest was made by a team led by inspector G Gopakumar and sub-inspector P Ajithkumar under the instructions of Attingal DSP P V Baby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/homestay-owner-held-with-hashish-worth-rs-2-crore/articleshow/75436431.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Chennai||90 fishermen embark on 1,000km voyage to escape lockdown in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: In a daring escapade, at least 90 fishermen of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha stranded in Kasimedu and Royapuram blindsided Indian Coast Guard personnel and set sail on a 1,000-km voyage on the high seas to reach their homes on Sunday on 10 boats amid the nationwide lockdown and fishing ban. Read the entire story on TOI+They undertook a 1,000 km voyage to beat the lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/90-fishermen-embark-on-1000km-voyage-to-escape-lockdown-in-tn/articleshow/75438367.cms||P Oppili
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Shops at marketplaces cannot be opened: Kerala police||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: District unit of Kerala Vyapari Vyavasai Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) has protested the closure of several shops that reopened after government announced relaxations in the district. Police had closed all shops opened at Chalai and nearby areas on Monday, saying that the instructions clearly mentioned that shops are not allowed at marketplaces. KVVES district general secretary SS Manoj said police asked all traders in Chalai and nearby areas to close their shops. "Traders came based on information given by the media that relaxations were introduced in the district. It is not justifiable that government issues an order and police act against it," he said. DCP R Karuppasamy said that though relaxations were introduced in the district, the instruction said functioning of shops in marketplaces is not allowed. "Chalai being a marketplace, shops could not be allowed to open," he said. KVVES vice-president Kamalalayam Suku, district president KS Radhakrishnan, among others, urged the collector to issue a circular detailing which shops are allowed and the areas where they can function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/shops-at-marketplaces-cannot-be-opened-police/articleshow/75436503.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||40-year-old man held for forcing minor into sex in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 40-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly forcing a 14-year-old girl to perform unnatural sex with him after confining her to the room of his house at Ashapura Chowkadi in Gondal of Rajkot district. Police said the accused, identified as Munna Badshah, had confined the survivor for a day and had committed the crime. The survivor’s father owed Rs 25,000 to Badshah. Badshah abducted the survivor, telling his father to ensure her release by paying him the amount. “When social worker Praful Rajyaguru came to know about this, he freed the survivor from the clutches of Badshah and approached us. We arrested Badshah and booked him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” said K N Ramanujan. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/40-yr-old-man-held-for-forcing-minor-into-sex/articleshow/75436460.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand chief secretary directs officials to compile data on Van Gujjars||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh held a meeting with forest department and animal husbandry department officials to discuss the issue of Van Gujjars. The chief secretary directed them to compile a data of the number of Van Gujjar families living in different places, number of members in the families, and the number of pet animals owned by them. He added that the data should be compiled soon so that proper arrangements of ration for Van Gujjars and fodder for their animals are made. The chief secretary directed the officials of animal husbandry department to ensure the arrangement of fodder for the livestock. Singh said that Aanchal, brand name of Uttarakhand Co-operative Dairy Federation, can process the supplies for Van Gujjars. For this, he said all concerned departments should work together. During the meet, Singh said that summer migration of forest Gujjars should be completely banned in the wake of Covid-19 threat. Awareness campaigns should be undertaken by forest officials and other concerned departments to prevent infection of Covid-19 in Van Gujjars. He also gave instructions for proper arrangement of ration and animal fodder in the sealed forest Gujjar areas. He further directed that health check-up of Van Gujjars and their animals should be conducted at regular intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chief-secy-directs-officials-to-compile-data-on-van-gujjars/articleshow/75436463.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Tired of son’s drunken ruckus, man kills him||Rajkot: Tired of his frequent drunken ruckus, a man strangled his son in Jetpur of Rajkot district. Though the crime was committed 12 days ago, it came to light only on Tuesday when the victim’s body was exhumed. The accused was arrested on Tuesday. Police said the father, identified as Ramji Dabhi (51), killed his son Mehul (27) and buried his body inside the factory premises where both of them used to work. “After the body decomposed, it filled the area with unbearable stench and neighbours complained to the factory workers who alerted us. When the body was dug out, the workers identified him as Mehul Dabhi. We knew that Mehul had been missing from his home, but there had been no complaint lodged with us in this regard,” said V K Patel, inspector with Jetpur police station. After the police interrogated Ramji, he confessed of killing Mehul in a fit of rage and burying his body too. “Accused said that Mehul was a habitual drunkard and always created a ruckus, and he was tired of the daily ordeal and so killed him. On the night of the crime, when Mehul came home drunk and picked up a fight with him, Ramji killed Mehul and then buried the body with the help of another son,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tired-of-sons-drunken-ruckus-man-kills-him/articleshow/75436475.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Warehousing will recover faster: Savills||Bengaluru: The industrial and warehousing segment will be hit as hard as residential or commercial real estate, but the recovery is expected to be faster, helped by demand from e-commerce, FMCG and pharma products, property consultancy firm Savills said. Warehousing space requirement for players, especially those dealing with essential items, has witnessed increased demand. “Although both demand and supply are expected to soften as compared to previous estimates in the near to medium term, higher supply contraction is expected to lead to decrease in vacancies and optimum pricing. Selectively and sparingly, vacant retail and commercial spaces could undergo refurbishments as warehousing spaces,” the report added. Even during these times, more than 3 million sqft of new contracts were signed across six locations by manufacturing, third-party logistics, and e-commerce companies in the last few weeks, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/warehousing-will-recover-faster-savills/articleshow/75437664.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Vadodara||Five-feet long croc rescued from Karjan pond||VADODARA: A five-feet long crocodile was rescued from Ganpatpura village in Karjan taluka on Tuesday. The reptile had ventured out of Vishwamitri River and crawled into a pond in the village a few days ago. Locals learnt about the reptile’s presence after it killed a goat and also injured a dog. The villagers informed Wildlife SOS and Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) volunteers who rushed to the spot on Monday. A trap was set up near the pond to capture the reptile. It was rescued on Tuesday and released in another waterbody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-feet-long-croc-rescued-from-karjan-pond/articleshow/75435153.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Pray at home, don’t visit market: Ramzan plea on social media||KOLKATA: Several young Muslims have taken to social media to urge people to follow the lockdown restrictions during Ramzan, to pray at home and not to venture out on roads to buy food before iftar. “Obey all the lockdown rules being implemented by the government... Even slightest negligence can not only put you in trouble but your entire family, neighbourhood and the city. Kolkata is a COVID 19 sensitive spot so please cooperate with the police,” wrote Salena Ahmed, an advertising and communications professional, on Facebook. The devout usually fast from dawn to dusk during Ramzan, when special prayers are held at mosques and many carry out philanthropic activities. But this time, it has been different, with mosques being shut, special evening prayers being cancelled and no iftar congregation being held at local mosques for the poor and travellers—all to minimize the risk of spreading novel coronavirus. Namaz (prayers) and taraweeh (special evening prayers) are being held without public attendance. Mohamad Hamza, a central Kolkata businessman, has urged fellow Muslims to worship at home and buy groceries and edibles in bulk just like they were doing it before the holy month began. “Social distancing is the only prevention against novel coronavirus. Going out to the market or praying in assembly may help the virus spread which is going to prove fatal...” Hamza posted on Facebook. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, almost all Gulf countries have closed mosques and asked people to pray at home. In Kolkata, too, mosques will remain shut till the lockdown is in place. Even Ramzan markets have not been set up in Muslim neighbourhoods. Some vendors have been allowed to sell fruits, bread and eggs while maintaining social distancing. Police have also stepped up patrolling. “In some areas, people are violating the lockdown norms and venturing out in late afternoon on the pretext of buying fruits and other edibles. This may prove suicidal as it might help the virus spread rapidly,” said Mohammad Faizi, a techie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pray-at-home-dont-visit-mkt-ramzan-plea-on-social-media/articleshow/75437668.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode ready to receive NRKs||KOZHIKODE: All arrangements have been made in the district to receive non-resident Keralites (NRKs) from abroad when Centre gives permission to bring them home. Collector S Sambasiva Rao said on Tuesday that secretaries of LSG bodies have been asked to identify suitable buildings in their respective limits to set up Covid care centres to keep NRKs under mandatory quarantine. Rao said NRKs who don’t have a proper quarantine facility at home will be shifted to Covid care centres. The last Covid-19 case was reported in Kozhikode on April 23 and health department removed 33 persons from its list following completion of their quarantine period. With this, total number of people who completed home quarantine rose to 21,998 in Kozhikode. At present, 1,021 persons are in quarantine and 968 are in home isolation. The remaining 53 (including seven positive cases) are admitted to Kozhikode MCH’s isolation ward. Of the 24 Covid-19 cases reported in Kozhikode, 17 persons have recovered. District health department had sent 44 swab samples for testing. Of the 927 samples tested so far, 868 results were obtained; and 838 tested negative. Meanwhile, the corporation decided to distribute homeo medicine to boost public immunity in 75 corporation wards. Mayor T Raveendran inaugurated the corporation-level launch of distribution of medicine at a function held at Payyanakkal ward. The civic body will distribute medicine to boost immunity to 6.5 lakh persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/koz-ready-to-receive-nrks/articleshow/75435142.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Agra||Mathura sees 1st Covid death, govt hosp vacated||Agra: Mathura administration vacated the government-run District Combined Hospital in Vrindavan after the sample of a 50-year-old suspected Covid-19 positive woman, who died in the hospital on Monday night, tested positive on Tuesday. While this was the first Covid-related death in the district, a ward boy of the same hospital tested positive for the infection, taking the total tally of such cases in the district to 13. The ward boy was admitted to a hospital and eight of his family members, including four minor children, were quarantined later. Around 90 staff members, including 11 doctors of the District Combined Hospital have also been quarantined in the hospital to contain possibilities of the spread of the infection. “Samples are being taken for testing and will be sent to Aligarh,” said Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra. He told TOI that four patients who were undergoing treatment in the hospital had been shifted to KD Hospital for treatment, as all doctors and staff members of the government hospital were quarantined. He said that the woman, who died, was admitted in a separate ward and had not come in contact with other patients, except that they too were being attended by the same staff. According to health officials, the woman was initially shifted to the quarantine centre in Vrindavan after her two brothers-in-law tested positive for Covid-19. When her condition started deteriorating, she was shifted to the District Combined Hospital, where she died on Monday night. She was suffering from diabetes too. Her family member, however, alleged negligence and circulated a video of patient complaining of improper treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-sees-1st-covid-death-govt-hosp-vacated/articleshow/75435145.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mamlatdar positive, checks intensified at collectorate||AHMEDABAD: The district collectorate intensified checking of visitors to the collector’s office after as Sabarmati mamlatdar Anita Lachhun tested positive for Covid-19. While people are being advised against visiting the collectorate, employees who were in contact with the mamlatdar are also being tested for Covid-19. Officials said that with a large number of people visiting the collector’s office for various reasons, stringent checking has been initiated. “All visitors are first checked for symptoms associated with Covid-19. In addition, we are carrying out health check-ups on all employees and are testing those who have been working with the official who tested positive,” an official in the collectorate said. Lachhun’s office is at the collectorate near Subhash Bridge and a large number of employees have been working with her in efforts to mitigate the Covid-19 pandemic. “There is a certain level of anxiety among employees, which is quite natural. Given the large number of people who are visiting the collectorate, thorough checks are needed,” an official said. District collector K K Nirala said, “I have been urging people not to visit the collectorate unless there is an emergency. It is necessary to ensure that the collectorate is kept free of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mamlatdar-positive-checks-intensified-at-collectorate/articleshow/75438372.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||BMC to kick start doorstep services in hotspot Hajiyapur||BAREILLY: The Bareilly Municipal Corporation (BMC) is gearing up to provide door-step delivery of grocery and other essential items to the residents of Hajiyapur on the lines of Subhash Nagar, after a covid-19 positive case <01Justify>reported from the area on Monday. BMC officials said household products and necessary items will be home delivered in Hajiyapur on the lines of Subhash Nagar, which was earlier sealed by the district administration after a corona-positive case was found in the locality. Contact details of local grocery stores in the area are being collected to start door-step delivery, to ensure no one steps out of their houses but also don’t have to face inconveniences, since the area, declared as a hotspot, has been sealed. Speaking to TOI, Bareilly municipal commissioner Abhishek Anand said, “Process of identifying small and big grocery stores and shops in the hotspot area has begun. The shortlisted shopkeepers will be roped in to provide door-step delivery of essential goods, to ensure residents don’t venture out to buy these. Once the owners of these shops have submitted their identity proofs and other details with the government, they will be permitted to home deliver groceries in their respective areas by their own staffers. Residents will be provided contact details of shops servicing their areas. For any information, residents can also contact their ward councilor for assistance.” Anand added, “Necessary precautions will be taken to ensure zero contact delivery. Shopkeepers will be directed to wear gloves while handling goods while delivery guys will have to wear face masks.” Officials said the move is aimed at avoiding public gatherings, as the area has been declared a hotspot. On Monday, a 35-year-old Hajiyapur resident later identified as a quack, tested positive for Covid-19, after he complained of respiratory distress. The patient was admitted to a private medical college. District administration is on its toes and has sealed the locality. Police personnel are keeping a vigil on locals, who have been warned not to step out, while civic authorities have begun sprinkling disinfectant to sanitisein the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bmc-to-kick-start-doorstep-services-in-hotspot-hajiyapur/articleshow/75435158.cms||Maria Khan
April 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Futile rounds at post offices to open account for zilla parishad scheme||PUNE: Mehmuna Shekh has been visiting the Bavdhan post office for the past four days to open an account and become eligible for the Sharad Bhojan Yojana (SBY). On Tuesday, she walked 7km in an hour tothe Pashan post office after the Bavdhan branch told her that they did not open Indian Post Bank Account, a must for availing of the Sharad Bhojan Yojana started by the Pune zilla parishad. When it was her turn, she was told that the post office did not have the facility and she has to visit the gram panchayat.  By 10 in the morning, a queue of over 50-100 people was seen in front of the Pashan post office. They all had gathered there to open an account. For most of them, visit to post offices has become a routine for the past few days. They accused the staffers of refusing to open accounts and not allowing the people entry through the gates. “This is the third phase of the Sharad Bhojan Yojana. According to the scheme, economically disadvantaged people living in the ZP area, who have no ration card and are not beneficiaries of any other government scheme, will get 3kg wheat and 2kg rice per person for Rs2 and Rs3, respectively, from ration shops,” said Praveen Korangatiwar, district social welfare officer. “ If people in Bavdhan gaon or Sus gaon under the ZP area have been left out, we will extend the deadline and enquire with the central post office about the problem in opening an account. We have got about 60,000 applications,” he said. Mukund Badve, senior superintendent of post offices, Pune City East Division, said, “The Sharad Bhojan Yojna is for economically disadvantaged people from rural areas. Having said that, nobody can be denied of opening a zero balance account at the post office. Since it requires biometric registration, the machine needs to be swiped after every use and the cotton balls needed to be disposed of carefully.” Badve, who currently also has the temporary charge of the Pashan post offices, said, “The staffers are working on a rotation basis and hence it takes time. But I will look into this matter. Also, every post office has a complaint register. If anyone sees any irregularity in the working of a branch, he or she should write the complaint with contact number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/futile-rounds-at-post-offices-to-open-a/cs-for-zp-scheme/articleshow/75438371.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Man hacks father to death in Rajkot||Rajkot: Unable to see his father beating his mother, a man hacked his father to death in Panjarapol locality of Rajkot city. Though the crime was committed on the night of April 15 and the victim died on April 24, the accused was arrested on Tuesday on the basis of the postmortem report which confirmed that the victim had been hacked to death. Police said that after killing his father Mohmmedsha Shahmadar (74), the accused, Hanifsha Shahmadar (46), had taken Mohmmedsha to Rajkot Civil Hospital. At the hospital, Hanifsha stated that Mohmmedsha had received an injury on his head after his head banged against the edge of the staircase in his house after he had fallen down. “After Mohmmedsha died, Hanifsha and other family members performed his burial. However, after Mohmmedsha’s postmortem report revealed that he had been hacked to death, we called up Hanifsha and interrogated him. Hanifsha broke down and confessed to the crime,” said G M Hadia, inspector with Thorala police station. Hanifsha told the police that on the night of the crime, Mohmmedsha was beating up his wife Sharifa. Unable to bear this, Hanifsha pulled out a sword and dealt a blow on Mohmmedsha’s head. Mohmmedsha beat up Sharifa after she refused to demand money from her brother. Mohmmedsha alleged that Sharifa’s brother had duped her by giving her less money from the sale of their ancestral land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-hacks-father-to-death-in-rajkot/articleshow/75436490.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Three poachers arrested||MYSURU: Bandipur Tiger Reserve forest staff on Tuesday arrested three persons on charges of poaching deer. The arrested are Menasinakai Mahesh, Marimoole Mahesh, and Shivakumar. The trio had hunted a deer at the Gopalaswamy Betta forest area coming under Bandipur Tiger Reserve. The foresters who got the tip-off arrested them and seized the carcass of the deer, a gun, torchlight , weapons, three bikes and two mobile phones. Bandipur ACF K Paramesh said the accused were involved in poaching since 2014 and foresters were searching for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-poachers-arrested/articleshow/75435192.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Five steal from godowns, held||PUNE: The rural police on Tuesday arrested a gang of five youths for breaking into and stealing from godowns of fertilizers and groceries in Pune and Solapur districts during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. The police recovered booty worth Rs8 lakh from the youths. A local crime branch team led by inspector Padmakar Ghanwat arrested them. Probe revealed that they learnt to break locks on a video-sharing platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-steal-from-godowns-held/articleshow/75438382.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Techie jumps to death in Pune's Wakad||PUNE: A 28-year-old software engineer on Tuesday afternoon ended his life jumping from the terrace of a 12-storeyed residential building in Wakad. Senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police said the reason why the engineer, Prasoon Kumar Jha, committed suicide was unknown. “We did not find any suicide note,” he said. Mugalikar said Jha worked with a prominent information and technology company in Hinjewadi. His marriage was fixed with an IT engineer, with whom he had a live-in relationship. “They stayed on the sixth floor of the building, from which Jha jumped off,” he said. He said Jha and his live-in partner were working from home following the lockdown. Around 1.30pm on Tuesday, he went to the watchman of the society and took the key of the terrace under the pretext of checking his internet connection. “Jha then went to the top floor of the building and jumped down. The security guard alerted the police,” Mugalikar said. “We have alerted Jha’s parents in Bihar and his close relatives in Pune,” Mugalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-jumps-to-death-in-wakad/articleshow/75438376.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man harasses lions for fun, arrested||RAJKOT: A man was arrested on Tuesday after he allegedly harassed the big cats while they were feeding on their kill on April 25. Police said the accused, identified as Vishal Nadoda, had allegedly chased the lions with his tractor in Ranshivav in north range Junagadh forest. “Nadoda had also shot a video of his crime and uploaded it on the social media and WhatsApp,” said Deepak Vadher, in-charge forester. The forest department has also found out that another person, identified as Raju Jebalia, too was involved in the crime. Cops have launched a manhunt to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-harasses-lions-for-fun-arrested/articleshow/75436506.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Man caught for harassing lions||Rajkot: A man was arrested on Tuesday after he allegedly harassed the big cats while they were feeding on their kill on April 25. Police said the accused, identified as Vishal Nadoda, had allegedly chased the lions with his tractor in Ranshivav in north range Junagadh forest. “Nadoda had also shot a video of his crime and uploaded it on the social media and WhatsApp,” said Deepak Vadher, in-charge forester. The forest department has also found out that another person, identified as Raju Jebalia, too was involved in the crime. Cops have launched a manhunt to nab him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-caught-for-harassing-lions/articleshow/75436520.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kochi||Prisoners back after parole to be quarantined in Viyyur||THRISSUR: Steps are being taken at prisons in Viyyur to put prisoners, who will return after their parole/interim bail period, under quarantine as Covid-19 situation continues in state. As many as 116 inmates are set to return to the central prison on different dates from May 1, stated an official release on Tuesday. Those returning from orange zones will have to undergo 14-day quarantine while those retuning from red zones will be put under quarantine for 28 days. DGP (prisons) Rishi Raj Singh issued detailed instructions in this regard, the release said. Those who have gone on parole from Viyyur central jail as well as the nearby high-security prison and women’s jail will be put in quarantine in their respective jails. Inmates, who were released on parole or interim bail from district and sub jails as well as from the jails at Chavakkad and Irinjalakuda, will be put in quarantine at Viyyur sub-jail. Immediate treatment will be provided to symptomatic prisoners, the release said. The release said 42 cells have been prepared at Viyyur central jail for quarantining prisoners who are returning. The nearby high-security prison has a capacity to accommodate 550 prisoners under quarantine, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/prisoners-back-after-parole-to-be-quarantined/articleshow/75435205.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||For 72 Nepalese migrants stuck in Kheri, yoga session, motivational speech keeps them going||BAREILLY: The district administration in Kheri has been organising yoga sessions and motivational lectures for 72 Nepalese migrants to ensure that they "concentrate and stay healthy". These labourers have been staying at Elite Academy School in Dhaurahra since March 31 after the Nepal border was closed following lockdown. The idea to start a yoga session came after the migrants contacted sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sunandu Sudhakaran and shared their ordeals about monotony in their daily routine and tension about their family members. Sudhakaran then arranged motivational and yoga sessions for them with the support of a yoga guru. While practising yoga, it was ensured that social distancing was maintained and all of them wear a mask, officials said. Speaking to TOI, Sudhakaran said, “The Nepalese migrants never created any problems for us and are living happily at the centre. However, when we observed that they may get anxious and start thinking about their family members and inability to move out of quarantine centre, no earning etc, we decided to give them some yoga session and deliver motivational lectures. Yoga can relax mind, improve immune system and helps in giving some positive energy, whereas a motivational speech can help deviate their mind from any kind of negativity. After the first session all of them looked happy and rejuvenated.: One of the Nepalese migrants, who used to work at a restaurant in Delhi, said, “Yoga helps us to realise our inner strength. We are happy that officials here are thinking about us and I wish they could convince our government to take us back home at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/for-72-nepalese-migrants-stuck-in-kheri-yoga-session-motivational-speech-keeps-them-going/articleshow/75435214.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||Family of six who recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma||BAREILLY: The health department in Bareilly has informed King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and state surveillance officer that the family of six, who have recovered from novel coronavirus infection, have agreed to donate their plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients. District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam told TOI, “Following directions received from higher authorities, to persuade patients who have recovered from the infection to donate their plasma, I approached the family of six, who agreed to the proposal. I have informed authorities at KGMU and the state surveillance officer about it. They will now decide on how and when the plasma will be collected.” He added, “Of the six, plasma will be collected from those patients whose weight is above 55 kg and haemoglobin level over 12.5 grams per decilitre.” One of the six patients, a 28-year-old woman, told TOI, “When we were approached for donation of plasma, we immediately gave our approval. It would make my family very happy if plasma therapy helps save someone’s life. We don’t want any family to suffer from Covid-19 and wish quick recovery for all patients.” She added, “Of the six members in our family, my sister-in-law and I don’t fulfill the weight criteria. We’re waiting for officials to screen us.” Explaining the procedure of plasma therapy, an official said, “The body of a Covid-19 patient produces antibodies to attack the virus. These antibodies are secreted by immune cells found in plasma. The plasma from recovered patients is transfused into patients suffering from Covid-19 to boost their immunity.” The family of six live in Subhash Nagar. They tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly last month. Two of them were discharged on April 13, while the remaining four returned home on April 17. A 34-year-old man who works at a Noida-based firm that reported several cases of the infection, was the first Covid-19 case to be reported from Bareilly. After he was tested positive when he returned to Bareilly, it emerged that he had also infected his parents, wife, brother and sister. Only the man’s two-year-old-son tested negative. The family, which has been under home quarantine, reunited with the child on Tuesday, after he was returned by relatives a month after he was relocated to their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/family-of-six-who-recovered-from-covid-19-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/75435186.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||No need to scale up tests: Telangana minister Eatala Rajender||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Tuesday said they had conducted much fewer Covid-19 tests than neighbouring AP, but insisted there was no need for large-scale testing given that the number of positive cases were dropping.  He told reporters that Telangana conducted 19,063 tests as against 80,334 tests in AP and ruled out allowing Covid-19 tests by private hospitals to avoid commercialisation. “What is important is that the number of cases in Telangana has been coming down. Since April 22, the state is recording only single digit cases,” he said. Rajender said testing was done in accordance with ICMR guidelines. “We don’t need to conduct tests on everybody having cold, fever and cough. If that is the case, lakhs of people in the state would have been standing before the labs by now,” he said. He said only people with severe symptoms are being tested, hence lesser number of tests every day. He said the test costs Rs 5,000 in a private hospital. “That is why we have not allowed private labs to conduct the tests. They would fleece people and collect huge amounts. People can get tests done at government labs,” he said. He also pointed out to the statement of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao who said that Telangana won’t go for rapid testing since guidelines were not clear. “We are doing tests in the most scientific manner possible. We are not against testing. We have tested frontline workers like police and health workers. We have tested primary contacts who are asymptomatic as well because we had our doubts,” he said. He further said some people were kept in hospitals because they may not have separate isolation facilities at homes. “Gandhi Hospital wards do not appear like patient wards as most infected people look healthy,” he said. He said the government was not hiding any information. “When Tablighi Jamaatis came to Karimnagar, it was Telangana which alerted the Centre. There were 1,281 Tablighis and 1,244 of them were identified. More than 10,000 contacts were found out and kept in quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-defends-less-testing-for-virus/articleshow/75437682.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||Two lawyer sisters booked for ‘bid to extort money’||PILIBHIT: Two lawyer sisters Padma and Urvashi Singh of Inyatganj locality have been booked for allegedly demanding extortion money of Rs 1 lakh from one Sudhir Pal Singh of the same locality while threatening to lodge a rape case against him if their demand was not fulfilled. Sungarhi police station SHO Atar Singh said, “Both sisters were booked on Monday night under sections 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence), 389 (putting a person in fear or accusation of offence in order to commit extortion), 452 (house trespass), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), following a complaint lodged by Sudhir Pal.” The sisters were, however, granted interim bail by remand magistrate Anamika Singh. The complainant said, “The sisters, aged between 25 and 28 years, have been blackmailing many people in the area. I have already paid Rs 10,000 to them for protecting my dignity. However, on April 26, both sisters visited my house and demanded Rs 1 lakh by 4 pm. As I could not arrange the money, they abused me and threatened me with my life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-lawyer-sisters-booked-for-bid-to-extort-money/articleshow/75435231.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Social media marketing firms team up against ‘infodemic’||PUNE: For Mumbai-based social media marketing firm SoCheers, the creatives for their campaign against misinformation and fake news came quite naturally when the team members saw their own parents fall prey to Covid-19-related false information, particularly via WhatsApp. “The creatives were mostly from personal experiences. My parents are adapting to technology and they are gullible to WhatsApp forwards right now. That is also the case for many on our team so we used those experiences in our creatives for social media,” said Ankita Kulkarni, who is part of the strategy team at SoCheers. The campaign, Fake News, Genuine Problem, came about when the team was working on a brief from the United Nations that mentioned the need to tackle ‘infodemic’ or misinformation over the Covid-19 pandemic. As the team was looking to partner with prominent brands to spread the campaign, help was on hand from social media content aggregators Social Samosa, Social Media Dissect, and No Filtr. The template is the WhatsApp chat page. “People do generally consider anything they see online to be true and they will continue to receive these messages no matter what. In the creatives, we have asked people to read and verify before sharing the messages they receive,” Kulkarni added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-media-marketing-firms-team-up-against-infodemic/articleshow/75438394.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Assam students seek help to return home||HYDERABAD: Students from Assam, who are studying pharmacy and engineering courses in Suryapet district of Telangana, have appealed to both Telangana and Assam governments for help. The students said that they are stuck in their college hostels. Apart from facing food shortage, they said they also ran out of cash. Sharzana, a student of Assam, said: “We are not able to go out. We want to go home. Please allow us to go to Assam. We are requesting both governments to help us.” Around 100 students from Assam are studying in various pharmacy and engineering colleges in Suryapet and Nalgonda districts. Meanwhile, Telugu migrants stranded in Mumbai have urged the Telangana government to provide relief to them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assam-students-seek-help-to-return-home/articleshow/75437695.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Farming fad during lockdown in Kannur||KANNUR: When our world is confined within the four walls of the house and its compound, even the terrace becomes a farm and many people have taken it as a new task to overcome the monotony and as a source of sustenance. From jails to Kudumbashree units and individual households, farming is the ‘in-thing’ today and the officials with the agriculture department feel that they should tap this opportunity. There were over 14,000 vegetable plants in the TxD Coordination unit of the agriculture department at Chalode and all those plants were given to the individuals via Krishi Bhavans and many of them came directly to buy it, according to assistant director N K Bindu. “In these Covid times, many individuals are showing interest in agriculture and this is a habit that we should promote even after lockdown, because it is a very positive attitude,” she said. Most of the agriculture offices and even the district agricultural farm at Karimbam, in Thaliparamba have great demand for seeds and seedlings, especially vegetables and even plantain, said the officials. Even in the urban areas, where there is no land available, people and establishments are now discovering the spaces around them, according to Kannur municipality agriculture officer Valsala E. The biggest example is the sub-jail in Kannur town. “It is happy news that more and more people are now into agriculture in their spare time and the jail has around 700 grow bags with a variety of crops,” she said. Though there is space constraint, the jail has variety of vegetables and daily two remand prisoners are given the duty to take care of it and it has also helped them to meet the need of vegetables occasionally though, said warden T K Janardhanan, who said they are planning to expand it further. Similarly, the district jail is also into agriculture and even in the Covid days it is progressing, under the supervision of the agriculture office in Puzhathi, said agriculture officer Smitha Haridas, who added that the people’s interest now is mostly genuine. The Kudumbashree Mission is also planning to scale up its involvement in agriculture to make sure there is no wasteland in the state, and the action plan would be formulated soon, said the mission’s district coordinator M Surjit. Strengthening agriculture practice is the only way to arrest the food scarcity in the coming days, he said. Apart from farming in the small pieces of land or the terrace, farmers who practice agriculture on a large scale should approach it as a business and amalgamate traditional practices with technology, opined Biju Narayanan, a farmer based in Ulikkal, who also runs an agro farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/farming-fad-during-lockdown/articleshow/75435238.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports six new Covid-19 positive cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana continued to report single-digit numbers with only six new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday. Authorities heaved a sigh of relief, saying all six patients hailed from GHMC areas and cases in districts were going down gradually. The overall coronavirus case load now stands at 1009 in the state. Altogether, 374 people have recovered and on Tuesday, 42 more persons were discharged. So far, 25 people have died from the virus, and rest of the patients in hospitals are doing well, health minister Eatala Rajender said. “Death rate is also very low at 2. 3 percent in the state,”he said. The minister said while the central team was supposed to do random swab testing in Vikarabad and Suryapet, but no such tests will be done now as cases are coming down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-six-new-covid-19-ve-cases/articleshow/75437689.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hubballi||Child marriage prevented in Bagalkot||BAGALKOT: Childline (1098) prevented the marriage of a 16-year-old girl at Malali village in Bagalkot district on Sunday. Its staff educated the girl’s parents on the ill effects of child marriage and convinced them to sign an agreement to not marry off their daughter till she turns a major. The class 10 student’s marriage was fixed with a 36-year-old man from Tevaratti village in Belagavi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/child-marriage-prevented-in-bagalkot/articleshow/75433887.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Man booked for spitting in Pune||PUNE: The Deccan Gymkhana police on Monday filed a case against a medicine trader for spitting on the road. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Deccan Gymkhana police said, “The businessman spit on the road while he was on his way to supply medicines in Deccan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-for-spitting/articleshow/75438417.cms||Gitesh Shelke
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Pay VBC staff salary from fixed deposit’||HYDERABAD: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Hyderabad on Tuesday directed the Insolvency Resolution Professional (IRP) currently involved in the corporate insolvency resolution process pertaining to VBC Industries Ltd to pay the salaries to the employees of VBC by defreezing a fixed deposit in the name of the company. Following a Rs 100 crore default to finance company IFCI, the tribunal earlier initiated the insolvency process against the company. “The company has not been paying the salaries to the staff since January this year,” N Harinath, the counsel for the employees said. After hearing the case of the aggrieved employees, NCLT judge K Ananta Padmanabha Swamy directed the IRP to pay the salaries of February and March immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pay-vbc-staff-salary-from-fixed-deposit/articleshow/75437705.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Indore||Anxiety, panic attacks & stress level among Indoreans increase four-fold||Indore: There has been four to five fold rise in anxiety, panic attacks and stress levels among residents, suggest city based psychiatrists and psychologists. Consultant neuropsychiatrist and member of Indian Medical Association (IMA) helpline, Dr Rahul Mathur said that during the first week of lockdown there was rise of anxiety more among loners, who are away from their families. “On a daily basis, we have been seeing nearly 80 to 100 patients at mental hospital OPD and nearly 20-25 patients through teleconsultation,” said Mathur. Before lockdown, the facility used to see the same number of patients, but from adjacent districts of Indore too. The lockdown has led to rise of common fear, acute stress disorder and other mental issues among residents of city. Considering the fact that it has been over a month that Indoreans have been staying indoors and as city-based clinics have been shut, several residents have started seeking consultation via telephone or through online modes including video calling. According to city-based psychiatrist Dr Abhay Jain, number of patients with anxiety, stress has nearly doubled especially due to pandemic. On a daily basis, helpline numbers and city-based psychiatrists and psychologists have been getting four times more calls than regular days. According to psychiatrists, rise of stress levels is seen more among those who have been staying away from their families and alone in the city. However, now even those who have been living with families have been showing symptoms of stress and depression. Change in the lifestyle and sleep pattern has also been causing insomnia among some people. Patients of anxiety and stress that had recovered completely have been showing symptoms of relapses and have again started with seeking medical aide. Moreover, new patients have also been seeking experts help. Clinical psychologist, Dr Sanjeev Tripathi said that there has been a rise in the number of cases dealing with stress, anxiety and panic attacks. However, several people are even unaware about their situation and online consultation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/anxiety-panic-attacks-stress-level-among-indoreans-increase-four-fold/articleshow/75437713.cms||Laveena Francis
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR launches online survey for employees||HYDERABAD: South Central Railway (SCR) launched an online survey for its employees on Tuesday to detect coronavirus infection and provide them with medical support via telemedicine. The step was taken as around 80 people including employees and their family members, in the last few days, were identified with mild symptoms in the city. “People with mild syptoms are suggested precautionary measures and put under observation at the Railway Hospital in Lallaguda and some in home quarantine,” informed officials. Employees are advised to fill their own details or of their family members and travel history if any. Based on the details, the page will display the result - an alert with regard to any individual showing symptoms.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-launches-online-survey-for-employees/articleshow/75437701.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard drags woman for 300 m in Sabarkantha||PALANPUR: A 34-year-old woman was killed by leopard that dragged her for nearly metres in Kanadar forest area, some 20 km from Vijaynagar in Sabarkantha district, on Tuesday.Vijaynagar range forest officer ( RFO) VK Patel said the woman identified as Kanta Damor was attacked when she was collecting mahuda flowers early in the morning. The flowers ripen during this season and tribals usually go into the forest to collect them as early as 4am. “The leopard dragged her for nearly 300 metres. She had severe injuries in the neck and belly,” said Patel, adding that they were informed by people who spotted her body. Three cages have been placed at different places to capture the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-drags-woman-for-300-m-in-sabarkantha/articleshow/75436553.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||Undertrial dies in jail, probe ordered||PILIBHIT: A probe has been ordered into the death of a 44-year-old undertrial in Pilibhit district jail. He collapsed in the jail toilet at 3 am on Monday and was shifted to the district hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A panel of three government medical officers conducted the post-mortem on Tuesday. The report is awaited. The deceased, Rajendra of Balrampur under Puranpur Kotwali police station, had been lodged in jail since February 27, 2016, on charges of murdering a police sub-inspector, Subhash Yadav. Rajendra had allegedly snatched the SI's service revolver and shot him dead. Three other villagers had also sustained bullet injuries. According to the superintendent of the district jail Anoop Singh, the undertrial was suffering from mental illness. He had been shifted to Varanasi one month after his entry in jail. He underwent treatment for over two months. Last year, Rajendra was admitted to the mental hospital in Bareilly. He was under medical treatment for his mental ailment when he collapsed, Singh said. Medical officer at district jail, Dr Naresh Chandra, said Rajendra had suffered a sudden cardiac arrest and was immediately shifted to the district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/undertrial-dies-in-jail-probe-ordered/articleshow/75435236.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Hail comes as a pleasant surprise in Kanyakumari dist||Kanyakumari: Hail accompanied by heavy rain came as a pleasant surprise for residents of Vadassery area in Nagercoil town on Tuesday afternoon. Residents said hail lasted more than five minutes while heavy rain continued for an hour. N Arun Kumar, 32, of Lakshmipuram Vadakutheru in Vadassery, who works in a private firm in Trichy and is back home due to the lockdown, was enjoying a bath in the rain on his terrace around 2.15pm when hails fell on him. “I was surprised to see the hail,” he said and added that bathing in the hail was a different experience. Ruba Princess, 27, of Crown Street said the tin sheets on the roof of a house two streets away flew and landed on her neighbour’s roof. “Luckily nobody was injured,” she said. Though there has been summer rain occasionally over the last few days, the hail reduced the temperature. There was heavy wind too. Moderate to heavy rain coupled with lightning and thunder was recorded across Kanyakumari district. There were power cuts for more than two hours in some places due to tree falls and snapped wires. Tangedco officials were at work to clear fallen branches and trees to fix snapped wires. Officials from the revenue and disaster management were assessing the damages caused by the hailstorm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hail-comes-as-a-pleasant-surprise-in-kanyakumari-dist/articleshow/75438402.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Rain brings respite from heat and water crisis as well||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Recent rainfall has given some respite to Attingal division of Kerala water authority which was heading for a major water crisis due to depletion of water in the Vamanapuram river. Last week, the KWA had to source water from deeper pockets in Vamanapuram river as it was difficult to pump water. The recent rainfall in hilly areas such as Palode and Ponmudi has improved the water availability in the Vamanapuram river. Sources in Attingal division of KWA said they had revised decision to impose restrictions in water supply. "As pumping is normalised now, we have decided not to impose any restrictions as of now," KWA officials said. However, officials said crisis is not over yet. "The water consumption has increased following the lockdown. Several wells have dried up in the area. So, more people are depending of pipe water, which is another reason for sudden increase in consumption. We are monitoring the situation. As of now, there is no crisis," officials said. The Vamanapuram river has been facing depletion every summer. Due to the absence of a reservoir, various schemes which depend on the river face crisis during summer. This year, the Attingal division had decided to find alternate sources such as Anathazhchira river as vending points to distribute water in affected areas. Sources said if there is enough summer rainfall, situation would improve. Around 22 schemes of KWA depend on Vamanapuram river as its source. The areas under distribution include Attingal, Varkala and nearby areas. In the previous years, KWA had regulated supply by distributing it on alternate days in various areas. The irrigation department had initiated steps to construct more check dams. However, it did not materialise this year due to the pandemic. However, past two days’ rainfall hasn’t brought much change to the water levels in Peppara dam, which is the major source of water for the state capital. The current water level of 99.1m has remained the same for past few days. Unlike other districts in the state which witnessed an increase in consumption during lockdown, there has been no major hike in consumption in the city so far as commercial institutions and offices remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rain-brings-respite-from-heat-water-crisis-as-well/articleshow/75436550.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police, civic body strive to protect Covid-19 ‘cold spots’||KOLKATA: After sealing 227 micro-neighbourhoods to contain the spread of coronavirus, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) is focusing on protecting the rest of the city from where no case of Covid-19 infection has been reported yet. The task to defend the ‘cold spots’ though is challenging, concede KMC officials, as most of them are located next to high-risk areas. But hope hinges on the successful containment strategy that was rolled out last week. “We have sealed high-risk Covid zones across the city and imposed restrictions on movement of people to the cold spots so that people living there do not get infected. Similarly, we are keeping a close vigil on movement of people who are living in safe zones to ensure that they don’t move around carelessly and contract the infection,” said a KMC official. Though KMC has devised an action plan to allow phased opening of shops and services in these ‘cold spots’, some officials are wary that they could easily switch from ‘safe’ to ‘sensitive’ if one Covid-19 positive case is reported from there. And that, officials say, is very much possible given the proximity of these locations to the sensitive zones. No Covid-19 positive cases have so far been reported from areas like Janbazar, Goaltuli Lane or parts of Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road. But at the same time, these locationns are surrounded by areas like Taltala, Beniapukur, Collins Lane or Nirmal Chandra Street which have been declared high-risk Covid zones. Similarly, areas such as Haridevpur, Kudghat, Bansdroni, Naktala have so far remained out of bounds of Covid-19 even though adjacent neighbourhoods like Behala (for Haridevpur and Kudghat) and Garia (for Bansdroni and Naktala) have had residents testing positive for Covid-19. The novel coronavirus is yet to make its presence felt in areas such as Golf Green, Lake Gardens or Jodhpur Park but a section of the civic officials feel the residents living in these areas would have to exercise extreme caution and abide by Covid-19 guidelines since adjoining neighbourhoods like Dhakuria, Golpark or Ballygunge have seen the emergence of fresh Covid positive patients. Jadavpur is another locality where no cases of Covid-19 has so far been reported. However, a 74-year old patient and a resident of Baghajatin who was tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday (now admitted at a private hospital) comes as a warning for Jadavpur residents as Baghajatin is a neighbourhood not far from Jadavpur. As a special plan of action for Covid-free zones, KMC has intensified its fever survey. “First we need to put up a barricade segregating the cold spots from the infected zones. Also, we need to conduct a house-to-house survey, especially in the slums. If we find any such case, the person should be sent for immediate testing. Besides, we will start random testing of people in the cold spots once the testing kits are available,” said a KMC health department official. Some residents in the ‘cold spots’ have extended cooperation in isolating their neighbours. Residents at Karunamoyee Bazar in Tollygunge have put a barricade and put up posters asking people from Siriti neighbourhood (in the Covid-19 map) not to venture into their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-civic-body-strive-to-protect-covid-cold-spots/articleshow/75436566.cms||Saikat Ray
April 29, 2020||Pune||Bhosari woman does 1,400km round trip to bring son home from Amravati||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Sonu Khandare, a 36-year-old woman with a bone cancer handicap in her leg, from Bhosari travelled 1,400km in two days on her two-wheeler to bring back her 14-year-old son, Pratik, stuck since March 17 in her in-laws’ village in Amravati district. “ Pratik had gone to drop his cousin Anjali Lavhale at my maternal home in Hinganigavangaon in Anjangaon Surji taluka of Amravati district on March 17. He stayed there for a few days and then went to my in-laws village of Kokarde, a few km away. My in-laws are very old and poor and could not look after him, and the heat in the village was unbearable for a city-bred boy like him. He grew restless and told me that he would start walking to Bhosari from Amravati,” she said. A desperate Khandare tried to arrange for Pratik to be put on any truck ferrying essentials and even contacted cab drivers. When nothing worked, Khandare, worried that her son would be on the road risking his life and violating the curfew rules, decided to fetch him. “I applied to the Pimpri Chinchwad police for an inter-district police pass. They granted me a two-day pass valid from 12.30pm on April 23 to April 25 midnight,” she told TOI. She set out on April 23 at 3.30pm riding her two-wheeler on the Bhosari-Ahmednagar-Aurangabad-Jalna route. She stayed overnight at a petrol pump in Jalna where there were CCTV cameras and the people were friendly. She reached Kokarde at 11pm on April 24, travelling at 60 to 65 kmph. “There were many police barricades but the pass allowed me to proceed,” she added. The journey took a toll on her. “My hands and leg were swollen and my back ache was severe. On Saturday, my son and I began the return journey at 6am,and were back in Bhosari by 11pm. We went straight to the PCMC-run Bhosari hospital and were advised home quarantined,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhosari-woman-does-1400km-round-trip-to-bring-son-home-from-amravati/articleshow/75438406.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials lock up homes in Gadwal hotspots||HYDERABAD: Gates of the houses of some residents in Gadwal’s hotspots and containment areas were locked by the authorities to prevent the residents from venturing out and stop the spread of coronavirus. With the residents raising a hue and cry, the locks were removed but with a warning that they should not step out of their houses. The authorities had put up barricades in the red zones and in all the containment zones in Gadwal town on April 26. When it was noticed that people were still venturing out of their houses despite the lockdown and stricter norms being imposed against the movement of people, the authorities stepped in. They also noticed that the locals were venturing out at night. Some of the staff locked the gates of the houses from outside. Only after the residents assured the authorities that they would not venture out of their houses, the authorities removed the locks. “It was done to send a strong message that we are dealing with the situation appropriately to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” additional collector, Jogulamba Gadwal, P Srinivas Reddy told TOI. “We can take recourse to the law and book cases against those violating the lockdown rules under the Epidemic Diseases Act but the idea is not to punish people. The purpose is to make them realise that they have to stay at home,” Srinivas said. Jogulamba Gadwal has become a Covid-19 hotspot with the state administration also focusing on preventing the spread of the virus. So far, 45 positive cases have been reported with 35 being active cases and nine patients being discharged after recovery. There was one death. In Gadwal town, the areas under red zone include Ramnagar, Momim Mohalla, Raja Veedhi, Vedanagar, Ganjipeta, Bhimnagar and old Housing Board Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-lock-up-homes-in-gadwal-hotspots/articleshow/75437714.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 29, 2020||Indore||8 corona patients in Ujjain died hours after coming to hospital||Ujjain: As many as five people, who succumbed to Covid-19 in Ujjain district, were declared brought dead at hospitals, forcing doctors to collect samples from their bodies. So far, Ujjain has seen 23 deaths due to Covid-19. Eight were admitted in very critical condition and received treatment for couple of hours before succumbing, health department records said. “Five of the Covid-19 deceased were brought to hospitals after death. Samples were collected from their bodies, which later tested positive for infection,” Ujjain nodal officer for isolation Dr HP Sonaniya told TOI. The data suggests that there was inordinate delay in identification of Covid-19 symptoms and testing. The patients were brought to hospital at a late stage, thus complicating the condition. The patients had initially visited their regular doctors with cough and cold symptoms. The concern for Covid-19 was not established when such cases first surfaced, heath department sources said. Ujjain CMHO Dr Anusuiya Gawali said around eight patients were brought to the hospitals in very critical condition. “They could be given hardly a few hours of treatment,” she said. Rest of the deceased had co-morbidities like obesity, diabetes and hypertension, which led to complications and subsequent deaths, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/8-corona-patients-in-ujjain-died-hours-after-coming-to-hospital/articleshow/75437730.cms||Brijesh Parmar
April 29, 2020||Delhi||50 per cent dip in heart, stroke patients visiting Delhi hospitals||NEW DELHI: The corona crisis in Delhi has had unusual fallout — nearly 50% reduction in patients rushing to hospitals, even for emergencies such as heart attack, stroke and head injury due to accident. “Acute heart attack is often precipitated by factors such as stress, smoking and pollution. These are largely under control, and could be one of the reasons why lesser number of people is landing in emergencies with heart attack,” said Dr Ashok Seth, chairman, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute (FEHI). He added that many might not be able to reach hospitals due to unavailability of transportation too. Dr D S Rana, chairman (BOM), Sir Ganga Ram hospital, said people try to delay visiting hospitals fearing they might contract Covid-19. “This could lead to a crisis situation or may already be leading to one, as many needy may be suffering without treatment,” he said. A study published by the Spanish Society of Cardiology and the Association of Interventional Cardiologists recently showed that the number of primary angioplasties — the main treatment for heart attack — in the country dropped by 40% since the beginning of the coronavirus lockdown. The study said fear of visiting hospitals and catching the virus was the main driver of this reduction. Recently, the Centre and the state both have come up with advisory notifying that non-Covid-19 emergencies should be given equal importance. Delhi government even listed hospitals where treatment for various specialties was available. But lack of transportation and fear of getting infected continue to be a major hindrance. According to Dr MV Padma Srivastava, professor and head, neurology, AIIMS, low footfall for emergencies involving non-corona problems has been observed not just in the country, but even in the US and UK. “Nearly 30-40% reduction in footfall has been observed in cases related to stroke,” she said. A person experiencing sudden loss of speech, vision or trouble walking should immediately visit a hospital, she added. The Indian Stroke Association (ISA) too has issued detailed guidelines about management on stroke cases during pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/50-dip-in-heart-stroke-patients-visiting-hospitals/articleshow/75438454.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 29, 2020||Indore||MP districts chalk out phased exit plan||INDORE: With Centre and state government preparing a roadmap of phased-exit from ongoing lockdown after May 3, district administrations in Indore and Ujjain division have started marking non/least affected areas to start commercial and other activities depending on essentiality, risk and other factors. Neemuch district of Ujjain division has been kept in green-zone for not reporting any positive case yet, followed by Mandsaur, Shajapur and Agar-Malwa district in orange-zone, for reporting no/a few cases in last one week. Besides, Ujjain and Dewas district has been kept in red-zone. Similarly, Indore district has been kept in red-zone, Khargone, Dhar, Barwani and Khandwa districts are in orange-zone while Jhabua, Alirajpur and Burhanpur district have been kept in green-zone. District administrations in Malwa-Nimar region have also prepared its plan to starting commercial activities depending on different factors. “Neemuch has yet not reported any case and is in green-zone. Within the district, we have however marked the safest and vulnerable areas,” said collector Jitendra Singh Raje, adding that Manasa tehsil, the safest one, will witness start of maximum activities Indore district is however unlikely to witness any exemption from the lockdown .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/districts-chalk-out-phased-exit-plan/articleshow/75437722.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Vadodara||SC sets aside Gujarat HC’s order discharging Dr Mansukh Shah||VADODARA: Dr Mansukh Shah, founder-president of Sumandeep Vidyapeeth, a deemed to be university, will once again have to face the trial in the sensational cash-for-marks scam after the Supreme Court on Monday set aside Gujarat high court’s order discharging Shah from the case. The bench of justices N V Ramana, M M Shantanagoudar and Ajay Rastogi allowed the state government’s appeal challenging Shah’s discharge. The bench directed the trial court in Vadodara to proceed with the case expeditiously. Shah, who was accused of taking Rs 20 lakh from the parents of a student to allow her to take her final-year MBBS examination, was discharged by the Gujarat high court on the grounds that there is no prima facie evidence against him and that he does not come under the purview of public servant. Before Shah moved high court, the trial court in Vadodara had rejected his discharge application. Besides Shah, his two aides – Vinod alias Bharat Savant and Ashok Tailor were chargesheeted by the anti-corruption bureau in the case. Tailor died in November 2017. Later, Shah’s other aides – Dhruvin Shah, exam controller of the university Dr Punecha Kudakundi and chief accounts officer Purvi Mahant were also made accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sc-sets-aside-guj-hcs-order-discharging-dr-mansukh-shah/articleshow/75435201.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kudumbashree logs Rs 3.7 crore loss||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The joint farming groups under Kudumbashree units in the state have suffered a total loss of Rs 3.67 crore due to the lockdown, according to an internal study report by the Kudumbashree Mission released here on Tuesday. The loss included Rs 2 crore due to failure in harvesting 8.64 tonnes of farm produces and Rs 1.67 crore due to non-sale of produces or sale at a low price during the lockdown period. The report was prepared by the agriculture wing of the Kudumbashree. The loss was unexpected for the Kudumbashree groups which invested in agriculture sector after surviving two consecutive floods in the state, the study said. The groups had cultivated various crops like paddy, vegetables, plantain and tuber varieties eyeing the Vishu market, which they could not harvest due to lockdown. Thrissur district was the worst affected, where 821 farming groups which had cultivated on 277.82 hectares suffered losses, while in Malappuram district, the lockdown affected 778 groups. A total of 4,8940 farming groups in the state had cultivated crops targeting this year’s Vishu market, and out of this 31,421 groups were all set to make the harvest. But the lockdown had its severe impact on 4,042 groups, thus affecting cultivation on 1202 hectres of land, the study pointed out. Under Kudumbashree, there are a total of 68,388 farming groups in the state comprising a total of 3,38,202 women. They have been cultivating a total area of 50,000 hectares of land and out of this 75-80% are leased land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kudumbashree-logs-rs-3-7-cr-loss/articleshow/75435279.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bareilly||Kite-flying in groups banned as it violates social distancing||BAREILLY: After a fresh Covid-19 case was reported in Bareilly city, the administration has swung into action to ensure that no lockdown rules are violated. This time, guns are trained against kite-flyers. Forced to remain indoors, many residents have taken up the traditional pass-time -- flying kites. In doing so, people have not only violated norms of social distancing by assembling in groups but also using the banned Chinese 'manja' (string) to fly the kites. It is against this backdrop that city magistrate Madan Kumar Singh on Tuesday announced a ban on all kite-flying in groups in the city with immediate effect. “We have come to know that youths are flying kites in groups assembled on rooftops and not maintaining social distancing in several parts of the Old City. Since section 144 is already in place, restricting assembly of five and more persons, such activity will be considered as lockdown violation,” Singh said. “We have no place to go to and play. We cannot play indoor games all day long," a youth said. On their part, administrative officials said they were not stopping anybody from flying kites but their only concern is to make citizens strictly follow lockdown guidelines. “As far as using the Chinese manjha (kite sting) is concerned, its use and sale has already been banned by the Supreme Court as a large number of people have sustained serious injuries across the country. Second, we are asking people not to fly kites in groups as it can be harmful to their life,”city magistrate Singh said. Just last week, a man has sustained serious injuries after a Chinese manjha caused a deep cut in his neck. In reply to a question, the city magistrate said, “Flying a kite with a Chinese sting is a crime and appropriate action will be taken against those who are caught using it. Besides, if five or more people are found flying kites together, due action will also be initiated against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kite-flying-in-groups-banned-as-it-violates-social-distancing/articleshow/75435267.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Zoos seek aid from govt for daily upkeep||Mysuru: The major source of revenue for the zoos in the state is gate collection and a huge chunk of it is spent on animal care. With zoos closed due to lockdown, there is no revenue and the authorities have sought financial support from the government for the maintenance of animals and upkeep of the zoo. There are nine zoos in the state situated in Mysuru, Bengaluru, Shivamogga, Hampi, Belagavi, Davanagere, Kalaburagi, Gadag and Chitradurga. They have been closed to visitors since March 15 to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Animals continue to be fed and taken care of with zoological staff clocking in as usual. Zoo authorities are worried that even after relaxation of lockdown norms on May 3, the footfalls could be very less. A zoo officer told TOI that gate collection is the major source of income for the zoos whereas revenue from vehicle parking, bank interest and others sources is negligible. Veterinary care and daily feed of the animals which includes beef, chicken, vegetables, fish, seasonal fruits and food supplements takes major share of the revenue. There are animals lovers who are providing financial assistance by adopting animals which is encouraging,” the officer said. Mysuru Zoo and Bannerghatta Biological Park in Bengaluru are the two major revenue generating zoos in the state. Mysuru Zoo witnessed the highest footfall in 2018 with 1.53 lakh visitors and had Rs 1.05 crore revenue while BBP had Rs 16.01 lakh visitors with Rs 21.70 crore from gate collection.Zoo Authority of Karnataka member secretary BP Ravi told TOI that they have sought grants from the government. “Zoo authorities are feeding the animals and all the animals are in good health,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/zoos-seek-aid-from-govt-for-daily-upkeep/articleshow/75435245.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown, rain make Kolkata’s air cleanest in recorded history||Kolkata: Long-term lockdown and a downpour pushed all pollutants — PM2.5, PM10, SO2 NO2, CO, benzene and ammonia — below the stringent WHO standard, making city’s air the cleanest in the entire country. It was also the cleanest in Kolkata’s recorded history. Experts said such air quality will help people suffering from heart, lung and kidney ailments in battling the Covid-19 far more effectively. “Lockdown has transformed the air and water quality significantly. Hundreds of emission-controlling measures worth hundreds of crores could not have brought the pollution level down so effectively,” said Subhas Datta, city’s foremost environment crusader. “Air pollution contributes to co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases and make people vulnerable to Covid-19. The clean air, on the other hand, enables one to fight the pandemic effectively,” said Arun Sharma, professor-director (community medicine), University College of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi. Moreover, a polluted area will have more dust particles that can act as a carrier for the virus. “The cleaning up of air significantly coincides with introduction of BS-VI emission standard. The superior emission technology will reduce the pollution. But at the same time, we have to phase out old polluting vehicles more effectively,” said Prabir Bose, a leading automobile expert. While the lockdown brought down the overall pollution level drastically, Tuesday’s downpour did the rest, cleaning up the air to such an extent that the presence of pollutants in the air was negligible. The lockdown evidently has had an even bigger impact on NO2 levels. “It is now our collective responsibility to maintain the air quality. If we can dot that, we can get rid many of diseases. Otherwise, we would invite more trouble,” said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, environment activist and automobile emission consultant. Ghosh added that people must understand that polluted air can make a pandemic more potent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-rain-make-kolkatas-air-cleanest-in-recorded-history/articleshow/75436576.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Four kids drown in river||Rajkot: Four kids in the age group of five to 12 years drowned in Sukhbhadar River in Nana Chheda village of Balia taluka in Botad district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Kajal Solanki (12), her brother Jagdish Solanki (8), their sister Priya Solanki (7) and their cousin Bodi Nayak (5).“The children had stepped into the river for bathing. They were pulled by the strong currents and drowned,” said H L Joshi, sub-inspector with Paliad police station. The father of Kajal, Jagdish and Priya is Ramesh Solanki, who works as a farm labourer in Nana Chheda village, while the father of Bodi is Arjun Nayak who is the brother-in-law of Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-kids-drown-in-river/articleshow/75436575.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Indore||3 more Covid care centres opened||Indore: Indore district administration on Tuesday started three more Covid Care Centres to cater to increasing number of asymptomatic patients. With this, the city has now total eight Covid Care Centres. Nodal officer Vivek Shrotriya said that 35 patients were admitted in Robert Nursing Home, 22 in Sewakunj, 81 in President, 21 in TCL and 35 in Water Lily Garden. “Sewakunj hospital has a capacity to keep 400 patients, while the administration is also exploring to convert another facility into Covid Care Centre to keep around 120 people there” he said. On Tuesday, the administration received a guideline from ministry of health and family welfare for asymptomatic patients to opt for home isolation, if they have requisite facility to remain isolated from other family members. “There are many patients of Covid-19, who are asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. They will have to give an affidavit that he/she has chosen home isolation voluntarily and will follow guidelines and remain in surveillance of health officers,” Shotriya said. Indore administration is preparing a mobile-based application for patients, who will opt for home isolation, to log in and provide required details on regular basis for monitoring by health department. Isolation period at home will end only if symptoms are clinically resolved and surveillance medical officer certifies him to be free of infection after lab test. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/3-more-covid-care-centres-opened/articleshow/75437736.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: M R Bangur Hospital first government hospital to start virtual visiting hours||KOLKATA: M R Bangur Hospital has become the first government Covid facility to introduce virtual visiting hours for its patients. Since Monday, patients in isolation wards have been interacting with their families on video-calls on mobiles provided by doctors and nurses. Days after the state health department issued a notification, restricting the use of mobiles inside Covid-treatment facilities, MR Bangur Hospital, the biggest such establishment in Bengal, took this initiative to help its patients. AMRI Salt Lake, a private Covid hospital, started it last week. “Since Monday, we have been helping our patients in isolation wards connect with their families virtually,” Partha Guha, superintendent on deputation at M R Bangur, told TOI on Tuesday. Guha (43), superintendent of Salt Lake subdivisional hospital, is currently on deputation to help MR Bangur superintendent Sisir Naskar. “For now, patients are video-calling through doctors’ and nurses’ smartphones. In a day or two, we will have tablets in each isolation ward,” Guha said. There are four isolation wards. “Each patient is allowed to speak to his or her family for two minutes during the visiting hours from 4pm to 6pm,” he said. Patients can also make calls from cordless phones. The health department order issued last week had said intercom could be used for communication between patients and families, through nurses. “It is important not only to cure but also to care. Along with the antiviral or antibiotic treatment, a strong dose of empathy goes a long way in helping eople recover,” Guha said, who had an audio message by a Medical College and Hospital health worker, Somnath Das. “I have been admitted to MR Bangur since April 13. I am being well looked after, but today I want to express my gratitude for doctors and nurses organizing this video-call with my family...” Das said in the message. Guha added: “The most moving thing is the sudden change in the patients’ body language. Before the call, they look dispirited, but their face lights up when they see their families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangur-1st-govt-hosp-to-start-virtual-visiting-hrs/articleshow/75437742.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Farmers turn to maize, grain as cattle feed production declines||KOLHAPUR: The imposition of the lockdown has led to a decline in the production of cattle feed as a result of which lesser quantity of milk is being produced in the region. As soon as the lockdown came into effect, the units producing cattle feed were shut due to non-availability of workers and restrictions imposed on the movement of transport vehicles. Though many production facilities have started in the region with the relaxation in lockdown rules, many are still closed due to non-availability of raw material required to produce cattle feed. The feed is prepared from cotton seeds which are crushed and then converted into cakes by adding materials required to make a cohesion. Such cotton seed cakes are highly nutritious and also costly. The cotton trade to textile hubs has stopped. One such textile manufacturing hub in Ichhalkaranji thrashes the cotton balls and provides the seeds to the cattle-feed manufacturing facilities. The other major source of raw material are the thrashed grain crops. Now that the harvesting has been carried out in most of the farms, the thrashed crops have been burnt in the fields resulting in its low availability. Gokul, the largest co-operative dairy in the region, has its own cattle-feed manufacturing facility. The dairy provides the feed to farmers who in turn supply milk to the dairy. V D Patil, manager of the Gokul’s cattle-feed facility said, “We are using molasses from the sugar mills and supplements to make the cattle feed pellets. Currently, we are making around 400 tonne of cattle feed, much lesser than what we produce on any other normal day.” “There will be a dip in milk production as the amount of milk given by buffaloes or cows depends on the amount of feed given to them. However, we are ensuring that farmers get some amount of feed to ensure the cattle keeps producing milk.” There is a huge shortage of cattle feed even in the rural parts of Sangli and Satara. A farmer from Atpadi taluka in Sangli district said he was using stored grain and grain from ration shops to feed the cattle. “Due to shortage, the feed suppliers are charging more than the usual rates. The dairies are paying us less claiming that the demand for milk in cities has gone done and there is excess milk with them. The government has capped the procurement rates at Rs 26, local dairies are paying Rs 20 per litre for milk. In such conditions, buying the feed at higher rates will be our loss,” said the farmer. According to dairy farmers, around 500g feed needs to be given to the buffaloes and cows for getting a litre of milk. If the procurement price of milk is Rs 26 as per government norm, then around Rs 15 is spent on the feed which leaves the farmers with very little money in their hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/farmers-turn-to-maize-grain-as-cattle-feed-production-declines/articleshow/75436589.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Curfew violations lowest during blanket shutdown||Madurai: The city police registered the lowest number of cases in connection with lockdown violations on Sunday and Monday, thanks to the cooperation from the city residents for the four-day total shutdown. Only 196 cases were registered on the two days, of which 96 filed on Sunday and 100 on Monday. Officials said that city dwellers extended their coordination for the third day in a row. Although a few were found wandering on road unnecessarily, cooperation was still way better compared to earlier days. Police said that 7,333 cases have been registered since March 25 and close to 8,000 people have been arrested. Apart from this, 4,017 vehicles have been seized so far. A traffic official said, “Cooperation has been good for the third day in a row as far as the city was concerned. Appropriate action is taken against them. NCC students deployed at junction are spreading awareness on the importance of lockdown among violators,” he said. Unlike the first two days, vegetables vendors and fruit vendors were allowed to run business in residential areas. They carried vegetables in pushcarts and sold them in door steps. S Jayachandran, a pushcart vendor said, “More than vegetables, people shown interest in purchasing fruits. Although price of fruits such as apple, grapes, pineapple, mangoes and sapota were higher. People did not mind spending money on them,” he said. Collector T G Vinay said that they have deputed senior district revenue officer and joint director level officer for two containment areas to ensure door-to-door screening, sanitation measures, door delivery of groceries and essential and enforcing zero movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/curfew-violations-lowest-during-blanket-shutdown/articleshow/75438440.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||GSHSEB official killed in accident||RAJKOT: An official from Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) was killed and a policeman injured when their SUV had a head-on collision with a truck near Gandhidham in Kutch district on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as GSHSEB official Rakesh Shrimali, while Surendrakumar Lalsinh, a constable with Gandhinagar police, and driver Alpesh Rathod were injured in the accident. “Shrimali was on his way from Gandhinagar to Anjar to collect answer papers that had been checked. The accident happened while negotiating a diversion,” said B A Chawda, sub-inspector with Gandhidham B diviion police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gshseb-official-killed-in-accident/articleshow/75436588.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||Protect your eyes while working on screen, schools tell students||Kolkata: Now that schools are closed and online classes have become the “new normal”, many students have started complaining of health problems after being exposed to increased screen time. Redness and swelling in the eye, incessant watering or dryness, fatigue and headaches were some of the complaints among kids attending virtual classes. School authorities have taken serious note of this and have brought in several revisions and advisories to help kids adjust to the new routine. While many schools have reworked the timetable in a way that students need not stare at the screen for long, there are others that are asking teachers to advise kids about how to unwind before the next lesson begins. There are others who are shutting off the video and getting into audio mode. Heritage School has decided to revise the time table so that kids now have to spend a maximum of an hour and a half of on-screen time in a day listening to lectures and taking notes. These are divided into 30 minute periods of subjects, with gaps of one hour in between for offline work and unwinding. Children have to post the offline work at the end of the hour. “We have introduced yoga therapy too and this is where kids are told how to do some simple exercises to relieve eye strain and fatigue,” explained Souvic Jati, academic co-ordinator of the school. The school has also started online dance, music and storytelling classes. In the 20-minute gap in between online classes, kids of La Martiniere for Boys are asked to get up, wash their faces, eat a fruit or drink water and just move about or chat with their parents. “The middle school boys start at 8:30am and get over at 1:10 pm. Unless they take themselves off screen in the breaks, they will develop fatigue,” said principal John Rafi. Many schools are uploading lesson-related videos to be watched by kids much after online school is over so that there’s a healthy gap. These videos give additional information on chapters and help kids clear doubts and ask questions. “This is necessary since the teacher is unable to access the students physically and cannot make out the real progress of the child but we are ensuring that they watch these after long gaps and videos are staggered according to the time table,” said Rituparna Chatterjee, principal of DPS-Joka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/protect-your-eyes-while-working-on-screen-schools-tell-students/articleshow/75436585.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
April 29, 2020||Madurai||MP slams move to probe IRS officials for revival plan||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has flayed the central government’s decision to conduct an inquiry against top IRS officials who made a representation to the government on how to revive the economy. In a communication to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Venkatesan said the suggestions of the IRS officials, “Fiscal Options and Response to Covid-19 Epidemic (FORCE),” is an outstanding one which could definitely help revive the falling economy. All their suggestions, including taxing the super rich, 4% Covid-19 cess and fixing the tax ceiling without affecting the middle class, need to be considered carefully. They have suggested a 40% tax for those who earn more than Rs 1 crore. The suggestion to increase the surcharge tax on MNCs which have permanent bases in India, is also welcome. If the suggestions had been taken seriously it could bring a revenue of several thousand crores to the government. Without welcoming their suggestions, the Centre has decided to conduct an inquiry against them. The CBDT has also refused to accept the recommendations. The actions of the senior IRS officials is commendable as it has been made in the welfare of the country. The central government should give a patient hearing to their suggestions. If at all an inquiry is conducted it should be against the gross mismanagement of the economy by the finance ministry, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-slams-move-to-probe-irs-officials-for-revival-plan/articleshow/75438448.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Posing as govt officials three cheat trader, held||RAJKOT: Three swindlers were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly duping a trader of goods worth Rs 14,000 in Jodia of Jamnagar district. Police said the accused, identified as Vijay Bhogayata, Deepak Bhogayata and Jignesh Rajgor, posed themselves as officials from Jamnagar collectorate and told Ruchit Singala that as per the orders from the collector, he would have to give goods to prepare ration kits. Believing them, Singala gave them seven cans of oil, 25 kg rice and 30 kg pulses, all worth Rs 14,000. “Later, when Singala came to know that no such order had been issued from the collectorate, he realized that he had been duped, following which he lodged the complaint,” said an official from Jodia police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/posing-as-govt-officials-three-cheat-trader-held/articleshow/75436611.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kochi||191 contacts test negative in Palakkad||PALAKKAD: The second sample test of four of the six persons under treatment for Covid-19 in the district hospital has yielded negative, said district medical officer (DMO) Dr K P Reetha here on Tuesday. There is relief in the district as there was no positive case among 191 primary and secondary contacts of six persons undergoing treatment at district hospital. The 76 contacts of Karakurissi native; 6 of Varod; 8 of Ottapalam; 4 of Palakuzhi; 3 of Chalissery; 4 of Kavilpad; 14 of Chathanur; 17 of Kanjikode guest worker; 13 of Kuzhalmannam; Kottopadam 1 and 35 of Vilayur tested negative. Four persons of the seven discharged from hospital completed their observation period. The remaining are on home quarantine. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/191-contacts-test-negative-in-palakkad/articleshow/75435343.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||File review plea against SC order, say tribal leaders||HYDERABAD: Former Union minister P Balram Naik and All India Adivasi Congress vice-chairman Bellaiah Naik demanded that the state government file a review petition in the Supreme Court against the recent order of the apex court striking down GO No. 3 issued by the undivided AP government. They said tribals will lose many job opportunities due to the SC order and that the state government should come to the rescue of the tribals. A five-judge bench of the Supreme Court had overruled the AP High Court verdict which allowed the two Telugu states to reserve teachers’ jobs only to those belonging to Scheduled Tribes in notified tribal areas, and stated it was violative of overall 50% reservation cap fixed by it. Balram and Bellaiah said STs would lose out on job opportunities in Agency areas in teacher and police recruitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/file-review-plea-against-sc-order-say-tribal-leaders/articleshow/75437737.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||MUDA presents Rs 1.5 crore surplus budget||Mysuru: The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) on Tuesday presented a surplus budget of Rs 1.58 crore for the financial year 2020-2021. MUDA commissioner P S Kantharaju presented the budget that proposes a revenue of Rs 324.5 crore and an expenditure of Rs 322.9 crore. Kantharaju said that due to the lockdown, there was no budget meeting at the MUDA office. “The budget copy was circulated to all MUDA members and after getting their approval, it was presented on Tuesday. The budget will be sent to the government for approval,” he said. As per the budget proposal, MUDA is expecting to raise a revenue of Rs 200 crore from the sale of corner sites, commercial sites, auctioning LIG, MIG & HIG houses coming under group housing scheme and auctioning CA sites and Rs 63 crore through maintenance fee, labour tax, drinking water fee, property tax, khata transfer and others fees. It is also expecting to generate Rs 5 crore from building plan sanctions and Rs 50 lakh from slum cess. It is also expecting Rs 56 crore from various rents including commercial buildings, Nandini parlours, marriage halls and fish market. The major expenditure would be the development of roads and new residential layouts. MUDA has proposed to construct a 105-km Outer Peripheral Ring Road (OPRR) with a cost of Rs 5 crore. It has also proposed to construct a truck terminal, circles, commercial establishments, convention halls, yoga mandira, and sports stadiums with Rs 65 crore. Besides, an outlay of Rs 1.75 crore is planned to develop Devanuru Lake, Bogadi Lake and Hinkal Lake. New Layouts MUDA has proposed new layouts in 3 acre 15 gunta land at Malalavadi village, 10 acre land at Chikkaharadanahalli village, 47 acre in Danagalli village and 5 acre 30 gunta land in Daripura village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-presents-rs-1-5-crore-surplus-budget/articleshow/75435295.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 29, 2020||Indore||State varsities except DAVV may give admission on merit||Indore: All varsities of Madhya Pradesh except Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) are likely to give admissions based on merit in new academic session. The three-member committee of vice chancellors of Jiwaji University, Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya and Barkatullah University has suggested admissions in state varsities on merit basis. However, after last year’s common Entrance Test (CET) fiasco, high court had instructed DAVV to conduct entrance test for next session. Therefore, DAVV will not give admissions on merit basis. A three-member committee comprising vice chancellors submitted the report related to exams to directorate of higher education (DHE) on Tuesday. “We have submitted report to department as per instructions. Other vice chancellors have suggested for admissions on merit basis considering the time constraints,” said vice chancellor of DAVV, Dr Renu Jain. The tentative plan to conduct examinations while taking all precautionary measures was also suggested in the report, she added. DAVV has declared tentative timetable for remaining subjects of final year students which are to take place from June 16 till June 30 assuming lockdown would end by May 31. The evaluation for final year students has to be completed by July 20 and the results are to be declared by July 31. On the other hand, examinations of fourth semester post graduate courses are scheduled to be conducted from July 1. Second semester undergraduate courses and post graduate courses exam will be conducted from July 11. Sanitization of classroom and furniture will be done by the exam center from their own funds. The varsity will be sending partial amount for the sanitization work. Examination question paper will be sent to all the exam centers by the varsity. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/state-varsities-except-davv-may-give-admission-on-merit/articleshow/75437743.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, Thiruvananthapuram railway staff to collect parcels at your doorstep||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern railway has initiated parcel collection from homes. The facility arranged by commercial wing of the division was launched on a trial basis from Tuesday. "The idea was to provide logistics so that people stay at home. Railway is providing the transportation and its cost will be charged by the person or agency handing the transportation.  “There is a pick up van at the station to collect parcels. We have chief parcel supervisors at the station and there are contract staff for parcel handing alone. We will issue them special passes to collect parcels," said Balamurali M, divisional commercial manager, Thiruvananthapuram division. People who want to send parcels through railway special parcel trains can book in advance for parcel collection facility. To avail the facility, people may call helpline numbers +91 95678 69381 or 0471 232 6483 and request for parcel collection. The railway staff will share the vehicle and representative’s details and cost of transportation. The charge will be in addition to the parcel service charge, which is to be paid to the representative collecting the parcel along with transportation charges. Based on demand, railways will make local arrangement for the transportation. "The facility has been planned for city limits as for remote regions we will have to check the feasibility. Precautions will be taken for containment of Covid-19 in the parcel collection. The team collecting parcels will have sanitisers, gloves and masks," added Balamurali. Railway authorities are also considering to arrange porters to collect the parcels at stations where there are no contract staff for handling parcels. There are around 70 licensed porters at the central station, who have been wageless since lockdown was enforced and the proposal is likely to benefit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-railway-staff-to-collectparcels-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/75436618.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Indore||Now, Burhanpur records its first coronavirus case||Indore: Burhanrpur district on Tuesday reported its first case of Covid-19 sending administrative officials and locals on toes. Panic gripped Dauadpura area of the main Burhanpur city, when a 63-years-old former corporator was found positive. “The patient had visited Saudi Arabia around a month ago for Haj. On return, he was quarantined for a month but thereafter, he developed some symptoms and thus, his samples were sent for laboratory test,” CMHO Dr Vikram Singh Verma told TOI. He added that patient’s report came positive late on Monday night. “We have taken samples of 40 people of his contact and all of them have been quarantined. The area around the patient’s resident has been declared as containment zone while required steps are being taken to check spread of the disease,” he said. Earlier, a woman of Maharashtra, who was undergoing treatment in a local sospital, was tested positive. “Second report of the woman has also tested positive. As she belongs to Buldhana district of Maharashtra, we are not counting her as a local patient. The patient was however being provided treatment in a hospital meant for Covid-19 patients,” CMHO said. This apart, Dhar district reported another Covid-19 patient taking the tally to 40. “As per the division’s report of the day, 165 new patients including three deaths have been reported in Indore late on Monday night. In the district, number of deaths have increased to 63 while total 1372 patients have found positive here” the joint director (health) Dr JS Awasya told TOI. A bulletin of the day released by Ujjain division office revealed that four positive cases including three deaths reported in Ujjain while one death reported in Dewas district on Tuesday. As per the report, Ujjain has so far reported total 23 deaths and total 124 positive cases while Dewas district have reported seven deaths and total 25 positive cases. Both the districts under Ujjain division are adjacent to the state’s worst-affected Indore district. No new death or positive cases were reporting remaining five districts including Agar-Malwa, Ratlam, Shajapur, Neemuch and Mandsaur district of the division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/now-burhanpur-records-its-first-coronavirus-case/articleshow/75437758.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown no excuse, fitness lovers enjoying home workouts||NAGPUR: Lock down and self isolation is not stopping fitness enthusiasts from following their regimen regularly in the comfort of their homes. Some are practicing body strengthening yoga postures in the cool morning breeze on the terrace, while some have set up a gym-like work out station. Keeping up with the online trend, they are also following and uploading online tutorials, which ensures they do not become couch potatoes. Trupti Bansod, mother of star badminton player Malvika, shared a glimpses into her little champ’s fitness and training regimen in their house. They have made space in her room, so she can practice yoga. “Malvika is very particular about her fitness and training. After her exams, she was looking forward to aggressive training sessions, but now she practices everything at home,” said Trupti. Right from warm-ups, yoga and stretching exercises to playing badminton, she manages it all. Gaurav Chouksey, director of a resort, has set up his own workout station at home like a gym, and works out there every single day. “I anticipated that because of lockdown situation, we will be grounded at our homes soon. Hence, I planned everything and set up a small workout station, which has all the required equipment. I workout from 6-8 in the evening,” he said. Keeping up the online training and classes, Gyani Kaushik, an ardent gym lover and owner, follows his fitness regimen at home regularly. He also shoots exercise videos and uploads them to his social media, so others can follow the routines. “I start my day with morning yoga, and do cross-fit trainings, body weight training etc. Everyone must do a light workout daily, it helps to boost mindfulness and immunity,” he said. For Sachin Deshmukh, a physical education teacher, lockdown is not an excuse to skip exercising. He has taken to shooting basic fitness routines and uploading them to his WhatsApp group, where children and adults follow his techniques. “To reduce the risk of getting injured at home, I am making simple videos of suryanamaskar and stretching exercises, which children can follow easily. I get a good response and people follow those videos religiously.” Sambhaji Bhonsale, a swimming coach and teacher, dedicates his morning and evening time with his son, who is a national level swimmer, in fitness activities on their terrace, with bricks and props replacing dumbbells. “We don’t miss out on our workout any day. It helps to improve immunity to keep the virus away, results in good blood circulation, and improves the strength of the body,” said Bhonsale. Harsha Kanojiya, a student and passionate yoga lover, follows advanced yoga postures. “I perform yoga in the morning from 8-10 on the terrace or in my well ventilated room there. I practice advanced yoga to improve my immunity,” she said. Shreya Dandekar is regular at practicing her regular work out at home and is making sure never to skip it. “It’s the best time for everyone to make the most of the time, and work towards their fitness. I do weight loss exercises and also make sure to inculcate upper and lower body exercises daily on my terrace,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-no-excuse-fitness-lovers-enjoying-home-workouts/articleshow/75439066.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Compulsory evacuation when Panchaganga water touches 43 feet, temporary shelters to have quarantine-like facilities||Kolhapur: With the coronavirus crisis likely to continue for some more time, the district disaster management machinery is working to ensure that people who may need to be evacuated during possible floods in June and August later this year can practice social distancing and have access to quarantine-like facilities. District guardian minister Satej Patil has directed that all arrangements be made for the compulsory evacuation of people from flood-affected parts of the district the moment the Panchaganga water level touches 43 feet. The district authorities claim that when the water reaches the 43feet-mark, some villages in Karveer tehsil and parts of Kolhapur city are affected and more than one lakh people must then be evacuated. The officials said that though their efforts to curb the coronavirus-spread has paid off, the crisis is likely to continue for several more months. Prasad Sankpal, the district disaster management officer, said, “We are planning to develop quarantine like facilities at temporary shelters set up during the floods. We will ensure that people maintain distance from each other at such shelters. We have to evacuate people from the villages in Karveer tehsil when the river water reaches 43 feet. Last year, the floodwater level rose beyond 50 feet, which led to the inundation of many villages, especially in the Shirol. All arrangements will be in place keeping in mind the coronavirus threat this year. It will be a dual challenge for us if the Covid-19 cases continue during monsoon.” The district disaster management department is going to draft a detailed report to fight the dual challenge of coronavirus and flooding. Currently, the quarantine facilities in the district have a total capacity of around 900. This is likely to be maintained for now, but maybe increased to accommodate people evacuated during the floods. Local agencies usually convert public buildings into shelters during floods. People are provided food, clothing and sanitation facilities at these shelters. In the city, areas such as Sutarwada get submerged when the water rises to 43 feet. People are then shifted to the nearby shelters identified by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation. The minister has asked the officials to ensure all the establishments in the flood-prone areas have rescue boats repaired and ready before the monsoon. Every residential society and the hospital located in these areas should have at least one boat each. “We are going to start radio service dedicated to flood-related communication. The community radio services existing in rural parts will be bought to use,” added Sankpal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/compulsory-evacuation-when-panchaganga-water-touches-43-feet-temporary-shelters-to-have-quarantine-like-facilities/articleshow/75436609.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Home alone: A plan for ‘mild’ patients||NEW DELHI: People with mild symptoms of novel coronavirus infection now have the option of home isolation rather than being admitted to hospitals, provided they fulfill the conditions laid out by Union ministry of health and family welfare. The step is aimed at taking some load off hospitals and allowing them space and time to devote to serious patients. Delhi government is developing a standard operating procedure (SOP) for home isolation. Health minister Satyendar Jain discussed the home isolation guidelines at length with senior officials on Tuesday. The Union health ministry’s guidelines will be implemented in the city only after Delhi government issues a notification. “The SOP is being worked out by including all aspects of the spread of novel coronavirus in the city and the required interventions. The mechanism of distant monitoring of patients while they are in home isolation is also being worked out. Guidelines will also be issued for family members,” said an official. No person will be allowed home isolation unless they have the requisite facilities. A caregiver should be available 24x7, among other prerequisites. In Delhi, home isolation might not be easy for many patients because a majority of people live in compact houses, mostly in densely populated areas. As the houses accommodate more people than normal, there is little space for isolation or management of patients. An official said many people with mild symptoms of Covid-19, who have all the requisite facilities, will feel better in home isolation. “Patients who have tested positive and are in pre-symptomatic stage do not need special treatment or medical attention. They just need to follow some medication and health advice strictly and remain in complete isolation. Patients will feel far less lonely at home than in a strange atmosphere in government hospitals,” the official added. Before home isolation starts, Delhi government will have to come up with a mechanism to ensure that the patients do not violate the guidelines and their health can be monitored distantly. Website on Covid launchedDelhi government on Tuesday launched a single window for all Covid-19 related updates and information. The government’s website—delhifightscorona.in—will have names of the containment zones, testing facilities, ration shops, relief shelters and hunger relief centres and coronavirus cases statistics among other information. It offers a window to any person who are engaged in essential services or need ration but do not have ration cards to apply for e-pass or e-coupon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-alone-a-plan-for-mild-patients/articleshow/75438471.cms||Alok K N Mishra
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Foresters raid hamlets, seize teak and illicit liquor in Nizamabad||HYDERABAD: Despite an attack on them while protecting the wildlife during the lockdown, forest officials, led by a lady beat officer, helped seize nearly five tractor loads of smuggled teak logs and five litres of illicit liquor from villagers of Kammarpally range of Armoor division in Nizamabad district. Though the assault on the foresters happened last week, no arrests have been made in the case so far. Forest beat officer (FBO) of Karepally village in Kammarpally range, K Manjulatha, braved the circumstances despite being assaulted by villagers when she confronted them about the illgal activities. This is the fourth incident of assault on FBOs in Telangana in the last one week. On Saturday, Manjulatha was patrolling the area when she received information that teak logs were dumped in Bhukya Naik Thanda and Hanuman Thanda of Karepally. On suspicion of a bigger smuggling racket being run by the villagers, a search operation was conducted by a joint team, comprising 40 members each from the forest department, police personnel and 20 from the excise department. “The search operation conducted in the village by the officials after the teak wood seizure revealed that the villagers were also brewing illegal liquor,” Dr Sunil S Hiremath, district forest officer, Nizamabad, said. An FIR was registered at Bheemgal police station against 10 offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/foresters-raid-hamlets-seize-teak-and-illicit-liquor-in-nzb/articleshow/75437770.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Legal services authorities facilitate aid to migrant workers across Telangana||HYDERABAD: Following a call given by Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan of the high court in Hyderabad to help the needy across the state, officials of the state legal services authority are visiting old age homes, orphanages, homes for women and children, quarantine facilities, shelter homes and other such places to ensure that essentials are supplied to the inmates during the lockdown. The legal services authorities are also helping migrant workers stuck in different places across the state by facilitating aid to them. When 22 migrant workers at a shelter home in Karimnagar decided to go to their native places in UP and Madhya Pradesh on foot, the Karimnagar police stopped them and shifted them to a temporary shelter home in Karimnagar. The migrants, who initially urged the authorities to allow them to return to their native places, changed their mind after officials of the Karimnagar district legal services authority interacted with them and provided them essentials and basic facilities. The legal officers also explained to the migrants the need for social distancing and maintenance of personal hygiene to stop the spread of coronavirus. A children’s home in Mahbubnagar district received essentials after a legal services officer found that there was shortage of essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/legal-services-authorities-facilitate-aid-to-migrant-workers-across-t/articleshow/75437756.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Cop suspended for taking Rs 50 bribe from driver||Tirunelveli: A police constable has been suspended after a video of him receiving Rs 50 bribe from a truck driver went viral on social media. The policeman has been identified as Selvakumar, attached to the armed reserve police unit of Tirunelveli city. The incident took place near a bus shelter at Rani Anna Government College for women at Pettai on March 24. The truck driver, Sabapathy from Tenkasi was proceeding towards Tenkasi from Tirunelveli with an overload of paddy, when he was stopped by the police during a vehicle check. Selvakumar was checking vehicles with a police officer from Pettai police station. The more than two-minute-long video shows the policeman demanding Rs 50 as bribe from the driver who recorded it using his mobile phone. When the driver says he does not have change, the policeman replies that he will give it. The driver then walks over to his vehicle, takes Rs 100 and hands it over to the policeman. After returning the change, the policeman is seen leaving the driver with a strong warning. “I would have easily charged Rs 1,000 from you. Pray that next time you don’t get caught by me or I am not here when you come next time,” the policeman is heard saying. The driver two days ago had shared the video with his friend in his village, who in turn uploaded it in on Facebook and WhatsApp. “It went viral on Tuesday and came to our notice,” a senior police officer said and added that a preliminary inquiry was ordered into the incident. A senior officer said that Selvakumar will be placed under suspension and a detailed inquiry will be conducted before initiating departmental action against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-suspended-for-taking-rs-50-bribe-from-driver/articleshow/75438467.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dialysis patient waits for 7 hours as hospital seeks Covid-19 test with 10-day validity||MUMBAI: A 50-year-old dialysis patient waited for seven hours—four of them lying down in her car—at Masina Hospital before she was given the treatment on Tuesday. On Monday, the Byculla-based hospital had told Khushnuma Ansari to get a Covid-19 test done with a 10-day validity. Her last test was done 12 days ago. But Dr Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer with the BMC, clarified: “There is no advisory asking patients to get Covid-19 tests done before going to hospital.” Khushnuma, an Agripada resident, has a lung disease besides renal failure. “We used to take her to Wockhardt Hospital at Mumbai Central for dialysis since a year. But after staff tested Covid-19 positive, the dialysis service was shut. We then had four dialysis sessions at Masina,” said Shabaz, Khushnuma’s son. Masina Hospital too was shut briefly, and she was taken to JJ Hospital where she had three sessions. “After JJ’s unit was shut next, we went to a private hospital at Pydhonie. In one month, we have changed four hospitals,” he said. When the Pydhonie hospital too shut its , Khushnuma returned to Masina. “We had an appointment for Monday, but were turned away as her Covid-19 test was 12 days old. Her condition deteriorated as she hadn’t been on dialysis since five days. On Tuesday, we went to two other hospitals before reaching Masina at 10am,” said Mushtaq, her husband. The family waited for four hours in the parking lot with Khushnuma lying down in the car. “She couldn’t eat or even move. Eventually, we called the police. By 2pm, we were allowed inside the dialysis unit, but treatment didn’t start till 5pm,” said Shabaz. A statement from Masina Hospital said: “Different hospitals are adhering to different limitations of days for Covid-19 tests before treating or admitting patients. Masina Hospital has decided that the patients are required to take the Covid test once in 10 days. The patient (with lung disease making her more susceptible to Covid) arrived at the hospital without an appointment and due to the patient load at the hospital, she couldn’t be taken in immediately for dialysis, especially without a negative Covid result. The patient was refused dialysis at multiple other hospitals. However, post consultation, we offered to provide dialysis during the last shift at night to ensure that the facility does not treat other patients right after to ensure no risk of virus transmission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dialysis-patient-waits-for-7-hrs-as-hosp-seeks-covid-19-test-with-10-day-validity/articleshow/75438482.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Temple town comes to aid of Russian family||RAJKOT: A Russian family of three — Zyuzin Vitaly, wife Ziuzina Galina and their three-year-old son Ziuzin Sviatoslave — are enjoying tourism department’s slogan, Athithi Devo Bhava, in its truest sense. Stuck in the temple town Dwarka due to lockdown, the tourism department arranged a rented accommodation for the family to stay put. Untouched by the global corona pandemic so far, Devbhumi Dwarka district has been a heaven for the tourists, especially Galina, who is six months pregnant, and they are thoroughly enjoying the Indian hospitality. While Vitaly is a computer engineer, Galina is a painter. The family came to India on October 13 with the aim to visit all the prominent religious places in the country. They first landed in New Delhi and had, thereafter, visited Varanasi, Ayodhya, Haridwar, Badrinath, Gokarnath (Karnataka) and Ujjain before reaching Dwarka on March 2. According to their travel itinerary, the Russian family was supposed to leave Dwarka on March 26 by train for the next leg of their expedition, but the lockdown sealed their travel plans. “Our train and flight got cancelled because of the nationwide lockdown and therefore, we will have to stay here for a long time. We feel happy here as we have good friends and comfortable lodging facility. The government is taking good care of us all including my pregnant wife and also providing her medicines. We would like to stay put here till the lockdown is lifted,” said Vitaly. The family cooks its own meals from the vegetables and grocery items they purchase from the local market, said officials. Mamlatdar of Dwarka town, Vivek Barhat, told TOI: “The family is in contact with the Russian embassy in India and we are providing them all necessary help. They are on visitors visa which is about to expire. We will help them get an extension because of the lockdown. We visit them at regular intervals.” According to Barhat, the family is scared to go to Ahmedabad or Mumbai to catch a flight back home because of the spread of coronavirus in the two cities, and especially looking at Galina’s pregancy. They are seeking an extension of their visas. Dwarka taluka health officer Ankita Gauswami said that they did a sonography and blood report of the woman and all reports have come normal. “She will remain under our observation till they stay in Dwarka,” Gauswami added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/temple-towncomes-to-aid-ofrussian-family/articleshow/75436663.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
April 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||When a hospital made its patients ‘feel at home’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When the city’s medical college team organised an awareness session on coronavirus and preparatory steps required, in the middle of January, in an internal social media group, little did they know that soon they were going to face a flow of symptomatic patients. Very soon the observation gave way to confirmed cases which rose slowly one after the other until they attained Covid-zero status in the capital, recently. In addition to medical care, the team had to take care of minute yet essential things like clothes, toothbrush and bathing soap for patients when they got admitted. There were special requests which had to be addressed – one of the patients had requested for fruits at as late as 10.30pm while another wanted boiled eggs. Sometimes it would be a message for phone recharge. Toys, books of famous Malayalam writers were also ensured as per requirement. "We did not ignore any such requests, because there was already a fear factor among them and they were also away from their families. We had to keep them in good spirits. They would call us on phone and we always spoke to them and it helped a lot in keeping them in a healthy frame of mind," an official said. "When the Italian patient was discharged, he held his hands together and kept on saying thanks. That gesture was a proof that we made him feel at home in a hospital in a foreign country," the official added. Even while treatment was under way, authorities continued to hold brief sessions in wards which proved crucial in dispelling fear and driving many staff, especially post graduates, towards turning up for duty in Covid wards. "Our training sessions helped all our teams, including the cleaning staff, to be well-prepared. Day-by-day their confidence grew and we were ready to deal with any kind of challenge," said a senior member of the treatment team. Of the 17 patients who were tested positive in the district, only three had to be taken to Covid ICU. While one patient had to be directly taken to ICU at the time of admission, others had to be treated there briefly. The medical college team gave a farewell to two persons who were tested negative on consecutive days. One of them has to wait for a few more days before he can go home as his youngest son has got slight fever and cold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/when-a-hospital-made-its-patients-feel-at-home/articleshow/75436655.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Plasma therapy to soon help in treating Covid-19 patients||Kolhapur: The Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) has received a nod from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Pune for collection of blood plasma, said Minakshi Gajbhiye, dean of the Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya. According to Gajbhiye, the FDA received a letter from the directorate general of health services on April 27 granting permission for preparation of blood components as additional products through a process called aphaeresis. Apheresis is the process of separating the cellular and soluble components of blood with the help of a machine. The hospital’s blood bank has been asked to carry out all tests on the blood components from time to time for all quality control parameters as laid down by the FDA. Gajbhiye said that in order to use the available plasma from the recovered Covid-19 patient on another critical patient, the hospital authorities will require permission of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is underway. According to Gajbhiye, to collect the plasma from the recovered patient, the willingness of the patient to donate his/her plasma is a must. “The ICMR has allowed states to allow the Convalescent Plasma Therapy which is being used in cities where the condition of Covid-19 infection and the number of patients is much more. Here, in Kolhapur, we have only one patient who is said to be critical at present while in the centres like Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, and Solapur, it is much higher and most probably helps to ease the condition,” she said. Gajbhiye said that they have collected blood plasma from the first recovered male patient after his consent. It would now be used for the Convalescent Plasma Therapy on patients who are having the co-morbid conditions and weak immunity. The antibodies from the plasma of the recovered patient can help boost their immunity level. The therapy involves drawing out blood from a patient who has recovered a minimum of two weeks back from Covid-19. The plasma is then separated from the blood. About 400 ml of plasma can be used to treat two patients. The therapy is based on the fact that antibodies are generated in a patient suffering from an illness, Gajbhiye explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/plasma-therapy-to-soon-help-in-treating-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75436645.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Gyms shut, fitness business may go out of shape||CHENNAI: As you pore over videos during lockdown to figure out the best routine to get your desired six-pack, the fitness trainer in your neighbourhood gym who taught you the basics may well be having sleepless nights. Just like any other sector, the fitness industry in the city has been badly hit by Covid-19, but the tricky part here is that it may not recover anytime soon even after the lockdown ends. While the buzz is that gymnasiums will be bracketed with cinema halls and shopping malls, and will be the last to reopen, there will always be the fear in the minds of the clients that sharing the same instruments with others inside an air-conditioned room may lead to getting infected by the virus. Add to that the hole in the pocket of the middle class due to the economic slowdown and the fitness industry is staring at bad days. “There’s a strong possibility that other than screen celebrities or sportspersons, for whom their bodies are an investment, the general public may be reluctant to hit the gym anytime soon,” Ramji Srinivasan, former Indian cricket team trainer who runs a sportsman specific fitness centre called Sports Dynamix, told TOI. It will lead to difficult times for fitness trainers, the chunk of whose income depend on the number of customers they bring to the gyms they are associated with. “The penetration of the fitness industry is among one percent of the urban population. So we start off on a difficult wicket and now this, the next six months are going to be a serious challenge for us,” Ajit Shetty, the owner of Score, one of the renowned gyms in the city, said. N Venket, CEO of the Chennai franchise of the Golds Gym, feels if the situation does not improve, many of the smaller gyms in the city will have to close down. “We have two centres and we have to keep paying the rent of both the properties. Add to that the salary of the trainers, and it’s not very easy. While we have the financial backing to probably see through this, many of the small gym owners may be forced to shut down,” Venket said. While a personal trainer associated with Golds Gym is assured of a salary of anything between Rs 12,000 to Rs 25,000, the bigger chunk of his earning comes from the commission that he gets for bringing new clients. “Many of them earn quite a lot, but now their salaries are drastically reduced because there are no clients,” Venket said, urging the state government not to bracket gyms with cinema halls and other places of leisure. While trainers associated with gyms still have something to fall back upon, it’s worse for those who work as freelancers. “I used to charge Rs 15000 monthly from each of my clients. With five clients, I can run my family, but suddenly, all of it has stopped. I was initially giving my clients online classes, but slowly, most are losing interest,” Amjad Ali, a freelance trainer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gyms-shut-fitness-biz-may-go-out-of-shape/articleshow/75437780.cms||Dwaipayan Datta
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||Stranded Kashmiri students feel jittery amid lockdown||BHOPAL: With state government managing to bring MP students back home from Kota in Rajasthan, Kashmiri students who are stuck-up in Bhopal due to lockdown, have now urged the administration to send them to their home. Around 200 such students pursuing different courses in the city are stuck up here . Students said they are desperate to go back to their home. “This is a very cumbersome situation; temperature here is rising daily, which has made situation even worse as we are not used to hot climate,” said Zakir Ali, who is pursuing post graduation in Mathematics from Barkatullah University. He claimed that many Kashmiri students have gone into depression, staying locked inside their rooms, far from their families during these trying times. “There are many Kashmiri girls too, who are stuck up in Bhopal without proper rations. Whatever is available is extremely costly for a student to buy,” said Ali. Another student, Irfan Wazir, also said that situation has become unbearable. “We have gone from pillar to post but nothing has been done to send us home. Our hostel friends from Punjab, Rajasthan and other states have gone home, after their respective governments took pro-active steps to bring them back. Most of us are living on the money borrowed from local students; this is really frustrating,” said Irfan who is pursuing M.Phil from a private university in Bhopal. Problems began for these students when they were asked to vacate their university and college hostels. A student said, requesting anonymity, “We were suddenly asked to vacate the hostels; in fact, we were not even given time to manage the basic affairs. Now, I am staying with one of my local friends. I can’t continue like this anymore; we want the government to help us urgently.” Worried over the spread of Covid-19 on the campus, BU had issued an order to vacate the hostels soon after the lockdown was imposed. There were about 700 youngsters, including Kashmiri students, in six BU hostels. Students had objected to the decision to evacuate them from the hostels, stating that university authorities did not want to take the responsibility that’s why they had asked them to move out. “When everyone was saying ‘stay away from people,’ the university officials asked us to travel in trains and buses. Instead of throwing us out of the hostel, they should have made arrangements to keep us safe like others did,” said another Kashmiri student, who didn’t want to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/stranded-kashmiri-students-feel-jittery-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75361775.cms||Ramendra Singh
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Sealing of borders may cripple Delhi corporations||NEW DELHI: With Haryana districts imposing restrictions on people crossing the border into Delhi, civic agencies in Delhi are beginning to feel the pressure of inadequate manpower to battle the novel coronavirus. Municipal field staff who commute daily from Haryana to Delhi are being stopped at Badarpur and Sonipat borders, among others, on the orders of the local district magistrates. “This is in defiance of central government’s order stating such essential staff cannot be hindered in their movement,” a health official remarked. “This approach is highly unscientific and will start affecting our operations in Delhi’s containment zones. Haryana also has workers operating in their containment zones. People will suffer in this interstate politics.” An operations supervisor in west district stated that there was 20% staff absence on Tuesday due to people being unable to reach their place of work. “These are staff who have been given specialised training and cannot be replaced overnight. Work such as waste lifting and disinfecting is being impacted,” he said. Delhi officials said that the Haryana district magistrates had issued prohibitory orders on the ground that new corona cases were being detected in people coming from Delhi. The Sonipat order argued that of 19 cases reported in the district, 14 involved people who frequented Delhi. Several people working in Delhi have alleged they even faced a lathi charge on the Badarpur border. The trouble spots are reported to be the borders at Badarpur, Sonipat, Singhu, Gurgaon and Tikri. To help cope, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has earmarked a school and community centre where lodging and fooding arrangements have been made for employees from UP and Haryana. “Some staff have confirmed their stay from Tuesday night,” an official overseeing the operation said. Policemen living in the NCR towns have similarly been asked to stay in Delhi with their families. “They are being put up in hotels, with 50 rooms arranged for them so that they don't have travel daily,” disclosed an officer. EDMC is relatively less impacted because most of its non-state employees are from UP. “After the initial problems, we issued separate e-passes for them. However, we also ensure that they commute only during service time,” revealed the corporation spokesperson Arun Kumar. But it’s not just municipal employees who are stuck in this tussle. Delhi Transport Corporation too draws a significant chunk of its workforce from Haryana. “DTC is not operating regular bus services at the moment, and only around 500 buses are operating on special duty to transport hospital staff, security personnel, etc.,” said a DTC official. “Most employees are not needed for work. However, of those on duty, many from Haryana informed their depot managers about getting stuck at the border.” Employees living in Haryana have been asked not to report for work for a few days. The DTC spokesman did not respond to TOI’s repeated queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealing-of-borders-may-cripple-corporations/articleshow/75438485.cms||Paras Singh
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Social forestry dept achieves 90% sapling survival rate||Nagpur: At a time the state forest department is facing criticism for poor survival of plantations, its social forestry department (SFD) has showed the way by keeping alive 90% of its saplings planted in Narkhed and Umred. SFD divisional forest officer (DFO) Geeta Nannaware informed that under the two crore ‘Greening Maharashtra’ drive, SFD had planted 14,500 saplings in gram panchayat areas under Narkhed and Umred ranges. “After three years of nurturing, as per the scheme, we handed over these plantations this month to the respective gram panchayats (GPs) with over 90% survival. Of the 14,500 saplings, over 13,600 survived and grew 10-12 feet. Now these GPs will take care of these trees,” said Nannaware. These roadside plantations were done in 2016-17 under rural employment guarantee scheme. In Umred, 7,500 saplings were planted along five roads between Dahegaon-Khapri (3km), Lohara-Dongargaon (2km), Tirkhuta-Navegaon Sadhu (3km), Makardhokda-VIT College (4km) and Umred-Fathepur (2km). Similarly, in Narkhed of the 7,000 saplings planted, 6,680 survived. These were planted on six roads between Godhni-MP border (2km), Pandhri-Mowad (3km), Sawargaon-Yenikoni (2km), Mohadi-Narkhed (2km), Belona-Narkhed (2km) and Yenikoni-Chorkhairi (4km). Nannaware said the planted saplings included neem, jamun, cashia, mahogany, shisu, karanj, gulmohar, peepal, amla and other native species. The plantations were done under Bihar pattern, where one person per 40 saplings, and a family per 200 saplings get employment for one year under the employment guarantee scheme for nurturing the saplings. “In both Umred and Narkhed talukas we created 37,525 man days each for plantations in 28km in both places. We could achieve 90% survival of plantations due to hard work and dedication by our staff,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/social-forestry-dept-achieves-90-sapling-survival-rate/articleshow/75439070.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 29, 2020||Hubballi||Defence personnel asked to not carry out policing in Bagalkot||BAGALKOT: Some Indian Army personnel, and also those who have retired, have taken to policing to ensure that the lockdown is properly enforced in some villages in Bagalkot district. A soldier, who had come to his village in Terdal taluk in Bagalkot district, had tried to ensure that people stay indoors during the lockdown, recently. In uniform, he stood at a corner in his village and punished some villagers who violated the lockdown by venturing out of their houses by making them do sit-ups. This incident angered villagers. The video of this incident went viral on social media, prompting the police to take the issue seriously, to avoid such incidents in the future. Police officers, under the guidance of the Bagalkot superintendent of police, visited villages in the district, and asked Army personnel, and ex-servicemen not to interfere in the police department’s work and to not carry out policing. Bagalkot superintendent of police Lokesh Jagalasar said, “When these incidents came to our notice, we immediately visited all the villages in Terdal and other taluks in the district, and asked the defence personnel who are on vacation, to stop carrying out policing.” He said apart from the incident in Terdal taluk, in some villages, ex-servicemen and soldiers on holidays have started moving around by wielding lathis and started meting out punishment to villagers for violating the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/defence-personnel-asked-to-not-carry-out-policing-in-bagalkot/articleshow/75435387.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Landlord shows door to couple visiting kin||BENGALURU: A young couple frequently visiting their relatives during the lockdown gave a scare to their landlord, who shut the door on them. He demanded they produce a Covid-19 negative certificate if they wanted to enter their rental house in Brindavana Layout near Bagalagunte, off Tumakuru Road. The couple, cabbie Ranga and his wife Pavitra, spent the whole night in their cab outside their house. Police and social workers thrashed out a compromise the next day after the couple approached a local activist, Jayaraj Naidu. They also called the police control room and complained about the incident. Meanwhile, a video of the landlord, Shivanna, explaining his decision to Jayaraj began doing the rounds on social media. Shivanna is seen explaining that the couple had left home a day before Ugadi and returned a few days later. Again, they left the house for some days and returned only on Friday night. “I asked them to bring a medical certificate saying they are Covid-19 free,” Shivanna is heard saying. “We were staying at Shivanna’s house for six months. We had given him Rs 25,000 as advance and were paying Rs 3,500 as rent. We requested him to return the advance saying we would vacate the house within a few hours on Saturday morning,” said Ranga, 25, from Sira, Tumakuru district. The couple had tied the knot less than a year ago. Bagalagunte police confirmed the incident. “Shivanna, who lives in the same building as his tenants, feared his family members and other tenants’ families would be vulnerable because of the cabbie and his wife moving around freely. Shivanna asked the couple to undergo a Covid-19 test and come back with a negative report if they wanted entry. He also asked them not to leave his premises unnecessarily,” said a police officer who mediated between the two parties. The officer said Shivanna asked the couple to move out if they didn’t agree to his conditions. “The couple readily agreed if he returned the advance. Shivanna returned their money and the couple shifted to another rental house in the same area on Saturday,” an officer said. No case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/landlord-shows-door-to-couple-visiting-kin/articleshow/75436725.cms||Santosh kumar.B
April 29, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Ramnad cops help sick child get medicines from Salem||MADURAI: Combined efforts of the Ramanathapuram and Salem district police units helped a threeyear-old girl with neurological problems in Ramanathapuram district, get medicines from 430 kms away. The girl’s father Mohammed Ribai from Sayakara Street, Pamban, is an autorickshaw driver. The girl has multiple complications including difficulty to speak due to the neurological problem. She was treated by a homeopathy doctor at Mohammad Puram in Salem and the special medicine used to be couriered every month. Her family was worried as they were running out of medicine and it could not be sourced due to the lockdown anddiscontinuing itwill affect the child. However, her uncle Mohammed Riyaz, 27, currently in Rameswaram reached out to the police for help. “I sent a direct message to SP Varun Kumar on Sunday,” Riyaz told TOI. “We first thought of getting them a travel pass to Salem. The family expressed inability due to financial constraints but the requirement was urgent,” Ramanathapuram SP R V Varun Kumar said. He added that a policeman was sent to get details about the patient and the medicine as they claimed it is unavailable locally. Varun contacted SP of Salem district S Deepa Ganigar, who in turn contacted the doctor the same day. “The doctor prepared the medicine on Monday morning and handed it over to us in a couple of hours and our team started on road from Salem around11.30 am,” Deepa said. As decided the Salem police took the drugs to Dindigul around 3.30 pm and the Ramanathapuram police whose vehicle was in Madurai on official work collected it and headed to Ramanathapuram. The medicine was handed over to the girl’s family on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ramnad-cops-help-child-with-neuro-disorder-get-medicine-from-salem/articleshow/75444414.cms||M K Ananth
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Emergency departments in Hyderabad see rise in Covid suspects||HYDERABAD: Between 20% and 30% of patients walking into emergency departments across hospitals are turning out to be suspected coronavirus patients, said city doctors. Also, many among the suspects aredisplaying neurological, cardiac and skin-related problems — the newly identified symptoms of the virus — apart from those with cough, cold and fever, the doctors added. Over the last one week or so, the number of suspected cases has seen a rise and redirected for testing. “The count of suspected patients has increased significantly. Earlier, if 50 patients came in, all of themwere emergency patients. But now, about 30 of those 50 patients are Covid-19 suspects,” said Dr Ashima Sharma, head of department emergency medicine at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), adding, “Also, since it has been proven that respiratory problems aren’t the only symptoms and patients might display other symptoms too -- very common in the initial asymptomatic phase -- we are trying to make sure that whoever has any Covid-19-like-symptoms are sent to hospitals designated for such patients.” Most hospitals admit to being even more cautious now and are sticking to prescribed protocol. “Apart from those with fever and cough, many others showing neurological symptoms like confusion, seizure or stroke, in addition to fever or cold, are also being treated as suspected Covid-19 patients and their samples are being sent for testing,” said an emergency department head at a corporate hospital. In addition to cough, cold, fever and respiratory distress, symptoms such as headaches, chills, muscle pain, sore throat and loss of taste or smell are associated with early stages of coronavirus, when the patient is asymptomatic, doctors said. Now, among the latest identified symptoms of the virus are persistent pain or pressure in the chest, confusion and bluish lips. “Around 25% of the patients turning up at our emergency are suspected Covid-19 patients and the numbers are on the rise. Among various symptoms in suspected patients we are seeing, fever and cough top the chart. Even patients with the slightest symptoms are being treated as suspects,” said Dr Satheesh Kumar Kailasam, head of department emergency medicine at Medicover Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/emergency-depts-see-rise-in-covid-suspects/articleshow/75437906.cms||Amrita Didyala
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Niloufer nurse tests positive for coronavirus, family isolated||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old nurse working at Niloufer Hospital tested positive after returning home from work on Monday evening. The nurse tested positive in a second round examination. By the time the nurse was conveyed the test results, she had prepared lunch and fed her two children at her village in Rangareddy district. Authorities have placed 12 contacts of her under quarantine and shifted the nurse to Gandhi Hospital. After performing duties at the isolation ward in the Niloufer hospital between April 16 to April 26, the nurse returned to her house in Proddutur village of Shankarpally mandal in Rangareddy district on Monday afternoon for a five-day break. After coming home, the nurse had fed her two children and also her husband who is an auto driver. In the evening, authorities informed her that her samples tested positive for Covid-19 and shifted her to Gandhi Hospital for treatment. “A two-month-old baby who was undergoing treatment at Niloufer Hospital had tested positive for coronavirus on April 17 and later succumbed while undergoing treatment at Gandhi hospital on April 19. One of the security guards who was working at Niloufer Hospital, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 23. The nurse tested positive in the second sample collected on April 25. Her test for the first sample had come negative,” said an official from the Cyberabad police commissionerate. Police who are entrusted with tracking contacts of Covid-19 patients, suspect that the nurse contracted the virus from the security guard at the hospital. After the nurse tested positive, authorities placed 12 of her primary contacts from three families, including her husband and two children in Proddutur village, under quarantine. Cops have cordoned off the colony in Proddutur village where the nurse’s family resides. “About 100 houses comprising 400 people have been cordoned off and placed under containment zone. Health officials will conduct door-to-door checks. Revenue authorities have been providing the residents with food, vegetables and other essential items,” said a Chevella police official. Nampally police said that staff at Niloufer Hospital have already been tested and those who tested positive have been shifted to Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/niloufer-nurse-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-family-isolated/articleshow/75437915.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Students in UK seek staggered flights to return home||HYDERABAD: A Hyderabad student stranded in London has started an online campaign demanding that flights be operated in a staggered manner so that Indians stuck abroad can return home after May 3 once the lockdown period gets over. Annika Petrim, who studies in the Birmingham City University, UK, has got nearly 7,000 signatures for her petition on change.org with the target being 7,500. In the online petition to the Union ministry of civil aviation, Annika said by the time the lockdown ends, it would be 41 days without the ability to travel for Indians. “We request government to start flight operations at least in a staggered manner even with case by case approvals if needed, so that people in dire need can travel first,” she said. The High Commission of India (HCI) in London conducted a video conference with various organisations, including Telugu representatives, on the issue of those stranded. The Telugu organisations explained the plight of the students from AP and Telangana who were stuck in London and facing several issues. Meanwhile, some of the students who have become restive as account of being stuck in London and unable to return since the middle of March, are demanding that the authorities take immediate measures to send them to India. Another Hyderabad student Yugnath Reddy tweeted that while extension of lockdown seems inevitable, the travel ban on Indian citizens wanting to return to the country should be lifted on May 3. “We don’t have any source to stay back in the UK after May 3. We have only two options - to sit in front of High Commission of India or at the airport,” Yugnath, a student of Bournemouth University, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-in-uk-seek-staggered-flights-to-return-home/articleshow/75437895.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Set up strategy group to be prepared for post-Covid situation, KTR tells Centre||HYDERABAD: IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao has urged the Centre to set up a national-level strategy group to study impact of Covid-19 on information technology (IT) and small-scale industries. Many countries have already set up strategy groups with industrialists, intellectuals and industry experts to deal with the situation after lockdown is eased. It should be replicated here, he added. KTR participated in a video conference held by Union minister for electronics, IT and communications Ravi Shankar Prasad with all states IT ministers on Tuesday. Seeking two electronic manufacturing clusters for Telangana, he said the existing two clusters were now full. He said MSMEs in IT and electronics should be bailed out from the crisis by extending GST and income-tax concessions to them. Explaining the flip side of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Telangana IT minister said the crisis would open more opportunities to the country. He said many countries like Japan have announced that they would shift their manufacturing units from China in the wake of the coronavirus situation. “There is a need to evolve a strategy to bring the manufacturing units to India that are willing to relocate outside China. This will give employment opportunities to the people in the country,” KTR added.  The government should provide support for Bharat Net project, the minister said. As per the 2018-19 fiscal, the IT industry in Hyderabad had 5,43,033 employees working in 1,500 companies with annual exports to the tune of Rs 1,09,219 crore. He said a Telangana-based startup has developed a Covid-19 test kit, which was also approved by ICMR. Also, two or three startups were working on PPEs, gloves, and goggles, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/set-up-strategy-group-to-be-prepared-for-post-covid-situation-ktr-tells-centre/articleshow/75437937.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Home quarantine must for recovered patients||Kolhapur: Medical experts have said that the patients who have recovered from Covid-19 must follow all social distancing and home quarantine guidelines to avoid relapse in the recovery. Experts said that there are no specific guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on the post-recovery phase, but exercising extreme precautions could avoid any relapse in the recovery. Minakshi Gajbhiye, dean of Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Government Medical College and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Rugnalaya (CPR) told TOI that as many as three patients have recovered from Covid-19 infection and have been discharged. They have been stamped and advised 14-day home quarantine. “Our first recovered patient, however, developed some pneumonia issues after recovery at home and had to be brought back to one of the private hospitals where he was treated first. As a precautionary measure, we conducted his throat swab test after 21 days of the original infection and tested negative for it, which was a relief,” she said, adding that now another patient, a woman from the Kasba Bawda area, too tested negative for the infection after 14-days of treatment, however, she is also being treated for pneumonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/home-quarantine-must-for-recovered-patients/articleshow/75436675.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Eight discharged, 50 cured so far in Mysuru||Mysuru: The number of people cured of Covid-19 touched 50 here after the discharge of eight patients on Tuesday. It has brought down the total number of active cases in Mysuru to 38. Another patient, aged 72, was cured of Covid-19, but the authorities aren’t taking any chances, because he has multiple health problems. He was the first SARI patient in Mysuru, and has infection in his heart and lungs. He continues to be under observation. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said since April 25, there haven’t been any Covid-19 cases in Mysuru, and for the district to be declared a green zone, it shouldn’t record any positive cases for four continuous weeks. Every day, about 200 samples are being tested, and medical staff are working round-the-clock to tackle the pandemic, he said. In Mysuru, 50 patients have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/eight-discharged-50-cured-so-far-in-mysuru/articleshow/75435592.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Not used to isolation, people socialise and spread the virus||Vijayawada: Brazen defiance of the lockdown has emerged as a major problem in Vijayawada and the rest of Krishna district. It is being attributed as one of the reasons for rising number of corona cases in the district. Contrary to several leaders at the national level blaming the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz as a prime reason for the exponential rise in the Covid cases, but Krishna seems to be among the least affected by it. Overall, only 18 cases linked with the Tablighi Jamaat have been reported in Krishna district. Meanwhile, a look at the police data will show the extent at which people continue to flout lockdown norms. Vijayawada police alone has booked 1,874 people in the past month. In the rest of Krishna district, over 2,300 cases have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC. On the other hand, two truck drivers managed to transmit the disease to almost 40 people as they violated the lockdown. In the first instance, the truck driver played a game of cards with a group of his friends while a set of women sitting adjacent to him were playing a game of tambola. “We have booked a case against the driver for violating lockdown and admitted him to the Government General Hospital. It has been found out that the driver had hidden his travel history. He had visited other countries prior to the lockdown,” a senior police official told TOI. In the second incident, another truck driver from Karmika Nagar transmitted the disease to 15 people after he decided to socialise during the lockdown. Apart from them, cops admit that there are at least 14 other truck drivers who live in their neighbourhood and have tested positive for Covid. Police have identified six ‘super carriers’ of the virus in the district. But the primary source of the contagion is yet to be found. Currently, Vijayawada is the third major hotspot of Covid-19 cases after Kurnool and Guntur. But the question arises as to why are people continuing to leave home despite police restrictions? A police personnel pointed out to TOI that areas such as Krishna Lanka, which has the highest number of cases, and Karmika Nagar are crowded. Here a family of five lives in one room. “Its like Mumbai’s Dharavi. People live in crowded homes and keeping them at home is difficult. They spend a considerable time outside socialising with neighbours. It is how they keep themselves entertained and the lockdown has suddenly taken their means of entertainment away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/not-used-to-isolation-people-socialise-and-spread-the-virus/articleshow/75435399.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Ramnad cops help sick child get medicines from Salem||MADURAI: Combined efforts of the Ramanathapuram and Salem district police units helped a threeyear-old girl with neurological problems in Ramanathapuram district, get medicines from 430 kms away. The girl’s father Mohammed Ribai from Sayakara Street, Pamban, is an autorickshaw driver. The girl has multiple complications including difficulty to speak due to the neurological problem. She was treated by a homeopathy doctor at Mohammad Puram in Salem and the special medicine used to be couriered every month. Her family was worried as they were running out of medicine and it could not be sourced due to the lockdown anddiscontinuing itwill affect the child. However, her uncle Mohammed Riyaz, 27, currently in Rameswaram reached out to the police for help. “I sent a direct message to SP Varun Kumar on Sunday,” Riyaz told TOI. “We first thought of getting them a travel pass to Salem. The family expressed inability due to financial constraints but the requirement was urgent,” Ramanathapuram SP R V Varun Kumar said. He added that a policeman was sent to get details about the patient and the medicine as they claimed it is unavailable locally. Varun contacted SP of Salem district S Deepa Ganigar, who in turn contacted the doctor the same day. “The doctor prepared the medicine on Monday morning and handed it over to us in a couple of hours and our team started on road from Salem around11.30 am,” Deepa said. As decided the Salem police took the drugs to Dindigul around 3.30 pm and the Ramanathapuram police whose vehicle was in Madurai on official work collected it and headed to Ramanathapuram. The medicine was handed over to the girl’s family on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ramnad-cops-help-child-with-neuro-disorder-get-medicine-from-salem/articleshow/75438474.cms||M K Ananth
April 29, 2020||Chennai||Veggie markets a problem, people not serious about Covid-19: EPS||CHENNAI: As the state continues to grapple with an increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday expressed anguish over people’s lack of understanding about the severity of the infection. He was speaking to bureaucrats of 12 coordination committees set up by the government, a day after taking part in a video conference convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers. “In corporations like Chennai, Coimbatore and Trichy, the problem lies in vegetable markets. No matter how much you tell people, they refuse to follow them (lockdown restrictions). They are playful,” the chief minister said. On Tuesday, of the 121 fresh cases reported, 18 have been identified as “primary” infections and not from “contacts”. Pointing to the huge death toll in countries like the US, Italy and Spain, Palaniswami said people of those countries did not realize the severity earlier. “As the death toll increased, they adhered to the norms laid down by the governments and now the deaths have come down. There are media reports about countries starting to lift restrictions,” he said. Exuding confidence of containing the spread in the initial stage itself, the chief minister sought the support of public. “Else, even if it contained in the world, it would be unstoppable in the state,” he said, instructing police and local administration departments to create street-wise awareness using speakers. Senior officers including director general of police J K Tripathy and Chennai police commissioner A K Viswanathan attended the three-hour long meeting in Secretariat. Insisting that personal hygiene was the key to combating the virus, besides social distancing and avoiding large gatherings, Palaniswami reviewed among other things the prevalence of cases, the projections, delivery of PDS and issues of guest workers, and said police personnel should be engaged on a rotational basis to reduce the burden of the workforce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veggie-markets-a-problem-people-not-serious-about-covid-19-eps/articleshow/75437791.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||BJP neta, 5 aides booked for rioting in NMC office||Nagpur: Infuriated over Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials not attending his calls, BJP corporator Bunty Kukde and his five accomplices barged into zone 5 office of the civic body in Sakkardara on Monday night and created ruckus. They also damaged deputy mayor’s car. Following the incident, an NMC guard approached Sakkardara police station where a case of rioting and unlawful assembly has been registered against Kukde and his aides. The incident has once again brought to fore the ongoing tussle between coroprators and the civic administration. Later, Kukde told TOI that he was trying to contact officials for carrying out fogging in his prabhag, but they continued to ignore his calls. “As per NMC order, the officials should have carried out fogging in Shesh Nagar, Tulsi Nagar and other areas in my prabhag on April 27. Several citizens are worried as a quarantine facility has been set up in the area along the Kalamna Market. I had called an official for the purpose who ignored the matter. I even tried calling zonal officer who did not respond,” said Kukde. “When I contacted fogging in charge, he dared me to visit NMC office, but declined to perform his duty. It was only after the arrogant replies that I had visited the zone office,” said the BJP corporator. “In view of the Covid lockdown, citizens cannot visit NMC office and they approach me with their grievances. Some NMC officials are not doing their job, but I will continue to work for citizens,” added Kukde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-neta-5-aides-booked-for-rioting-in-nmc-office/articleshow/75439128.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Elderly to get ayurveda immunity concoction||KOLHAPUR: The district administration has initiated a novel drive to provide ayurvedic and homeopathic concoction or formulations to boost the immunity in senior citizens and people with co-morbid conditions, who are either Covid-19 positive or are showing symptoms. District collector Daulat Desai has formed ‘Ayush’ team comprising health officials and experts that is visiting the quarantine centres and providing formulations of ayurveda and homeopathy to the target group. Yogesh Sale, the district health officer who is leading the task, said, “We have provided details of the immunity boosting formulations that are currently being provided to senior citizens who are under quarantine.” The health officer said that a mobile application is being developed to have the details of such formulations. Accredited social health activists, known as ASHA workers, will conduct door-to-door visits for the purpose. “The formulations will be provided in powdered or any other form. It will be available at the local level. Consuming such formulations will be helpful to boost the immunity among senior citizens and thereby keep them safe from Covid infection,” he said “After completing the drive in the quarantine centres located in the city we will shift our focus to the quarantine facilities in other parts of the district. At the same time ASHA workers will carry out their task. Senior citizens should ask the ASHA workers for the formulation after they finish using it and the more will be provided,” said Sale. Ayurvedic and homeopathic ingredients, most of which are available in raw form in the market, will be used to make the formulations. Some of them are also used in making food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/elderly-to-get-ayurveda-immunity-concoction/articleshow/75436687.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Human skeletal remains found near waterbody at Senkottai||Madurai: Human skeletal remains were found near a dry waterbody in Senkottai village in Madurai district on Monday. Police suspect it be that of a 37-year-old woman hailing from the same village, who went missing six months back. Apart from a skull and other bones, the Silaiman police have also recovered a sari from the spot. The police said that the skull has been sent to Chennai for superimposition to check whether it matches with the facial appearance of the missing woman. The sari has been sent to a lab to trace for any blood strains. A police officer said that the villagers found the skull in a secluded place on Monday and informed them right away. Inquiries revealed that family members of the missing woman, A Packialakshmi, 37, did not lodge any written complaint with the local police station when she went missing. She was a mother of two and left the house in mid-October last year after picking up a quarrel with her husband Andi. Her family members say they had searched for her, but could not be found. The officer said that a case has been registered under CrPc section – suspicious death. They can confirm the details of the deceased only after obtaining the lab reports and a detailed inquiry with family members . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/human-skeletal-remains-found-near-waterbody-at-senkottai/articleshow/75438488.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||At some hospitals, cancer patients feel the pinch of Covid test before each session||MUMBAI: Cancer care has gotten expensive with some city hospitals insisting that patients undergo a Covid-19 test before every chemotherapy or radiotherapy session. Even as the central guidelines advise testing for these patients only when they have symptoms, the practice on ground varies between hospitals. A 52-year-old ovarian cancer patient from Malad said that she has been asked by PD Hinduja Hospital to get tested every week. She has already undergone eleven sessions of chemotherapy and has a few more to go. She said that the requirement for negative reports was communicated to them a couple of weeks ago. “We understand it’s for everyone safety, but paying Rs 4,500 for the test every week is too much when chemotherapy itself is expensive. The government must make it free if testing is so essential,” she said. A 62-year-old man’s radiotherapy session too was put on hold on Tuesday at the Mahim hospital. As the man and his wife queued up to undergo a covid-19 test outside a cabin erected in the hospital’s compound, he said, “It was supposed to be my first session today. When I reached here, they said I would have to undergo a test and the next course of action would be decided once the reports arrive after 24-48 hours”. The man said he didn’t have any symptoms of fever, cough or breathlessness. A hospital staffer said they are asking for the a covid test report before every indoor admission. In another hospital, a woman’s radiotherapy treatment has been halted so that she could get a covid test done before going ahead with the remaining sessions. Joy Chakraborty, COO of Hinduja, however, denied that they were insisting on test reports before every session. “We have put a triaging system in place. A patient is evaluated by a team of doctors and nurses and if they feel the patient needs to be tested, they advise for one,” he said. A medical oncologist said if any of the doctors catch the infection and go into quarantine for 14 days, the cancer treatment of scored of patients would suffer, even as the particular unit may have to shut down. The approach at the country’s largest cancer hospital, Tata Memorial Centre, is quite the opposite though. “A detailed history-keeping is done following which patients coming for chemotherapy or radiotherapy sessions are screened thoroughly for symptoms of fever, cough and breathlessness. If someone has symptoms, we immediately take the swabs and send for testing. However, for patients undergoing surgery, particularly of oral cancers, we do the testing. The surgery usually happens in a room filled with 6-7 people and an infected patient could put everyone at risk,” said Dr Shripad Banavali, who heads the hospital’s oncology department. Reiterating that cancer patients and those undergoing dialysis needn’t undergo testing, a civic officer said: “Our circular clearly states that they should be tested only if they have symptoms. Else they should be screened before any treatment session.” A 55-year-old man undergoing treatment for oral cancer at Lilavati Hospital said he has been tested once about two weeks ago and there have been no subsequent demands for a negative report. “I am screened every time I come for a consultation,” he said. Dr V Ravishankar, COO of Lilavati Hospital, said they tested all their regular patients at one go. “That way the patients knew they weren’t infected and the medical professionals were confident to treat them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-some-hosps-cancer-patients-feel-the-pinch-of-covid-test-before-each-session/articleshow/75438524.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Spitting in public places to attract fine||MYSURU: In view of the novel coronavirus outbreak, the Mysuru City Corporation on Tuesday issued an order stipulating a fine of Rs 100 for those found without masks and those found spitting in public places from May 1. Armed with directive of the Centre, the civic agency is gearing up to discipline residents in its fight to contain the spread of infection. “Public who indulge in negligent act of spitting in public places and not covering the mouth and nose with a mask or any cloth when they are in public places will attract fine,” said the officials. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said nine teams have been formed with one each in MCC’s nine zones, which along with local police personnel, will discipline the wrongdoers. The civic body will educate public about the strict implementation of the measures of the Union ministry of home affairs on this score till April 30, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/spitting-in-public-places-to-attract-fine/articleshow/75435872.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 claims 1 more life in Solapur; 3 positive cases||KOLHAPUR: Solapur city registered another death of COVID-19 patient, a 76-year-old male, on Tuesday, taking the number of deaths to six in three weeks in that city. The patient was from the Bapujinagar area of Solapur city and had contracted the infection from another positive patient from the same area. He had been admitted to the Solapur civil hospital on April 26. Solapur city registered three COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, including that of the deceased. Two of the patients are suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). Solapur district now has 62 active cases. According to Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar, there are 42 males and 26 females among the total 68 positive cases across the district. Test results of 336 swab samples are yet to arrive. Shambharkar said 3,120 criminal cases have been registered and 317 arrests made and 9,657 vehicles seized for violation of curfew. 6 positive cases in SataraSatara district too recorded six new cases on Tuesday, taking the total tally of positive patients to 41. Five of the patients are close contacts of two positive patients who have been admitted to the sub-district hospital in Karad. In another case, a 28-year-old man has tested positive. He has a travel history from Pune and is now being treated at the sub-district hospital, Phaltan. Meanwhile, the Satara health department has admitted as many as 167 people with Covid symptoms in the different hospitals in Karad and Koregaon. Their swab samples have been sent for testing to the B J Medical College in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-claims-1-more-life-in-solapur-3-positive-cases/articleshow/75436701.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Grassroots work checked Covid-19 in Theni||Madurai: Theni district has become a leader among the southern districts in containing Covid-19, as not a single case was reported in the past 11 days. The district also witnessed the recovery of 36 Covid-19 positive people from the 43 cases. As soon as the lockdown was announced, many markets in the districts saw overcrowding throwing social distancing norms to the winds. Many of the major markets were shifted to makeshift places, which could ensure more social distancing. By the end of March, the Theni district administration came up with the idea of assorted vegetable bags to be delivered at doorsteps, preventing people from coming out. They also closed the markets except the one in Andipatti block where no positive case was reported. Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev says that its biggest success was containing people within the zones. “Most of our positive cases were family members of the first positive cases, and except for one case where a woman who was the friend of the wife of a positive case, all others were primary contacts in the district,” she said. Meat shops witnessed huge crowds, and the district administration even decided to distribute meat at doorsteps by distributing the numbers of meat stalls through Whatsapp. “This was a big relief as we are a meat eating family, and we were just surviving on eggs,” said Banu of Bodi. The district was also the first to introduce grocery kits worth Rs 2,000, which would suffice a four-member family for a month, and also a lucky draw where winners could win gold coins. “We decided to do all this in the beginning of April, when everyone would have received their salaries,” said the collector. The district also launched the Thenisandhai app, which helped people to buy goods. As many as 43 nodal officers were appointed and various containment activities were spread out among them. They were in charge of the disinfection, the contact tracing, delivery of goods, etc. The district also locked down its borders before the official lockdown was announced. Thirty six people have been discharged in the district so far. Tuticorin district has tested the highest number of samples, 2,700, a reason for its effective containing of the disease. District collector Sandeep Nanduri says that intensified contact tracing by police, heath workers and local body staff helped them contain the disease within the containment zones. It has gone without positive cases for nine days. Sivaganga has kept its numbers low at 12 for the past eight days. This too was an example of the disease being contained within the containment zones. Ten of them have been discharged till date. Kanyakumari is moving towards becoming green zone with no cases being reported for the past 13 days. But, ten out of the 16 Covid-19 patients are still in hospitals. Health officials in Kanyakumari have put in place stringent lockdown rules. Regular surveys have helped them contain the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grassroots-work-checked-covid-19-in-theni/articleshow/75438498.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi stares at shortage of green vegetables||NEW DELHI: The availability of green vegetables at the Azadpur auction yard may witness a shortfall of up to 30% with the Sonipat district administration in Haryana imposing restrictions on the trade of kitchen staples with Delhi. Traders now fear that the supply may further deteriorate if the Haryana government restricts the entry of commercial vehicles into Delhi from its border points. Delhi is largely dependent on the supply of fruits and vegetables from various towns of Haryana besides Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Surrounded by Haryana from three sides — west, north and south, Delhi will also not get supplies from many other states if Haryana imposes the restriction. A senior Delhi government official, however, said the vehicles carrying essential commodities did not face any inconvenience on Monday and the supply of vegetables and fruits was normal except for the green vegetables from Sonipat. An aide of development minister Gopal Rai said: “The restriction on the supply from Sonipat may not have much impact, but we will take necessary steps to ensure that Delhi does not face shortage of essential commodities.” Azadpur Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Adil Ahmad Khan said: “The impact will be known in a day or two and there may be shortfall of 25-30% in arrival of some green vegetables.” With more than 11 traders infected by the virus, fear loomed large on the mandi on Tuesday and several shops remained closed. But local traders visited the mandi as usual, an official claimed. “More than 2,500 vehicles picked up supplies today. There is no shortage in local markets,” he said. Traders, however, reiterated their demand for shifting the mandi to an open area. “There are 20 positive cases and one death. The mandi should be declared a containment zone,” demanded APMC member Anil Malhotra. “What is the government waiting for? It should be locked down and shifted to an open area. Labourers should also be tested,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-stares-at-shortage-of-green-vegetables/articleshow/75438497.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Nuzvidu mangoes’ online sale begins||VIJAYAWADA: To support mango farmers in Nuzvidu region, the Krishna district administration has started the sale of mangoes online. A buyer can place order by calling the helpline of the horticulture department and get mangos delivered home by next morning. The horticulture and agriculture marketing departments have set up a number –7995086891—for buyers to place order along with their address. With good weather prevailing, farmers are expecting 1.84 lakh metric tonne produce by the end of June. Mangoes are already being supplied to Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam but farmers are facing problems in sending the produce to northern states. “We are committed to help farmers during this tough time. Horticulture authorities are selling fruits procured from farmers. Mango is a seasonal fruit and it has huge demand in local markets. One can buy five kilograms Banganapalle or Chinna rasalu variety mangoes at Rs 250 from the horticulture department. Mangoes will be delivered next morning during the lockdown relaxation hours,” said A Mohammed Imtiaz, Krishna district collector. “We have directed the municipalities to facilitate mango farmers in arranging stalls and special mango counters will be arranged at rythu bazaars across the district, the collector added. “Our mangoes are rich in taste. But farmers are suffering losses as bulk buyers from northern states have formed a syndicate and reduced the price. The horticulture department’s support will help farmers to sell mangoes at a profitable price and get returns fast,” Nuzvidu legislator Meka Prathap Apparao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nuzvidu-mangoes-online-sale-begins/articleshow/75435428.cms||Venu Lanka
April 29, 2020||Chennai||Mask-vending machine installed in Ranipet district||CHENNAI: In a first of its kind initiative, the Ranipet district administration in collaboration with local fabricators designed a low cost facemask vending machine for the benefit of public in the district. The idea was initiated to ensure facemasks are more accessible to people and to help curb the spread of Covid-19. This prototype facemask vending machine is set up at a cost of Rs 20,000 and can hold up to 50 facemasks after one refill. Each mask is priced at Rs 5. S Divya Darshini, Ranipet District Collector said, “Facemask is an essential commodity now and I still find many people in the district walking around without wearing a mask. After having discussions with a few fabricators in the district, we have come up with this idea.” The machine was inaugurated at the Ranipet collector office on Tuesday. Plans are further on to design a vending machine with a capacity of holding 100 facemasks after one refill at the same cost. The vending machine is said to be installed at all government offices in Ranipet districts for the public at the earliest,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mask-vending-machine-installed-in-ranipet-district/articleshow/75437809.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Poachers take cover of lockdown to kill wild animals; 12 held||KOLHAPUR: The western ghats have been experiencing rising incidence of hunting of wild animals during the lockdown period, when everyone is busy fighting the coronavirus, the recent arrest of around a dozen poachers in different cases suggests. The forest officers recently arrested five people for allegedly trespassing the forest area and for killing a porcupine. They have been identified as Vikram Pravin Mithapure (19), Pravin Amarsinh Mithapure (40), Anil Kisan Shinde (46), Sachin Tulshidas Shinde (34, all resident of Govedigar, taluka Wai, district Satara) and Jivan Waman Dhumal (44, resident of Mardhe, district Satara). The forest officers charged the suspects under section 9, 39, 50 and 51 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and section 26 (1)(I) of Indian Forest Act, 1927. “Acting on a tip-off, our team rushed to the house of Mithapure in Wai taluka on April 26 and found that he had cooked porcupine meat. After enquiring, we got information that five people had gone to the forest and caught a porcupine using a trap. We have seized the material used for hunting the animal,” said a forest officers. In another incident, a team of Satara forest department arrested six people, who were found in the buffer zone of the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve and for hunting a wild boar. Two weeks ago, the Sawantwadi forest department officers arrested a man for allegedly hunting two giant squirrels (Ratufa indica). Forest officers said that they are a keeping a tight vigil to protect the wildlife, which is national resource, and hunting is prohibited. They have appealed to people to not take advantage of the lockdown and indulge in hunting of wild animals, which is punishable by law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/poachers-take-cover-of-lockdown-to-kill-wild-animals-12-held/articleshow/75436714.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Temple won’t stay closed till June 30: TTD||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has dismissed reports that Lord Venkateswara temple will remain closed till June 30 as rumours. A message stating the the state government in consultation with the TTD trust board has decided to extend the lockdown at the temple till June 30 has gone viral on social media on Tuesday. After the message created confusion among the devotees, TTD’s public relations department issued a clarification that the reports on social media are unfounded. The TTD board is yet to take any decision on the issue of reopening Srivari darshan to devotees. In a stern warning to mischief mongers, the TTD management has announced that it will initiate legal action against those who forwarded such baseless reports leading to confusion among the devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temple-wont-stay-closed-till-june-30-ttd/articleshow/75435414.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||4 more from Satranjipura positive, tally 84 in district’s total of 133||NAGPUR: Four females from Satranjipura, city’s Covid-19 hotspot, tested positive for corona on Tuesday taking this area’s tally to 84. The number of positive persons from the district increased to 133, with 63.15% cases from Satranjipura alone. Three (age 28, 30 and 50) of the four positive persons were in institutional quarantine at Wathoda and were later admitted to GMCH. Remaining one person (20) was shifted to IGGMCH from MLA Hostel. As per Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 21 persons from Satranjipura have tested positive since widespread quarantine was enforced from April 23 onwards. A 68-year-old person from this locality died on April 5 at IGGMCH and his samples tested positive on April 6. NMC had quarantined 230 persons — family members, close contacts and some neighbours — of the deceased between April 6 and 22. With some neighbours testing positive, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe directed extensive quarantine and examination of all neighbours. NMC quarantined 150 persons on April 23, 123 on April 24, and 498 on April 27 for a total of 1,001. Some 21 positive persons are from the first two lists with some reports still awaited. Also, reports of third list are yet to be released. An NMC officials said, “Some 50% of the quarantined people said they never met the deceased or his family members.” TOI spoke to two positive persons, who too said they had never met the deceased or their family members since April 1. It seems a few might have been infected indirectly through neighbours, who met the deceased or their family members. Mundhe said, “A few more from Satranjipura will be quarantined. We could have taken their samples at the spot. Problem is they are not giving correct information and also not staying inside homes. Therefore, we are quarantining them to contain Covid-19,” he said. To ensure effective implementation of lockdown, Mundhe met CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay and other police officers at NMC on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the reports of a 65-year deceased, resident of Sarose Nagar, Dighori in South Nagpur, came negative on Tuesday. He had died on April 28. South Nagpur is the only one of six constituencies without any positive cases. The reports of 59 doctors and staff of a cancer hospital are also awaited. They were quarantined at the hospital itself after a cancer patient from Sangam Nagar, North Nagpur, tested positive a couple of days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-more-from-satranjipura-ve-tally-84-in-districts-total-of-133/articleshow/75437813.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajastha deputy CM Sachin Pilot asks partymen to continue relief work for needy||JAIPUR: Deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot on Tuesday called upon Congressmen to continue to help in providing food and ration to the needy, and fodder and water arrangements for livestock. Pilot was speaking to the Congress Lok Sabha candidates through video conference on the relief work carried out by the party during the lockdown. The Lok Sabha candidates emphasized on the need to ensure provision of ration for the needy other than those eligible for food security and Antyodaya schemes and providing fair prices for the crops to the farmers, besides ensuring the supply of drinking water during the summer months. Congress leaders expressed their gratitude to Pilot for sanctioning Rs 50,000 for distributing sanitisers and masks to each gram panchayat. Pilot emphasized that the Central government should formulate a comprehensive action plan to bring back the residents and workers who have been stuck in other states. He said in view of the coronavirus pandemic, in rural areas under the MGNREGA, more incentives are being given to individual beneficiary work like construction of toilets, construction of fences, levelling of fields, so that social distancing could be self-sustained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-asks-partymen-to-continue-relief-work-for-needy/articleshow/75438505.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Precautions under lens as positive cases of essential services workers instil fear||Madurai: District health officials have intensified testing and taken steps to make all safety precautions foolproof in the wake of eight workers of various essential services testing positive for Covid-19 in the past two weeks, instilling a sense of fear among them.Out of the eight, five are Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) staff working in the isolation wards. They include two sanitary workers, two staff nurses and a sanitary supervisor. GRH claims to have one of the strictest and comprehensive protocols for those working in Covid-19 isolation wards. Dean Dr Sangumani J had previously asserted that all personnel working in Covid-19 wards were given proper personal protective equipment (PPE)s and training in safety protocol. Further, the hospital has also been allotting shift-wise work for the staff in Covid-19 wards with 14 days quarantine and testing after seven days. “All of them followed quarantine and had not ventured out. We tested all their close contacts and all of them were negative,” said a city health official.District collector Dr T G Vinay has also stressed that they have taken a serious view of GRH staff contracting infection. “There can be no lapse in terms of training and provision of safety equipment or in the system. Adequate training and demonstrations, sensitisation and awareness have been given,” he told TOI. On a GRH staff nurse testing positive on April 27, the collector said that investigation was on. “The community medicine team is working to analyse the case and to make the system fool proof,” he added.The other essential service personnel to test Covid-19 positive include police and fire department officials. The police were among those deployed in containment zones while the fire department official was deployed at the fire station in Meenakshi Amman temple where a priest’s mother had tested positive. “For police and other personnel deployed in containment areas, masks and gloves have been provided. The onus is on the individual to stay safe,” said the city health official.The police station where the two Covid-19 positive police officials worked and the fire station at Meenakshi Amman temple have both been shut and disinfected. “We also tested around 250 police officials once again after these two personnel tested positive. All their results have been negative,” added the official. Meanwhile, higher police officials have instructed police personnel to strictly follow all precautions and practise social distancing with public and colleagues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/precautions-under-lens-as-positive-cases-of-essential-services-workers-instil-fear/articleshow/75438503.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Workers exit, leave industry in lurch||Jaipur: At a time when the government is keen to restart the industry and resurrect the economy, it is also working overnight to send stranded workers back to their states.Sources from various industrial area associations said government departments like RIICO, labour and police are reaching out workers to prepare a database so that they can be sent to their villages in an orderly manner.“We don’t understand the logic behind this decision and its timing. Now the focus is as much on containing the spread of the virus as on restarting the economy. How can you restart the economy if you don’t have labourers. This decision to send workers should have come in the first or second of week of lockdown, not when we are trying to reopen our factories,” said a manufacturer preferring anonymity.Sources said the industry bodies have written the departments concerned not to force people to leave the city as it would mean delaying the resumption of manufacturing further.Rather, they said the state should convince the Centre to dilute the stringent conditions of keeping labourers on the factory premises only.In the CMs’ meeting with the Prime Minister Naredndra Modi on Monday, Ashok Gehlot and others including chief minister of Chhattisgarh proposed the Centre to allow the states the freedom to devise their own strategies for lifting or continuing lockdown.“The state governments have to convince the Centre that some of the lockdown conditions need to be diluted where it is necessary. For example, making workers stay in factory premises mandatory will not help because most of the workers would like to be with their families at the end of the day,” said another entrepreneur.The concerns reflect why most factory owners are sitting on the sidelines and not coming forward to reopen their factories. “Only about 10 factories out of 80 in the EPIP at Sitapura are thinking of reopening. Some are doing stock taking and planning on how to ensure the compliance of hygiene and social distancing. It will take a while before they start,” said an industry representative. But another worry is that if the whole value chain does not get started, running factories will not be possible.“The printing factories in Ahmedabad have to start running, the transport services have to get operational. Small labels and accessories and the whole ancillary industry have to start. And most importantly, there needs to be demand from clients. We are planning to open because we have to start the momentum,” said the representative.As April is drawing to a close, paying salary to workers is also becoming a big headache for many. “Nobody is in a position to give salary. On one hand, the banks have been told to roll over the interest payment and EMIs, and on the other hand they are forced to pay salaries to staff. It is a state of utter confusion. We are awaiting some relief from the government,” said the entrepreneur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/workers-exit-leave-industry-in-lurch/articleshow/75438500.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
April 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Winnifred Fernandes dead||Mangaluru: Former MLA, MLC and veteran Congress leader Winnifred Fernandes passed away due to illness, at her residence at Church Road, Kundapur, on Tuesday. She was 91. She started her political career as a Praja Socialist Party member, and served as the president of the Kundapur town municipality. She later joined the Congress and became an MLA twice, of Kundapur constituency, in 1967 and 1972. She also served as a member of the legislative council from 2000 to 2006. She is survived by three sons and three daughters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/winnifred-fernandes-dead/articleshow/75435437.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Bikaner’s vigil pays off, district cures all 36 patients||JAIPUR: Stealing a march over textile town Bhilwara, which had hogged the national limelight for its ruthless Covid-19 containment model, Bikaner reported all its 36 patients as cured of the virus on Tuesday. While seven of them have been discharged from the hospital, the rest will be allowed to go home in the coming days as and when their 14-day quarantine period gets over. Two persons died and 102 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday. According to the health department, a 60-year-old man, resident of Sripura of Kota, died from infection. He was admitted to New Medical College in Kota on April 27 and died on the same day. Officials said that he had pre-existing disease related to heart. Hospital followed ICMR guidelinesAnother person died in Jodhpur, taking the death toll to 52 in the state. Among the districts which reported Covid-19 cases on Tuesday are Jaipur (26), Kota (24), Jodhpur (25), Ajmer (11), Tonk (8), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (1), Nagaur (1), Banswara (1) and Sikar (1). Across the state, 2,364 persons have tested positive so far. Out of these, 770 have been cured. The success achieved in Bikaner was largely due to the five-day combination treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin given to Covid patients. Bikaner has so far reported 37 cases, with one of them dying earlier while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital. The first two persons, linked to Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive on April 3 in Bikaner. On April 19, Bikaner reported its last case. Nine days have passed since the district reported a case. The last two cases tested negative for the virus on Monday. “We have followed a single model – STC, in which S stands for survey and screening, T stands for testing and treatment and C stands for containment of the affected area. We followed it thoroughly and implemented it effectively and got positive results,” said Dr S S Rathore, principal and controller, Sardar Patel Medical College. The PBM Hospital, where the patients underwent treatment in Bikaner, is attached to the medical college. The hospital has followed the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “We gave treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin to patients. Symptomatic treatment was provided to patients in case they had fever or other complications. We have not given combination of drugs which are commonly used in treatment of HIV,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar Kochar, coordinator for Covid-19 at the hospital. He said that only one patient required a ventilator. She died on April 4 after she was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. After five days of treatment, the doctors tested the patients for the virus. If they test negative the first time, they conduct another test in 24 hours. If the patient tests negative in two successive tests, he is declared cured. “Almost all the patients were kept in the hospital for 7 to 10 days. After they are cured of Covid-19, we sent them to the quarantine facility for 14 days as per the discharge policy. After 14 days of quarantine, they are discharged and allowed to go to their homes,” he said. Chief medical health officer (Bikaner) Dr B L Meena said, “We have discharged seven patients from the quarantine facility and they have gone to their homes. Others will be discharged after they complete their 14 days in quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bikaners-vigil-pays-off-dist-cures-all-36-patients/articleshow/75442354.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Rayalaseema districts report 49 fresh cases, including 40 from Kurnool||TIRUPATI: The spike in Covid-19 cases continues in Rayalaseema districts. In the last 24 hours ending on Tuesday morning, 49 fresh cases were reported across the four districts of Kurnool, Kadapa, Chittoor and Anantapur in the Rayalaseema region of the state. With 40 new cases reported, the overall number of Covid-19 patients in Kurnool district has jumped to 332 cases. With nine deaths and 43 patients discharged so far, the number of active patients in the district has now gone up to 280. According to Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian, 1,007 Covid-19 suspects have been placed at the 15-odd quarantine facilities across the district. On Tuesday, 257 persons who tested negative for the virus were discharged from the quarantine facilities. Meanwhile, with seven new cases reported, the overall number of cases in Kadapa district has gone up to 65. But with 28 patients discharged so far, the number of patients undergoing treatment at various Covid-19 hospitals in the district is now 37. After a lull of four days, one fresh Covid-19 case was reported in Chittoor district on Tuesday, taking the overall tally of patients to 74. The new case was reported at Srikalahasti, where a 10-year-old girl, daughter of a revenue department official who earlier tested positive, contracted the novel coronavirus from her father. In Anantapur district, one new case was reported. District collector Gandham Chandrudu said three patients from Hindupur urban and rural areas were discharged from the hospital after recovering. With 20 patients discharged so far, the number of patients under treatment for Covid-19 in the district is now 36.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rseema-districts-report-49-fresh-cases-including-40-from-kurnool/articleshow/75435441.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Bikaner’s vigil pays off, district cures all 36 patients||JAIPUR: Stealing a march over textile town Bhilwara, which had hogged the national limelight for its ruthless Covid-19 containment model, Bikaner reported all its 36 patients as cured of the virus on Tuesday. While seven of them have been discharged from the hospital, the rest will be allowed to go home in the coming days as and when their 14-day quarantine period gets over. Two persons died and 102 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday. According to the health department, a 60-year-old man, resident of Sripura of Kota, died from infection. He was admitted to New Medical College in Kota on April 27 and died on the same day. Officials said that he had pre-existing disease related to heart. Hospital followed ICMR guidelinesAnother person died in Jodhpur, taking the death toll to 52 in the state. Among the districts which reported Covid-19 cases on Tuesday are Jaipur (26), Kota (24), Jodhpur (25), Ajmer (11), Tonk (8), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (1), Nagaur (1), Banswara (1) and Sikar (1). Across the state, 2,364 persons have tested positive so far. Out of these, 770 have been cured. The success achieved in Bikaner was largely due to the five-day combination treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin given to Covid patients. Bikaner has so far reported 37 cases, with one of them dying earlier while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital. The first two persons, linked to Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive on April 3 in Bikaner. On April 19, Bikaner reported its last case. Nine days have passed since the district reported a case. The last two cases tested negative for the virus on Monday. “We have followed a single model – STC, in which S stands for survey and screening, T stands for testing and treatment and C stands for containment of the affected area. We followed it thoroughly and implemented it effectively and got positive results,” said Dr S S Rathore, principal and controller, Sardar Patel Medical College. The PBM Hospital, where the patients underwent treatment in Bikaner, is attached to the medical college. The hospital has followed the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “We gave treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin to patients. Symptomatic treatment was provided to patients in case they had fever or other complications. We have not given combination of drugs which are commonly used in treatment of HIV,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar Kochar, coordinator for Covid-19 at the hospital. He said that only one patient required a ventilator. She died on April 4 after she was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. After five days of treatment, the doctors tested the patients for the virus. If they test negative the first time, they conduct another test in 24 hours. If the patient tests negative in two successive tests, he is declared cured. “Almost all the patients were kept in the hospital for 7 to 10 days. After they are cured of Covid-19, we sent them to the quarantine facility for 14 days as per the discharge policy. After 14 days of quarantine, they are discharged and allowed to go to their homes,” he said. Chief medical health officer (Bikaner) Dr B L Meena said, “We have discharged seven patients from the quarantine facility and they have gone to their homes. Others will be discharged after they complete their 14 days in quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bikaners-vigil-pays-off-dist-cures-all-36-patients/articleshow/75442352.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Bikaner’s vigil pays off, district cures all 36 patients||JAIPUR: Stealing a march over textile town Bhilwara, which had hogged the national limelight for its ruthless Covid-19 containment model, Bikaner reported all its 36 patients as cured of the virus on Tuesday. While seven of them have been discharged from the hospital, the rest will be allowed to go home in the coming days as and when their 14-day quarantine period gets over. Two persons died and 102 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday. According to the health department, a 60-year-old man, resident of Sripura of Kota, died from infection. He was admitted to New Medical College in Kota on April 27 and died on the same day. Officials said that he had pre-existing disease related to heart. Hospital followed ICMR guidelinesAnother person died in Jodhpur, taking the death toll to 52 in the state. Among the districts which reported Covid-19 cases on Tuesday are Jaipur (26), Kota (24), Jodhpur (25), Ajmer (11), Tonk (8), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (1), Nagaur (1), Banswara (1) and Sikar (1). Across the state, 2,364 persons have tested positive so far. Out of these, 770 have been cured. The success achieved in Bikaner was largely due to the five-day combination treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin given to Covid patients. Bikaner has so far reported 37 cases, with one of them dying earlier while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital. The first two persons, linked to Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive on April 3 in Bikaner. On April 19, Bikaner reported its last case. Nine days have passed since the district reported a case. The last two cases tested negative for the virus on Monday. “We have followed a single model – STC, in which S stands for survey and screening, T stands for testing and treatment and C stands for containment of the affected area. We followed it thoroughly and implemented it effectively and got positive results,” said Dr S S Rathore, principal and controller, Sardar Patel Medical College. The PBM Hospital, where the patients underwent treatment in Bikaner, is attached to the medical college. The hospital has followed the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “We gave treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin to patients. Symptomatic treatment was provided to patients in case they had fever or other complications. We have not given combination of drugs which are commonly used in treatment of HIV,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar Kochar, coordinator for Covid-19 at the hospital. He said that only one patient required a ventilator. She died on April 4 after she was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. After five days of treatment, the doctors tested the patients for the virus. If they test negative the first time, they conduct another test in 24 hours. If the patient tests negative in two successive tests, he is declared cured. “Almost all the patients were kept in the hospital for 7 to 10 days. After they are cured of Covid-19, we sent them to the quarantine facility for 14 days as per the discharge policy. After 14 days of quarantine, they are discharged and allowed to go to their homes,” he said. Chief medical health officer (Bikaner) Dr B L Meena said, “We have discharged seven patients from the quarantine facility and they have gone to their homes. Others will be discharged after they complete their 14 days in quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bikaners-vigil-pays-off-dist-cures-all-36-patients/articleshow/75442353.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bikaner’s vigil pays off, district cures all 36 patients||JAIPUR: Stealing a march over textile town Bhilwara, which had hogged the national limelight for its ruthless Covid-19 containment model, Bikaner reported all its 36 patients as cured of the virus on Tuesday. While seven of them have been discharged from the hospital, the rest will be allowed to go home in the coming days as and when their 14-day quarantine period gets over. Two persons died and 102 tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Tuesday. According to the health department, a 60-year-old man, resident of Sripura of Kota, died from infection. He was admitted to New Medical College in Kota on April 27 and died on the same day. Officials said that he had pre-existing disease related to heart. Hospital followed ICMR guidelinesAnother person died in Jodhpur, taking the death toll to 52 in the state. Among the districts which reported Covid-19 cases on Tuesday are Jaipur (26), Kota (24), Jodhpur (25), Ajmer (11), Tonk (8), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (1), Nagaur (1), Banswara (1) and Sikar (1). Across the state, 2,364 persons have tested positive so far. Out of these, 770 have been cured. The success achieved in Bikaner was largely due to the five-day combination treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin given to Covid patients. Bikaner has so far reported 37 cases, with one of them dying earlier while undergoing treatment at PBM Hospital. The first two persons, linked to Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive on April 3 in Bikaner. On April 19, Bikaner reported its last case. Nine days have passed since the district reported a case. The last two cases tested negative for the virus on Monday. “We have followed a single model – STC, in which S stands for survey and screening, T stands for testing and treatment and C stands for containment of the affected area. We followed it thoroughly and implemented it effectively and got positive results,” said Dr S S Rathore, principal and controller, Sardar Patel Medical College. The PBM Hospital, where the patients underwent treatment in Bikaner, is attached to the medical college. The hospital has followed the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “We gave treatment of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin to patients. Symptomatic treatment was provided to patients in case they had fever or other complications. We have not given combination of drugs which are commonly used in treatment of HIV,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar Kochar, coordinator for Covid-19 at the hospital. He said that only one patient required a ventilator. She died on April 4 after she was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. After five days of treatment, the doctors tested the patients for the virus. If they test negative the first time, they conduct another test in 24 hours. If the patient tests negative in two successive tests, he is declared cured. “Almost all the patients were kept in the hospital for 7 to 10 days. After they are cured of Covid-19, we sent them to the quarantine facility for 14 days as per the discharge policy. After 14 days of quarantine, they are discharged and allowed to go to their homes,” he said. Chief medical health officer (Bikaner) Dr B L Meena said, “We have discharged seven patients from the quarantine facility and they have gone to their homes. Others will be discharged after they complete their 14 days in quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bikaners-vigil-pays-off-dist-cures-all-36-patients/articleshow/75438511.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Test reports of 2 deceased patients -ve||Lucknow: The Covid-19 test reports of two patients who died during treatment in the Critical Care Unit of KGMU trauma centre came negative on Tuesday. The patients, 35-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman, had died on Monday. “The bodies have been handed over to their families. The tests were done as per WHO protocol,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. While the woman recently had c-section delivery, the male patient was a case of poisoning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/test-reports-of-2-deceased-patients-ve/articleshow/75438516.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Long wait, no food, allege quarantined Satranjipura residents||Nagpur: Around 500 Satranjipura residents allegedly went without food and water from Monday to early Tuesday morning after fasting the whole day as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) team accompanying them to different quarantine centres asked to accommodate them elsewhere. NMC’s ambitious plan to place over 1,000 residents in institutional quarantine from this Covid epicentre without taking the actual capacity into consideration not only left the residents tired, sick, and hungry but also kept its own officials on toes till small hours of Tuesday. The residents had suggested they be quarantined within Satranjipura where a couple of state government and civic body buildings are available. “They didn’t listen to us. Most of us were observing roza (fasting). They picked up people of all ages and bundled us in buses. There was no arrangement and no management,” said the residents. Many residents own livestock like cows, buffaloes, and goats. “No one is willing to take care of our animals. With the owner quarantined, the cattle have not been fed,” they said. NMC Satranjipura zone assistant commissioner Vijay Humne blamed the residents for the late night chaos. “Our team was ready with buses since 1pm. If we have to take 500 people and all of them come at one time what would be the situation? If this had started from 1pm things would have been smooth,” he said. Residents countered Humne’s claims saying the departure was planned only after 5pm. “How can survey of 1,000 people be over in a couple of hours? NMC team took time till 5pm to complete the survey of people to be quarantined,” they said. Humne said the process of shifting started at 8.30pm. “People reported to the barricaded spot at 8.30pm. It is a time-consuming process. Entire work got over at 3am,” he said. Regarding not providing food, Hume said, “Officials at Symbiosis centre were under impression these people would have eaten their dinner. In the next batch, hopefully these problem will not be there if all cooperate,” he said. He refused to divulge details of venues where next batch of residents would be shifted. He also said the cattle would be managed by NMC. Residents said, “We didn’t create this virus yet we are facing ostracization. We are cooperating with the administration. We can be accommodated in an NMC building lying vacant, another hall, a big hostel, and big buildings. But NMC refused to heed our request,” they said. Humne said the suggestions didn’t fit the norms. Residents said the alleged chaos had deterred others who had made up their mind to get quarantined. “Baseless allegations are being made by a politician. It is the duty of the elected representative to come and talk to people. Anyone can come and ask the field workers. After iftaar, people with the entire families came out. Till 1am, seven buses were waiting outside Symbiosis. Later, three were diverted to MLA hostels and seven went to VNIT hostels. They just want to inflate numbers,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/long-wait-no-food-allege-quarantined-satranjipura-residents/articleshow/75437824.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Cashew units in rural areas of Andhra Pradesh set to reopen||VIJAYAWADA: The cashew industries in the rural areas in parts of Andhra Pradesh will resume operations with a limited number of workers in the coming few days after the authorities of industries and district administration held review meetings and decided to allow the operation of the cashew industries. A majority of the cashew factories and some food processing units in Srikakulam district remained closed even after the relaxation of the lockdown norms on April 20. Apart from Srikakulam, cashew industries are located in Prakasam, Chittoor, Vizag and few other districts in the state. Over 10,000 women workers and others lost their livelihood for the past month due to closure of the cashew processing units in the state. VIJAYAWADA: Speaking to TOI, Malla Srinivasa Rao, president of Srikakulam-Palasa Cashew Manufacturing Association, said that Srikakulam district had over 300 cashew processing units, which process around Rs 6 crore worth of cashew kernel per day. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the units remained closed from March 23. We urged the district administration to allow the cashew industries to begin operations since many states, including Karnataka and Kerala, permitted the operation of factories in the green zones,” he added. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said that they would give permission to reopen cashew units located in rural areas and are awaiting the order to allow units in the urban areas of the district. The management of the units would ensure social distancing at the processing units apart from providing face masks and hand sanitisers to the workers, he added. Four cashew processing units in Chittoor district resumed operations on Monday with a limited number of workers. Normally, a cashew processing unit operates with over 300 workers, but now the units are running with just 100 workers. Though Prakasam district has over 15 cashew processing units, officials have decided to not allow the resumption of operations since all the processing units are under the limits of red zones. Officials of the industries department have asked the owners of cashew processing units (located in rural areas and green zones) to apply online to get permission from the concerned authorities to reopen their units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cashew-units-in-rural-areas-set-to-reopen/articleshow/75435472.cms||Nalla.Babu
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||‘Rs 412.95 crore to develop NH-158’||Deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said that NH-158 Beawar-Asind-Mandal will be developed under the Green National Highway Corridor Project with financial support from World Bank. He informed that a total financial approval of Rs 412.95 crore has been received from the Union government in two packages to develop this 87-km-long National Highway in double lane with paved holders. Pilot said that the 44-km-long highway from Beawar to Asind, Rs 216.72 crore and the about 43-km-long highway from Asind to Mandal will cost Rs 196.23 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-412-95-crore-to-develop-nh-158/articleshow/75438510.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||SEC ordinance hearing continues in Andhra Padesh HC||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday began hearing a batch of petitions challenging the state government’s ordinance that revised the tenure of the state election commissioner.  The ordinance 5 of 2020 had resulted in Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar ceasing to be the SEC. After a lengthy hearing, the high court posted the matter for further hearing to Wednesday. Appearing on behalf of Ramesh Kumar, senior counsel D V Sitharam Murthy argued that the ordinance was invalid as it did not satisfy the twin conditions attached to Article 213 of the Constitution to promulgate an ordinance. He said the power available to the governor under Article 213 is not unfettered and a judicial review is permissible. While promulgating an ordinance under Article 213, two conditions that are to be satisfied are that the legislature is not in session and the governor has to be satisfied of the existence of the circumstances rendering it necessary to take immediate action. However, the ordinance 5 of 2020 did not satisfy this condition as there was no emergent circumstances to promulgate the ordinance in the absence of the legislature. He argued that the ordinance was brought with malafide intention to remove Ramesh Kumar as SEC as he had postponed local body elections due to Covid-19 crisis. He said the justification given by the state government that the ordinance was part of the electoral reforms is a fallacy as it goes against to the recommendations of the Task Force that were submitted to the Union ministry of panchayat raj and adopted by all states. Murthy said each clause in the ordinance was unconstitutional and the process adopted by the state government was a colourable exercise of power to remove Ramesh Kumar from the office of SEC which is not permissible under Article 243K of the Constitution. Advocates Thandava Yogesh, senior counsel Vedula Venkata Ramana and DSNV Prasad Babu argued that the ordinance would set a dangerous precedence to remove persons holding constitutional positions and cannot be accepted. While Ramesh Kumar moved the high court with a writ petition challenging the ordinance, 11 public interest litigation (PIL) petitions were moved by others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-ordinance-hearing-continues-in-hc/articleshow/75435457.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: State mulls freeze in DA hike, budget cuts for infra projects||PANAJI: Cash-strapped and debt-ridden, the state government is in no position to roll out a stimulus package to revive the economy as its tax revenue has dried up and it is still waiting for its GST due from the Centre, say officials. While a final decision on expenditure curbs is yet to be taken, the finance department is mulling a freeze on an increase in dearness allowance for the government employees and allocation cuts for new infrastructure projects. “Now that the Centre has announced it, the Goa government can follow suit. This will save Rs 150 crore,” said a senior government official. And if the government does not tighten its belt, meeting committed expenditure will be a struggle in the coming months, said sources. The government has circulated the preliminary report prepared by the economic revival committee and has sought feedback from the departments on it. With GST collections nearly collapsing and the Centre yet to release the entire compensation for the months of February and March, Goa has difficult days ahead. The state received Rs 103 crore as part-payment of GST compensation for February and March from the Centre. In January, the state earned Rs 413 crore as GST. “The state’s own tax revenue has dried up, state’s share in central taxes has come down so definitely the government will struggle to meet primary expenditure in the coming months,” said another official. The government data shows that 37% of the state’s earnings go towards salaries, wages, pension, gratuity and grant-in-aid; 2% goes towards subsidies; and 13% goes towards debt repayment. Goa received Rs 177.7 crore as its share of central taxes and duties for April as per the recommendations of the Finance Commission. A few weeks earlier, the Centre released Rs 6 crore for Goa for the state disaster management fund in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The private sector, reeling under the lockdown and staring at an uncertain future, is looking at a fiscal stimulus that can support the government. Seven industry bodies had urged the government to help the industry pay workers during the lockdown. However, bureaucrats are of the view that a financial package will not address the demand and supply constraints. Instead, the state government plans to focus on facilitation and removal of bureaucratic hurdles for the private sector. Given that expenditure to combat Covid-19 and improve healthcare infrastructure is going to increase, the government can’t afford to let go revenue mop-up. “How will any package help the industry when they are not operating at full capacity? And the industry cannot operate at full capacity because both demand and supply have taken a hit,” said a government source. ASSOCHAM chairman for national council for MSME Manguirish Pai Raiker said the government should focus on sustaining existing industrial units while also removing red tapism and corruption. “This is the time to tighten the belt. It is time to streamline the administration and use the excess staff to fill up vacancies in other departments,” said Raiker. A former government official suggested that the current crisis was an apt time to end wasteful expenditure on new government buildings and subsidies such as Griha Aadhaar, Laadli Laxmi and other doles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-mulls-freeze-in-da-hike-budget-cuts-for-infra-projects/articleshow/75438513.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Since lockdown began, nearly a thousand violations a day, almost 2,000 fined for spitting||PANAJI: The nationwide lockdown had ordered citizens to remain indoors, but that didn’t deter some people from ending up on the wrong side of law. Despite strict measures, which also included curbs on vehicular movement, Goa police registered nearly 1,000 violations every day since the lockdown commenced on March 24 in view of the Covid-19 threat. Over 31,587 people violated orders, of which over 29,079 have been issued motor vehicle challans. More than 1,893 spitting cases were reported and 615 FIRs registered. Most of the violations were reported in South Goa with 22,394 cases as compared to 9,193 violations in the north district. Police also arrested 1,094 people during the lockdown, and seized 440 vehicles. A total of Rs 38.8 lakh in fines have been collected. Speaking to TOI, SP crime branch Pankaj Kumar Singh said that 29,079 motor vehicle challans have been issued for defying lockdown orders, and not traffic violations. Cases are being booked against those moving around villages and towns without permission of the authorities, shopkeepers for opening stores by ignoring government orders. In some cases, even drivers were found transporting furniture. Police had not only put out appeals on social media urging people against venturing out of their houses during the lockdown, but also met religious heads and asked them to request their followers to remain indoors. Besides, police patrolling staff also persuaded citizens to comply with conditions stipulated under the lockdown. Police patrolling has been intensified all over the state, and pickets have been set up at existing patrolling points. Traffic personnel have been deployed along with district police at straegic checkpoints. In its recommendation, the state government on Monday urged the Centre to extend the lockdown beyond May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19. The government also sought to keep the state’s borders sealed in view of the alarming rise in cases in neighbouring Karnataka and Maharashtra. With the Union government easing restrictions on Monday, economic activities have begun in rural and urban areas of the state. All standalone stores, neighbourhood shops and those in residential complexes are allowed to open. Shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to operate. E-commerce activities will continue to supply essential goods only, while liquor shops and allied items will remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/since-lockdown-began-nearly-a-thousand-violations-a-day-almost-2k-fined-for-spitting/articleshow/75438526.cms||Murari Shetye
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||First SARI patient in Mysuru recovers||MYSURU: Telemedicine has come handy to doctors in Mysuru to bring a 72-year-old Covid-19 patient from a critical stage to a stable condition. On Tuesday, the city’s first Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patient was cured of the infection. Though he is ready for discharge, he will continue to be in the hospital due to some other medical condition. The 72-year-old patient’s case was a challenging one because he had multiple health problems—heart-related problems, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease before he was tested for coronavirus. DC Abhiram G Sankar said the medical staff at the covid hospital and the lab are doing a great job behind the scene, attributing the success to them. The septuagenarian from Nazarbad was admitted to the hospital on April 14. His case was a challenging one as he had comorbid illnesses. His treatment was done in consultation with experts at Nimhans through telemedicine. Everyday, doctors in Mysuru interacted with experts in Bengaluru and took guidance online to treat the patient. Owing to challenges related to ventilation, the doctors here took to high flow oxygen and avoided putting him on ventilator. In Mysuru, out of the 89 cases, only three were SARI related. The 72-year-old individual was the first case and one of his contacts (a 45-year old woman relative), is still in hospital. Another 65-year-villager is the other SARI patient and his condition is stable..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/first-sari-patient-in-mysuru-recovers/articleshow/75436006.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: TB detection machines to test patients for coronavirus||JAIPUR: To test Covid-19 patients, the state government will use CB-NAAT machines meant for detecting tuberculosis. According to medical and health minister Raghu Sharma, the machines will come up with the results within an hour which will help the government identify Covid-19 patients faster. He said these machines are being set up at four medical colleges in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Bikaner. Sharma said 8 CB-NAAT machines were being transferred from different districts to four medical colleges — SMS State Medical College Jaipur, SN Medical College Jodhpur, PBM Hospital Bikaner and New Medical College Kota — to deal with the pandemic and to get quick investigation reports. He said the diagnostic machines used to test drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) have now been approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting Covid-19 tests. This machine can check a maximum of four samples at a time. This investigation of Covid-19 is based on the RT-PCR Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction method. The minister informed that one-month medicine will be provided to all TB patients (private and government) residing in the state to help them in overcoming the inconvenience caused to them due to Covid-19. Medicines for TB patients will be made available even if they are not registered in the TB programme. Patients taking TB treatment in any state in the country and currently living in the state could also avail this benefit, he said. ACS medical and health Rohit Kumar Singh said, “These machines will come handy in emergency situations, like for instance an emergency operation when you need the result fast. He said the limitation of these machines is you could do only four tests at a time.” State tuberculosis control programme officer Dr Vinod Kumar Garg said the machines were being transferred on the directions of the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tb-detection-machines-to-test-patients-for-corona/articleshow/75438519.cms||Joychen Joseph
April 29, 2020||Madurai||Concern over rising cases in urban areas||Madurai: As many as 51 cases were recorded in the urban limits of Madurai district compared to 28 in rural areas as of April 28, something which has been a cause of concern especially since most cases in the past few days have been from urban areas. Initially, more cases were recorded in rural areas like Elumalai, Melur and Thirumangalam. Health officials at that time were fearful about a possible spread. However, all cases were either those who contracted from single source or contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. After all containment zones in the three areas were monitored strictly, there have been no further fresh cases since April 19. Recently, on April 26, in the rural limits, only one case was reported in Usilampatti, that of a 24-year-old pregnant woman. Contact tracing is still under way for the woman who has also given birth to a healthy baby girl now. Samples of the baby have been sent for testing as well. One of the areas within urban limits that has recorded a large number of cases is Anna Nagar, which also recorded the first Covid-19 death in the district. “We have traced contacts of all Covid-19 patients in containment areas within corporation limits. At present, the main focus is only on restricting all movement. So far, the complete lockdown has really helped,” said a city health official. Health officials further said that as of now ample testing is being done and that the number of samples tested is among the highest in the state. So far, excluding samples taken at Government Rajaji Hospital, around 3,200 samples, 1,600 each from rural and urban limits, have been collected by officials on the field across the district, mainly in all containment areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/concern-over-rising-cases-in-urban-areas/articleshow/75438521.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 90-year-old beats Covid-19, goes home from SMS hospital||JAIPUR: A 90-year-old man who was admitted to Sawai Man Singh Hospital on April 14 after being tested Covid-19 positive, was cured and discharged on Tuesday. On April 25, Bhawani Shankar Sharma tested negative for Covid-19 for the first time. Doctors conducted his test again on April 27 and he tested negative. “After recovering from coronavirus infection, Sharma was discharged on Tuesday for home quarantine,” said an SMS Hospital administration official. “He is suffering from hypertension, coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). Hospital’s core treatment group comprising Dr Sudhir Bhandari, Dr Raman Sharma, Dr Prakash Keswani, Dr S Banerjee and Dr Ajit Singh took the crucial decision on his treatment. To prevent mortality due to Covid-19, the health department has launched LISA (lifesaving) campaign. Under the campaign, the health department will identify people who are vulnerable to Covid-19 and come under high-risk group. Besides, OPD vans are providing treatment in Covid-19 affected areas. “To provide healthcare in the difficult times, the state has started mobile OPD through 422 vans equipped with health professionals and medicines. About 50,000 residents of curfew-bound areas and remote places have been served over the last three days. Mobile OPD service was provided to the patients in Ramganj on Tuesday,” Rohit Kumar Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/90-year-old-beats-virus-goes-home-from-sms-hosp/articleshow/75438523.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers from 29 engineering colleges seek governor’s help over salary dues||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of teachers working in 29 engineering colleges have not been paid salaries completely or partially by managements for February and March, forcing them to approach Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who is the chancellor of all the state universities. While some teachers have been partially paid salaries for March, many have not been paid salaries at all for February and March. In a representation submitted to governor, members of Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association said colleges are resorting to delayed payments or salary cuts despite teachers conducting online classes from home. Listing out names of all errant colleges, teachers complained of colleges burdening them with additional responsibilities such as conducting online seminars, video recordings. “ The staff is working more than what they used to previously (offline) in colleges. Despite this, most have not yet received salaries for what they have worked and the threat of sudden removal from service looms large,” read the representation. On the issue AICTE clarified that salary and other dues to faculty/staff members will be released for the duration of lockdown and also terminations, if any, made during lockdown will be withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-from-29-engg-colleges-seek-guvs-help-over-salary-dues/articleshow/75437839.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Goa||Stranded in foreign lands, 9,000 NRIs seek to return to Goa||PANAJI: The NRI commission has received data of 9,000 non-resident Indians who want to return to Goa immediately. As many as 500 requests were received in the past 24 hours alone, director for NRI affairs Anthony D’Souza, said. The data, however, comprises only Indian nationals and does not include Portuguese passport holders with OCI cards. Among the applicants, a large chunk constitutes seafarers in the US and Europe who will not be able make it home using the sea route. They are being considered as land-based NRIs because the central government’s SOP for the sign-off of seafarers will be of no use to those in international waters who will not be brought back by sea. They will, therefore, have to return by air. Another sizeable number are those working in the Gulf. Others include students, people who travelled abroad to answer exams that were subsequently postponed due to the pandemic, and senior citizens. “We are awaiting an announcement from the government for the commencement of relief flights,” D’Souza said. The NRI affairs director also said that the government of India has kept in abeyance the visa-free travel facility granted to OCI cardholders who are not in India. Travel restrictions for OCI cardholders that came into force on March 13 are valid till May 3 and are likely to be extended. There are several Goans with Portuguese passports and OCI cards working in Gulf countries and on ships. Although they have requested the NRI commission for help to return home, it has decided to concentrate on Indian nationals who want to be brought back first. The NRI commission has also begun online registration process for assistance of NRIs of Goan origin during the pandemic. The online form asks for details including present nature of work, WhatsApp number, nationality (Indian or other), email ID, address, and whether they are interested in returning to Goa due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stranded-in-foreign-lands-9k-nris-seek-to-return-to-goa/articleshow/75438535.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Don’t mention caste in judicial, administrative matters: Rajasthan high court||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court administration has ordered that the caste of an accused or people involved in a litigation should not be mentioned in judicial and administrative matters as it was against the Constitution. The standing order issued by the HC’s registrar general on Monday stated that revealing the caste of an accused or other people involved in a litigation violated the high court directions laid down in a case on July 4, 2018. “It has been observed that the caste of accused and other persons is being incorporated by the officers/officials of Registry of this Court and Presiding Officers of Subordinate Courts/Special Courts/Tribunals in judicial and administrative matters, which is against the spirit of Constitution of India and not in consonance with the directions of Honourable Rajasthan High Court issued vide order dated July 4, 2018 in SB Cr Misc Appl No: 376/2018,” the order said. In the order dated July 4, 2018 order, the single bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma stated that there should be no mention of the caste of the accused while hearing a bail application. “While hearing a bail application, Justice Sharma had stated that time has come for the state to strive towards a casteless society,” said Giriraj Sharma, the counsel who had appeared before Justice Sharma then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dont-mention-caste-in-judicialadministrative-matters-raj-hc/articleshow/75438533.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Retd Col, wife defeat Covid, will be discharged today||Lucknow: The 75-year-old retired colonel and his 73-year-old wife fighting with novel coronavirus infection for nearly a month at Central Command’s Base Hospital emerged victorious on Tuesday when their two consecutive test reports came negative. “Both the elderly patients will be discharged on Wednesday,” said defence PRO Gargi Malik. “The ex-serviceman and his family have successfully won many battles in life. Now, they have emerged triumphant from the 48-day crisis which first saw their daughter-in-law down with the infection. After they fell sick, their two-and-a-half-year-old grandson was also affected by Covid-19,” a family friend told TOI. “All have recovered now and back to serving society, with the daughter-in-law donating her plasma which is being used to treat another critical patient,” he added. A 1969 MBBS graduate,the colonel was in the third batch to graduate from Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Aligarh Muslim University. He served Indian Army as a doctor for over 20 years. He also served at many places after superannuation. The family had no inkling that a time for a memorable vacation would turn into an ordeal, when the elderly couple’s son and daughter-in-law, both doctors in Toronto, had arrived with their child in Lucknow on March 2. On March 10, the daughter-in-law was found positive and became Lucknow’s first Covid-19 patient. The family was then tested and found negative, but isolated for two weeks. The woman recovered on March 21 and was trying to overcome her mental trauma, when her mother-in-law was diagnosed with the same disease on March 31 and father-in-law on April 1. On April 6, the child too was found to be infected. “Though the family has recovered, it will remain in self isolation for two more weeks as a precaution and tested regularly for possibility of a relapse,” said a district health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/retd-col-wife-defeat-covid-will-be-discharged-today/articleshow/75438541.cms||Aditi Singh
April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||HC: How many car passes given for Nikhil wedding?||Bengaluru: The high court on Tuesday made it clear that the government must submit its response, including the number of vehicle passes issued for the wedding of former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy’s son Nikhil. A division bench of chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka noted that several emails were received by the high court, both from within and outside Karnataka, on the issue. “Is it a state policy to grant passes for marriages? If so, then everyone would want passes. Is there any policy on giving passes to permit weddings?” the bench asked. Nikhil married Revathi, the grandniece of former Congress minister M Krishnappa on April 17, at a farmhouse near Bidadi, about 45km from Bengaluru. The main allegations were that social-distancing norms were not adhered to and attendees were not wearing masks. Doubts were also expressed about the number of vehicle passes issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-how-many-car-passes-given-for-nikhil-wedding/articleshow/75437854.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Three steal liquor worth Rs 2 lakh from Meerpet shop, booked||HYDERABAD: Three offenders, who stole liquor worth Rs 2 lakh from a wine shop in Meerpet, were booked by Rachakonda police on Tuesday. The accused Devarinti Ravi (21), Narra Sai Kumar (19) and Kanchala Sainath (20) are from Champapet.“A case was registered on April 17. Due to lockdown, owner of Amaravathi Wines shop in Meerpet area discovered the theft only on April 17,” said Meerpet inspector N Yadaiah. The accused allegedly broke the wall of the liquor shop, then removed the bricks to gain access to the wine shop at night. It was found that the trio was also involved in a previous automobile theft case under Meerpet police limit. The offenders were booked under Section 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code. In another incident, an unidentified burglar stole cash and liquor bottles worth Rs 13,000 in Sanathnagar limits on Monday. According to police, the offender gained access by breaking window grills. A case was registered under Section 380 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-steal-liquor-worth-rs-2-lakh-booked/articleshow/75437848.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Delhi||CR Park death: Protocol ignored, say doctors||NEW DELHI: The thought that Chittaranjan Park resident Subrata Das, 65, who died on April 23, had a chance of surviving a cardiac arrest will haunt his family forever. TOI reported the family’s claim that two private hospitals had refused to touch his motionless body. Doctors now say the hospitals hadn’t followed the protocol of trying to resuscitate Das and only on failing to do so declare him brought dead. Delhi Medical Council says hospitals cannot turn away patients for fear of Covid-19 infection and, at the least, should follow the protocols related to resuscitation. “The guidelines are very clear on this. Hospitals cannot refuse a person who has suffered a heart attack or a pregnant woman in labour,” said Dr Arun Kumar Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council. “Even if the patient is lifeless, hospitals have to try and make some effort to resuscitate the person. A hospital with casualty facilities can’t refuse a patient.” Gupta added that in Das’s case, the hospitals should have admitted him, tried to revive him and only then declared him dead. Smaller nursing homes might not have the facilities to diagnose a cardiac arrest and stand the risk of being blamed for admitting a patient despite not having the required amenities, but this was not the case with big hospitals, he pointed out. “If the hospitals suspected corona infection, they could have informed police or carried out a post mortem. In any case, they are supposed to inform them about any patient brought dead to the hospital. If there are some signs of life in the patients, they can never be turned away,” Gupta reiterated. He admitted that there were only two hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment in Delhi and private hospitals only had some beds are earmarked for coronavirus-positive patients. However, the practice of hospitals denying patients admission on suspicions of their being infected was not acceptable, he said. Dr Harish Gupta, former president of the Delhi Medical Association and member of Delhi Medical Council, noted that many private hospitals were equipped to treat Covid-19 patients. But he suggested it was better to go to the nearest government hospital. “In a private setup, doctors in the emergency section might not have personal protective equipment. To treat Covid-19 patients, doctors have to don PPE kits,” he said. “It is best, therefore, to take such a patient to GB Pant, Lok Nayak or Safdarjung hospitals where doctors are fully equipped to treat all cases.” Pankaj Agarwal, general secretary, Delhi RWAs Joint Front, expressed exasperation at the situation. “There is too much confusion and no one knows where to go in a medical emergency,” said Agarwal. He claimed many people, particularly senior citizens, were undergoing problems but avoiding hospitals because of confusion about whether they would be treated. “There has to be a standard procedure, particularly for senior citizens, and all hospitals should accept emergency cases, employing PPE kits if needed,” Agarwal insisted. “Even nursing homes can arrange PPEs now. If cost is an issue, they can add it to the bill. Paying a bigger bill is better than dying.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cr-park-death-protocol-ignored-say-docs/articleshow/75438555.cms||Sidharatha Roy
April 29, 2020||Goa||Online portal for NRIs, seafarers launched||Panaji: The government on Tuesday launched a website for NRIs and seafarers seeking to return to the state. “We have launched an online portal for Goans who are stranded abroad and want to return home. They can provide their details. We have already received 1,000 registrations. This data will help us decide the future course of action once the Union government announces the policy for return of Indians stranded abroad,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. There are around 8,000 Goan seafarers and lakhs of NRIs working aboard. Families of seafarers stranded on ships have been demanding that the government should begin the repatriation process. Recently, the government had appointed a nodal officer to obtain details of seafarers on ships. NRI commissioner Narendra Sawaikar had submitted the details of seafarers to the chief minister. Ministry of home affairs and Directorate General of Shipping have come out with the standard operation procedure (SOP) to sign-in and sign-off those seafarers who are along Indian coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-portal-for-nris-seafarers-launched/articleshow/75438553.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||2.84 lakh Rajasthan migrant workers register to come back home||JAIPUR: Within two days of the state government approving the movement of migrant workers, some 2.84 lakh labourers from Rajasthan stranded in other states registered for their journey back home. Besides, 94,497 workers hailing from other states in Rajasthan too registered to travel back to their respective states. Head of the coordination committee and additional chief secretary Subodh Agarwal said that buses taking Kota students to Assam would bring back migrant workers from Rajasthan stranded in that state. Seventeen buses will leave on Tuesday night or Wednesday morning and bring back about 350 workers to the state. “On priority, we are arranging buses, coordinating with officers of other states and making arrangements for incoming workers at various checkpoints to ensure that they reach their villages safely and quickly,” Agarwal said. He said 3,037 Rajasthani migrant workers at various camps in Gujarat were on their way to the state. Similarly, 480 Gujarati workers from Rajasthan have been sent back to their home state so far. Similarly, 6,195 workers from Madhya Pradesh holed up in Jaisalmer have already been sent home in 130 buses. Arrangements have been made to send another 2,456 workers from the district to MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-84l-raj-migrant-workersregister-to-come-back-home/articleshow/75438549.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Madurai||No new case in south TN, discharges on||Madurai: No fresh case of Covid-19 was reported in the state’s southern districts, which saw more recovered patients than active cases on Tuesday. On Monday, four Covid-19 patients from Madurai and three from Virudhunagar were discharged. Three other Covid-19 patients from Virudhunagar were also discharged from a private hospital in Madurai. At present, the southern region has 405 confirmed Covid-19 cases, 252 discharged patients, 149 active cases and four deaths. Barring Madurai, which has 79 Covid-19 cases, not a single case has been reported since April 23 in both Dindigul and Tirunelveli districts that have the highest number of cases in the southern region with 80 and 63 cases. Most of the patients in both districts have been discharged. Meanwhile, except for one, all the remaining nine southern districts including Madurai, Virudhunagar, Dindigul, Theni, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram, and Kanyakumari, continue to remain red zones. Sivagangai district is in orange zone, with 12 Covid-19 cases of which 11 patients have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-new-case-in-south-tn-discharges-on/articleshow/75438532.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Teen sisters turn messiah for poor and hungry||Bhubaneswar: Crisis doesn’t create character, it reveals it. While most people are afraid to step out on the streets as fears of community transmission of coronavirus rise in the country, 17-year-old Bijaylaxmi Moharana and her 15-year-old sister Bidyalaxmi are feeding poor and famished people in Cuttack’s CDA area on a daily basis. Bijaylaxmi and Bidyalaxmi — the saviour sisters — have been moving from door to door and collecting food from locals to feed the homeless and the needy. Despite coming from a lower-middle class family, the sisters are more than happy to serve in the time of national crisis. The father of the two girls, Bijay Moharana, is a small-time welder. Their family, too, have been hit by the pandemic. “We are moved by the plight of the poor people. Our father is also facing financial difficulty since more than a month now. We have decided to help the people in distress as we all are in this together,” Bijaylaxmi, a Plus-III student, said. “We approached the people of the CDA area and requested them to donate rotis, rice, vegetables and fruits for the poor. Many agreed,” she added. The girls have been collecting food from at least 65 households for the last two weeks. “If we don’t manage to collect enough food, we make rice or rotis at our home before going out to serve. We have created a WhatsApp group comprising the donors and requested them to urge their kin to extend help,” Bidyalaxmi, a Plus-II student, said. At least 400 to 500 poor people are being fed dinner at Dargah Bazaar Chhak in Cuttack on a daily basis. The commissionerate police have been coordinating for the smooth distribution of food. “We appreciate the noble initiative of the two sisters. Our personnel help in maintaining social distancing norms during the distribution,” Cuttack DCP Akhileshvar Singh said. The poor beneficiaries and locals have heaped praises on the two sisters. “We were touched by their generosity. We will continue to support them in this endeavour,” Asheet Padhi, a businessman, said. “I am a rickshaw puller. I have turned bankrupt as the people have stopped moving out of their homes amid the lockdown. I was finding it difficult to feed my family. I have a wife and two sons,” Ganga Behera said. “But these two little girls came to our rescue. They have our blessings and good wishes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/teen-sisters-turn-messiah-for-poor-and-hungry/articleshow/75435505.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad couple wants no religion in son’s certificates||HYDERABAD: A couple from Nacharam approached the Telangana high court, seeking a directive to the authorities to issue birth and school leaving certificates to their son without mentioning about caste and religion. The court sought replies from the state and central governments within four weeks, asking them to respond to the contentions raised in a PIL that questioned insistence of authorities over furnishing the details of caste and religion of the applicants. The PIL was filed by S Swaroopa and David. The petitioners are insisting that governments must formulate a policy to allow at least those willing people to remain casteless and religionless. “When the state itself has no caste and religion, why cannot it allow its people to remain so,” they wondered. The couple said they are facing several hurdles to get a birth certificate for their one-year-old son. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy, while issuing notices to the secretary of Union HRD ministry, the registrar general and census commissioner, Telangana’s municipal administration and school education departments along with the commissioner of Kothakota municipality, asked them to reveal their stand on the plea of the couple. The authorities at Kothakota municipality in Wanaparthy district, the couple contended, had refused to issue the birth certificate of their son without they first furnishing the details of caste and religion in the prescribed format. It was also brought to the notice of the court that there were instances in the past where certain petitioners secured admissions in schools without the need to specify the details. But, they said even those couples are facing problems now as online formats are rejecting applications of those who do not furnish the information pertaining to religion and caste in the relevant columns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-couple-wants-no-religion-in-sons-certs/articleshow/75437857.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘Special’ singer donates pension of 10 months in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW:‘Ruk jana nahin, tu kahin haar ke, kaanton pe chalke milenge saaye bahaar ke...’ This is how 27-year-old differently abled Kumari Shabeena Saifi salutes corona warriors, for whom she has donated her pension of 10 months in the CM’s Covid-19 care fund. Shabeena, who earns her livelihood by singing bhajans and folk songs, gets a monthly pension of Rs 500 from the government under the scheme for the specially abled. “People and the government have been helping me in my life’s journey. I wanted to help them at a time when the country is fighting with Covid-19,” said Shabeena, who lost her vision and legs to polio when she was two years old. “I fought back and I know my country will also fight back to end this pandemic,” says the gritty woman. Shabeena lives in a small rented house in Rajajipuram with her mother. She adds, “My financial condition is not very good but I believe that even small efforts can make a change. I wrote to the CM office because I do not know how to transfer money online. SBI officials visited me to complete the process.” Sabeena has not attended school but her father, a mechanic, made her learn singing. “I earn my livelihood through stage shows and this became possible only because of my father whom I lost last year. I have not donated any money earlier but at this hour, our nation needs the support of every individual,” says Shabeena, who sings lord Krishna’s bhajans daily for the well being of everyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/special-singer-donates-pension-of-10-months/articleshow/75438573.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Health-conscious residents opt for soil-less farming products in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Hydroponic or soil-less farming is the new buzzword in town as major retailers are supplying a limited variety of vegetables and boosting one’s immunity has became the top priority among the residents, who are looking at alternate options to meet their daily needs. This farming technique allows plants to be grown in nutrient-rich water-based solution enabling targeted and controlled environment. “When I first heard about hydroponic farming I was sceptical because I did not know much about it. But when I began trying out the fruits and vegetables being grown through this model, I felt they were fresh and healthy,” said Swetha Rao, who lives in Srinagar Colony. P Niharika, who lives in Ameerpet, said she was sure she wanted to use organic food for her children. “With a pandemic looming over us, I wanted to give my kids the healthiest options possible. Soil-less cultivation means there are no pesticides used. I know for sure what we eat has only nutrition and nothing else,” said the homemaker. Several players have been providing hydroponic-farmed veggies to people. Among them is Simply Fresh, which supplies salad leaves, vegetables, exotic berries, edible flowers and medicinal plants. Its green houses are located in the city. Sachin Darbarwar, founder and CEO, Simply Fresh India, says, “Your immunity is your first line of defence against any disease. With the global Covid-19 pandemic, it very important that we focus on what we eat. Including fresh vegetables and leafy greens in your diet is essential. Produce which is grown hydroponically in a safe and controlled environment is better as it is safe and more nutritious than your regular vegetables available.” To make sure that the customers have confidence in their produce, each package has a QR code. When scanned, this code showcases the whole history of the product, including when the seed was sown, who harvested it, how many days it was in the system, and so on. Similarly, Green Orbit Farms, started by Srini Pavuluru and Lavanya Gurram in Chittoor, now services Bengaluru and Hyderabad as well. Speaking to TOI, Pavuluru says there has been an increase in demand for their produce. “With a wide variety of greens such as celery, pak choy, spinach, bell peppers, people are coming to us for more options than the big retailers can provide,” he said. “Our packs which consist of the basic greens are in high demand,” added Pavuluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-conscious-residents-opt-for-soil-less-farming-products/articleshow/75437869.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Dreaded gangster attempts to end life in central jail||Nagpur: Dhantoli police on Monday registered an offence against dreaded gangster Feroze Khan alias Abu after he allegedly tried to end his life at the Nagpur Central Jail. The untoward incident was avoided after an alert guard spotted Abu and stopped him from taking the drastic step. Abu claimed before the authorities that he was upset as he was wrongly imprisoned. Jail authorities counselled Abu and told him to go through proper channels if he feels that he was wronged. Abu was arrested in 2019 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for allegedly dealing in MD (Mephedrone) drugs. Following the directions of the special NDPS court, the accused was lodged in Nagpur Central Jail since January 16, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dreaded-gangster-attempts-to-end-life-in-central-jail/articleshow/75439133.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||UP driver flees with Rs 71 lakh cash and lorry||HYDERABAD: A driver from Uttar Pradesh stole Rs 71 lakh belonging to his employer and escaped with a truck. A theft case was registered at Patancheru and police took up the investigation. The accused, Habeeb (25), works for Anjaneyulu, a chilli merchant in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh. According to police, Anjaneyulu sent Habeeb to collect money from chilli sale and outstanding dues from others, a total amounting to Rs 71.59 lakh from Solapur in Maharashtra. “Anjaneyulu asked Habeeb to travel to Guntur district with another lorry which was travelling from Solapur to Guntur as the lorry owner is a known person to the complainant,” said DSP, Patancheru, Rajeswara Rao. Habeeb along with the lorry driver was travelling, when the vehicle reportedly broke down. “The driver of the lorry stepped out of the vehicle to push it, when Habeeb escaped with the lorry and the cash, leaving the driver on the road near Toopran,” added the DSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/up-driver-flees-with-rs-71-lakh-cash-lorry/articleshow/75437865.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Police get mobile tablets to check movement of vehicles||KOLHAPUR: With the increase in vehicular traffic owing to relaxation in lockdown rules, Kolhapur police have increased vigilance at all the 32 entry points of the district. As part of this increased surveillance, policemen guarding these check points have been given mobile tablets to note down the details of the vehicles entering and leaving Kolhapur. Superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said, "As many as 4,000 vehicles ,including those carrying essential and other commodities, enter and leave Kolhapur district every day. The data collected will help us to get the details about people entering the district and if anyone is found positive for Covid-19, we could easily trace them along with their high-risk contacts." He added, "We have also instructed the police at check points to increase the surveillance and be alert. They have been asked to keep a check on the arterial roads that may be used by the people to enter the district during night." Police seize 230 two-wheelers Meanwhile, police continued their action against those flouting the lockdown and seized as many as 230 two-wheelers on Tuesday. Police also collected a fine of Rs 61,400 from the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-get-mobile-tablets-to-check-movement-of-vehicles/articleshow/75436789.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||ICMR research in Rajasthan to gauge spread of Covid-19||JAIPUR: In an effort to find out if coronavirus has spread in the community, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a seroprevalence study across the state. As part of the study, samples will be taken from all the districts of the state randomly and they will be tested for Covid-19. The samples will be taken from the patients coming to out-patient departments of hospitals and also from the general population. “All districts of the state will be covered in the ICMR study. We are cooperating with ICMR in this study as it would help determine the prevalence of Covid-19 in the entire state. It’s a great surveillance tool and would help us prepare for any future eventuality,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). As of now, the health department is taking samples from affected areas only, where the cases have been reported. They are taking samples of people who are in contact with the infected people currently, but in the ICMR study, they will test the general population for Covid-19. “From the districts which have not reported any case, they will collect 250 samples from outpatient department of hospitals and 250 from general population. In districts which have reported cases, 60 samples will be taken from outpatient department of hospitals and 60 from the general population. The study will determine if the coronavirus has spread to the community,” said a health department official, claiming that their future strategy for containing the spread of the virus will depend on the ICMR study. The health department has denied that the virus has spread in the community till now. The health department was relying on rapid testing for assessing the spread of coronavirus in the community, but the rapid test failed miserably in the state as the rapid test kits sent to the health department through ICMR gave ‘inaccurate’ results. Now, the ICMR study will clarify the situation about community spread of Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/icmr-research-in-state-to-gauge-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/75438580.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Citizens stick to social distancing norm while filling water||KOLHAPUR: The civic administration deployed water tankers to over 30 locations in A, C and D wards, which were facing water cuts on Tuesday. The tankers were summoned by the local corporators from Belbaug, Mirajkar Tickti, Sane Guruji Vasahat and Shivaji Peth. The corporators even had managed private tankers which were filled from the local borewells. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) filled the tankers from Kalamba and Kasba Bawda filtration plants. To ensure that citizens observed social distancing, the tankers halted in front of a few houses. Two workers assisted each tanker to ensure residents maintained a safe distance from each other. People were asked to wear masks before coming out to fill their containers. Anil Gujar, a senior official from the water supply department, said that there was less demand for tankers than what they had expected. “There was no rush. There was less demand for water even from the residential societies. We targeted the slum areas in these wards. The tankers supplied water to these areas twice. We continued supplying water through tankers to the suburbs even in the evening. There will be supply at low pressure on Wednesday morning and we will deploy the water tankers.” The engineers and the staff of the hydraulics department said that it took them six hours to complete repairing the valve of the rising main pipeline of the Balinga pumping station. After testing for an hour, the water supply was resumed to the affected areas on Tuesday evening. The KMC is now prioritising on filling the elevated storage tanks. “The water from these elevated storage tanks will be released as per schedule from Wednesday morning,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-stick-to-social-distancing-norm-while-filling-water/articleshow/75436808.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Nurse’s mother tests positive, 5th in family||Lucknow: The 65-year-old mother of the coronavirus-infected KGMU nurse also tested positive on Tuesday for novel coronavirus infection, taking Lucknow’s tally to 210. Katra Azam Beg locality of Nakhas, where the nurse lives, was also declared a hotspot. Five family members of the 36-year-old nurse working at the Critical Care Unit (CCU) of KGMU’s trauma centre have been tested positive so far. Spokesperson at the CMO office Yogesh Raghuvanshi said, “The nurse’s mother has been sent to RSM Hospital in Bakshi-ka-Talab where other family members are also undergoing treatment.” New admissions were allowed from Tuesday after sanitization of the facility. Meanwhile, a doctor in the department of anaesthesia at KGMU was quarantined after it came to light that she was in contact with a patient later diagnosed with Covid-19. So far, four health professionals have been infected in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nurses-mother-tests-positive-5th-in-family/articleshow/75438585.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Plans to study abroad stuck, students mull local options||HYDERABAD: Uncertain when the coronavirus-enforced health emergency will ease, several students in the twin Telugu states, who wanted to head abroad to pursue higher education, are now looking for local options. Those who are still hopeful to make it, say they may have to delay admissions till early next year. P Ramya, who completed Intermediate in the city, and planned to head to the US, said, “I don’t think I will be able to go abroad for my undergrad. I had been planning for two years, but this pandemic has changed everything.” The 19-year-old said, unlike those who want to pursue their masters, she cannot drop a year. “I am looking at a couple of options in the city, including University of Hyderabad and private universities,” she said, adding that she hoped to pursue a course in economics. Kalaidar Shabber Mohammed, who completed mechanical engineering from SRM University, Chennai, has already received offer letters from universities of Warwick and Newscastle upon Tyne in the UK for masters in international business. “While my first priority is to go abroad, the universities are expecting a payment by June 1. But what guarantee do we have that the pandemic will end before fall?” he said, describing his position as a catch-22 situation. The Anantapur-based student said he has begun putting in two hours a day to attempt CAT later this year. Abdul Qader, who applied for a course in supply chain management and logistics across UK universities, also expressed doubts about heading abroad this year, but remained hopeful that the situation would improve by next year. “It is an uncertain time for all of us, but I don’t mind waiting because quality of education abroad is far superior,” said the B Com graduate. Echoing the sentiment in the education sector, consultants in the city said they were getting few enquiries for fall intake. “While we used to get about 5,000 applications by this time every year, this year it has dropped by about 50%. Looking at the situation abroad, we have now closed taking applications for the fall term,” said Ganesh Valmiki, MD, Valmiki Foreign Education Services. He, however, said they were advising students to enrol for online courses to gain credits simultaneously. Sanjeev Rai, founder, Hyderabad Overseas Consultants, said his group had seen an 80% drop in applicants. “Australia has prohibited foreigners from entering till September 30. US would be open but many would avoid fall intake. Our students are largely taking the wait and watch approach .” Rai highlighted another hurdle for students. saying that with most consulates closed, getting student visas has also hit a roadblock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plans-to-study-abroad-stuck-students-mull-local-options/articleshow/75437874.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||In a first for Mumbai, BMC will try out cluster containment||MUMBAI: The BMC, in a first for the city, is embarking on a cluster containment strategy to meet the Covid-19 challenge. As the number of coronavirus patients has continued to increase in parts of Kurla, Chunabhatti and Saki Naka, all of which fall under the L ward, civic officials say they will seal large areas around containment zones in such parts of the ward to arrest cluster spread of the virus. People living in such sealed clusters will not be allowed to leave and entry to outsiders will be prohibited till everyone in the cluster is tested for Covid-19. Till early evening on Tuesday, the total number of Covid-19 patients reported from the ward was 391, including 30 deaths. The BMC has taken the decision going by the fact that 80% of coronavirus patients in the ward are being traced from slum pockets, where viral spread is proving to be quick “and beyond a point, unmanageable”. Sample this: Till April 15, L ward had 92 cases, which increased to 240 on April 21, and two days later, on April 23, to 312. The BMC says there have been instances of cases being reported in the vicinity of containment zones, necessitating cluster sealing. Ward officer Manish Walunju said, “The rapid increase in cases has prompted us to mark out large clusters geographically. Until everyone is screened, no one will be allowed to leave a cluster.” He added that testing has started from the Ashok Nagar cluster (Saki Naka), which has a population of 5,000. “The same pattern will be followed for three other selected clusters: Kaju Pada in Saki Naka, Sandesh Nagar in Kurla and Qureshi Nagar in Chunabhatti. Those suspected of Covid-19 will be shifted to quarantine centres,” Walunju said. RTI activist Anil Galgali, who lives in L ward, said most areas in the ward are congested, with 10-12 people living in small single rooms. “These people are simply unable to maintain social distancing. While from the road it may appear that a slum has been sealed, within it, the scene is different. Some areas in a slum are so deep within a congested zone that it becomes difficult for BMC staff to even reach them. One cannot even blame the administration in such cases,” he said. NCP corporator Dr Saeeda Khan from Kurla said that the spike in the number of cases in L ward was only owing to increased screening. “Locals are being screened in large numbers to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Therefore, cases could be traced in areas like Kapadia Nagar, the Hari Masjid slum pockets or even parts of Gulab Shah estate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-a-first-for-city-bmc-will-try-out-cluster-containment/articleshow/75438587.cms||Richa Pinto
April 29, 2020||Mangaluru||First Neuro Hospital samples test negative, giving hope||Mangaluru: Frayed nerves of the district health authorities have been soothed to a large extent with a majority of throat swab samples from those associated with First Neuro Hospital testing negative. Declared a supervised isolation centre, the hospital at Padil has been under the scanner after five people,including a woman and her daughter-in-law, a woman and her son, and a helper in the hospital, contracted Covid-19. The woman and her daughter-in-law, died due to the disease. District health and family welfare officer Ramachandra Bairy said that out of the 198 throat swab samples of those connected to the hospital, either as primary or secondary contacts, 193 have tested negative. The fact that barring the five cases, the others tested negative, is indicative that the outbreak has been limited to this one cluster at the hospital, and has not turned into a case of community outbreak, that one feared it could turn out to be, he said. This feeling of positivity will be further strengthened if the samples of these 198, and a handful of other primary contacts, test negative on the 12th day, Dr Bairy said. In all, 79 patients have been discharged or shifted from the hospital since April 1, he said, adding that this information has been given to the respective taluk and district authorities. Their swab samples will be tested at their current location, and action will be taken as per their reports, he said. At present, the hospital has 19 patients, 22 attendants, and 68 hospital staff, including himself, Dr Rajesh Shetty, medical director, First Neuro Hospital said.  About 50 patients were shifted to other quarantine facilities, to reduce the load on the hospital, he said. “The fact that a majority of reports have come out negative, has bolstered our hope,’’ Dr Shetty said. His consultant neurologist colleague, Dr Skanda Murthy released a video, explaining the sequence of events of what transpired since March 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/first-neuro-hospital-samples-test-negative-giving-hope/articleshow/75435529.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Flight operations from Jaipur will take wings slowly||JAIPUR: Even after the lockdown is lifted, various flight operators are not keen on full-swing operations. While some airlines have started ticket bookings from June 1 onwards, majority of the operators are preferring not more than one flight from Jaipur to various destinations until 90 days after lockdown. If the authorities of the Jaipur airport are to be believed, whenever the flight operations resume, merely 25% of the total flights would operate to start with. To ensure social distancing and less crowding, flight operations have to be curtailed, they said. “It is yet to be seen if the operators would be in a position to operate 60 to 80 flights from the Jaipur airport. There are various SOPs to be followed even after lifting of the lockdown. We are preparing ourselves for that too,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport. Some of the operators including IndiGo and SpiceJet have started ticket bookings from June 1. “There is a possibility of reduction in the number flights and their frequency. We were operating 23 flights from Jaipur to various destinations but we will start with six flights for now,” said an operator requesting anonymity. Various operators are hoping for just one flight each for major cities including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune. “Also the response of the passengers is yet to be seen. It is expected that even passengers will be reluctant to travel except for the cases where there is a professional or personal emergency,” said an officer. However, the travel agents in Jaipur are hopeful that with some restrictions the flight operations may resume from June 1. “The bookings have been started as many people are stuck in different parts of the country. Hopefully, the operations would resume by June 1,” a Jaipur-based travel agent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flight-ops-from-jaipur-will-take-wings-slowly/articleshow/75438562.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Two died after consuming poisonous liquid||KOLHAPUR: Two men from the Jinti village, in Phaltan taluka of Satara district, died after allegedly consuming a poisonous liquid on Monday. Both had been advised home-quarantine after their return from Pune district last week. The deceased have been identified as Kiran Suresh Sawant (30) and Dipak Raghu Jadhav (32). According to a statement issued by the relatives of one of the deceased, on Sunday evening, the duo had consumed a white liquid — that looked like sanitiser — and had started feeling uneasy. They were admitted to the government hospital in Phaltan, where they later died. An incident of accidental death has been registered with the Phaltan rural police station. Nitin Sawant, police inspector in-charge of Phaltan rural police station, said: “The men were agricultural workers. They had been advised to quarantine themselves at home after their return from Pune district — where they were working — four days ago. On Sunday evening, the duo went to a nearby stream and consumed some liquid they had carried with them with a bottle. After consuming the liquid, they started feeling uneasy. Dipak’s brother reached the spot after they called him on his phone and he took them to the government hospital. The duo died early on Monday morning.” “We have reserved the viscera and will be sending it to the forensic laboratory in Pune. The lab report will throw light on the exact cause of the death and the type of chemicals the men had consumed.” “We have initiated an investigation in the case and are gathering information. According to their family members and friends, they were habitual drinkers and had a craving for liquor. We are gathering information to find out if there was any other reason, like personal rivalry, that might have led to their death,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-died-after-consuming-poisonous-liquid/articleshow/75436800.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Give test report in 24 hours, NMC tells pvt labs||Nagpur: After a case in which body of a deceased was not released for five days due to late receipt of report, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has warned of action against private laboratories if they fail to give reports of Covid-19 tests within 24 hours. No such stipulation exists for government labs though. Collector Ravindra Thakare has also halted permission to a private laboratory for collecting swab samples here and sending them to Mumbai for testing. NMC chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai held a meeting with representatives of four private laboratories on Monday and Tuesday. “Private laboratories are supposed to give reports within 24 hours. Collector office has mentioned this condition in permission given to a private laboratory. Private labs in city are not having authorization for testing here. Four of them are collecting samples and sending them to their centres in Mumbai that have the authorization. The samples are being sent through road or railways. It is not possible for them to give reports in 24 hours. We made it clear to private laboratories that action will be taken in case reports were not given in 24 hours. We requested them not to collect samples as reporting in 24 hours seems very difficult,” he said. Savai added, “One private laboratory (Clinicare Specialty Laboratory) is having permission from collector office for collection of samples here and sending it for testing to Mumbai. Three more private laboratories are doing the same citing authorization for their Mumbai-based laboratories,” he said. TOI on April 28 had highlighted a family from Bhaldarpura got possession of body of deceased from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on fifth day. Swab samples of deceased were collected by a private laboratory when he was alive on April 23. GMCH refused to hand over body to the deceased as report was awaited. It came on evening of April 26. The family got body on April 27. In this case, the NMC had issued show-cause notice to the laboratory and hospital. Savai said, “Delay of reports cause problem in case patient dies. It will be very difficult in case of antenatal care (ANC) cases that require caesarean within a few hours. There are some more such patients who require reports urgently,” he said. City has five government laboratories — AIIMS, GMCH, IGGMCH, Mafsu and Neeri. Samples from all over Vidarbha are tested here. Reports of deceased are delivered within 24 hours. In city, NMC’s team will collect samples from private hospitals and send them to government laboratories for testing. One of four private laboratories has reportedly stopped collection of samples after directives of NMC citing it was not possible to get reports in 24 hours. Dr Rajkumar Rathi from Clinicare Speciality Laboratory told TOI, “We received letter from collector office asking to stop collection on temporary basis. We will discuss the matter with collector tomorrow and take further decision. We are able to deliver reports within 24 hours,” he said. In case of a cancer patient who tested positive a couple of days ago, reports came in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/give-test-report-in-24-hours-nmc-tells-pvt-labs/articleshow/75437872.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 29, 2020||Business||7.4 lakh pull out additional Rs 2,400 crore from EPF in 1 month||NEW DELHI: Around 7.4 lakh EPFO (Employees Provident Fund Organisation) subscribers have tapped their provident fund accounts to withdraw close to Rs 2,368 crore in the last one month, using a special window created due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Under the special facility, a non-refundable withdrawal of three months’ salary or up to 75% of the balance in a subscriber’s account (whichever is less) has been provided. In all, EPFO has settled 12.9 lakh claims (including those related to the special scheme) with the amount adding up to Rs 4,685 crore, it said in a statement. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesSo, more than half the value of claims settled was on account of the special facility, while the number of such claims was nearly 57% of the overall settlement. Although the average withdrawal works out to Rs 32,000, it shows the level of liquidity crunch that people are facing, prompting them to dip into their lifetime savings. White-collar workers used EPF window tooThe EPFO said exempted trusts such as those run by TCS, HCL Technologies, HDFC Bank, ONGC, Neyveli Lignite and BHEL too have seen withdrawals, indicating that even white-collar workers have used the facility to tide over liquidity crunch. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAs on April 27, Rs 875.5 crore have been disbursed to 79,743 PF members as advance for Covid-19 by the exempted trusts under this scheme. Of this 22 private sector companies accounted for nearly 55,000 claims from their employees, EPFO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/7-4-lakh-pull-out-additional-rs-2400cr-from-epf-in-1-month/articleshow/75439934.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Dentists in Hyderabad among most vulnerable to virus||HYDERABAD: The coronavirus pandemic, which has adversely affected several sectors across the world, has proven to be a blow to the dental profession as well. Dentists in the city are a worried lot as it not only makes them vulnerable but, post lockdown, they will also need to upgrade their clinics/hospitals, thereby escalating the cost of consultation. Dr Parth Satwalekar feels the virus has thrown dentistry a bit of a googly. “Dentists are one of the most vulnerable people as we work directly in the mouth. The mouth naturally teems with microorganisms and so we are trained in infection control and take due precautions, but the transmissibility of Covid-19 is unprecedented. The cost of procedures is in for an increase, which, coupled with reduced spending power and apprehension of the population makes for a bleak future. We will all have to adapt to the new normal, challenging times lie ahead,” Dr Satwalekar, who is a former First Class cricketer and presently a member of the HCA’s Apex Council, told TOI. “Today there is a big dilemma for dentists where to start. The average dentist is confused with what to do after the lockdown is lifted. He just cannot continue the practice where he had left on March 22. Any patient sitting in the dental chair can be an unknown carrier and there are high chances that infection can spread to doctors, staff, other patients or front office staff etc,” said Dr G Chandra Sekhar, professor and head, Panineeya Dental College & Hospital. "This will put lot of pressure and viable issues to the profession especially to the newly established practices. The professionals and supporting staff need additional training and learning for successfully running a safe dental profession,” said Dr K Mahendranadh Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dentists-among-most-vulnerable-to-virus/articleshow/75437898.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||MHRD minister lauds Telangana for digital education||HYDERABAD: During a review meeting on status of exams in states, Ramesh Pokhriyal, union HRD minister lauded Telangana for making huge strides in providing digital content to students. All textbooks from class 1 to 10 are QR-coded. Classes are telecast for 5 hours daily on TSAT channel, YouTube and DEEKSHA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mhrd-minister-lauds-t-for-digital-edu/articleshow/75437883.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Jaipur||Four arrested for poaching chinkara in Jaisalmer||Jaipur/Jaisalmer: Poaching of state animal chinkara (Indian gazelle) is continuing unabated as in past four days, five animals have been poached in various districts.The forest department on Monday recovered remains of chinkara, two knives, weighing scale and arrested four poachers. All the accused were produced before the judicial magistrate which sent them to judicial custody till May 11.“On Monday evening, one Mukesh Vishnoi informed the forest department that chinkara were poached near Luharon ki Basti on Ramgarh-Raghava route and poachers were about to cook its meat. A forest team reached the spot and raided the house of Babu Ram where four poachers were packing chinkara meat in packets,” regional forest officer Om Prakash Vishnoi said.The team recovered head, skin, horns and other remains along with knives and weighing scale.Babu Ram Lohar, Ajeetaram Gawaria, Sanwara Ram Bheel and Hameera Ram Bheel, residents of Ramgarh, were arrested and produced before the chief judicial magistrate.Post-mortem of the chinkara was conducted on Tuesday.Expressing concern over the rise in cases of chinkara poaching in the area, wildlife expert Radheyshyam Pemani, said, “Poachers are mindlessly killing the state animal. These poachers are active for quite a long time as the department is not taking any concrete action. Recently, in Ramdeora area some animals were poached”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-arrested-for-poaching-chinkara-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/75438588.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||Constables over 50 can go on leave: Maharashtra DGP||MUMBAI: DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal has prepared a plan to keep police constables in the age group of 50 to 58 safe from Covid-19. The move comes after the death of three constables from the city police force. All constables aged 55 or more, whether they have or do not have chronic ailments, may proceed on leave. If they are willing to report to duty, they will be assigned office work. All constables aged 50 to 55 who have a chronic ailments, such as high BP or diabetes, may also proceed on leave. If they are willing to work, they will be given office duty. While there are two lakh constables in all, 12,000 are in the age group of 55 to 58, and 25,000 in the age group of 50 to 55. Jaiswal said that after a large number of police personnel tested positive, the DGP’s office circulated a note on how to prevent Covid-19 at home and on duty, measures to be adopted if a person tests positive, the prognosis, and counselling services. “The death of three constables owing to Covid-19 is indeed unfortunate. The entire police force is with the families of the deceased police personnel,” he said. In the city, the police department issued an advisory to personnel on personal hygiene, protective gear and social distancing. All personnel were asked to get a check-up done if fever or breathing trouble is experienced. They were also told about best practices while on duty. Thane police chief Vivek Phansalkar, Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar, Nagpur top cop B K Upadhyaya and Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said their men and women in uniform had been instructed on the safety protocols. Phansalkar said constables with diabetes and hypertension had been given office duty to avoid coming in contact with people. “I am personally monitoring the condition of a few police personnel who have tested positive for Covid-19. We have deployed a team of officials to counsel such police personnel,” he said. He said adequate number of masks, sanitisers and hand gloves were with most of the personnel. “We have given special training to police personnel on nakabandi duty, arrest of accused and taking them to courts,” he said. Kumar said that of the 4,500 constables in Navi Mumbai, 2,600 had been screened. “We have sought services of private doctors for the purpose. We have made special arrangement for providing cooked food for bachelor constables, while dry ration has been given to most of the constables,” he said. Venkatesham said more than 9,000 policemen were enforcing the lockdown in Pune. “We are ensuring complete safety of police personnel. We have given adequate number of PPE, masks, sanitisers, hand gloves, thermal guns. In addition, [we have] foot massage machines for policemen on duty and delivery of grocery items at home,” he said. Upadhyaya said he ensures that each and every policeman gets adequate rest and proper food. “If there is even a slight doubt, then the police personnel is thoroughly examined by doctors, who too are available round the clock,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/constables-over-50-can-go-on-leave-dgp/articleshow/75438604.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Nanded gurdwara on alert as 8 pilgrims test Covid-19 positive after returning to Punjab||Aurangabad: The Hazur Sahib Gurdwara in Maharashtra’s Nanded district is on alert after some pilgrims, who went back to Punjab, tested positive for coronavirus, a gurdwara official said on Tuesday. The shrine administration is sanitising the premises at regular intervals and following the social distancing guidelines, he added. Eight of the Sikh pilgrims, who had recently returned from Nanded to Punjab, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Five of the pilgrims belong to Tarn Taran while three are from Kapurthala in Punjab. “We are taking all emasures. Spraying of disinfectants and sanitisation of every corner of the premises is being done at regular intervals. Social distancing is being maintained. We also have our own quarantine facility here,” gurdwara superintendent Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa said. Any staff member who goes out of the city is quarantined at the facility available here. After completion of the quarantine period, the person is asked go to the civil hospital and get a check-up done before resuming duty, he said. Three persons are already quarantined at the facility, he added. Nearly 4,000 pilgrims from Punjab, who came to pay obeisance at the Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded, got stuck because of the coronavirus lockdown. Now, they are being sent to Punjab. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nanded-gurdwara-on-alert-as-8-pilgrims-test-covid-19-positive-after-returning-to-punjab/articleshow/75435551.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl woman, her ATM-born baby brought home||Yavatmal: Nirmala Kale, the 25-year-old woman who delivered a baby in an ATM kiosk while attempting to travel on foot from Pune to Yavatmal, reached her parents’ home in Wagad village of Mahagaon tehsil in Yavatmal on Monday evening along with the infant girl, her husband and three-year-old daughter. Nirmala was a part of the daily wagers’ group comprising 13 members from Parasodi and Pimpalner villages in Arni tehsil. They had gone to Pune in search of work and landed a job in Wagholi area at a construction site. After the lockdown, the daily wagers were rendered jobless and decided to return to their native place. With no transport available, the labourers along with 9-month pregnant Nirmala, her husband Sandeep and daughter started their journey on foot on April 13. After walking over 190km, the group reached Wadala Bahiroba village of Nevasa tehsil in Ahmednagar on April 19 night where Nirmala developed labour pain and she was shifted to an ATM kiosk where she gave birth to a girl. The matter was brought to the notice of local medical practitioner Dr Avinash Kale who along with tehsildar shifted the woman and child to Government Rural Hospital. After learning about the incident, some social workers in Yavatmal requested resident district collector Lalitkumar Warhade who granted transit pass to bring the woman and her family home in an ambulance. Accordingly, the family was brought to Yavatmal on Sunday and admitted to the GMCH. After due medical examination, the family was sent to Wagad village in an ambulance on Monday. While talking to TOI before leaving Yavatmal, both Sandeep and Nirmala thanked all those who extended help when they were in need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-woman-her-atm-born-baby-brought-home/articleshow/75437892.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Patient getting plasma therapy stable but still on ventilator||Lucknow: The 58-year-old government doctor from Orai, a Covid-19 patient who has been transfused with two doses of 200ml plasma each, continued to remain stability on Tuesday. However, he is still on ventilator support. In charge of infectious diseases unit at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) Dr D Himanshu said, “As of now, the patient is considered to be critical even though his heart rate, urine function and oxygen requirement is better. He is being provided symptomatic medication.” “As per the protocol of plasma therapy, the patient has been transfused with two 200ml doses at a difference of 24 hours. He will not be given more doses,” he added. The patient was admitted to KGMU on Friday and had to be put on ventilator even before plasma transfusion could be done on Sunday. The second dose of plasma was administered to him on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patient-getting-plasma-therapy-stable-but-still-on-ventilator/articleshow/75438617.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Plumbers, electricians get nod to open shop||NEW DELHI: A day after allowing standalone shops in residential areas to operate, Delhi government further relaxed the lockdown restrictions by giving permission to self-employed service providers such as electricians, plumbers and water purifier mechanics to operate from Tuesday. The decision was taken following a report of Delhi government’s empowered group on facilitating supply chain and logistics management, which said their services were sometimes “as essential as the supply of essential goods” and had become more important after the extension of the lockdown. “The general public requires the services of electricians, plumbers, drain cleaners, etc, which are sometimes as essential as the supply of daily need items,” read the report. The order to allow self-employed service providers to resume work was issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, in capacity of the chairperson of state executive committee of Delhi government. However, the government has kept the containment zones, sealed by the district administration after emerging as cluster hotspots of Covid-19 cases, out of the latest relaxations. There was, however, no clarity if the service providers will be required to get e-passes issued from the respective district offices. While a section of officials said that electricians, plumbers and their likes generally work in their local areas and won’t need e-pass to move around, some field officials said giving them relaxation without a valid identity card or an e-pass will be difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plumbers-electricians-get-nod-to-open-shop/articleshow/75438608.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Light rains in parts of Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Following the IMD thunderstorm warning, several parts of the city received light to moderate rain on Tuesday afternoon. HYDERABAD:Kapra received the highest rainfall (7 mm) followed by Nacharam (6.5 mm). The Met department has issued a thunderstorm warning for April 29-30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/light-rains-in-parts-of-hyderabad/articleshow/75437900.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Jewellery makers see silver lining post Covid-19||Coimbatore: Though they are out of business right now, gold jewellery manufacturers and goldsmiths in the district expect the post-Covid-19 phase to be a very positive one. As investments in equity have come down amid the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, investment trend will shift towards gold, they said. The sector will see an upward trend once the crisis passes and businesses and logistics resume normalcy. According to projections, six months from now, the price of gold might touch 64,000 per sovereign. On Monday, gold prices stood at 4,500 per gram, around 36,000 per sovereign. As per analyses of investment firms such as Bank of America Securities, an ounce of gold will be worth $3,000 next year. By then, the price of one gram gold in India will touch 8,000, said president of the Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers Association B Muthu Venkatraman. “Investment in equity has gone down. For another six months to one year, we can’t expect investment in shares to go up. Industry is also facing a crisis. The only sector that is holding up is agriculture. Considering all these, we can say investors will turn towards gold, boosting its prices,” he told TOI. President of the Coimbatore Goldsmiths’ Association S M Kamal Hasan agreed. “Investors will obviously turn towards gold. Those who have already invested in it or invest in it now stand to gain. In the coming months, we expect the gold price to rise by 30%.” As many as 85,000 people involved in gold jewellery value chain in the district are holding on to this hope. The district had 5,000 gold jewellery manufacturers, who cater to jewellery outlets. The manufacturers outsource gold jobwork to 40,000 smaller goldsmithies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/jewellery-makers-see-silver-lining-post-covid-19/articleshow/75437907.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Fearing extended lockdown, people scramble for travel passes||BENGALURU: Anticipating a second extension of the lockdown, Bengalureans on Tuesday lined up before centres issuing travel passes. Most want to visit their hometowns and villages for various reasons. Sathvik, who was at the DCP west office to get a pass for travel to Sirsi, was worried about his ailing father. “If the lockdown ends on May 3, it’s not a problem. But since there is talk of an extension, I don’t want to take a chance and leave my father alone back home,” he said. Police said they’re getting at least 1,000 applications for passes every day. “The reasons provided are bizarre in some cases. While some cite marriage, some want to be with friends who are spending the lockdown period alone,” said a police officer. “People are being given passes for deliveries and funerals. For funerals, the pass is valid for three family members of the deceased,” added the officer. People wanting to travel to Tamil Nadu are facing a tough time as police there have put in place stringent restrictions. A couple wanting to visit Chennai for a relative’s funeral was asked to show a photo of the deceased to prove the request was genuine. Jurisdictional DCPs are issuing passes for travel within Karnataka. Half a dozen pregnant women in their last trimester who want to visit their hometowns for delivery were seen waiting for hours in front of the ADGP (communications, logistics and modernisation) office on MG Road to avail interstate travel passes. Some said though they’ve come in person, police insist on medical certificates to ascertain their pregnancy status. Jyothi, a resident of Byappanahalli, was seen clutching her medical documents and a letter from a doctor certifying she’s fit to travel. Keen on going to her hometown Hyderabad, she wants the pass before May 4 when she would be entering the eighth month of pregnancy, during which travel is discouraged. “...I enter the eighth month in a week, just around the time when the lockdown is due to get over. I think the lockdown will be lifted and I’m afraid of staying back here for delivery as I have little help for infant care,” explained Jyothi. Anitha, who’s in her final month of pregnancy, said: “It is too risky for me to wait here, but I don’t want to stay alone at home. I tagged along with my husband in case they wanted proof,” she said. Anitha wants to go to Tirupati for delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fearing-extended-lockdown-people-scramble-for-travel-passes/articleshow/75437691.cms||Kiran Parashar
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik RTO misses revenue of Rs 22 crore following Covid-19 lockdown||Nashik: In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) has missed a revenue of approximately Rs 22 crore in the 2019-20 fiscal year. Senior officials of Nashik RTO said that a major chunk of the revenue comes from registration fees of new vehicles every month. Since all the auto-mobile showrooms are closed for more than a month now, new vehicles are not getting registered with them. The officials said that the annual revenue is to the tune of approximately Rs 300 crore every year. Thus, due to the lockdown for more than a month, they have missed revenue of approximately Rs 22 crore. “We would not say it as a loss. People who had to buy vehicles have just not been able to do so due to the lockdown. Nonetheless, when the lockdown is relaxed and auto-mobile shops reopen, people would buy vehicles and new vehicles will be registered with the RTO,” said a senior RTO officer. The RTO also generates revenue from the sale of VIP numbers and fines on motorists for violating rules like no driving license, transport permits, etc. The work of renewing fitness certificates of transport vehicles too has been stopped till June 30. Currently, only the issuing of permits for transport vehicles carrying essential goods is underway. Officials said that though goods transportation is allowed all through the country, the transporters are still taking permits from them to avoid any trouble at the check posts in various parts of the state and country. Further, driving licenses and tests related to it would also be carried out only after the lockdown is over. The RTO officials said that the concerned applicants should be checking the website for further updates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rto-misses-revenue-of-rs-22-crore-following-covid-19-lockdown/articleshow/75435561.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Petrol bunk sealed after patient’s visit||Udupi: Panic struck the people of Udupi after reports that a coronavirus-infected man used the bathroom of a petrol filling station at Tekkatte in Kundapur taluk. A Mandya-based businessman took the Udupi route to travel from Mumbai to his village in Mandya. He travelled in a dates-laden truck and took a break in the petrol bunk. After he revealed this to Mandya district officials on Monday, the latter alerted their counterparts in Udupi that the man had used the bathroom of a petrol bunk. Teams led by taluk health officer Dr Nagabhushan and Kota police sub-inspector Nityananda Gowda visited all petrol bunks on the route and verified the CCTV footages there. After zeroing on the petrol bunk, they sealed it on Tuesday. Udupi district health and family welfare officer Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda said seven employees of Sasthan tollgate, 11 employees of the petrol bunk and crew of other trucks present at the outlet that time were inspected and quarantined at SDM Ayurvedic Hospital here. She said the businessman had crossed Shiroor tollgate at 4.55pm on April 21 and Tekkatte petrol bunk at 6.46pm. However, his truck returned to the petrol bunk at 9.45pm, after which took bath, had dinner and slept in the truck which was parked on the premises. He resumed the journey at 3am on April 22, and crossed Sastana tollgate at 3.38am, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/petrol-bunk-sealed-after-patients-visit/articleshow/75435564.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Online portal founder walks out of prison||Coimbatore: A judicial magistrate court in the district granted conditional bail to the founder of online news portal SimpliCity on Tuesday. D Andrew Sam Rajapandian, 39, was arrested on Thursday on a complaint filed by an official of the corporation. The portal had carried a story about a protest by resident doctors accusing the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) authorities of not providing adequate food and alleging corruption in supply of rice at fair price shops. Pandian was arrested and lodged at the Avinashi sub jail on Friday after being booked under two sections of IPC besides the Epidemic Diseases Act. DMK leader M K Stalin, AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran and actor-MNM leader Kamal Haasan, besides a host of politicians and rights associations, had condemned Sam’s arrest. On behalf of the portal founder, advocate M Balachander, MV Vijayaraghavan and EM Shajith filed a bail petition before the judicial magistrate court-I through email. The petition came up for hearing through video conferencing on Tuesday. Police said the investigation was in the initial stage and Sam “had published fake news with malafide intention to create fear in the minds of the public.” The defense counsel submitted that Sam was innocent and was doing his job as a journalist, and had never published a false news or propaganda stories against the state. Judicial magistrate A Prabhu granted bail to Sam and the court directed him to execute a bond for Rs 10,000 with two sureties. He has been ordered to visit RS Puram police station at 10am and sign in the register till June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/online-portal-founder-walks-out-of-prison/articleshow/75437921.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Cops issue over 11k passes for emergency travel in city||Nashik: The special Covid-19 assistance cell — set up at the commissionerate level on March 24 to help the citizens who are in need of emergency travel during the lockdown owing to the coronavirus pandemic — has so far issued over 11,000 travel passes. A senior officer from the crime branch said people are making use of the facility for emergency travel within the city as the police are not allowing motorists to ply on road unless it is an emergency. Taking into account that people would need to move out for medical or some other emergencies, police had issued 11 Whatsapp numbers at the police station and commissionerate levels. People just need to send a message along with their name, phone number, purpose of travel, number of people travelling, vehicle number, time and date of travel on any of the 11 numbers to get the emergency travel pass. "On verifying the reason for travel, the officers concerned who have been deployed at the assistance cell grant permission through WhatsApp," Anand Wagh, police inspector (crime branch), said. Another senior police officer said the use of vehicles has been banned in the city in view of the lockdown. "However, those belonging to the health department, police and other essential services continue to work," he said. "Those under the essential services category will not face any kind of hassle while moving in the city. They can contact police on the given numbers if they face any problem. The ambulance service is also available during the lockdown," he added. The officer said their assistance cell will continue to function till the lockdown has been lifted. Those residing in Deolali Camp and Nashik Road can contact police on 7020583176 and 8485810477. For Indiranagar, Upnagar and Satpur areas, people can contact on 7248906877 and 9403165140. Residents of Panchavati and Adgaon areas can seek help on 7709295534, 7248903877, while those from Mhasrool, Bhadrakali and Ambad areas can contact on 9373800019 and 7350166999. Police have appealed to the citizens to contact the above-mentioned numbers only if there is an emergency or if they are involved in essential services defined by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-issue-over-11k-passes-for-emergency-travel-in-city/articleshow/75435582.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Accused of killing her in-laws, woman hangs self in Tihar Jail||NEW DELHI: A woman who was arrested for the murder of her in-laws in Chhawla allegedly committed suicide at Tihar Jail in the early hours of Monday. The woman was involved in a fight with her husband, who is also a co-accused, jail officials said. A magisterial inquiry was initiated into the role of the jail staff. Police said that Kavita was lodged at quarantine cell in jail number 6, where her body was found hanging from the exhaust fan with her chunni. Probe revealed that after murdering her in-laws Kavita had attempted to commit suicide but her husband, Satish, managed to save her. Police sources said that she and her husband had even fought in the presence of cops blaming each other for the murder of Satish’s parents Raj Singh and Omwati. Sources said that Satish and Kavita wanted the possession of Singh’s property. Cops said that they were informed about Kavita’s death by the jail authorities, after which the body was sent for an autopsy at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where doctors confirmed that there were multiple ligature marks. Kavita is survived by her husband and two children, who were now in custody of a relative. The area SDM was conducting an inquiry to establish the cause of suicide. The couple was arrested last Friday after a relative found Singh and Omwati in a pool of blood in their bedroom. When cops questioned Satish and Kavita, Satish broke down and admitted to having killed the elderly couple but later blamed Kavita for poisoning them first and then helping him stab them. This charge was, however, denied by Kavita. A probe is on to find out if Satish had abetted Kavita to commit suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/accused-of-killing-her-in-laws-woman-hangs-self-in-tihar-jail/articleshow/75438619.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Norms for MSMEs and construction may ease up after May 7||HYDERABAD: Though Telangana has seen a dip in progression of novel coronavirus cases in the last couple of days, the state government is in no hurry to lift complete lockdown after May 7. However, the government is considering providing some relaxations to micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and construction sector after May 7. The Centre has started giving relaxations to some sectors from April 20. But, keeping in view of the surge in Covid-19 positive cases, Telangana chose to implement complete lockdown. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants lockdown lifted in phases and announced that the government will review the situation on May 5. Official sources said the CM and the entire administration is closely monitoring the situation and working out strategies on those activities which could be allowed after May 7. “MSMEs have been playing a vital role in Telangana’s economy. After formation of Telangana, as many as 8,435 MSMEs have been set up at an investment of Rs 11,500 crore. Time has come to save them from slipping into a financial crisis,” a senior government official said. Officials said MSMEs are likely to be allowed with some stringent norms apart from maintaining social distancing and keeping workers’ safety in mind. “Similarly, construction activity will be allowed if labourers are accommodated at the project or construction site,” the official said. With seven lakh migrant workers in Telangana, who have been sheltered in about 160 camps, providing food and shelter to them and keeping them in the camps for a longer time would be a difficult proposition for the government. “Hence, if construction activity is allowed, some workers will start going to work,” officials said. Officials said the government has already declared that 21 districts have zero coronavirus positive cases and some more would be added in the next week. “If there are no fresh positive cases for consecutive 14 days in those districts, some activities like sand mining and other activities could be allowed,” another official said. However, the government has no plans to allow activities and places where mass congregation happens such as religious prayers, processions, cinema theatres and restaurants immediately after May 7, a CMO official said. “Similarly, transportation services like buses and metro trains will not be operated till last week of May,” the official added. UNEDITED INFORGRAPH Telangana lockdown extended earlier till May 7 Telangana exempted Pharmaceutical industries, food processing units and essential commodities mills. Apart from Kirana and medical shops exempted from lockdown but allowed to open till 6 pm and in some areas till 2 pm. Agriculture, irrigation and MNREGA works also exempted. IT companies have been functional with 50 per cent workforce. Majority of the companies asked their staff to work from home. Night curfew is being implemented from 6 pm to 6 am. Centre’s lockdown ends on May 3. The centre also exempted agriculture works and other essential commodities shops from lockdown. It has allowed MSMEs, construction activity, shops and neighbourhood, highway dhabas, electricians. But no such exemption are given in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/norms-for-msmes-construction-may-ease-up-after-may/articleshow/75437916.cms||Koride Mahesh
April 29, 2020||Patna||Ganga water turns cleaner in Patna during lockdown||PATNA: The nationwide lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for the Ganga. As per a study conducted by Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) on April 26, the stretch of Ganga passing through Patna is fast recovering from the load of pollution, both physicochemical and bacteriological. The BSPCB, in the lab test of Ganga water samples from six places in Patna, found phenomenal decrease in the number of contaminants, including total coliform (TC) and faecal coliform (FC) bacteria compared to the last three years. Other pollutants like dissolved oxygen (DO), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and pH also indicated improvement in the water quality in April compared to this period in 2017, 2018 and 2019. While the average FC count at Digha ghat in Kurji sharply dropped from 2800 to 1650, the TC load there also declined from 5500 to 3250. The most probable number (MPN) for FC and TC in the river water is 100. The TC load at Triveni ghat at Punpun and Malsalami in Patna City also dropped from 7867 and 2667 to 2600 and 2050, respectively. While the FC decreased from 6067 to 6050 at Gai Ghat, the TC number there increased from 11,267 to 15300. BSPCB chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh said water samples from more places could not be collected due to the lockdown. “The physicochemical status of the Ganga has also witnessed positive signs as the DO quantity, which remained around 7.7mg per litre during the last three years, moved up to 8.7mg per litre this month. The DO, as per the water quality criteria, should be 5 or more. Likewise, The Ganga showed recovery trend from pollution on the scales of BOD and pH,” Ghosh said. He added: “The water samples from Kacchi Dargah and Fatuha also indicated good signs.” Ghosh cited the reason behind recovery of water quality in the Ganga to the nationwide lockdown. “Shutting down of industries in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and a halt on human activities in the open and even on the river banks, like bathing, washing of cattle, dumping of garbage, religious rituals, washdown of pesticides and pharmaceutical wastes, contributed to the improvement of the water quality,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ganga-water-turns-cleaner-in-patna-during-lockdown/articleshow/75435585.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||High-risk kin of Maharashtra patients, all ground staff to get HCQS||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government is putting all its Covid-19 frontline workers and high-risk contacts of patients on the anti-malarial tablet hydroxychloroquine sulphate, albeit with their consent and with riders — to be given voluntarily after sharing necessary information. Already doctors and healthcare workers are on the medicine.. The move is in consonance with BMC’s action of distributing 1.3 lakh HCQS tablets among wards officers to ensure each suspected patient is given a five-day, 12-tablet course. However, four days ago, the US FDA had cautioned against its use outside hospitals due to the risk of serious side-effects, including life-threatening heart rhythm problems. The government circular said all ground-level workers, including those engaged in surveillance activities in containment zones, screening of people, working in the hospitals and managing Covid care facilities will be included. The tablets should be given voluntarily and after all necessary information has been shared. People with underlying health complications like heart diseases, hypertension and diabetes should be given the medication only with advice from doctors. Those with retinopathy and hypersensitivity should not be given the dose, the circular made it clear. Frontline workers will be put on a seven-week course, while the contacts of positive patients will be on a three-week course. “If there is any side effect, immediate advice of doctors should be sought,” said the circular. It also made it clear that once the tablets have started, there cannot be any changing of the quarantine period or the place. For instance, those in institutional quarantine cannot go home. Also, all precautions like masks and PPEs for medical staff should continue. The BMC has already started distribution in some areas like Dharavi, and specified that to receive the tablet course, the suspected Covid patients must be admitted to its Covid Care Centres (CCC). “People admitted in both types of CCCs (CCC-1 for high risk & CCC-2 for asymptomatic) will be given the tablet, preferably under medical advice,” said a ward officer. Each patient will also get 35 zinc supplements to be taken over five days. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said ward officers would have to carefully select candidates. “It cannot be given to children under 15, pregnant women or people with a heart condition,” he said. A ward-level official said following the municipal commissioner’s orders earlier this month, they hired teams of doctors on eight-hour shifts as well as nurses and ward boys at the institutional quarantine centres. “The staff was hired after due verification of their educational qualifications. We expect them to monitor people continually once the medication is administered,” he said. However, CCC-1s don’t have full-time doctors. “Hence, medication is given to smaller groups,” he added. Samajwadi Party MLA Rais Shaikh was initially against administering of HCQS because it seemed like only poor pockets such as Dharavi were being targeted. “If all Covid suspects are getting the HCQS course and that too under a doctor’s supervision, it seems fair,’’ he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/high-risk-kin-of-maha-patients-all-ground-staff-to-get-hcqs/articleshow/75438616.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Man’s death: House owner, pvt firm employee booked||Coimbatore: A day after a 49-year-old man died of asphyxiation at Hudco Colony in Peelamedu, the city police on Tuesday registered a case against the house owner of the deceased and an employee of a private internet provider on charges of causing death by negligence. The house owner, Krishnamoorthy of Hudco Colony, and the employee of the private internet provider, Subrmani, were booked under sections 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The Peelamedu (law & order) police said Sreedharan, 80, was a tenant of Krishnamoorthy. Sreedharan, his wife S Padmavalli, 75, his two sons Balaji, 49, and Murali, 47, were residing in the rental house. Krishnamoorthy had rented another portion of the house to a private internet provider where the company had kept a generator and batteries. On Monday around 2am, Sreedharan and his two sons were found unconscious and they were rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where Balaji died without responding to the treatment. Sreedharan and Murali’s conditions are said to be stable. Preliminary investigation revealed that Balaji died of asphyxiation due to fumes from the generator. Police have altered the case to 337 and 304 (A) of IPC from 174 CrPC against Krishnamoorthy and Subramani. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mans-death-house-owner-pvt-firm-employee-booked/articleshow/75437913.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Home isolation option for mild Covid-19 cases||Nagpur: The latest guidelines issues by Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on April 27 provide for ‘home isolation’ for very mild or pre-symptomatic Covid-19 cases. Such patients having requisite facility at home will have that option. At present, all suspected (awaiting test results) and confirmed Covid-19 cases are being isolated and managed in a hospital setting with the intent to break the chain of transmission. Because of this, many asymptomatic patients with requisite facilities at home also have to stay hospitalized. Noted city pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnkar’s petition in Supreme court also had a prayer to stop admitting such mild Covid-19 cases and keep them isolated at home instead. While such patients will now get an option of home isolation, they will have to follow certain rules and also have to submit a legal undertaking for this. “The patient needs to be in constant touch with his treating doctor and district surveillance officer. In case the patient suffers difficulty in breathing, pain or pressure in the chest, confusion or inability to arise, or develops bluish discolorations of lips, he will be immediately hospitalized,” said a senior officer from health department. This news is important for small towns like Yavatmal and Buldhana where cases are increasing and the isolation facilities are limited. In Nagpur too, more than 50 patients are admitted in two government hospitals. Over 70% of these are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms. They can go for home isolation now. Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, treasurer of World Medical Association, said the decision would reduce load on health facilities. “World mortality of Covid-19 is 6.90 % and that of Asia is 5.7%. Mortality in India is 0.7 deaths per million population. Asian countries are behaving differently in terms of mortality and India has among the lowest mortality rates. Such changes in protocol are a must with changing times,” said Dr Wankhedkar. Who can be in home isolation * Person clinically assigned as a very mild or pre-symptomatic case * Patient should have requisite facility for self-isolation at home * Doctors should be available to provide care on 24x7 basis at least on phone * Patient must download Arogya Setu App on mobile and remain active * Patient must agree to monitor his health and regularly inform health status to the District Surveillance Officer * Patient must fill in an undertaking on self-isolation and follow guidelines Rules of Home Isolation * Patient should wear at all times triple layer medical mask * Discard mask after 8 hours of use * Discard mask only after disinfecting it with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution * Must stay in the identified room and away from other people at home * Must take rest and drink lots of fluids to maintain hydration * Follow respiratory etiquettes all the time * Must wash hands often with soap and water * Not share personal items with other people * Clean surfaces in the room that are touched often (tabletops, doorknobs, handles, etc) with disinfectant solution||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-isolation-option-for-mild-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75439155.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Decide on starting rapid anti-body test as a screening tool for Covid-19: SC||NAGPUR: The Supreme Court has directed the Central government to take a decision on the suggestions made by city-based pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnakar in his petition for mandatorily starting the rapid anti-body test as a screening tool for the Covid-19 virus as advised by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “We direct the Union of India to treat this petition as a representation, consider the inputs and grievances raised by the petitioner and take an appropriate decision in this regard,” a bench comprising justices NY Ramana, Sanjay Kaul and Bhushan Gavai said before disposing of the case. The petitioner, who is expert pulmonologist, also opposed the creation of the isolation and quarantine wards and requested the apex court to issue directives in this regard. According to him, the suspected persons should be quarantined in their respective homes and this would save unnecessary expenditure of the exchequer. Dr Swarnakar, through counsels Tushar Mandlekar and Rishi Jain, further informed the court that the ICMR is the highest medical research body dealing with everything related to the deadly virus. It has chalked out a strategy for Covid-19 testing in India and approved eight testing kits to conduct a rapid anti-body test. “After discussion in detail with technical experts from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and after considering several inputs, the final decision on the anti-body testing advisory was prepared. It was later decided to start those tests in clusters in containment zones and in large migration gatherings for screening and surveillance,” he said. The petitioner added that if the test is positive then it is advised by the ICMR that home quarantine should be followed for 14 days. But currently, all suspects have been placed in quarantine homes. “Presently, diagnosis is confirmed only through RT-PCR test, using throat swab/broncho samples. The procedure is cumbersome and can only be carried out by an expert with personal protection equipment (PPEs). In India, such tests are conducted across 320 laboratories,” he said. The rapid anti-body blood test is simple. Only a blood sample is used. It doesn’t require expert hands, costly infrastructure, PPE kits and has less risks of aerosol spreads. These tests can easily be done on all asymptomatic patients coming with ILI (Influenza like Illness) for just Rs400, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/decide-on-starting-rapid-anti-body-test-as-a-screening-tool-for-covid-19-sc/articleshow/75439164.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||93% of coronavirus cases in past 10 days in Karnataka asymptomatic||BENGALURU: Of the 205 Covid-19-positive cases added between April 17 and the morning of April 28 in Karnataka, 190 — or, 93% — have been asymptomatic and the rest showed symptoms of the infection. This puts the overall asymptomatic cases at 376 — or, 72% — of the total 520 cases so far. In the said period, the asymptomatic cases have more than doubled from 186 to 376, while the symptomatic cases increased marginally from 129 to 144. In fact, the total number of cases jumped from 315 to 523 — a 66% increase. The assessment of symptomatic and asymptomatic cases has been conducted for 520 cases, though. Karnataka, which is projected to cross the 1,000-mark in a fortnight, wants to start random testing to track the pandemic since the spread of asymptomatic cases is widespread. “While the testing capacity is expected to touch 5,000 tests a day by the first week of May, the decision to not use rapid kits may affect its ability in doing random sample tests. Since there are efficacy issues, it had to be scrapped,” one official said, referring to Karnataka scrapping its order for 2 lakh kits. Asymptomatic cases remain a bottleneckExperts told TOI the concern is valid. Karnataka has so far found asymptomatic cases only through tests conducted on primary and secondary contacts of positive people. There’s no accurate understanding how wide the virus spread has been. Of the 20 districts with Covid-19 cases, six (30%) reported more than 85% asymptomatic cases, including two districts that had 94% and 95%, while only two districts reported between 25% and 35%. The rest were between 35% and 85% (see graphic). Globally, too, multiple research papers have described screening of asymptomatic cases as a bottleneck while dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. Four days ago, researchers form University of California, in a paper they published in the New England Journal of Medicine, have said asymptomatic transmission of SARS-CoV-2 has made controlling the spread of the disease more difficult. “The rapid spread of Covid-19, the clear evidence of SARS-CoV-2 transmission from asymptomatic persons and the eventual need to relax current social-distancing practices argue for broadened SARS-CoV-2 testing to include asymptomatic persons in prioritised settings,” the paper accessed by TOI reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/93-of-205-new-cases-in-karnataka-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/75437723.cms||Chethan Kumar
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Uncertainty of lockdown, food supplies forces 2nd wave of exodus||Nagpur: Once again, scores of migrant labourers can be spotted walking on the highways. After the numbers receded on strict enforcement of the lockdown, a second wave of workers is now walking back home. Fears that the lockdown may extend beyond May 3 was the major reason for the second exodus, said workers whom TOI spoke to. Their contractors, who were providing rations till now, have also backed off, and the government supplies were irregular, said workers. They claimed that as they moved in trucks, there was hardly any restriction by police in the states they crossed. Majority of the labourers are coming from Hyderabad in Telangana, and going to districts like Balaghat and Seoni in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, and also further to Uttar Pradesh. Records maintained by the district administration in Balaghat say over 5,400 new admissions came into quarantine centres in a week. These were mainly workers entering Madhya Pradesh through Nagpur, having started their journey in Hyderabad, a source said. A week ago, there were 2,400 inmates in the centres, the figure has now touched 7,834 said the official. In Seoni district, 1,900 came during the last 4-5 days. However, a larger number of people crossed Seoni to go further on to Uttar Pradesh, said collector Praveen Singh. “The workers gave feedback that they are scared that the lockdown may be further extended. Even as they complained of lack of food, this may not be the exact reason. Many said they preferred to reach home and fend for themselves rather than live on charity in a distant city,” said Singh. Workers also claimed food packets were not reaching them regularly and there was always uncertainty over the next meal. A larger number of workers are passing through the district to reach Uttar Pradesh, said the officer. Nitin Bhandarkar of Nagpur Group of Friends MAA, an NGO, providing aid on the highways said the number of workers spotted on Nagpur-Jabalpur highway has gone up in last 4 to 5 days. Bhandarkar, who put TOI across to some of the workers through a video call, claimed that at least 3,000 must have passed each day in less than a week. Smita Idare, on her way to Madhya Pradesh with a toddler, said, “There were rumours in Hyderabad that the lockdown may not end soon. Even the municipal supply of food packets was erratic. The contractor too went away, so all of us decided to leave.” Ravi, on his way to Gondia, said, “The contractor has providing us Rs500 a week, but that was to be adjusted against wages in the coming days. We left before the debt piled up.” Manjari Saunskar, also from Gondia, said, “As it became difficult to sustain in Hyderabad, we thought of heading for our homes.” The workers had covered major distances on trucks as the police were also helping them find rides, said one of them. In a video shared by Nagpur Group of Friends, a couple with an 11-month-old child was on its way to Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh from Gulbarga in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uncertainty-of-lockdown-food-supplies-forces-2nd-wave-of-exodus/articleshow/75437936.cms||Shishir Arya
April 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Containment or not, virus hotbeds continue to be under scanner||Hyderabad: Despite the number of containment zones coming down from 131 to 112 in Hyderabad police commissionerate limits and from 42 to 19 in Cyberabad and Rachakonda, police are maintaining strict security at these places, preventing potential suspects from meeting others, so that Covid-19 cases will not increase. Even at places where containment has been lifted, police are ensuring primary contacts remain under home quarantine and pickets put in place to prevent gathering of people. To prevent the spread of Covid-19 cases, the authorities had started cordoning off Covid patient’s house or his/her frequent places of visit. If more than one positive case is from a specific locality, the entire lane is being cordoned off, naming them as containment zones. No inward or outward movement of people is allowed at containment zones. Even movement of people within the zone is prohibited. Authorities have been delivering groceries and vegetables at the doorstep of people in containment zones. But the number of containment zones in the city have come down during the past few days. “At one point, there were over 130 containment zones in the city. In the last three days, the number of red zones has come down and currently we have 112 containment zones in the city,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said. Majority of the containment zones in the city were in west and south zones. In south zone, the containment zones have come down from 54 to 45, while in west they have come down from 48 to 40. In central zone, the containment zones came down from 24 to 14. Most containment zones in south and west zones were at Kanchanbagh, Charminar, Asif Nagar and Goshamahal divisions. “We have been removing barricading at the containment zones after getting clearance from health and municipal authorities after the mandatory period (now 28 days) after a positive case is detected,” a Hyderabad inspector said. Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissioners VC Sajjanar and Mahesh Bhagwat also said the number of containment zones have come down. In Cyberabad, the number of containment areas have come down from 42 to 19, while in Rachakonda the current containment zones were just 15 from the earlier 20-odd. “Even after containment is over, we are keeping a watch on the areas to prevent mob gathering. We along with health, revenue and municipal authorities also check those who are under home quarantine,” Cyberabad commissioner Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/containment-or-not-virus-hotbeds-continue-to-be-under-scanner/articleshow/75437940.cms||Mahesh Buddi
April 29, 2020||Patna||Migrants in focus as Bihar gets 20 more cases||PATNA: The Covid-19 tally in Bihar reached 366 with 20 new cases reported on Tuesday. The state currently has 300 active cases with two deaths reported so far. Altogether 64 people have recovered in the state so far, including seven, who were declared coronavirus free on Tuesday. The maximum number of positive cases were reported from Gopalganj district with six persons testing positive for the virus, followed by Kaimur with four cases, including three from Bhabua and one from Chainpur. Three other cases were reported from Kako in Jehanabad, two from Sadar Bazar in Jamalpur in Munger and one each from Araria, Banka, Sheikhpura, Buxar and Sitamarhi. A 26-year-old man from Lodipur in Sheikhpura district is the first person in the district to test positive for Covid-19. State health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said, “The Sheikhpura man had recently returned from New Delhi. He is the eighth migrant in the state to have tested positive for Covid-19. Before him, four migrants from East Champaran had tested positive on April 26. While three of them are from Banjaria and had come from Maharashtra, another is a native of Areraj and had returned from New Delhi.” Earlier on April 22, three migrants had tested positive for the virus. Two of them were native of Bhagalpur and had returned from Maharashtra, another is from Bakhtiyarpur in Patna and had returned from Delhi. A health official revealed that now more and more Covid-19 positive cases are being found in people, who have returned from others states. The three residents of Beur in Patna, who had tested positive on April 25, had returned from Delhi. Also, a 27-year-old woman who tested positive for Covid 19 in Nalanda late on Monday evening came from Delhi. Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh said the woman travelled from Delhi to attend the ‘shraddha’ ritual of a relative at a Nalanda village. Deepnagar police on Sunday intercepted a car in which six people along with the woman were travelling. “All six were quarantined and their samples were sent for test in which she was found to be positive and her five other relatives tested negative for novel coronavirus,” Singh said. (With inputs from Farrukh Nadim in Biharsharif)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migrants-in-focus-as-bihar-gets-20-more-cases/articleshow/75435604.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Streamline e-pass system, activist tells government||Coimbatore: A city-based activist has urged the state to streamline the process to issue travel passes to avoid causing inconvenience to the public. Earlier, the district administration had directed people to apply passes for traveling only through e-portal. K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said, “It is good that the government has introduced the pass system to prevent unwanted movement of vehicles. But, the system should be implemented properly to ensure people, who want to step out of their houses due to unavoidable situations like medical emergencies and funeral, are not inconvenienced. Presently, there are several lapses in the process and it varies from district to district.” The activist said he had also petitioned the state chief secretary in this regard recently. “There are several instances of officials having either rejected the applications that were applied to attend a funeral of a blood relative or granting permission after a day or more. When a person is already in agony, how fair is to make them wait or reject the application.” he said. Kathirmathiyon said in some districts, permission was given for to and fro journey and in other districts the nod was given only for traveling to a place, from where one had to obtain permission for return journey. He said the government should categorize and prioritize the reasons and convey their decision within hours to the applicants. “The government should also make it uniform across the state.” The activist also urged the government to name the documents that were required to apply for passes. “There is an ambiguity regarding the documents that need to be submitted. Officials in each district are seeking different documents for the passes that have been applied for same reason.” He said most of the people didn’t know whether they had to obtain a pass to travel within the city limits or it was necessary only to travel outside. “The government should also clarify this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/streamline-e-pass-system-activist-tells-government/articleshow/75437931.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||IFS trainees: Covid-19 made them see things in a much positive way||DEHRADUN: It has been a month since the two trainee officers of Indian Forest Service (IFS) were discharged from hospital after battling against the deadly Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19). The young men, who were the second and third Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand, have a simple message for the people now, “take out all the negativity from life, when you have tested positive.” Darshan Gatani, 32, who hails from Rajasthan and was discharged from Doon hospital last month, told TOI on Monday that he finished 28 days of home quarantine last week, after being discharged from the hospital. “After coming out of the hospital, I spent most of the time concentrating on work, studies and maintaining my sanity. The time I had spent in isolation has actually added to my perspective to see life better. Above all, positivity is the key to tackle this disease as well as this situation [I mean the lockdown],” he said, adding that family’s patience and support also helped him a lot. Swaroop Dixit, 27, from Maharashtra, also battled against the deadly virus, particularly, during his eight days of hospitalisation. “During the period of treatment, I only communicated with positive people, read things on positivity and refrained myself from rumours and negative news. That helped me to stay in a positive frame of mind which was very much important,” said Swaroop, who added that people should get out of the thought that "corona is the end of life or the world". The recovered duo also appealed to people that they must cooperate with the government and follow the rules. They also said that people should develop self-confidence to defeat the disease and everyone must maintain hygiene and wash their hands regularly to keep the deadly disease at bay. “We shouldn’t panic. That is the least we can do,” said Gatani. And then, Swaroop with a smile added, “I would say, when you have tested positive, just throw all the negativity out and be totally positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ifs-trainees-covid-19-made-them-see-things-in-a-much-positive-way/articleshow/75428151.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Banned gutka worth Rs 20K seized, 3 held||Coimbatore: The Karumathampatti police on Tuesday arrested three men for possessing banned tobacco products worth Rs 20,000. The trio — S Mangalaram, 30, M Vikram, 28 and A Kishore, 38, all from Rajasthan — were selling banned tobacco items through a grocery shop at Somanur which they had been running for the past few years. Acting on a tip, a police team searched the shop and found illegal tobacco items like gutka and Cool lips and seized them. The arrested were booked under various sections of the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products, Act (COTPA). They were later let off on a conditional bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/banned-gutka-worth-rs-20k-seized-3-held/articleshow/75437949.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||PIL seeks panel to assess lockdown impact on economy||The Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC on Tuesday fixed May 4 for hearing of a PIL, seeking constitution of a commission to assess the lockdown’s impact and losses on the economy. A bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice KS Pawar passed the order on the PIL, which also sought direction from the court to the Centre and state governments to quantify losses, not only to the exchequer, but of the public as well. The petitioner’s lawyer was not present during the hearing, which took place via video conferencing. However, the Centre’s lawyer S B Pandey said, he had not received a complete copy of the PIL. At this, the bench directed the petitioner to serve the PIL copy to the central government counsel and fixed a next date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pil-seeks-panel-to-assess-lockdown-impact-on-economy/articleshow/75438638.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
April 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Strong link between day temperature rise, cut in Covid-19 spread, says Study||PUNE: A study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) in Nagpur has found a “very strong” correlation — up to 85% — between increase in the average day temperature and reduction in Covid-19 spread for select cities in India and states like Maharashtra and Karnataka as a whole. Neeri, a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), based its research on a mathematical model. It sourced Covid-19 case data from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and temperature data from the India Meteorological Department. It studied average real time temperature and relative humidity and their relationship with the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The research said that when gross values of temperature and relative humidity were considered for these two states, a rise in average day temperature from 25 degrees C and above caused a reduction in Covid-19 cases. However, the study said that while India’s hot climate may be beneficial in containing the Covid-19 spread, social distancing measures far outweighed the benefits of factors like temperature and humidity. Hemant Bherwani, scientist, Centre of Strategic Urban Management, Neeri, told TOI, “We included the essential aspect of social distancing as India a very populous country. Unless rigorous social distancing is followed, the benefits of aspects like high temperature may not be visible.” Temperature data from four cities was also individually studied and correlated with the number of Covid-19 cases there. “We specifically chose Srinagar for its cooler temperatures, Kasaragod in Kerala (one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the state reporting the first few cases), Mumbai and also New York, which had seen an unprecedented growth in cases and showed similar results as Indian cities,” he said. Bherwani said while Maharashtra and Karnataka as a whole and cities like Srinagar, Kasaragod and New York indicated strong to weak correlations between average day temperatures and number of Covid-19 cases — indicating a reduction in Covid-19 cases with the increase in average day temperature — Mumbai was different. The statistical model output showed that Covid-19 cases continued to increase in Mumbai despite the increase in average day temperatures. “This may have been because Mumbai is densely packed with a high population and land use pattern. Another reason could be that Mumbai, being the largest metropolitan city, depends largely on public commute,” he said. Bherwani said Srinagar was chosen in the study to refer to the lower end of temperature. “It was found that an increase in temperature in Srinagar also helped in the reduction of Covid-19 cases. However, the data was very limited,” he said. Neeri director Rakesh Kumar told TOI, “Other studies analysing the impact of temperature on Covid-19 spread have largely been done on international locations. We undertook this study to see how the high tropical temperatures of India could impact the spread of the virus. The findings of the study indirectly indicate that outdoor transmission of Covid-19, via touching surfaces in public places, may not be relevant to India as the virus attached to such surfaces (in parks, buses etc) could be losing its efficacy due to high temperatures in the country.” Neeri scientists Ankit Gupta and Avneesh Anshul were also part of the research. In March this year, researchers from the Institute of Human Virology at the University of Maryland School of Medicine (UMSOM) and the Global Virus Network (GVN) had also referred to a temperature and humidity connection with the Covid-19 spread in other parts of the world. The study had found that global cities experiencing significant outbreaks of Covid-19 had very similar winter climates. In an email response to TOI, Mohammad Sajadi, MD, associate professor, Institute of Human Virology, Global Virus Network Center of Excellence, University of Maryland School of Medicine, said, “What we observed in our study was that the major outbreaks (as of March first week) were centred in areas 30-50 N latitude, and cities where the average monthly temperature during the outbreaks was between 5 and 11 degrees Celsius. We also noted a similarity in humidity.” Sajadi said, “We hypothesize that in this case, temperature is one of them. Temperature (and humidity) can theoretically be important in the viability of a virus (its ability to survive outside the human host), its stability in droplet form (when expectorated), and potentially in how easily it can replicate in the nasal mucosa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strong-link-between-day-temp-rise-cut-in-covid-19-spread-study/articleshow/75438636.cms||Neha Madaan
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal plans 44,000 Covid-19 tests in two weeks||BHOPAL: In the next fortnight, an anticipated 44,000 plus Covid-19 tests would be carried out in MP, as per health department estimates. Availability of Covid test kits is going to be a crucial issue with the current stock barely matching the demand. “There has never been a situation wherein a request has not been met,” said National Institute for Research in Environmental Health (NIREH) director, Dr Rajnarayan Tiwari. NIREH is a permenant institute of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It has also been made one of the 16 regional distribution depots by ICMR. There are about 6,000 RT-PCR kits, about 3,400 RNA extraction kits and about 8,000 VTM with NIREH, Tiwari said. NIREH distributes stock after the portal order is confirmed by ICMR. Besides this, there are about 8,332 RT-PCR kits in different labs across MP. MPPHCL has 6,436 kits and one lakh more have been ordered. In the labs, there are 4,962 RNA extraction kits, about 3,950 with MPPHCL while supply of 24,920 kit is awaited. Rapid antibody test effective after 7 days of onset of symptoms: According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the rapid antibody test will only be of use after a minimum seven days from the onset of symptoms. In the backdrop of this new information, the gold standard frontline test for Covid-19 diagnosis — the real time PCR-based molecular test, which is aimed at early virus detection, becomes even more important. “The rapid antibody test cannot replace the frontline test. There have been cases in Bhopal where the condition of patient has deteriorated faster than the average,” said a Gandhi Medical College consultant. The rapid antibody test is a supplementary tool to assess the prevalence of the disease within a specific area perimeter. Data about these rapid tests is emerging and understanding of their utility for diagnosis is still evolving. The rapid tests are useful for epidemiological studies and surveillance purposes. The test has to be done under strict medical supervision, as per guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-plans-44k-tests-in-two-weeks/articleshow/75436906.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||Government starts e-retail chain for rural India||NEW DELHI: It’s the desi, rural version of Flipkart and Amazon, and is promoted by the government. Concerned over the severe restrictions on mobility and lack of adequate supplies in times of Covid-19, the government has facilitated the creation of a village-level online retail chain, planning massive supplies of essentials through fast-expanding outlets that are taking orders online and offline, and carrying out home deliveries. The ambitious plan is being led by the Common Service Centres, the rural digital outreach vehicle of the government that reaches over 60 crore people through its nearly 3.8 lakh outlets. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesThe outlets are set up and run by private individuals but under the aegis of the ministry of electronics and IT. The CSCs have been tasked with engaging in sale and supply of essential commodities like vegetables, milk, pulses, fruits and other products, CSC CEO Dinesh Tyagi told TOI. Customers can go online and order supplies through a specially curated app that has been provided to village-level entrepreneurs (VLEs) or those given the charge of retail and other CSC activities. The VLEs, who also take offline orders, then make arrangements to transport the goods within a period of a few hours to a day at most. “These are like Amazon and Flipkart, but for the rural folk. We started with the initiative about three weeks ago and have already onboarded about 2,000 CSC centres,” Tyagi said. So far, the fledgling chain has seen 5,000 orders to the tune of Rs 20 lakh. “Each VLE is allowed to cover a radius of 5-10 kms. The project is still in its infancy, but we plan to scale up very fast and reach 10,000 CSCs by the end of May, and around one lakh by the end of the year.” The CSC CEO said that modern retailers do not supply in villages in large numbers due to tough terrain, and also due to lack of basic requirements such as a confirmed postal address. Here, the CSC seems to have found a place for themselves and fill the gap. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe CSC centres, which had a gross merchandise value (GMV) of Rs 30,000 crore in 2018-19, employ about 3-4 people on an average and have been playing a key role in the rollout of government’s important initiatives such as Ayushman Bharat and Digital India. They also act as banking correspondents where they help citizens in services such as loan application processing, disbursing direct benefit transfer payouts, and selling mutual funds/pension-related products. The CSCs also provide video, voice and data services in the areas of e-governance, education, health, telemedicine, and entertainment. Recently, social media giant Facebook and private sector banking giant HDFC also signed up with CSC to increase their rural outreach through the unique platform. Pinakiranjan Mishra, partner for consumer products and retail at EY India, said that CSC’s initiative “appears to be a big opportunity, depends on how effective the offering is and how the whole plan gets implemented”. “The execution has to be flawless. Managing the customer’s expectations and needs is of paramount importance for the concept to take off.” CSC’s Tyagi said they had noticed constraints in supply of essentials in rural and semi-urban areas, that prompted them to look at the customised retail solution. “There was surely a need for a chain like this. During the coronavirus lockdown, people in rural were not able to buy things, even though in urban areas we have a proliferation of local retail stores and e-tailers such as Big Basket, Grofers, Flipkart and Amazon.” People in the rural areas are also warming up to the platform, and are not only purchasing essentials, but are also using them as a market-place. “We had a girl who helped supply sanitary pads to an NGO after making them within their own community. Also, an individual supplies animal feed to farmers after procuring them through his rudimentary supply channel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-starts-e-retail-chain-for-rural-india/articleshow/75439974.cms||Pankaj Doval
April 29, 2020||Hubballi||Fifth case in Gadag||Hubballi: Gadag reported its fifth Covid-19 case on Tuesday. The 75-year-old patient (P-514), is a resident of Ganji Basaveshwar Circle area. He was admitted to Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences two days ago with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). Sources said P-514 has no travel history and nor did not even visit the containment area in Gadag. This is the first case reported outside Ranganwadi area where four positive cases reported earlier. DC MG Hiremath said all the eight family members of the patient have been kept in isolation ward and they have tested negative. Ganji Basaveshwar Circle has been announced as a containment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fifth-case-in-gadag/articleshow/75435620.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown relaxation likely in 15 containment areas in Bhopal: Collector||BHOPAL: Ten new localities were declared containment areas on Monday after 13 more tested positive in Bhopal. Though Jehangirabad is considered to be the coronavirus hotspot of Bhopal, the localities under Koh-e-Fiza police station have more containment areas than those under Jehangirabad police station. Areas under the jurisdiction of Koh-e-Fiza police have 75 containment areas while those under Jehangirabad police station’s jurisdiction had 72 on Monday, before 10 more areas were added among them on Monday evening. On the other hand, Bhopal collector said, administration would look to ease restrictions in 15 containment areas soon if people of the area cooperate and no new cases are found there. The 10 new containment areas declared on Monday are in areas under Talaiya police station, Chhola police station, Koh-e-Fiza police station, two under Jehangirabad police station, Bajariya police station, Kamla Nagar police station, Govindpura police station and Aishbagh police station. Under the containment plan, Bhopal has been divided in eight zones and containment areas have been designated according to the police station the area falls under. Demographic distribution of coronavirus patients in the city as suggested through containment areas make it clear that spread of deadly infection is throughout the length and breadth of the city and "containment plan " has failed to deliver. Amid allegations of leniency in enforcing restrictions in the containment areas, district collector, Tarun Pithode, said, "CCTV surveillance vehicles and live videography is also being done for monitoring of containment areas. Three CCTV surveillance vehicles are moving in north and south Bhopal round-the-clock to ensure enforcement of "containment norms" and people are being persuaded to stay inside their houses", he said. Pithode however, insisted that without cooperation of the people, effective "containment" of virus was not possible and if people stick to containment norms, they would themselves, be free of the restrictions early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-relaxation-likely-in-15-containment-areas-collector/articleshow/75436972.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP mulls winding up institutional quarantine||Bengaluru: Institutional quarantine is likely to end in Bengaluru soon. Confirming such a possibility, BBMP officials attributed it to the dip in the number of positive cases and said home quarantine will be the only mode of isolation in the city to contain the virus. The BBMP had identified several hotels across the city for quarantining primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients. After the throat swab samples are collected, the contacts remain in institutional quarantine till the results are out. It usually takes two to three days for the results to come. The BBMP had an inventory of 1,300 rooms at its disposal for public quarantine. These rooms did not have air-conditioning and food was provided to the inmates in disposable cutlery and crockery. The hotels were paid the boarding and lodging bill in accordance with rates prescribed by the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority. The bills were subject to occupancy. In Bengaluru, 450 primary contacts and 1,285 secondary contacts currently are put up in institutional quarantine in hotels. “The number of positive cases in the city are slowly reducing and the ranks of primary and secondary contacts are also gradually decreasing,” BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar said. Kumar said once the quarantine period of the current contacts in hotels ends, they will be sent home and the institutional quarantines would be wound up. “In case, there is a sudden outbreak and the number of primary and secondary contacts increase, they’ll have to stay in self isolation in their homes and receive treatment,” he told TOI. A BBMP official said the contacts will have to remain in home isolation even when they await their test results. On questioning how the BBMP is planning to monitor home isolation of patients, he said: “There is already a lockdown in place. In case any fresh outbreak, the entire locality will be under lockdown. Resident groups will be kept in the loop about the contacts and police and health workers will closely monitor them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-mulls-winding-up-institutional-quarantine/articleshow/75437738.cms||Nithya Mandyam
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Truck driver damages barricades, booked||Coimbatore: The rural police have booked a 24-year-old truck driver for damaging barricades near Walayar check post. While the incident took place on Friday (April 24) around 9.45pm, when S Ashik, of Vazhapadi, was heading to Kerala from Bellary in Karnataka with a load of big onion, he was booked only on Monday. According to a police source, the truck hit two steel barricades when that reached Walayar border. “As the barricades were damaged completely, a woman police inspector, who was on duty at the check post, asked the driver to pay some amount to replace them. As he was not having any cash with him, she asked him to part with a gunny bag of onion to compensate the damage, which he did.” The driver informed the development to his truck owner, who contacted higher officials and made them to return the onion. Meanwhile, rumours spread that the cop had first taken the onion as bribe. Refuting the same, the source said, “The cop was not having any intention to use the onion. She demanded the truck driver to replace the two barricades that are estimated to cost of Rs5,000 each. Since he didn’t have cash, she asked him to hand over a gunny bag of big onion to be send to the community kitchen that serves food to homeless people.” The KG Chavadi police on Monday registered a case against the truck driver under Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Public Property (prevention of damage and loss) Act. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/truck-driver-damages-barricades-booked/articleshow/75437964.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik cops above 55 to be taken off field duty||NASHIK: The Nashik city police have decided to post its personnel aged above 55 years to branches and units with minimum contact with public to reduce their chances of contracting Covid-19. The decision comes in the backdrop of the Mumbai police’s move asking its personnel of the same age group to either go on paid leave or stay at home, following the death of three of its cops due to Covid-19. The three Mumbai cops who died were all above 50 years of age. Pournima Chaugule, DCP (HQ), said the decision to post the city police personnel to places with less public instead of sending them on paid leave, like the Mumbai police did, was taken because the situation in Nashik is not as bad as the state capital. “The younger police personnel will be given field duty.” The Nashik police have a force of just over 3,000 personnel, out of which 125 are aged above 55 years. Senior police officers said that if the situation changes in the future and more patients are found in the city, the decision would be revised. Most of the police force is currently on the field to ensure that the lockdown orders are strictly followed by citizens. Checkpoints have been set up in various parts of the city to ensure that people do not move around unnecessarily or travel from one part of the city to another, which could lead to the spread of coronavirus. Police are also taking various measures to ensure that its personnel on duty take maximum measures to prevent themselves from getting infected. To overcome the shortage of staff at checkpoints, police have appointed volunteers to assist them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-cops-above-55-to-be-taken-off-field-duty/articleshow/75435639.cms||Santosh Sonawane
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Lockdown must to check Covid-19 spread’||LUCKNOW: With the Covid-19 cases spiking up in the state, the UP government may not recommend to Prime Minister Narendra Modi the complete lifting of the lockdown even after May 3. This was the general mood of senior ministers who were called by chief minister Yogi Adityanath at his official residence on Tuesday evening. Apart from the deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, ministers Suresh Khanna and Srikant Sharma were also present at the meeting. MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh could not attend the meeting as he was pre-opccupied with a webinar with US industrialists at Lok Bhawan on Tuesday evening. On Wednesday, the CM would meet ministers of state and those having independent charges to seek their views on the lockdown. The CM is holding a two-day mood-gauging exercise with his ministers before sending a final report to the PMO in this connection. At Tuesday's meeting, the deputy CMs and the senior ministers told the CM that lifting of complete lockdown would not be advisable as major festivals like Eid and Bada Mangal are falling next month. Besides, the lockdown is a must to contain the spread of new coronavirus infection in more areas of the state, the ministers told the CM. However, major relaxations could be given in districts from where no case has been reported so far, they added. The CM also sought views of various groups headed by the deputy CMs and the senior ministers for the revival of economy as well as academic activities. Expressing concern over problems being faced by the poor and vulnerable sections post-lockdown as economic activities have come to a standstill, the CM said that urgent steps are needed to revive the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-must-to-check-covid-spread/articleshow/75438645.cms||Subhash Mishra
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Corona spurt via ‘kharra’, public handpump in Yavatmal||Nagpur: Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Nagpur continued to record new confirmed positive cases of Covid-19 in Vidarbha region on Tuesday. Together, these four districts recorded 19 cases, taking total number of cases in Vidarbha to 294. With seven patients discharged from Nagpur and one from Buldhana, total 77 patients have recovered and been discharged so far. With six more positive test reports received, total number of cases in Yavatmal surged to 85 on Tuesday. A survey by the preventive medicine unit of the health department in Yavatmal revealed that illegal sale of kharra — tobacco mix — was responsible for spreading the coronavirus infection in the city. “Pan kiosks are closed as part of lockdown, but a youth used to prepare kharra at home and distribute it to his special customers. This youth has been detected as Covid-19 positive. As per initial reports, he has infected seven others so far,” said collector MD Singh. “People who chew kharra also split here and there. The virus could infect many others through this spitting,” said Singh. Another source of coronavirus infection in city has been a woman cook, who used to work in a community kitchen. Third major source of local infection in Pawarpura area is community handpumps, from where people fetch drinking water. With 10 patients recovering and discharged on Tuesday, there are 75 patients in GMC isolation wards now. Since last four days, from April 24 to 27, the figure has risen from 14 to 75, making it sleepless nights for resident doctors. From April 24 to 27, 393 swab samples were sent to Nagpur and all reports have been received. A total of 1,150 samples have been sent to the lab and reports were received. On Tuesday, there are 312 persons, including 75 active positive patients, admitted in isolation wards. Collector MD Singh has brought the Patipura locality, mostly slums, under the containment areas where movement is restricted. On Monday, the collector has expanded the containment areas by adding six areas adjacent to wards 10 and 20. Bhandara also recorded its first Covid-19 patient on Monday. The 45-yr-old TB patient woman is now admitted in the isolation ward of the general hospital. On Tuesday, 145 close contacts of this woman were traced and their swab samples sent to Nagpur for testing. 4 new cases in Amravati Amravati: Two women in their 40s, a man in his 50s and a 20-year-old boy are among the four new Covid-19 cases detected in Amravati on Tuesday. This took the number of Covid-19 positive cases in district to 27. The tally includes seven deaths, the highest in Vidarbha, and four recovered persons. The health administration received 67 swab reports in three phases, giving four new positive cases and relieving 63 others as negative. A 40-year-old female is from the close contacts of the 58-year-old person who tested positive a couple of days ago. A 20-year-old boy in her neighbourhood too tested positive. In the evening, a 50-year-old man from Haiderpura and a 48-year-old woman from Badnera tested positive, an official release stated. Haiderpura has thus reported its 9th Covid-19 case while Badnera its second. “We have received 67 swab reports today and barring these four rest all have tested negative,” said collector Shailesh Naval. He said the health administration has to date taken 1,046 swab samples for testing and 775 of them have come negative to date while reports of 239 are awaited. With today’s positive cases, the number of Covid positives in the district has gone up to 27, including seven deaths and four recovered persons, said Naval, adding 16 active cases are in institutional quarantine and have been admitted to the Covid ward for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-spurt-via-kharra-public-handpump-in-yavatmal/articleshow/75439178.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Bantwal man waives rent for 21 shops||MANGALURU: A man from Bantwal has turned an inspiration to many after he waived rent for his 21 shops and 12 houses to help his tenants, who are in financial crisis due to the lockdown. Mohammed Hassan Barimar who had waived rents for April, now plans to do the same for May as well. Mohammed, who works in Saudi Arabia, owns a commercial complex – BH Complex – in Panemangaluru Bypass. He receives nearly Rs 1.5 lakh per month as rent from this property. It was not an easy decision to make, admits Mohammed. "But I too belong to a middle class family and understand how the pandemic has shattered the lives of those who have not been able to earn anything in the past two months. My tenants (both shops and home) have no business and jobs. So I decided not to collect any rent in April. Next month too, I am planning not to take rent from the houses I rent out,” he said. There are 21 shops housed in the complex. The houses are rented out to mostly labourers or families who have men working in the Gulf.“The complex has several shops that are open till noon (lockdown relaxation hours). But, I am not taking rent as their business is insufficient to pay the monthly rent," said Mohammed. P Mohan Shenoy, who runs a grocery shop at BH Complex was happy when told rent had been waived. “We have a kind-hearted owner,” he said. Another tenant, whose husband Mohammed Hassan works abroad, said he has not been paid salary due to the lockdown and rent waiver is huge relief. Hassan works in Riyadh and is stuck in the city due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-waives-rent-for-21-shops/articleshow/75437638.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Relief to garment exporters likely||LUCKNOW: The government may agree to give temporary relief to Noida-based garment exporters. While orders running into thousands of crores having already been cancelled in view of the new coronavirus outbreak, export houses have received a distress call from some brands in the US and Europe where shops are open, asking if readymade garments can be shipped there “immediately”. Apparel exporters have approached the government for a two-week relaxation so that they can fulfil the last minute orders. Lalit Thukral, president of the Noida Apparel Export Cluster, told TOI that there are 3,000 garment export units in Noida which work on a “cut-to-pack” model and have an annual turnover of about Rs 20,000 crore. “Some shops are still open in the US and Europe and they have contacted us, asking if we can dispatch readymade apparels immediately. For our industry, which has faced massive losses, this is an opportunity to take out some of our processed stock. We have approached chief minister and industries minister, asking for a two-week concession,” said Thukral. Industry members said that the major apparel export takes place between January and April and payment is received in about 60 to 90 days of a consignment 1being sent. About 60% shipping takes place during these months. Sources in industries department acknowledged they were approached and said that the matter was under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/relief-to-garment-exporters-likely/articleshow/75438661.cms||Neha Lalchandani
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon records new high, 44 cases in single day||NASHIK: Malegaon witnessed a major surge in the Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 44 fresh cases, taking the town’s total number of cases to 171. The new cases include two police personnel from different police stations in the town. Malegaon SDPO Ratnakar Nawale said two police personnel, aged around 30, tested positive on Tuesday and have been hospitalised. The administration has also started tracing their close contacts. Nashik district officials said that due to the shortage of testing kits at the Dhule lab, the throat swab testing of Malegaon patients couldn’t be carried out. “We made the testing kits available from the quota that we had received for the Nashik laboratory. Subsequently, the tests were conducted,” said Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare. He added that all the people found positive have already been quarantined. So far, the town has seen seven patients recovering and 12 succumbing to the infection. According to the officials, most if the 44 new cases are high-risk contacts of existing Covid-19 patients. Over the past few days, 451 samples — mostly from Malegaon — had tested negative. On Monday, only one positive case was registered while on Sunday there were no cases registered. On Tuesday, the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) announced new containment zones taking the total count to 33 in the city. The civic body has appealed to the locals to not venture out of homes unnecessarily. The residents have been assured that daily essentials will be made available to them. Sources in the civic body said that positive cases in the powerloom city could rise exponentially in the future. “There is a section of the local population that is still violating the lockdown norms and venturing out of homes. Moreover, the city is densely populated and families share small rooms. It is difficult for them to follow the social distancing norms. These factors are aiding in the spread of the infection,” said a source. Covid 19 swab testing lab gets operational in Nashik District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Tuesday inaugurated the Covid-19 laboratory set up at Dr Vasantrao Pawar Medical College Hospital and Research Centre. Throat swab samples of Covid-19 patients will be checked at this facility. Currently, the lab can check 180 samples per day. Once another machine arrives, 360 samples will be checked. Bhujbal said the facility would be beneficial for entire north Maharashtra. “Presence of this lab will also relieve the health department of the trouble to send the samples all the way to Pune. Since the reports would arrive immediately, the quarantine work will also be taken up quickly,” he said applauding the district administration for the rigorous follow-up with the departments concerned to set the facility operational at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-records-new-high-44-cases-in-single-day/articleshow/75435666.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||1,171 industries allowed to operate since April 20: Uttarakhand CM||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday said that after getting approval from the Centre, the state has given permission to 1,171 industrial units to operate from April 20. Apart from essential products, manufacturing units have also been functioning in the state. Through a video conferencing session, the CM attended the North India virtual conference of the CII. In the session, he said that units producing essential commodities had been exempted during the lockdown period and 1,884 units of pharma and food production were functioning in the Himalayan state. He added that several top companies of the country had either started their production or were in the process to start production in Uttarakhand. The CM further added that under the chairmanship of retired IAS officer, Indu Kumar Pandey, a committee has been formed to gauge the situation and submit a report on options for strengthening the economy of the state post Covid-19. CM said that the last date for payment of lease, rent in SIDCUL industrial areas has been extended from April 30 to June 30. He added that relief has been provided to labourers as well as the unit owners in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1171-industries-allowed-to-operate-since-april20-cm/articleshow/75435658.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Two held for robbing salesmen of fuel station in Roorkee||ROORKEE: Jhabreda Police in Roorkee on Tuesday arrested two men, in their early twenties, for allegedly robbing salesmen of a local fuel stations and decamping with Rs 43,600 and two cellphones at gunpoint on April 12. Police have recovered Rs 19,880, two cellphones and a motorcycle from them. However, one of them is still at large. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S said that three unidentified bike-borne miscreants robbed the salesmen of Vikrant Petrol Pump at gunpoint and decamped on April 12 around 12 pm. "On a tip off, we have arrested Anuj Gujjar and his friend Prashat whereas their third aide Sauran is still at large," the said SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-held-for-robbing-salesmen-of-fuel-station/articleshow/75435678.cms||Tapan Susheel
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||Focus on non-Covid-19 health issues: Experts||Bhopal: Focus on non-Covid-19 health issues such as immunisation, vaccination and maternal health, stated a proposal sent to the Covid-19 strategy, technical committee and district administration. “Non-COVID-19 work related to immunisation, maternal health services and related tasks would reinstall confidence in the people and provide other needed essential health services. Antenatal healthcare is also a priority,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. Instructions have also been issued for lifesaving services like dialysis. Experts have stressed on the need for optimising antenatal care during the Covid-19 pandemic. In MP, about 55% of pregnant women in the age group of 15-49 years are anaemic, 28% women have body mass index (BMI) that is below normal, going by the National Family Health Survey IV. Early supportive therapy and monitoring is needed for pregnant patients, experts said. Pregnant women beneficiaries receive supplementary nutrition. Nearly half of the pregnant women avail TT vaccination, IFA tablets as a component of ANC services through health workers. Many ANM and health workers have been roped in for COVID-19 tasks. Pregnant women in containment zones to be tested for Covid-19: Even if asymptomatic, pregnant women residing in clusters/containment area or in large migration gatherings/evacuees centre from hotspot districts who are likely to deliver in the next five days should be tested, according to ICMR guidelines as on April 20. Bhopal is a hotspot district and three of its main hospitals — JP hospital, Sultania hospital and Indira Gandhi hospital — have reported COVID-19 cases. ICMR guidelines also advise that asymptomatic pregnant women should be tested in the health facilities where they were expected to deliver and all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities. Women should not be referred to other hospitals for lack of testing facility. Given the risk to doctors and patients, the largest maternity care hospital in Madhya Pradesh has samples of only a handful of pregnant women. Most of them were close contacts of a doctor who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/focus-on-non-covid-19-health-issues-experts/articleshow/75436994.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Awareness programme on Covid-19 for police||Nashik: Senior doctors of the Nashik Indian Medical Association (IMA) conducted an awareness session for police personnel deployed at the Shivaji Nagar chowky. The doctors attached to the IMA made the police personnel abreast with the measures to be taken to keep themselves safe from Covid-19. The police personnel and the volunteers at the Shivaji Nagar chowky were informed about the steps to be undertaken to contain the spread of the virus and the expected precautionary measures on their part when they learn about a suspect/confirmed Covid-19 patient in their area. The awareness programme saw the presence of senior PI of Gangapur police station Anchal Mudgal, senior PI of Mumbai Naka police station Vijay Dhamal, API Praveen Suryawanshi and other senior police officers. Meanwhile, a similar programme was organised by the IMA doctors at the Mumbai Naka police station. During the event, all the police personnel were made abreast with the nature of Covid-19 and the precautions to be taken while handling Covid-19 suspected patients, people who have been arrested for violation of lockdown orders and also the use of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. The programme saw the presence of DCP Amol Tambe, PI Sadanand Inaamdar of crime branch unit 2 and other senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/awareness-programme-on-covid-19-for-police/articleshow/75435679.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||City’s first plasma therapy recipient still critical; 6 donors come forward||The first patient in the city to get plasma therapy continues to be critical at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra. The 53-year-old man, who is still on the ventilator, has not shown much improvement since he was transfused 200ml of plasma on Saturday. “His lungs have not improved much. He is quite critical at this moment. We hope his condition turns around,” said Dr V Ravishankar, COO of the hospital. Considering his condition, the hospital did not transfuse him the second unit of plasma as planned on Tuesday. “He is in septicaemia and till things improve on that front, we would take cautious steps,” he added. Six people have donated plasma so far. TOI has learnt two units of plasma were prepared for a second patient at SevenHills. Civic officials, though, confirmed no other patient has been given the therapy yet. The union health ministry reiterated on Wednesday plasma therapy was experimental. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-first-plasma-therapy-recipient-still-critical-6-donors-come-forward/articleshow/75438010.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Migrant finds job on phone for self & 7 friends as well||Nagpur: Networking skills shown by a migrant labourer resulted in him, and seven of his friends, getting their old jobs back at a public project site in Wardha. From a shelter home in Nagpur, Anand Kumar reached out to a private contractor over the phone and enquired about openings for truck drivers at his former site. Lady luck was on his side as the job offer, travel permissions and vehicle to pick up him up landed at his doorstep on Tuesday afternoon. Upon reaching Wardha, Kumar told TOI about the roller coaster ride his life went through in the last one month. “We were driving dumpers at the same site last month when the lockdown happened. Our contractor drove off to Rajasthan the same day leaving us without any money. He did not even pay us our dues, which was a hefty amount,” said Kumar, who hails from Jharkhand. With no means of surviving a prolonged lockdown, the group trekked to Nagpur and were put up at a shelter home by cops. While other inmates longed to return to their homes, Kumar was scouting for a job. “There is no question of going back home to starve. We came here to earn money and that’s what we will do,” said Kumar. “From the day I arrived I have been dialling numbers I saved during my stint in Wardha. I finally called up a senior person from a firm that was also executing a contract there and that’s how we all got jobs,” he said. Kumar’s friend Guddu Yadav said, “They will pay us Rs16,000 per month plus free food and accommodation.” Agrasen Bhavan’s shelter manager Deepak Pasarkar and NGO Livewell Foundation’s Devendra Kumar did all the paperwork to secure travel permissions, which both the NMC and city police helped to fastrack. Even after the lockdown is over, Mehta and his friends say they will stay put for months to come. “I already feel guilty about getting free food and stay at the shelter home. Shelter people were very good to us, but we don’t want to survive on charity. Only what you earn with hard labour is a blessing and that’s what we are in Wardha for,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrant-finds-job-on-phone-for-self-7-friends-as-well/articleshow/75437984.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 29, 2020||Hubballi||Docs in K’Buragi not supplied PPE kits: Cong MLA||Kalaburagi : Doctors fighting against Covid-19 and treating patients, have been working in hazardous conditions in Kalaburagi, as they were not given PPE kits and masks, alleged Jevargi MLA Ajay Singh, who is of the Congress. Talking to the media in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, he said that every district in the state has only one Covid-19 hospital, but in Kalaburagi there are two hospitals where Covid-19 wards have been opened. Covid 19 wards are there at ESIC hospital and Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). Doctors treating at both these hospitals don’t have proper PPE kits, which could cause the disease to spread, he alleged. “There is also a lack of basic amenities at these hospitals, as doctors and patients in the isolation ward are complaining of a lack of drinking water. There are also complaints that big rats can be seen in the rooms at ESIC hospital, he alleged. The toilets are also in a bad shape at the hospital, he alleged. He said that every 19 hours, a Covid-19 case is being detected in Kalaburagi, which is not a good development fot stopping the spread of the novel coronavirus. He said that early detection of the disease is important to stop its spread, but only 230 samples can be tested at a time at the GIMS Covid-19 testing lab. Samples from neighbouring districts like Bidar, Yadgir and Vijayapura are also sent to GIMS for testing, but the laboratory can test only 230 samples at a time, which must be increased, so that cases can be detected early, and the spread of the virus is stopped. The state government has completely neglected Kalaburagi, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/docs-in-kburagi-not-supplied-ppe-kits-cong-mla/articleshow/75435685.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Ahmednagar dist admin’s efforts yielding results||Nashik: Of the 14 talukas in Ahmednagar district, only three talukas — Jamkhed, Nevasa and Sangamner — have reported Covid-19 positive cases in the last fortnight. While six cases were reported from Jamkhed, four were reported from Sangamner and one from Nevasa. The remaining 11 talukas have not reporter a single novel coronavirus positive case in the last fortnight. The district administration is taking a lot of efforts to contain the spread of the infection. District collector Rahul Dwivedi told TOI that the administration continues to have utmost vigil across the district to prevent the spread of the infection. “Things are under control at present but we cannot afford to be complacent. All the agencies are working in a cohesive manner in the district,” said Dwivedi. The district has so far registered 43 positive cases, including the six attendees of the Tabhlighi Jaamat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi. A total of 24 patients have recovered and two patients succumbed to the infection. At present, 17 are undergoing treatment with 16 of them at the Booth hospital in Ahmednagar city and one at Pune-based Sassoon hospital. Interestingly, state health minister Rajesh Tope had recently lauded the Ahmednagar district administration for its remarkable work on contact tracing. Tope was reviewing the work of all the districts through video conferencing. According to district officials, the administration had gone all out to trace the high risk contacts ever since the first positive case of Covid-19 was reported in the district. “We had carried out cent percent contact tracing of all the positive cases in the district. On an average, there were at least 20 high risk contacts of one positive patient who were isolated and examined,” added the district collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-dist-admins-efforts-yielding-results/articleshow/75435699.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Permission sought to restart ancillary units, transport in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Unable to resume business as usual, despite nod from the state government allowing manufacturing units in Ahmedabad to restart production, industrialists have asked the government to permit ancillary units and transport and godowns to resume business. A representation made by Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA) to the state government mentions that without logistics support and supply of raw materials, industrialists are facing immense difficulties in resuming production activity to fulfil long-pending export commitments. Some 550 units in Vatva, Naroda, Narol and Odhav received permission to resume operations, last week. “It will be nearly a week since the government issued permissions to industrial units to resume operations. However, most units have not been able to start production and those that have, were only able to clock barely 10% production. Without logistics support and transportation, supply of raw materials becomes a serious concern due to which production cannot resume,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, GDMA. “There are several units which do not have warehousing facilities and thus, are dependent on transport for dispatching finished goods and procuring raw materials,” he added. Parikh said that the industry is reeling under working capital shortage currently with over a month of the lockdown. “We hope that there will be some relief following May 3. After all, the industrial production needs to resume in the interest of economy as well,” he further said. Industry sources also said that manpower is also a major concern for industry, especially, amid the migrant labourer crisis. “Very few labourers have stayed back and most have returned to their homeland. There is great uncertainty over their leaving and it may prove detrimental for industry operations,” said an industry source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/permission-sought-to-restart-ancillary-units-transport/articleshow/75437355.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||Over 21L labourers denied govt fund transfer for Covid||Bhopal: About 21 lakh labourers in Madhya Pradesh have been denied benefits of the direct transfer of cess funds for the welfare of construction workers. The state government has deposited Rs 1,000 each in the bank accounts of only 88,5089 labourers. The number of labourers in the state is 29,96,227.On March 24, Union minister of state for labour Santosh Gangwar issued an advisory to transfer funds in view of the Covid-19 crisis and the BJP government in the state decided to transfer a little over Rs 88.50 crore in the accounts of 88,5089 labourers at a rate of Rs 1,000 for each registered labourer. Moreover, the state transferred only Rs 1,000 in their accounts when about Rs 14,857 is available for each of the labourers, senior government officials said.Advising the states to transfer funds in the accounts of construction workers through direct benefit transfer mode from the cess fund collected by the labour welfare boards under the BOCW Cess Act, the advisory of the Union labour ministry said, “About Rs 52,000 crore is available as cess fund and about 3.5 crore construction workers are registered with the board.” “This means that about Rs 14,857 are available for each of them,” a government official in the state secretariat said.Responding to a query by the TOI, principal secretary Ashok Shah said, “Only 88,5089 construction workers are registered with the state government.” He further said, “The government cannot transfer all the amount in the account of labourers as it is running many other welfare schemes for them with the same fund.”But sources questioned why did 21 lakh labourers have gone missing from the benefits. Referring to an answer given by the Union labourers minister in Santosh Gangwar on February 11, 2019, sources said, the minister had quoted 29,96,227 as number of construction labourers in MP. Replying to the question raised by A Sampath of CPI, the Union minister had quoted the number of registered construction workers of all the states and union territories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-21l-labourers-denied-govt-fund-transfer-for-covid/articleshow/75437030.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Fiscal stimulus package soon, says Mahana||Lucknow: Industries minister Satish Mahana said Uttar Pradesh has sent recommendations to the Centre to announce a fiscal stimulus package to tide over lockdown losses and this is expected to be announced in a week. Addressing a virtual conference organised by CII North India, which was also attended by government representatives of Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, Mahana said, despite lockdown curbs to control the spread of covid-19, more than 7,000 units engaged in essential services were functional in the state. Principal secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said: “We are going to launch a portal to assist industries with issues like GST refunds and pending payments. The MSME department will be deputing a 25-member taskforce to handhold industries to get back in action.” Nikhil Sawhney, chairman, CII Northern Region, said a balance has to be struck between imperatives of preserving importance of health, economy and society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fiscal-stimulus-package-soon-says-mahana/articleshow/75438683.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Uncertainty looms large over MSMEs||Coimbatore: After more than a month of stalled operations due to the lockdown, uncertainty looms large over medium and small industries (MSMEs) in the district. With a likelihood of the lockdown getting extended, industry representative said they are adopting a wait-and-watch approach for now. They said even if they are allowed to start operations, they are not sure whether the orders they had before the lockdown would still be valid. So does the prospect of guest workers leaving for homes post-lockdown loom large as another threat. Even after submitting successive petitions and representations, the Centre has not announced any relief for them, they said. Though chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, on Monday seeking the Centre support for MSMEs to pay salaries and other dues, has come as a ray of hope, they said even with hand-holding from the Centre, it would take around six months for the industry to get on its feet. Starting manufacturing operations immediately was necessary for the sector’s survival, said R Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia). But he added starting operations after the lockdown would be like starting a firm from scratch. “We could start only with 30% to 50% of our workforce. It would take six months at least to get back on track, three months to nurture and three to grow. We could stabilise only by December,” he said. Along with manufacturing sector, he said, allied sectors such as raw materials and tools should be allowed to function all over the country. “For example, some industries might have to get raw materials from Delhi or Mumbai. Only if they get that, they can function,” he said. Orders were one of the things they were not sure about, said P Nallathambi, president of the Coimbatore Sidco Industrial Estate Manufacturer’s Welfare Association (Cosiema). Only after they start working they would come to know whether their orders still stand or they have been cancelled, he said. As for labourers, Nallathambi said they would look to retain their workforce, but would be able to engage only a part of them at a time. “Working on lesser capacity, we might have to engage parts of our workforce in rotation basis,” he said. Another crisis MSMEs may face, said J James, president of president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT), was that guest workers from other states would want to visit their hometowns after the lockdown is lifted. “They have already started asking to be let to go homes after the lockdown. They might take a while to return and this might be a problem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/uncertainty-looms-large-over-msmes/articleshow/75438032.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Amt Covid lab passes AIIMS swab result test||Amravati: With the results of experimental throat swab tests conducted at the Covid lab on Amravati University campus matching with that of samples tested at AIIMS Nagpur, the city has inched a step closer to getting Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approval for the testing facility. “The result of the tests done at AU lab was required to match with that of AIIMS results to get the approval and the hard work by lab’s nodal officer Dr Prashant Thakare and his team has yielded result,” said a jubilant vice-chancellor Dr Murludhar Chandekar late on Tuesday. “The AIIMS authorities have forwarded our case to ICMR for its approval, which is expected soon,” he said. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, prime mover of the lab’s case, expressed happiness over the development and said it will greatly help control Covid pandemic in the district. Earlier in the day, divisional commissioner Piyush Singh had told TOI that staff of Amravati University lab was undergoing training at AIIMS Nagpur and only after that the authorities would consider putting up the case before the ICMR. “In the meantime, we have been sending samples to Akola lab, AIIMS Nagpur and from today to Sewagram Medical College,” he added. The demand for setting up the lab was raised by Thakur in the cabinet meting on April 18. Health minister Rajesh Tope had sought Centre’s permission to open labs, each at a cost of around Rs35 lakh, at Nanded, Aurangabad, Jalna, Latur and Amravati. The lab at Nanded has started its operations from Wednesday last. Dr Prashant Thakare of microbiology department and Dr NA Ghanwate had also undergone training at AIIMS Nagpur for handling the Covid lab. The varsity has already been supplied with bio-safety level 2 cabinets, RT PCR machine and personal protective equipment (PPEs). Allaying apprehensions that setting up the lab on the campus would put students and employees at risk, Dr Rajesh Jaipurkar, pro-VC, said such apprehensions are unfounded. “Our lab is strictly according to ICMR norms,” he said. “ICMR has done video inspection and expressed satisfaction saying it is better than most other labs,” said Jaipurkar. “Samples come in a box and are opened in the lab only under ultraviolet lights. A chemical is applied to them that kills the virus. So there is no possibility of its spread on the campus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amt-covid-lab-passes-aiims-swab-result-test/articleshow/75438013.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||IFSC Authority headquarters will be in Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: The central government has notified the establishment of the International Financial Services Centres Authority. The head office of the unified regulatory authority will be in Gandhinagar, which already houses the country’s first IFSC at GIFT City. “The central government hereby appoints the 27th of April, 2020 as the date of the establishment of the International Financial Services Centres Authority and the head office of that Authority shall be at Gandhinagar, Gujarat,” said a notification issued by the Union finance ministry. “We welcome the government of India’s decision to set up the IFSC authority headquarters at Gandhinagar in Gujarat. This will provide a single window regulatory institution, which will accelerate the development of India’s first IFSC at GIFT City,” said Tapan Ray, MD & group CEO, GIFT City. According to Ray, both national and international institutions dealing in international financial services will utilize the IFSC platform for inbound and outbound investments with improved ease of doing business, thereby making GIFT IFSC a global financial hub. At present, entities operating in the IFSC are regulated by multiple regulators such as The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ifsc-authority-hq-will-be-in-gandhinagar/articleshow/75437351.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nashik||NMSCDCL to re-start all stalled projects||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) has decided to re-start all the smart city projects that had to be stopped due to the lockdown imposed on March 24. Some of the affected projects include Godavari beautification, internal roads in gaothan or core areas and installation of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. The NMSCDCL has asked all the contractors to obtain necessary permissions for starting the work. "We have just issued letters to all the contractors concerned, asking them to make plans to re-start all the halted projects. They will have to plan their work and ensure all the norms set by the government is being followed," Prakash Thavil, CEO, of NMSCDCL, said. As part of the smart city project, the development of internal roads in gaothan areas of the city under Area Based Development (ABD) — costing around Rs 201 crore — had started few months ago, only to be stopped by the Covid-19 outbreak. The Godavari beautification and river desilting projects costing around Rs 70 crore and Rs 11 crore, respectively, also met similar fate. Another major project affected due to lockdown was installation of 800 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras, costing around Rs 167 crore, at select locations across the city. Other smart city projects affected due to the lockdown include setting up of mechanical gate under the Holkar bridge (Rs 26 crore) and renovation of Pandit Paluskar auditorium (Rs 3 crore). Work on all these projects will resume shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmscdcl-to-re-start-all-stalled-projects/articleshow/75435720.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath: Indians’ immunity better, hence less coronavirus cases||LUCKNOW: Interacting with students brought from Kota recently, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the government will set up good coaching centres so that students from UP do not have to go to other cities. Around 11,500 students from UP had been stuck in Kota, a city famous for its coaching institutes where lakhs of students go each year to train for competitive exams. “Prepare for competitions from your homes now. See the courses that are available online. Our effort is to set up good educational centres to help students prepare for competitive examinations so that they need not go outside the state,” CM Yogi said. Asking them to contact government if they need help, Yogi said India is doing much better than so called ‘developed’ nations due to the timely lockdown. On relatively less cases and deaths in India compared to US and European nations, the CM said that immune system of Indians is stronger. “Those who adopted new way of living, consuming fast food, are now realising the dangers. In UP, about 70-75% of the 1,900 cases are asymptomatic which means their immunity is strong. This illness has given us an opportunity to return to the Indian way of life,” he said. The safe and secure return of Kota students to their homes is a success story, highlighting patience in the time of adversity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-indians-immunity-better-hence-less-cases/articleshow/75438703.cms||---
April 29, 2020||India||85% correlation between temperature rise & cut in virus spread: Study||PUNE: A study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) in Nagpur has found a “very strong” correlation — up to 85% — between the increase in the average day temperature and the reduction in Covid-19 spread for select cities in the country and for states like Maharashtra and Karnataka as a whole. Neeri, a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, based its research on a mathematical model. It sourced Covid-19 case data from the World Health Organisation and temperature data from India Meteorological Department. It studied the average real time temperature and relative humidity and their relationship with the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The Neeri research said when the gross values of temperature and relative humidity were considered for these two states, an increase in the average day temperature from 25°C and above caused a reduction in Covid-19 cases. However, the study pointed out that while the hot climate in India may prove to be beneficial in containing the Covid-19 spread, social distancing measures far outweighed the benefits of environmental factors like temperature and humidity. Hemant Bherwani, scientist in the director’s research cell at the Centre of Strategic Urban Management, Neeri, told TOI, “We did not want to only focus on temperature and humidity and their effect on the Covid-19 spread. Therefore, we also included social distancing in the research. Covid-19 is a highly contagious disease and India a very populous country. Therefore, unless social distancing is followed, the benefits of aspects like high temperature may not be visible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/85-correlation-between-temperature-rise-cut-in-virus-spread-study/articleshow/75439996.cms||Neha Madaan
April 29, 2020||Nashik||NMSCDL extends job application deadline to May 10||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDDCL) has extended the deadline to submit the applications for vacancies for various posts to May 10. On March 17, the NMSCDCL had floated an advertisement, inviting applications for five posts — general manager (IT), deputy general manager (IT), general manager (finance), administrative officer and account executive. The last date for submitting the applications for these post was April 4. But after the 21-day lockdown was imposed on March 24, the NMSCDCL had extended the deadline till April 30. Thereafter, the centre had extended the lockdown period to May 3. Considering this, the smart city body has again extended the deadline to May 10. These posts are lying vacant for the past two past three month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmscdl-extends-job-application-deadline-to-may-10/articleshow/75435741.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 29, 2020||Bhopal||CM launches BJYM’s ‘Selfie With Mask’ drive||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday launched two drives initiated by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) — ‘Selfie with Mask’ and ‘Video with Mask’ — in all organisational districts of the BJP. The daylong drive was aimed at spreading awareness about use of masks and social distancing during the Covid-19 crisis. “The BJYM has organised a ‘Selfie with Mask’ drive all over the state. We know that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president JP Nadda have called upon to maintain social distancing and never go out without mask during Coronavirus pandemic. If we want to defeat corona, we have to wear mask,” said Chouhan during the launch. The chief minister further said that mask or face cover can be homemade, or even a ‘gamchha’ can be used for safety. “Face cover is the biggest armour and without mask no one should go out. This is my appeal to all. I also use mask. I welcome the drive by the Yuva Morcha as this will increase awareness,” he said. ‘Selfie with Mask’ is a social media initiative by BJYM where workers create awareness among public by urging them to take a selfie or a video with mask on face and post it on the social media groups or sites or BJYM link. The drive began at 11am and continued through the day. “Selfie with Mask began at 11am and will cover all 56 organisational districts where party workers will post selfies with the mask on social media and make the public aware to use face cover during corona spread. The workers have also involved members from mandals, panchayats and wards in all towns and villages,” said BJYM state chief Abhilash Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-launches-bjyms-selfie-with-mask-drive/articleshow/75437067.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Diamantaires stare at decadal-low revenues||AHMEDABAD: India’s diamond polishing industry is set to witness its revenues plunge to a decadal low of $13-15 billion in fiscal 2021 as compared to $24 billion in FY19. The revenues are estimated to hover around $19 billion in the financial year 2020, states a research by Crisil Ratings. Surat is a hub of diamond cutting, polishing and processing of rough diamond. According to the rating agency, the shift in the epicenter of Covid-19 pandemic to the US and the European Union (EU) from China has added to the woes of already beleaguered diamond polishers. The US and the EU together account for over 45% of India’s polished diamond exports. “Exports to these two geographies fell a staggering 41% in February year-on-year as the pandemic intensified, and have plunged further since then, especially with the nationwide lockdown starting mid-March. Diamond exports to other markets have too suffered. In Hong Kong and China, which also account for about 45% of the exports, demand for luxury goods such as diamonds, jewellery and watches is estimated to have nosedived by 79% in February and even further since then. “The inventory levels are estimated to have increased 15-20% over the March quarter. With the pandemic hitting all major global markets, prices fell by an average 7% across various cuts of polished diamonds in March 2020, which means likely inventory losses,” said Subodh Rai, senior director, CRISIL Ratings. Crisil’s analysis has factored in inputs from its rated portfolio of 114 diamond exporters, which represent more than 30% of the industry. The reduction in sales coupled with potential inventory losses will impact the profitability of Indian diamantaires in fiscal 2021. “In February, even as payments from China started tapering, those from the US and the EU were regular. However, since March, payments from across geographies have reduced to about 25-30% of the actual monthly dues. This could test the ability of the Indian exporters to clear the maturing post shipment credit on time,” Crisil added. Assuming the pandemic starts subsiding by June and trade channels normalise over the next quarter, Crisil expects a revival in demand to be pushed into the second half of the fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diamantaires-stare-at-decadal-low-revenues/articleshow/75437348.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||BMC halts home testing over its ‘panic’ use, piling up of samples||MUMBAI: The civic body said on Tuesday the home testing facility will no longer be available in the city, following instances of its inappropriate use and stacking up of samples. In another development on the testing front, J J Hospital has received a machine with a capacity to process 2,000 samples a day. The facility, though, is likely to be reserved for samples from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region as 18 laboratories cater only to the city’s requirements. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani confirmed that a decision has been taken to stop home testing but if someone needs it urgently, the corporation will arrange for it. “In several cases, it was noticed that people were calling up for home tests out of sheer panic, even though they were not candidates for these. Labs, too, went on collecting samples and, in many cases, beyond their capacity, which delayed reports for everyone,” he said, adding that a delay in getting reports can have a cascading effect on the entire chain from contract-tracing to quarantining. Civic officials said anyone who thinks they have symptoms but cannot step out for a test can contact the helpline number 1916. “A doctor will speak to the person and advise what needs to be done. If the person is incapable of moving around, we will collect a sample and test it in one of our labs. Else, the person will be asked to visit his or her nearest fever clinic,” he said. The civic body has served notices to two private labs— Metropolis (previously) and Thyrocare—for reasons ranging from bunching up of samples to alleged lapses in reporting. Kakani said they were awaiting a response from Thyrocare. “If the response is satisfactory, they can resume testing,” he said. A civic official said it was seen that labs were collecting more samples than they could handle, thereby delaying the results. About the lab at J J Hospital, medical education secretary Dr Sanjay Mukherjee said Nashik-based Datar Cancer Genetics has given the machine to the department. On Tuesday, an RNA extraction machine was being ferried to the hospital, confirmed IAS officer Vinita Singal, who is overseeing JJ’s functioning. “We will focus on samples coming from the MMR since they have limited capacity and resources. More doctors have been mobilized within JJ to ensure smooth functioning of the lab,” he said. Mukherjee said the department has added 51 labs to increase the state’s testing capacity. Mumbai alone carries out 3,500-4,000 tests daily. More than 1.3 lakh samples have been tested in the state, of which 1.2 lakh were negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-halts-home-testing-over-its-panic-use-piling-up-of-samples/articleshow/75438037.cms||Bhavika Jain
April 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Utilize time to help students master basic concepts, official tells teachers||Coimbatore: The school education department plans to make the lockdown more meaningful for both teachers and students. Coimbatore chief education officer (CEO) P Usha has asked teachers to use the time to make students understand Mathematics and Science concepts well in order to attain expertise on their core subjects. “We have asked teachers to be in constant touch with students through phone calls and WhatsApp. Teachers are also giving special attention to students who need more help in academics,” Usha told TOI. Teachers are conducting tests for Class X students through phone messaging services. In addition, the CEO said she has asked all teachers to use the time to make students to focus on basic concepts. “We have asked teachers to explain basic concepts not only for Class X students, but also for Class IX students and for students from other classes. This is a good opportunity for them to explain things without rushing or getting strict,” she said. “Rather than rote learning, if students are made strong in basic concpets, they would not be apprehensive of facing tests or exams after they come back to school,” she said. Government school teachers have also been contacting underprivileged students and those whose parents have lost jobs and livelihoods because of the lockdown, and have been taking steps to help them by providing essentials and provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/utilize-time-to-help-students-master-basic-concepts-official-tells-teachers/articleshow/75438036.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Harsh Gupta gets police report, seeks info from other depts||Mysuru: Days after senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta was appointed to probe the outbreak of Covid-19 virus at Nanjangud’s Jubilant Generics, the officer has sought information from departments concerned to uncover the mysteries surrounding infection. Harsh Gupta on Tuesday told reporters that the police investigation report has been handed over to him. He has also sought details from other government agencies concerned. Following their reply, the investigation will continue, he stated. “I can’t share the contents of the letters to the government departments. I will submit my report to the government along with police report,” the officer said. To a query, the senior official said the issue of reopening of the firm is not before him and he wouldn’t comment anything about it. Gupta said he visited Jubilant Generics in Nanjangud which is the biggest corona cluster in Karnataka. At this juncture, more than investigation, containing the spread of the virus is important, he pointed out. Gupta was appointed to monitor the covid cases in Mysuru in mid-April and a week later, he was asked to probe the possible source of infection. The officer has been given a week’s time to submit the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/harsh-gupta-gets-police-report-seeks-info-from-other-depts/articleshow/75435728.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||BJP MLA says avoid buying from Muslim vendors in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: BJP MLA from Barhaj assembly seat in Deoria sparked off a controversy through his remark that people should refrain from buying vegetables from Muslim vendors. In a video that went viral, Suresh Tewari can be heard telling people that Muslim vendors contaminate vegetables with their saliva, potentially increasing the possibility of coronavirus spread. The MLA has been served a showcause notice by state BJP president. UP BJP spokesperson, Harish Chandra Srivastava, said, the party does not allow any member to make statements which are not in consonance with party policy. “Such statements divide society which is not acceptable,” he said. Tewari said, he went to Barhaj last week to attend a meeting at the Nagar Palika Parishad office, where some people lodged complaints against Muslim vendors found contaminating vegetables with saliva. “Ek baat sab log dhyan mein rakh lein…koi bhi mian ke haath se sabzi nahi lega (remember to not buy veggies from Muslims),” he can be heard in the video. When TOI spoke to Tewari, he said: “My remark was after people’s complaint. I told them they should stop buying vegetables from Muslim vendors if they were found putting their saliva. There was nothing wrong in what I said.” Tewari denied making the remark in presence of government officials. Tewari said he had just given his opinion and it was up to the people to decide from whom to buy vegetables. He said everyone saw how Tablighis triggered a spurt in Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mla-says-avoid-buying-from-muslim-vendors/articleshow/75438735.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first plasma therapy recipient still critical; 6 donors come forward||MUMBAI: The first patient in the city to get plasma therapy continues to be critical at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra. The 53-year-old man, who is still on the ventilator, has not shown much improvement since he was transfused 200ml of plasma on Saturday. “His lungs have not improved much. He is quite critical at this moment. We hope his condition turns around,” said Dr V Ravishankar, COO of the hospital. Considering his condition, the hospital did not transfuse him the second unit of plasma as planned on Tuesday. “He is in septicaemia and till things improve on that front, we would take cautious steps,” he added. Six people have donated plasma so far. TOI has learnt two units of plasma were prepared for a second patient at SevenHills. Civic officials, though, confirmed no other patient has been given the therapy yet. The union health ministry reiterated on Wednesday plasma therapy was experimental.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-first-plasma-therapy-recipient-still-critical-6-donors-come-forward/articleshow/75438054.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Expert group to help jump-start Gujarat economy||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani has asked state officials to form an expert advisory group (EAG) to work out a comprehensive plan to jump-start the state’s economy after the lockdown ends. The EAG will consist of industrialists, traders, economists, farmer leaders, eminent citizens and others. They will advise the government and recommend steps to revive the state’s economy. “The state government has decided to seek suggestions from experts of various fields and sections of society on how to best steer the state to economic normalcy again after the lockdown is lifted,” Rupani said. The CM added that the government expects the EAG to provide short-term and long-term inputs . “I have asked the chief secretary to constitute the group and prepare a detailed report so we can initiate action in reviving the state’s economy,” the CM said. “The lockdown period, however, will be relaxed only in line with the Government of India’s advice.” “However, considering global and national situation, we aim to take both short-term and long-term actions to boost the economy,” Mukim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/expert-group-to-help-jump-start-state-economy/articleshow/75437345.cms||Kapil Dave
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Over 10,000 people arrested in Uttarakhand in over one month for defying lockdown||DEHRADUN: As many as 10,795 people have been arrested across Uttarakhand in a little over a month — an average of over 300 arrests a day — for violating lockdown restrictions. Police data accessed by TOI also revealed that a total of 2,269 FIRs were registered during the period with majority of them being under Disaster Management Act, section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act. Maximum violations have been reported from Udham Singh Nagar district where 3,816 people have been arrested for defying lockdown curbs, followed by Dehradun (1,498), Haridwar (1,385), Pithoragarh (957) and Nainital (702). Speaking to TOI, Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, said, “Police are strictly enforcing the lockdown in Uttarakhand. Despite repeated appeals, if people are found violating the rules, they are being booked. The aim is to ensure people remain inside their homes and don’t venture out." During the period, 26,334 vehicles have been challaned, 5,461 vehicles seized for lockdown violations and Rs 1.35 crore has been collected in fines, according to police data. According to police,for the effective implementation of the lockdown order, the whole state has been divided into 102 zones and 500 sectors. For effective enforcement, almost 6,000 police personnel and additional 20 companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) have been deployed in Uttarakhand, police officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-10k-people-arrested-in-ukhand-in-over-one-month-for-defying-lockdown/articleshow/75434457.cms||Gaurav Talwar
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Many factories yet to start work despite getting permissions||NASHIK: A large number of factories, that have acquired permissions from the government, are yet to restart industrial operations. In Nashik only 50% of the industries, which have taken permissions, have started work, the number in Kolhapur is closer to 40%. While in the Nashik city limits, transportation of industrial workers in the sticky point, foundries in Kolhapur are unwilling to start work due to MSEDCL’s fixed power tariff. A large number of factories in the Satpur and Ambad industrial estates of the MIDC, which are located in the jurisdiction of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), are yet to start operations as they are unable to work out a feasible way to transport the industrial workers. As per government guidelines, the factories must have dedicated buses for the workers — with one person allowed on one seat. The industries within the city are finding it difficult to implement the clause and want the government to allow workers to use two- or four-wheelers. “It is very difficult for the industries in the city to bring their workers by buses. They don’t have adequate buses,” said Manish Rawal, a senior member of the Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA). “Though 3,127 industrial units successfully uploaded their self-declarations and got permissions to start operations, only 1,627 units have started work and they are mostly in the rural areas,” said Nitin Gavli, Nashik regional officer, MIDC. “The industries in rural areas have their own buses,” added Gavli. When contacted, Tushar Chavan, secretary-general, NIMA said the association is pursuing the issue with the state government. “We have already sent a letter to state industry minister Subhash Desai. He will be in Nashik on Wednesday and we plan to meet him and urge him to relax the transporting norms,” said Chavan. Even in Kolhapur district, of the 667 industries that got the permission, only 261 had started production till Tuesday. District guardian minister Satej Patil requested all the remaining industries to start operations on a priority basis as it will help in reviving Kolhapur’s economy. “The district administration and state government are taking steps to assist the industrialists and ensure that they continue their production. The 261 industries have started operations with only 1,334 employees,” he said. Meanwhile, some of the industries are coming up with demands that the government should waive off the fixed power tariff charged by the Maharashtra State Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). The Kolhapur wing of Institute of Indian Foundrymen held a meeting with MLA Chandrakant Jadhav and informed him about their decision to not start the operations till their demand is met. “We pay power bills varying from Rs 25,000 to Rs 10 lakh depending on the capacity of the foundry. All business activities were halted for more than a month due to the lockdown and if we start our operations, it will take some more time for us to gain momentum and get new orders. In this situation, we will not be able to pay the electricity bills,” one of the representatives of the association said. “The state government has deferred the collection of fixed tariff from industries for three months, but we want the government to waive off the fixed tariff to help the foundries survive and flourish,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/many-factories-yet-to-start-work-despite-getting-permissions/articleshow/75435762.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Extend TDS payment deadline: GCCI||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) on Tuesday made a representation to the Central Board of Direct Taxes, asking that the deadline for TDS payment date for April 2020 be extended to May 31.  Industrialists have sought the extension, citing the lockdown extension difficulties faced by taxpayers to determine TDS payable. “With the lockdown extension and only sale of essential goods/services continuing, it is getting extremely difficult for taxpayers to calculate TDS amounts and make the necessary payments. Looking at conditions, it appears that the lockdown may get extended further making it difficult to pay TDS even for the month of April, 2020, and the due date of May 7 should thus be extended to May 31,” the representation mentions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/extend-tds-payment-deadline-gcci/articleshow/75437343.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Number of wildfires doubles in state’s forests this year||Mysuru: The nationwide lockdown has seen forest fires in several locations with officials reporting more than 1,000 fire incidents in April alone even as the fire department has stepped up efforts to contain such incidents amid the Covid-19 crisis. The state’s five tiger reserves, 30 wildlife sanctuaries, eight safaris, nine zoos, 15 conservation reserves and the only community reserve are prone to wildfire which are ironically created by humans — mostly people inhabiting forest areas or poachers. According to principal chief conservator of forests Punati Sridhar, far more forest fires reported this summer season in the state when compared to last three years. “On an average, in April, 500 wildfire incidents are reported in our forests. However, this year, in the first 10 days of April alone, more than 1,000 wildfire incidents have been reported,” said the head of forest force. “When compared to the same period last three years, number of wildfire incidents have doubled. Most fires were detected through various advanced technology adopted by the department and were doused immediately,” Punati Sridhar added. However, with the onset of early summer rains, forest fire incidents have come down since the third week of April. “The incidents have come down now as we had rainfall,” he added. Recently minister of forest, ecology and environment Anand Singh had tweeted that fire incidents at over 1,777 locations were detected by satellite from March 21 to 30 this year. All these fires were doused on the same day of detection. Mapping the risk zones Karnataka has over 43.35 lakh hectars of forest area. The Forest Survey of India, which come under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, has identified fire-prone forest areas based on GIS analysis of archived forest fire points detected from 2004 to 2017. According to the technical report, it has detected 7,352 forest fire points in the state. Of the total forest area in the state, 95 sq kms of forest cover area has been categorised as extreme fireprone, 863 sq kms as highly fire-prone, 2301 sq kms as fire prone, 3301 sq kms as moderately fire prone and 26494 sq kms as less fire prone forest area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/number-of-wildfires-doubles-in-states-forests-this-year/articleshow/75434492.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||110 Nepalese stuck in UP to return home||Lucknow: The Maharajganj district administration is set to send 110 Nepalese to the Himalayan kingdom after a nod from the Centre.Most of these Nepalese, who worked as class four employees, are either from adjoining districts or from Bihar and West Bengal. Authorities confirmed that 152 Indians who were stuck in Nepal have returned safely and have been quarantined in a school at Nautanwan police station area.District magistrate, Maharajganj, Ujjwal Kumar said 110 Nepalese, stuck during the lockdown, have been kept at a quarantine centre and nobody among them has been tested positive for Covid-19. “A team of doctors is looking after them and their quarantine period is over. We have sent the request to the state which will pass it on to the ministry of external affairs and seek approval for their return to Nepal,” said Kumar.The DM further said they have also sent 310 Nepalese so far. The swab samples of 152 Indians, who have returned from Nepal, have been sent for testing, he said adding that of them 50 are from Maharajganj, Gonda, Bahraich, Basti, 50 from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, 16 from West Bengal and rest from other states. They will be quarantined and then sent to their respective states.A senior police officer said that documents of all were checked by authorities concerned before bringing back them to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/110-nepalese-stuck-in-up-to-return-home/articleshow/75438757.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nashik||Civic body completes survey of 3 containment zones||NASHIK: The door-to-door survey being carried out by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) in three containment areas — Govind Nagar, Rajlaxmi Lawn on Nashik Road and Anandvalli on Gangapur Road — was completed on Tuesday. The civic body had sealed Govind Nagar after one of the residents tested positive for Covid-19 on April 6. Anandvalli and Rajlaxmi Lawn areas were sealed for the same reason on April 10. Following this, the civc body undertook the task of conducting the door-to-door survey to check for high-risk contacts and other suspected patients. Even though the survey is complete, the containment area in Govind Nagar will continue to be sealed till May 18, while in Gangapur Road and Nashik Road areas the prohibitions will remain in place till May 22. "So far, two Covid-19 positive patients from Govind Nagar and Nashik Road have recovered and discharged. The condition of the positive patient from Gangapur Road is also good and will soon be discharged," a civic official said. Other three containment zones where the NMC is conducting door-to-door survey are Bajrang Wadi near Nasardi bridge, Sanjeev Nagar on Satpur-Ambad Link Road and Vrindavan Nagar in Mhasrul. A resident from Mhasrul area was tested positive on Monday. The civic body has sealed an area of 100 metre of radius from the building where the patient lives. The NMC has sanitised the area and started door-to-door survey of all houses through three teams of health officials. On Tuesday, the health teams conducted door-to-door survey of 191 houses in the containment area in Mhasrul. Moreover, the civic body also conducted survey of a total of 1,835 houses in Bajrangwadi and Sanjeev Nagar containment areas, covering 7,183 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-completes-survey-of-3-containment-zones/articleshow/75435790.cms||Tushar Pawar
April 29, 2020||Hubballi||Kalaburagi records 6 cases||Kalaburagi: Six more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, taking the total in the district to 44. Of them, five have succumbed to the infection and seven recovered. The isolation ward has 32 active cases still being treated. The latest cases pertain to 55-year-old man (P-515) from Mominpur, 40-year-old woman (P-516) from Mominpur, 43-year-old man (P-517) from Islamabad Colony, 28-year-old woman (P-518) from Islamabad Colony , 45-year-old woman (P-519) from Mominpur, 22-year-old woman (P-520) from Mominpur. All of them are said to have come in direct contact with P-395 in Kalaburagi. They were shifted to the isolation ward in ESIC here on Tuesday night. On its part, the district administration has been taking stringent measures to check the spread of coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kalaburagi-records-6-cases/articleshow/75435784.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||No fresh Covid cases in Maha, Bengal after May 21: Mum Univ lab forecast||Mumbai: Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha and Uttaranchal have already reached the end of the pandemic, according to economists from the Covid-19 data lab at the Mumbai University. And if their optimistic prediction is anything to go by, two of the states, Maharashtra and West Bengal, will stop recording fresh cases after May 21. The team has studied the slowing of the doubling rate in many regions to arrive at the projections. Predominant concentration of cases in certain urban centres has also weighed on their assessment. Using logistic curves for each state, they have generated forecasts for the date on which the incidence of new cases will stop. However, the study excludes Bihar. “Cases in Bihar are growing rapidly with a doubling period of four days. It will not be wise to estimate the point at which the curve will flatten there. But in most states, doubling rates have grown longer, and it has become possible to statistically estimate when the curve will flatten out. We have assumed doubling periods will fall even more in most states while they reach their plateaus,” said Neeraj Hatekar, head of the data lab at the Mumbai School of Economics and Public Policy. Going by present trends, in about 10 days, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana should also stop recording new corona virus cases, says the study. A few days later, by May 10, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, too, will be free of new cases. “A significant factor in control of infections in India has been the fact that the pandemic has been localised to a select number of urban clusters,” said Hatekar. For example, 56% of total cases in Madhya Pradesh come from Bhopal and Indore; in Maharashtra, 55% of cases come from Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nashik and Nagpur; in Rajasthan, 41% come from Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bharatpur; and in Gujarat, 59% come from three cities. “This has meant that the population among which the infection can spread has also been limited, which is an important factor in limiting the number of cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-fresh-covid-cases-in-maha-bengal-after-may-21-mum-univ-lab-forecast/articleshow/75439799.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||POCSO accused gets bail to prevent divorce||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has granted bail to Hitesh Makwana for 30 days on two grounds – his worry during Covid-19 pandemic about his own health in jail and his father’s ailment and at the same time he wanted to save his marriage. The 25-year-old POCSO accused told the HC that he badly required bail for a month. His advocate Riddish Trivedi submitted that Makwana, who is lodged in Sabarmati central jail since October 2018, is the sole bread earner of the family. His father is suffering from aging problem and in this nationwide lockdown; there is nobody to take care of the old man. Besides, Makwana submitted that he wanted bail to prevent his divorce as his marriage is at stake because of his long imprisonment. Against his wife’s wish, her family has already sent a draft of divorce deed to his family. His in-laws are pressurizing his wife to sign the documents. They are also exerting pressure on him to put his signature on papers through his aged father. He told the court that his in-laws are trying to project a picture before his wife as if he was insisting on divorce. He reiterated that the process has been initiated against the wish of his wife, and he can prevent the divorce if granted bail for a month. The applicant also claimed that he was worried about his own safety because the inmates in the central jail are at higher risk of infection of coronavirus on account of lack of proper cleanliness and sanitization. After hearing Makwana’s prayers, Justice R P Dholaria granted him bail on Monday for 30 days on condition of furnishing Rs 5,000 bond. He has been ordered to regularly mark his presence before the Nikol police station, where he was booked on molestation charges, during his bail period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pocso-accused-gets-bail-to-prevent-divorce/articleshow/75437341.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nashik||MMSPC results declared||NASHIK: City-based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Tuesday declared the result of 1,459 students of Modern Midlevel Service Provider Course (MMSPC). The MMPSC is a 6-month-long course and an initiative of Ayushman Bharat to include tudents of other medical stream into mainstream modern medicine. The university has uploaded the results on its website www.muhs.edu.in. Deelip Mhaisekar, MUHS vice-chancellor, said "The students were eagerly awaiting the results as they want to join the force of healthcare workers across the state. The results are uploaded online and students can access them according to their roll calls."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mmspc-results-declared/articleshow/75435820.cms||pragya jain
April 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Take action against merchants if they charge more: Minister||Mangaluru: District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari directed all gram panchayats to take action against merchants, if they were found to be overcharging for groceries and other food items. Holding a video conference with the presidents and panchayat development officers (PDOs) of selected gram panchayats of Puttur, Sullia and Belthangady taluks in Dakshina Kannada, Poojari said he has received many complaints about merchants in rural areas charging more for groceries, fruits and vegetables. “We get complaints from villagers, that many shops have been charging more than the actual price of commodities. Hence, all gram panchayats should keep a tab on shops in their respective jurisdictions, and take necessary action if someone is found to be charging extra,” Poojari said. He called upon all gram panchayat members to help ASHA workers conduct their door-to-door health survey. “Gram panchayat members should visit houses in their jurisdiction, along with ASHA workers, for the second phase of the health survey. Gram panchayat presidents and members should take up initiatives to create awareness and instil confidence in people, to ensure that the lockdown is successful. Each gram panchayat has been sanctioned Rs 20,000 for Covid-19 related works. This can be utilised for awareness programmes, and also for ASHA workers’ emergency expenses,” Poojari said. After reviewing various development works related to MGNREGS and drinking water projects, the minister said the government will give permission to drill borewells in villages, based on the necessity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/take-action-against-merchants-if-they-charge-more-minister/articleshow/75435842.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: No frontline duty for cops above 55 years||LUCKNOW: Lucknow police have asked policemen above 55-years of age to stay off from active frontline duty as the age group is most susceptible to Covid-19. The decision was taken after 19 cops in the same age group in Varanasi, Kanpur, Bijnore tested positive for the virus. Lucknow commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey said that he has also replaced all hotspot force and created a reserve of 100 cops and kept them at three isolated places. This has been done as a stand by in case any thana is to be quarantined in entirety. Pandey also said that on Tuesday, Lucknow police became the first force in the state to give face shields to the cops. “We have distributed as many as 500 face shields to constables who would be deployed in the hotspot areas,” said Pandey. The commissioner of police said that around 500 cops have been deployed in all the hotspots in the city, while those aged above 55 have been removed from these sensitive points. “They would first be given a medical check-up and their medical history will also be scanned based on which the duties be arranged in offices and other points,” added the CP. “There is no dearth of PPE kits which have been given to the cops manning hotspot areas. In case of emergency if some cop has to enter the sealed area then only one has to use the kit,” said the CP. The CP also said that police is taking full care of diet of cops who have been assigned a duty at the hotspots. “We are providing them with fruit juices, fruits, a rich nutritious diet to improve their immunity.” The officer also said that in an effort to reduce the pressure on the force extensive use of drones is being done to monitor the hotspot areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-frontline-duty-for-cops-above-55-years/articleshow/75438775.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Six more police personnel test positive for Covid-19, office duty for constables aged above 50||PUNE: Six more personnel from a centrally located police station in the city tested positive for Covid-19 and referred to a designated hospital for treatment. They were part of the 100 personnel, who were referred to institutional or home quarantine on Monday after three of their colleagues had tested positive for the contagion. The test reports of these 100 personnel came on Tuesday and eight of them tested positive. The total number of infected police constables has now reached nine. Earlier, three policemen from the police station tested positive for the virus. They are recuperating in different hospitals in the city and Pimpri Chinchwad. “Nine policemen have so far tested positive for Covid,” said police commissioner K Venkatesham. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve told TOI, “On Monday evening, we decided to temporarily shut down some police chowkis. These chowkis are located in the red zones of the city. The decision was taken to reduce the contact of people with the police personnel.” The daily functions of these chowkis will be done from the police stations. “The senior officers at the police stations will resolve the issues of the citizens at the police station by maintaining social distancing,” Shisve said. In another case, an elderly woman staying in a police colony at Khadki also tested positive for Covid-19. She was admitted to a hospital, a senior police officer said. The officer added that the city police have quarantined her son, a constable and other family members. Though the constable did not test positive for the virus, he was quarantined as a safety measure. A senior officer told TOI that the police colony has been sanitized. The other policemen from the colony have been told to take precautions. The police on Tuesday issued orders that the constables aged above 50 would do office duties. “They will not be given any bandobast duties or posted at check point on the roads. The aim is to safeguard the health of the police personnel aged above 50,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-more-police-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/75438765.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Minority group protests loudspeaker ban||AHMEDABAD: A day after the state government put a ban on use of loudspeakers at religious places to arrest the impact of Covid-19 pandemic, an outfit for minority rights protested on Tuesday against the decision and demanded its revocation during the holy month of Ramzan. The Minority Coordination Committee has made a representation to the chief minister saying that prohibition on use of loudspeaker for recitation of azan and announcements for initiation and end of fasting is violation of the constitutional rights. Committee’s convener Mujahid Nafees wrote, “The state government is trying to snatch away the constitutional rights under the guise of the Disaster Management Act, which is not appropriate.” The committee said that the Muslim community had accepted the closure of religious places since the beginning of the lockdown. But with the advent of Ramzan, there is a requirement of loudspeakers in mosques for proper observance of fast. He requested the chief minister to revoke the rule introduced on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/minority-group-protests-loudspeaker-ban/articleshow/75437336.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two more cases against Jamaat members: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat director general of police (DGP) Shivanand Jha on Tuesday told reporters that police had filed two more cases of lockdown violation against Tablighi Jamaat members in Bharuch district on Monday. “Some Tablighi Jamaat members had gone to Bhavnagar before the lockdown on March 17 from Dahej in the ro-ro ferry service. Six of them returned to Parkhet village in Bharuch in a private bus after the lockdown. As cops came to know about it, the offenders were booked by Palej police station of Bharuch,” said Jha. Jha added: “Similarly, seven members of Tablighi Jamaat returned from Bhavnagar to Vatarsa village in Bharuch in a private bus during the lockdown. They were booked by Aamod police station of Bharuch.” However, the DGP did not give any clarification in his statement as to how the Jamaat members were allowed to roam in a private bus and enter Bharuch, even as police personnel were deployed at entry and exit points of all the districts. Jha bemoaned the fact that people were least bothered about maintaining social distancing in some areas. “Police personnel have been instructed to intensify patrolling in these areas,” he said. Jha also warned traders and shopkeepers, who recently turned out to be super spreaders, that strict actions would be taken against them for not maintaining social distancing. The DGP said that traders or shopkeepers ought to wear masks and also encourage their customers to wear masks in order to stop the further spread of novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-more-cases-against-jamaat-members/articleshow/75437331.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC notice to state govt on 30-day isolation||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday sought response from the AAP government on a plea by a man who was asked to spend over 30 days in home quarantine after he came in contact with a pizza delivery boy in south Delhi last month. Justice C Hari Shankar issued notice to the authorities on the plea questioning the manner in which Covid-19 quarantine guidelines are enforced. In his plea, Amit Bhargava said he was one of those people from the 72 families who had come in contact with the novel coronavirus infected delivery person. Since the contact-tracing revealed he had come in contact with the pizza delivery boy on March 24, an order was issued for his home quarantine after the case was discovered on April 15 — more than 20 days after he had first contact with the delivery person. Rules say that home quarantine for 14 days is needed from the day of exposure, and not from the day a positive case is discovered. The notice pasted on Bhargava’s house declared he was under quarantine from March 24 to April 20, which led to his neighbours questioning him as to why he was not observing quarantine since March 24, said the petition, arguing that the infected delivery person was diagnosed with coronavirus only in mid-April. It argued that the manner in which the government calculated the quarantine period indicated “non-application of mind” adding that once he pointed this out to the local authorities, a fresh home quarantine notice was pasted on Bhargava’s door on April 17. This time, the quarantine period was mentioned as April 14-28. “The imposition of a 35-day quarantine period on a person who had a single defined point of contact with the infected individual, and who lives alone, appears to be arbitrary and reflects non-application of mind.....Calculation and imposition of home quarantine on the petitioner (Bhargava) is contrary to the guidelines for home quarantine issued by the ministry of health and family welfare,” the petition read. The plea also sought directions to Delhi government to strictly adhere to the said guidelines and follow due procedure, “when issues of liberty are at stake.” HC, however, refused to issue notice on Bhargava’s specific plea that the government formulate a policy enabling people in home quarantine to access private labs for Covid-19 testing. Justice Hari Shankar said the court can’t intervene in a policy matter. Bhargava also alleged that during the entire period, he was neither tested for Covid-19 infection, nor permitted to step out for testing at a private lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-notice-to-govt-on-30-day-isolation/articleshow/75460057.cms||Abhinav Garg
April 29, 2020||Pune||‘Disregard to lockdown rules a stress trigger’||PUNE: People’s disregard to lockdown rules and social distancing norms is a major source of stress for Pune police personnel, a study by the BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital’s department of paediatrics has revealed. The study, commissioned by Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham, is titled ‘Knowledge, attitude and practice of police force of Pune urban area towards Covid-19’. A team of doctors headed by Dr Aarti Kinikar of the hospital conducted it, findings of which were submitted to the police on Monday. As a part of this exercise, online forms were issued to the city’s total force of 8,651 police personnel. Of these, 5,692 (66%) of the personnel responded by submitting observations and difficulties faced by them. Apart from disregard to the lockdown rules, factors like being abused by people, limited opportunity to meet family members, difficulties in accessing food, water and snacks, groceries and even repairs of their vehicles are causing stress among the force (see box), the study revealed. The study encompassed about 28 different questions to ascertain the reasons for the stress level of the police personnel during the lockdown, Venkatesham said, adding that a majority of the issues raised by the police personnel had been addressed. “We have installed sanitization chambers at the police stations and other police units and also created couple of roaming sanitization vans. The policemen can approach their immediate superior authorities with their complaints and the seniors have been asked to look at these complaints at priority,” the Pune police commissioner said. Besides, the city police have also started supplying groceries and other essential products at police colonies or stations for the benefit of their personnel. A special team headed by deputy commissioner of police (Headquarters) Virendra Mishra has been formed to look after the issues faced by the policemen engaged in bandobast or check-point duties on the field, especially in the red zones of the city. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the city on March 9, the police have been deployed for various tasks, including providing security to hospitals and healthcare services, aiding contact tracing and even bringing escapees back to the quarantine facilities, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/disregard-to-lockdown-social-distancing-norms-a-major-source-of-stress-among-cops-study/articleshow/75438777.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Monday’s rain spell leave Dehradun drains choked||DEHRADUN: The downpour in Dehradun on Monday has left drains choked in several parts of the city. The residents claim that besides mixed garbage, dry leaves are also blocking the drains. In some areas, the locals complain that Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) teams are not picking up leaves and instead burning them in localities which block the drains further. HS Chaddha, a resident of Silver Rock Apartments at Curzon Road, told TOI, “The drains were filled with garbage which caused the rainwater to overflow when it rained on Monday. The water got collected on road following which, the residents decided to get it cleared with the help of private workers. I just hope the teams from DMC get the drains cleaned soon” A similar situation prevailed at Municipal Road in Dalanwala area where dry leaves piled up for days and later choked the drains. The residents claim that the sanitation staff does not bother to remove leaves and instead they burn them in the locality. Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon Residents’ Welfare Front and resident of Municipal Road, told TOI, “The rains on Monday caused waterlogging not only on the roads but the water also flowed inside the houses in our locality. The municipal authorities must get the drains cleaned on priority so that the city is prepared for rains, which are expected anytime soon” Meanwhile, Dehradun Municipal Commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey told TOI, “We are already carrying out drives to clean the smaller drains across the city. The debris removed from the drains is left for some time to get dry as it helps in its disposal. As for the bigger drains, we already have rolled out tenders and the cleaning work will be completed well before monsoon hits the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mondays-rain-spell-leave-city-drains-choked/articleshow/75435878.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: HA Block joins list of Salt Lake high-risk zones||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Police barricaded a lane in HA Block on Tuesday morning after reports of a local being hospitalized with Covid-19 symptoms came in. With no fresh cases emerging in some of the containment zones over the past three weeks, Bidhannagar police and civic authorities have relaxed lockdown norms in some areas. However, areas where new cases were reported have been demarcated as new zones for implementation of strict measures. New containment zones are coming up in Salt Lake as fresh Covid-19 suspects are being reported from the township. The containment zones identified earlier by the government included Karunamoyee, FD Block, GC Block and AD Block. The first case was from AD block on March 30 and three new cases were reported from Karunamoyee and its surroundings a few days later. Two more suspected cases were reported from FD block on April 8. However, with most of the patients returning home and no new cases reported from these areas in the last 2-3 weeks, most barricades were removed. According to locals, the Covid-19 suspect from HA Block was initially admitted to a private hospital near her home before being shifted to another facility off EM Bypass. “She was in hospital for a fair amount of time for a non-Covid illness,” a local said. Police said that the location of the her house, which is along the main road, has led them to barricade only a limited area. Police said that with Bijan Bhawan and a private hospital located very close to the HA Block locality, they are not taking any chances. “So far, we have seen only one lane blocked in the entire block. This is near the entrance to HA Block,” said Somashree Banerjee, a local resident. The latest case was reported from GC Block last week, over 21 days after the AD block case, as the police cordoned off the stretch from GD Island to FC Block on April 23, the first locality to be sealed off in Salt Lake. The entry and exit points of the south neighbourhood of Duttabad were also sealed last Saturday after a local was taken to hospital with Covid-19 symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ha-block-joins-list-of-salt-lake-high-risk-zones/articleshow/75438081.cms||Suman Chakraborti
April 29, 2020||Pune||Two people succumb to Covid-19, record 143 people turn positive||Pune: A record 143 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, taking the total case count in the area to 1,491 so far. Besides, the death tally in the region increased to 83, with two deaths being recorded on Tuesday. Among the 143 fresh cases, 130 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, while 10 in Pimpri Chinchwad. For the last six days. the numbers of fresh positive cases has remained over 75 every day. “Increased testing, rigorous contact tracing and screening of people is reflected in the surge in positive cases,” a civic health official said, adding that the hotspot areas were under close watch. “All the suspected people were undergoing testing. The surveillance in the slum pockets has also been boosted. Besides, the process of shifting of people from slums and densely populated areas was initiated on Tuesday. Over 70 schools have been identified for shifting of the people,” he said. The two deaths reported on Tuesday included a 70-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, who had diabetes and hypertension. Another 45-year-old man from Ramoshiwadi was admitted to a private hospital on April 16. He had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with bi-lateral pneumonia. The PMC’s health department on Tuesday also reported two earlier deaths, both woman, aged 65 and 64. Four-month-old among nine discharged from Sassoon A four-month-old boy from Yerawada and a nine-year-old girl from Bhavani Peth were among nine Covid-19 patients who were discharged from the Sassoon hospital on Tuesday. The baby boy was admitted in the hospital on April 13 and the girl on April 10. Both were discharged after their tests came negative. Of remaining seven, six were men and one woman. Five of them have co-morbidity conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-people-succumb-to-covid-19-record-143-people-turn-positive/articleshow/75438791.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Slum dwellers protest short supply of food; relief pours in||AHMEDABAD: Local police and social workers rushed to Shivshakti Nagar and to give assurance of regular supply of food to the slum dwellers after they staged demonstration on Tuesday saying, “We will definitely die of hunger, if not because of corona”. The demonstration proved effective at least for the day with immediate support poured in coupled with assurances by local cops to look after the needy. Some 200 dwellers of the slum in Sardarnagar area stood in the open with placards to protest against the short supply of food during the lockdown. One of the protesters, Tushar Devda, said, “We requested the elected representatives of our area and demanded proper supply of food during the lockdown. But nothing happened, therefore we decided to stage demonstration to bring our problem to the notice of the authorities.” Devda further said that the free ration supplied by the government was not enough for most of the families. “Many of us are facing problems for last 10 days,” he said. As soon as the residents took to streets, local police reached and assured the protesters of regular food supply. “An Airport police inspector came and promised us that our problem would be solved. We have put our protest on hold,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/slum-dwellers-protest-short-supply-of-food-relief-pours-in/articleshow/75437326.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||Cricket in time of lockdown, youth battered to death||Lucknow: A cricket match at a Hardoi hamlet in violation of lockdown norms left a trail of blood after one of the players was battered to death by three rival team members following a brawl over the scoreline. Brajkishore, 22, who was critically injured after being clobbered with a wooden bat and stumps on the pitch, died at the district hospital in Baghauli late Monday. The three accused, Dharmendra, Pankaj and Nagendra were booked for culpable homicide, not amounting to murder on Tuesday. Circle officer, Baghauli police station, Akhilesh Rajan said, the match on Sunday evening between neighbouring hamlets, Semrakalan and Semrakhurd, turned ugly after a batsman, Brajkishore, was accused of fudging runs, triggering a violent backlash from the rival team. “We have registered a case of culpable homicide, not amounting to murder and voluntarily causing hurt, against the trio,” said the officer. He also said players of both teams and villagers will also be booked for violation of lockdown. “We are preparing a report and a separate FIR will be lodged,” said Rajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cricket-in-time-of-lockdown-youth-battered-to-death/articleshow/75438793.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Dreams crushed, just happy with 2nd chance to go back||NEW DELHI: After a nightmarish month, Kishan Kumar and his family of six, who came to Delhi from Bihar seven months ago and settled in Najafgarh to be able to afford a better life, finally feel uplifted. The news of interstate movement of stranded people being allowed has cheered him. “I tried to leave the city earlier but was turned back from the Anand Vihar bus terminal,” Kumar said on Wednesday. “I have five kids to feed and no savings to take care of them. Only people like me know how tough this time has been. I am glad we will now be able to go back to our village.” A fellow migrant, Sonu, said for a month he has struggled to make ends meet, even gone hungry for almost a fortnight. “The food we sometimes got from the government was of bad quality, half-cooked rice and dal with no salt,” he said. “I am more than happy to be allowed to return to my village in Bihar’s Purnea district with my family.” The plight of the migrant workers has been a focus attention since the lockdown started. Nitin Pal, a Chhattisgarh resident, said he came to Delhi hoping to earn some money and has moved from place to place in the city, from working at one construction to another. After the lockdown, he has mostly slept on an empty stomach. “I know I will earn less back home, but at least my children and I won’t have to sleep hungry,” Pal mumbled. “As soon as the go-ahead comes, I am leaving Delhi immediately.” However, though suffering, there are many to whom the announcement makes no difference. Mukesh Pandey is one of them. “I work at a construction site in Pitampura and the company that has employed me gives my family and me our meals and makes sure that the needs of my children are met,” said Pandey. If our needs are being catered to, why would we want to go back to our hometown?” Daya Ram from Madhya Pradesh similarly said he was contented in Delhi and doesn’t want to go home. Going home and returning when things are better would be an unnecessary waste of money, he feels. “I have a place to stay and get food every day. That is all I need in these tough times. My employers are paying me my daily wage despite the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dreams-crushed-just-happy-with-2nd-chance-to-go-back/articleshow/75460642.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
April 29, 2020||Mysuru||Amusement parks seek industry status, stimulus package||Mysuru: The Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries (IAAPI) has demanded the Union, state government and local authorities to announce stimulus package and provide industrial status for amusement parks as it has been badly affected by Covid-19 pandemic. In a press release, Mumbai-based IAAPI said it provides 80,000 direct employment and contributes over Rs 1,100 crore revenue to the government exchequer. IAAPI chairman Ajay Sarin said the industry has suffered a lot due to the closure of its units during this peak summer season in the wake of pandemic. Due to suspension of operations, the amusement park industry is running out of working capital and is finding it difficult to meet its financial obligations such as staff salaries, advance tax, GST, PF, ESI and other state levies, loan interest and instalment payments and is on the verge of collapse, he said. He sought an emergency decision to rescue the entire amusement industry from the prevailing turbulent environment. To tide over the crisis, Ajay Sarin urged the authorities to come out with the following relief measures including waiving off GST for 12 months, a moratorium of one year on payment of principal and interest instalments on loans and working capital from financial institutions besides a doubling of working capital limits on interest-free and collateral-free terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/amusement-parks-seek-industry-status-stimulus-package/articleshow/75434631.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Trichy||Corporation to screen shops in city containment zones||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has planned to screen commercial establishments in containment zones, to expand surveillance and screening to identify the contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. The active contact tracing of all 26 positive cases in the city so far, has enabled the corporation to collect 350 samples. Since April 3, 21 primary cases with a travel history to Delhi and later during screening of contacts, five family members tested positive. Subsequently, based on the locations of the positive cases, corporation demarcated four major containment zones comprising 2.20 lakh population in home quarantine. Officials said the 350 people, including 45 frontline workers such as anganwadi workers and paramedical staff in containment zones who were suspected to have had contact with the positive cases were screened and their swabs collected for lab tests. All the 350 tested negative. “As a next step, we will screen people in grocery stores, pharmacies, ATM rooms and meat stalls within the containment zones. The protocol is a part of tracing and screening the active contacts,” a senior corporation official said. Lab technicians in four urban primary health centres (UPHCs) will collect the swabs from those displaying symptoms. The corporation on an average collects 50 samples per day in containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corporation-to-screen-shops-in-city-containment-zones/articleshow/75438091.cms||Deepak Karthik
April 29, 2020||Lucknow||MLAs plaints’ redressal cell at Assembly office||Lucknow: To provide a platform to MLAs to register their suggestions and complaints related to the state government’s fight against Covid-19, a special control room was set up at assembly office on Tuesday. Talking to TOI here on Tuesday, UP speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit said that the decision to this effect was taken following an advice of Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla during his last video conferencing with presiding officers of state assemblies. Similar control rooms have also been opened in other state assemblies too, he added. Dixit said that MLAs would be encouraged to highlight problems being faced by them in their constituencies while discharging duties as people's representatives. Suggestions by MLAs would also enable the government to strengthen its fight against the new coronavirus infection. The complaint redressal centre was set up amidst reports that MLAs of the ruling party are not being heard by the state machinery. Several BJP MLAs, including Rakesh Rathore of Sitapur and Shyam Prakash of Hardoi, are feeling neglected and some of them have even raised objections over the functioning of the state machinery. However, both of them were served show-cause notice by the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mlas-plaints-redressal-cell-at-assembly-office/articleshow/75438807.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||When daakiya delivers medicines in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Amid the lockdown, the post office in Navrangpura is busy from early morning. Parcels upon parcels with tags of addresses in locations ranging from Meghalaya to Kerala and Rajasthan to Odisha are received by the India Post employees. “Over the past month, we have processed about 10 tonnes of medicines and protective gear in the form of N95 masks and PPE kits from here,” said Alpesh Shah, the senior postmaster. “It’s a record of sorts for the Speed Post service in terms of volume. Majority of orders are customer-to-customer.” When the supply chain of the pharmaceutical industry based in the city and the state — one of the biggest in India — was disrupted at the beginning of the Covid-19 epidemic, the Gujarat circle of India Post was the first to offer services for essential supply. That was not only crucial for hospitals but also for drug manufacturers in other states. Ashok Kumar Poddar, the chief postmaster general of Gujarat, said that they got in touch with the Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA), Gujarat, and started the services from March 30. “The initiative was noticed nationally as majority of couriers and transporters were not available,” he said. “Other states also followed suit. It was also an integrated chain. We delivered a large number of testing kits from Pune to Gujarat and also delivered drugs manufactured in Gujarat across India.” India Post officials said that on average 3 tonnes of medical supplies including finished products, key ingredients for manufacturing drugs, PPE kits and masks are delivered within and outside Gujarat daily through their supply chain. Viranchi Shah, the chairman of IDMA Gujarat, said that the service came at the time when no other means was available. “IDMA and India Post came together to provide a solution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/when-daakiya-delivers-medicines/articleshow/75437320.cms||Parth Shastri
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt seeks detailed info on students stranded abroad via online form||NEW DELHI: Days after the central government sought details from each state about students studying abroad and stuck overseas due to Covid-19, Delhi government has started collecting information about them by uploading a form on its website. Apart from basic details such as the country and the purpose of visit, Delhi government has also asked for their medical condition and if they are suffering from coronavirus or influenza-like illness. A source said the government was also trying to gather information about Indians, especially students, through various other channels, including contacting educational and professional institutions. Following a letter from Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba last week, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev asked three top officials to collect the information. Gauba, in his letter to chief secretaries of all states, had said that many students might be “desirous” of returning to India, but were unable to do so due to the travel ban. He sought modalities for their return, status of arrangements required and standard operating procedure for returnees, indicating that the Centre might launch a huge exercise to bring the students back. “Eventual return of these individuals will require detailed planning by the state governments. Arrangements will also need to be put in place for health check-up, surveillance and quarantine,” read the letter. The officials said the cabinet secretary would also have a detailed discussion with state governments after the information sought from them was received. Sources said Dev asked additional chief secretary (home), principal secretary (higher education) and secretary (health) to work out a detailed plan on arrangements required to be put in for the screening, health check-up, surveillance and quarantine of the students. Additional chief secretary (home) is the nodal officer for all measures and arrangements to deal with Covid-19. A large number of Indians are stranded abroad due to the global lockdown necessitated by the spread of Covid-19. Thousands of students enrolled in universities in different countries, especially the US, UK, Europe, southeast Asia and the Gulf, have even taken to social media to seek help. The Centre had earlier viewed that moving these people might increase the risk of spreading the virus in the country where they were stranded as well as India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-seeks-detailed-info-on-students-stranded-abroad-via-online-form/articleshow/75460097.cms||Atul Mathur
April 29, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Teghoria on alert after five fresh cases||KOLKATA: Five fresh positive cases of Covid-19 from the Teghoria area in the past week have put Bidhannagar Police and Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on their toes. They are now regulating the movement of residents till VIP Road and have arranged for carts to sell vegetables and fish to locals as markets have been shut down or relocated. The numbers show the presence of at least 24 people who have either tested positive or are awaiting reports. Ward 6 — covering areas like Nishikanan and Dhalipara — remains the worst hit with nine confirmed patients. Ward 7 has multiple suspects, too, and mainly covers the area adjoining VIP Road. Ward 9, covering Raghunathpur, is relatively better off with no fresh cases in the past 10 days. Teghoria and Raghunathpur cover seven of the 15 containment zones under Bidhannagar Police. Salt Lake has about five containment zones. “We had confirmed cases on April 23 and 24 and we are awaiting a few more reports. Hence, we have to be extra cautious,” said an officer from Baguiati police. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said it was focusing on certain pockets of Narayantala West, Dhalipara, Raghunathpur and Monshatola, which have high population density. “We are taking steps like barricading, sanitization, disinfection and conservancy management. Only a few shops are being allowed to open between 6am and 11am,” said a cop. “For elderly people like me, there are some pressing problems. Shortage of cash is a prime concern and so is non-availability of prescribed medicines,” said Amala Majhi, who lives near Dhalipara. Some of the roadside markets of Mondalgathi, Arjunpur, Baguiati Bazar and Jyangra have been shifted to the nearby playgrounds where police and civic authorities are keeping a close watch. “We are taking all necessary measures the help of police. The councillors are reaching out to the people to look into their needs,” said Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teghoria-on-alert-after-five-fresh-cases/articleshow/75438106.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 29, 2020||Pune||Four IAS officers in civic body’s Covid-19 fight||PUNE: The four IAS officers given the additional responsibility of helping the civic body in containing the coronavirus spread would guide the surveillance teams in conducting contact tracing and field operations, and manage quarantine facilities, data as well as medical supplies. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said the four IAS officers — sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao, animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh, groundwater survey director Kaustubh Diwegavkar and cooperation commissioner Anil Kawade — had been told to use their expertise for better surveillance. “They will devise a plan and carry out the operations after discussions,” Pawar told TOI on Tuesday. He said the IAS officers were given the extra charge to help the management of the civic administration, Pune divisional commissioner and the collector in the fight against Covid-19. Pune municipal commissioner Shekar Gaikwad said Rao, also former Pune municipal commissioner, would be handling contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and overall field operations. Animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh would oversee the quarantine facilities. The data management would be handled by groundwater survey director Kaustubh Diwegavkar. Cooperation commissioner Anil Kawade would look after the medical supplies and equipment. Gaikwad said a detailed order would be issued to facilitate the overall management. Earlier, a total of 15 IAS officers were roped in to contain the coronavirus spread in Mumbai. Similarly, the state government has asked the district administration to suggest names of bureaucrats posted in Pune, who could join the forces with local initiatives. Accordingly, the district administration identified the four officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-ias-officers-in-civic-bodys-ncov-fight/articleshow/75438799.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 29, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown hits production of Buransh squash, livelihood of many affected||ALMORA: The ongoing Covid-19 lockdown is severely affecting earnings of people who are involved in either the production or sale of Buransh (Rhododendron) squash in hills. Despite Buransh blooming in forests, they are not being collected due to the Covid-19 lockdown. This has caused supply disruptions for factories where Buransh squash is processed. Sanjeev Bhagat, the owner of Fruitage Nainital Food Products, a renowned brand of local fruit products, told TOI, “As a precautionary measure, we had stopped operations in our factory before the lockdown was imposed by the government. Since then, our factory has remained shut.” He added that without getting supply of Buransh, which blooms in this season, squash can’t be made. “We are not even getting the supply of flowers and preservative chemicals that are used in the processing of squash,” said Bhagat. Besides more than two dozen employees who work at different units of Fruitage, the income of rural women who collect Buransh from jungle has also been impacted due to the lockdown. Bhagat told TOI that the coronavirus outbreak started hitting his business since February as supplies from China had got disrupted. “I placed order for some preservative chemicals in January and they were to be supplied here by the first week of February. However, the Delhi-based supplier cancelled my order saying that he hasn’t got any supply from China due to the outbreak of coronavirus,” Bhagat informed. “This time of the year, I used to buy Buransh flowers from the people of my village and from surrounding villages. One kilogram of this flower usually costs Rs 20. We used to collect 30–40 quintal of this flower. Subsequently, we used to sell them to local processing units. However, the lockdown has hindered our work this year,” said Dhan Singh, a resident of the Sundarkhal Village of Mukteshwar. Notably, Singh is also a resource person for Fruitage and other such factories in the area. “We used to earn some money by collecting flowers but this year, we have not been able to make anything,” said Lalita Devi, a local of Sundarkhal village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-hits-production-of-buransh-squash-livelihood-of-many-affected/articleshow/75435912.cms||Rohit Joshi
April 29, 2020||Agra||2 die in Agra, kin allege negligence by hospitals’ staff||Agra: A 60-year-old woman and a garment store owner, 55, died in Agra with their family members alleging that the staff of two government hospitals, where they were rushed respectively, shifted them to isolation wards after insisting on Covid-19 test, and didn’t attend to them. The hospitals have denied the charges. The woman from Agra’s Dayal Bagh area died on Monday allegedly after battling for life for over eight hours at the isolation ward of SN Medical College. The woman’s son said that not a single doctor or nurse was present in the ward and his repeated pleas for medical help went in vain. However, SNMC principal GK Aneja refuted the charge and said that she passed away due to cardiac arrest. On Tuesday, videos of the woman’s son crying for help went viral on social media. According to sources, soon after the death, the SNMC administration collected the samples of the woman for testing of coronavirus. The lab report is yet to come. Her son, Mohit Sharma, told TOI, “My mother was having difficulty in breathing. I went to several private hospitals, but they were not ready to provide treatment without Covid-19 test report. At around 1AM on Monday I took her to the emergency ward of SN Medical College. I was asked to take my mother to the isolation centre. No stretcher or any physical assistance was provided to shift her. My mother was not able to move. It took me over an hour to take my mother to the assigned ward. She had to climb 35 stairs in such condition.” He added, “My mother was just given nebulizer for treatment. No doctor or paramedical staff came to attend her. I made at least 35 rounds up and down the stairs with an oxygen cylinder to give support to my mother in breathing. But I didn’t know how to attach the cylinder. Ward boys also refused to come to help without permission from doctors. I was helplessly consoling my mother.” In a video clip, which was shot by another patient, Sharma can be seen pressing the chest of her mother to help her breathe and keep her alive. He could be seen crying and calling for doctors, but no one came. “I kept crying seeing my mother in pain. She died in my lap 10:30AM,” he added. Another patient admitted at the isolation ward said, “The condition here is very bad. Doctors come only for an hour in the afternoon. The hospital administration is only focused on treating Covid-19 patients because the state government is closely monitoring such cases. There is no arrangement for non-Covid-19 patients.” The principal of SNMC told TOI that the patient was admitted in a serious condition. “She was attended by doctors, after that she became stable. Her condition suddenly deteriorated in the morning on Monday. By the time doctors could reach after wearing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kit, she was dead due to cardiac arrest. The allegations of negligence in treatment are wrong,” said Principal Aneja. Meanwhile, another Agra resident, 55-year-old Mukesh Kumar Goyal, also died, allegedly due to delay in treatment by district government hospital, and then at SNMC. Goyal was suffering from respiratory ailment, according to family members. Nikhil Goyal, 29, the victim’s son told TOI, “After being denied admission by private hospital, I reached the district hospital along with my father at around 8:30AM. He was in a critical condition and was not able to breathe properly. However, the medical staff insisted on Covid-19 sample collection before admitting him. At 1:30PM, the doctors took the sample.” “After that, the staff asked my father to shift in quarantine ward. He needed immediate medical aid, but got none. So, I rushed to SN Medical College's emergency ward. But the staff there refused to give immediate medical aid and asked me to wait for Covid-19 sample result,” Nikhil said. “So, I took my father home. Soon after reaching home, he passed away. Later, after the cremation, the medical staff of the district hospital contacted me for my father’s health status,” claimed Nikhil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-die-in-agra-kin-allege-negligence-by-hospitals-staff/articleshow/75435907.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 29, 2020||Delhi||Students stuck in Delhi heave a sigh of relief||NEW DELHI: The central government’s directive on allowing movement of stranded people is a big relief for many students, especially since it is likely that the Covid-19 lockdown will be extended through May. Students from various parts of India and studying or preparing for competitive examinations in Delhi were trapped in the city by the sudden declaration of the lockdown and the suspension of railway, airline and bus services. Supriya Singh, a civil services aspirant, is delighted with the news. A native of Rourkela in Odhisa, she says she has been waiting to return home because she cannot afford any longer to pay the rent of her Karol Bagh apartment. “My father runs a small business in Rourkela. Because of the lockdown, he has no earnings and the family is financially under pressure,” Singh confided. “My landlord has been insisting that I pay the rent and hence it will be better for me to leave for home. I only hope the states now coordinate the travel arrangements and we reach home safely.” Families have been living in tension after separation from their youngsters due to the lockdown and the ban on movement. For parents of girls, it has been an especially harrowing time, given their anxiety about women’s safety in the city. “I come from a joint family in Howrah, West Bengal, and my parents have already borne a lot of taunting from my conservative relatives for allowing me to come to Delhi to study. On top of that, my parents are now burdened with thoughts about my safety,” said another UPSC aspirant, Chetna Mishra. Life has suddenly become a struggle. Requesting anonymity, a student from Manipur complained, “Our paying-guest accommodation is nice, but immediately after the Covid outbreak and lockdown, the owner is asking us to vacate. Three of us, all from Manipur, have been staying here for two years now. Where can we go except home? Hopefully, travel will now be allowed.” Managing essentials has also been tough during the closure. Debanjana Dasgupta, a law student from Assam, stays as a paying guest. After the lockdown, it has been difficult for her to manage food because she cannot step out of the room. “If the government is facilitating such a travel, I will be glad to go back,” she said. “If the lockdown is being extended, it is any day better to be at home and not have my parents worrying about me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-stuck-in-city-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/75460655.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ranchi||Rain, hail hit harvest as Jharkhand farmers battle virus onslaught||RANCHI: The recent spell of rain and thundershowers has added to the woes of the already stressed farmers, who are battling poor harvests and lack of market due to the ongoing lockdown. Seasonal fruits and vegetables are hit hardest by showers and hail, the farmers said. In its bulletin on Tuesday, IMD Ranchi has predicted light to moderate rain accompanied by thunderstorm and wind with a speed up to 40-50 kmph in most parts of the state till May 4. The phenomenon is due to the cyclonic circulations and remnant western disturbances, the bulletin said. Since the last few days, several parts of the state have been witnessing rain and thunderstorms in the afternoon hours. Though the wet spell has provided relief to the residents from the scorching heat, agriculture experts are concerned over the damage of seasonal fruits like mango and litchis. Talking to TOI, A M Ansari, a horticultural scientist at the Birsa Agricultural University (BAU), said, “Hailstorms will undoubtedly damage seasonal fruits like mango and litchi. The untimely rain in January and February had already caused harm to the flowering of these crops by on a large scale.” He added, “Rain is good for the fruits, but if hailstorms follow, it will cause damage. The farmers will have to suffer even more as production of green vegetables like ladies’ finger, brinjal, yard-long bean and cucumber will be severely affected by the rain. Moreover, rain on a daily basis increases chances of diseases in the plants.” Kishore Mahto, a vegetable grower in Pithoria, said, “A few months ago, vast swathes of tomatos and cauliflower crops were damaged due to the untimely rain and hailstorms. Thereafter, whatever vegetable harvest I could manage was sold at at cheaper rates due to the lockdown and transportation woes. I can only pray to God that I could make up with the next lot of vegetables and fruits in my farm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rain-hail-hit-harvest-as-state-farmers-battle-virus-onslaught/articleshow/75436435.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Worm-infested food for railways’ lockdown heroes||Nagpur: Lockdown heroes — loco pilots, assistants and guards — transporting essential commodities by operating freight trains during Covid-19 got a bitter taste of railway hospitality when they were served chapatis made out of worm-infested flour on Tuesday morning. The aggrieved front-line staff lodged a complaint in the book at the running room (Triveni) at Cotton Market Road, where they were served food. There were 11 staffers at the running room of which five were at the dining table while others were resting after night duty. At 10.30am, while eating food a loco pilot saw a live insect creeping on the chapati in the plate. One of the chapatis had a worm in it. When a couple of loco pilots went into the kitchen they noticed the wheat flour had many worms. The manager of the running room also saw the insects. All were shocked and called up in-charge loco inspector Gopal Rai. Five staffers had already consumed the food and were resting. They were restless after seeing the insects. However, by the time Rai reached the spot, the workers of the private contractor had thrown away the entire flour. Assistant commercial manager & Nagpur Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “Strict action will be taken against the contractor for the mess. Now only 5kg wheat flour packets will be made available at the running room. Actually, owing to lockdown, occupancy at the running room is reduced to 20%. All old food material in the kitchen has been removed now.” “The incident exposes tall claims of Indian Railways that it is taking utmost care of its employees during lockdown. The loco pilots and guards are working day and night to serve the nation during Covid-19, and they certainly don’t deserve such shabby treatment,” said SK Shukla, central vice-president of All India Guards Council (AIGC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/worm-infested-food-for-railways-lockdown-heroes/articleshow/75437298.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 29, 2020||Ranchi||Culinary newbies hit the kitchen to beat lockdown blues||RANCHI: Youngsters in Ranchi are cooking up a storm at their homes as the country completes more than one month under lockdown. The kitchen has become the centre of activity at households as, apart from cooking three meals a day, people are experimenting with the stove and cobbling up snacks and coming up with new recipes. A resident of Piska More, Stuty Tiwari surprised her mother with her favourite gulab jamuns and golgappas. She had been craving for these savouries for days, but could not get her hands on them as shops remained shut due to the lockdown. Stuty, a post-graduate student of Central University of Jharkhand, said, “I have enough leisure time and my mother always used to tell me to learn cooking. I decided to experiment with new recipes as I was also craving for certain dishes.” Sushma Singh, a resident of Ghatshila, said, “I love cooking but I never got the time for it because of my studies. These days, I have been helping my mother as she cooks new dishes.” Sushma has opened an Instagram account to connect with other chefs and friends and share her recipes with them. Like Stuty and Sushma, many others are utilising the lockdown period to pick up culinary skills while other are honing their stove skills and taking them to the next level. Stuck at home, with little access to fresh ingredients, these young chefs are rustling up meals that are easy to put together with whatever is available. Sushma said she finds beetroot juice quite handy while looking for colouring options and jaggery instead of sugar. “On many occasions, I do not find what I am looking for, so I have to go for alternatives. If I want to make some idlis and cannot find urad dal, I go for suji instead,” she added. With grocery stocks running low in most households, using up every bit of food has become paramount for families during the lockdown. Now, with the lockdown in the sixth week, many are making creative use of leftovers from the previous evening to make a meal of it. Some young chefs make fried rice and lemon from the remains of the previous day while others are giving a spin to the dal and potatoes that did not make their way to the tummy. Others are logging into the internet to scour for new recipes and churning out novelties like maggie pakoda. Competing with the women of the house are men, who never entered the kitchen earlier, but have found their hidden culinary talents while in isolation. The lockdown imposed to help stop the spread of the virus has provided the opportunity for men to show off their kitchen abilities by cooking up some tasty family meals. Bipin Kumar (35), a businessman from Pandra, surprised his family when he teamed up with his brother and cooked a meal for their 10-member family. Kumar said, “My brother and I stepped into the kitchen only after the women in our family sneered at us and asked us to cook a meal when our demands became too much for them. It was a major role-reversal, but we took it as a challenge. It ended up becoming an enjoyable and memorable moment for the entire family.” Ujjwal Tirkey, a resident of Pandra here, tried his hand at litti chokha, the region’s favourite fast food. Tirkey said, “Whenever there is family reunion, we cook special dishes together. During the lockdown, we have tried to cobble up many dishes. We siblings have divided time to help our mother in the kitchen.” Even as pictures and recipes of dishes flood the social media during the lockdown, mental health experts say cooking is a great way to destress and get away from the often-scary information on the new virus as it gives an individual some downtime to focus on one thing and get away from all reality, at least for a while. Dr Nishant Goel, associate professor of psychiatry at the Central Institute of Psychiatry and nodal officer for providing psychoanalytical aid to those seeking help during the lockdown in the city, said, “Cooking is one of the best ways to bust stress, anger and anxiety during prolonged periods of isolation. When we cook, we get to enjoy time with our family and it comes with the joy of sharing. Hence, learning culinary skills help in beating anxiety.” He added, “Those with an inclination towards cooking, must do more often during the lockdown. For novices and kitchen newbies, this is the perfect time to pick up a new hobby. And what could be a better passion than something that delights your palate and fills your stomach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/culinary-newbies-hit-the-kitchen-to-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/75436338.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ranchi||In Ramgarh, withdraw money from post office||RAMGARH: District administration has decided to rope in postmen for delivery of essential items and install micro-ATMs, which are portable and but will have normal withdrawal limits, for rural areas and far-flung villages. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh on Tuesday said, “We are working on plans to engage postmen for delivery of essential items like grocery, medicines and other commodities, at doorsteps in rural areas besides their primary job of delivering letters and parcels.” Another district official said, “In urban areas, home delivery is already operational with the help of local policemen but in rural areas, the postmen will help us. The administration has started making a list of grocery shops which can provide the commodities so that the service can be started soon.” Moreover, the administration has initiated a tie-up with the post offices to install micro-ATMs so that the villagers can withdraw money so that they can avoid visiting banks or ATMs. Singh said, “Ramgarh has 26 rural post offices and eight sub-post offices. These offices will now provide cash withdrawal facilities through its micro-ATMs for general customers. Customers whose accounts are linked with Aadhaar can avail this facility even in remote villages where the post and sub-post offices are located.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-ramgarh-withdraw-money-from-post-office/articleshow/75436500.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Of 7 lakh ration card applicants, just 35% get promised grains||RANCHI: Of the 7.29 lakh people who reapplied for fresh ration cards after they were invalidated, only 35.64% have received 10kg foodgrains till now, the state government conceded in an affidavit submitted to the Jharkhand high court on Monday. The case is in connection with a PIL related to the state’s preparedness for food delivery during the lockdown. Most of the ration cards were made invalid by the state government in the recent years owing to issues of duplicity, Aadhaar card linkages. Others who became newly eligible couldn’t be included due to National Food Security Act (NFSA) norms. The NFSA prescribes a cap of 86% ration coverage in rural area and 60% in urban areas. Different state governments, on the other hand, have their own criteria for including beneficiaries for PDS. In Jharkhand, some of the criteria for non-eligibility of ration card include those who pay income tax, have four wheelers, government job holder, possess 10-acre land or have five-acre of irrigated land among others. The government’s response in the court has angered several food rights activists, who expressed disappointment over the poor state of affairs in Jharkhand even a month after the lockdown was imposed. The activists said that the hunger situation is worsening by the day owing to the state government’s “short-sightedness and slow-motion approach” despite their claims of offering advance ration to ration card holders, free meals through community kitchens and other similar interventions for the needy. Talking to TOI, Rajan Kumar Singh, a rights activist who filed the PIL, said, “During the first phase of the lockdown, the government said it will provide 10kg grains to all those whose ration cards were excluded and have applied for fresh ones. Ironically, it approved the required funds only after the lockdown was extended. Today, only 35% of those have received the promised grains. Just imagine the plight of the poor and hungry.” Singh accused the government of lacking pro-activeness and intent by making the process of applying fresh ration card tedious even during the crisis. He said, “The government says they will give 10kg grains to all those who apply/applied for fresh cards, but all applications have to be made online. Is it possible in rural areas? During the lockdown, even pragya kendras and cyber cafes are closed. Does a daily wager have access and knowhow to file an online application?” He added that they have filed a rebuttal to the government’s response posing more such questions. The government has to reply in court by May 5. Siraj Datta, an activist with Right to Food Campaign, added that the hunger situation is worsening by the day and it will only get worse even after the lockdown due to increased poverty, joblessness and rural distress. Datta said independent studies have projected that about 40 lakh people in the state are currently out of the food security ambit, but the government is yet to wake up to the reality. As per the state government data, the state currently has 57 lakh ration card holders. In addition, seven lakh have applied for fresh ones. He said, “The government’s data is pegged on the 2011 census, but this is 2020. Independent studies clearly state that no less than 40 lakh are out of the food security ambit in Jharkhand today. Due to the lockdown, many new heads have added up in the poverty list now. The government seems to be completely aloof of the reality.” To address the urgency, activists have demanded universalisation of PDS, simplifying of applying for ration card and proactive delivery at the ground level. Datta said, “One of the reasons that many are devoid of the 10kg foodgrains is they don’t know where to get it as the government hasn’t come up with clear guidelines. There are cases where PDS dealers or panchayat mukhiyas have complained of no allotment for giving grains for non-card holders.” Agreed Singh, “Also, make offline process for ration card, at least during the current crisis. One way could be adopting Kerala model of self-declaration by beneficiaries at the nearest PDS shop. To curb immediate hunger crisis, give 5kg ration per head to all the needy. More than the pandemic, people at the ground are battling hunger, which will only aggravate in coming months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/of-7-lakh-ration-card-applicants-just-35-get-promised-grains/articleshow/75436466.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 29, 2020||Ranchi||Hunt for space for more Covid centres in Ranchi||RANCHI: With Covid-19 cases rising steadily in Ranchi over the past week, the district administration has begun scouting for new infrastructure to set up isolation centres. On Monday, the administration took over Central Coalfields Limited’s (CCL) Gandhinagar Hospital in Kanke. The CCL management said by Tuesday evening, eight Covid-19 patients were admitted at the hospital for treatment. The facility became the third dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Ranchi after Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) and Paras Hospital (formerly HEC hospital) in Dhurwa. Together, these hospitals make up for a combined 220 isolation beds, the district health department said. Till Tuesday evening, 77 positive cases were reported from Ranchi alone. Besides dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, the district is now looking for infrastructure to establish Covid Care Centres (CCC). These facilities, which may be makeshift ones, will house asymptomatic patients who will not need critical care. “We have finalised seven facilities for developing them as CCC, but we will not identify them as it may lead to panic among citizens,” Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray told TOI. Ranchi civil surgeon’s office said the city’s three quarantine centres, including the Mega Sports Complex in Hotwar, housed 127 suspected Covid-19 patients as on Monday. “In all, 7,872 persons were on home quarantine across the district. Of them, the quarantine period of 4,466 persons has ended,” an official in the district health department said. Notably, the Union ministry of health and family welfare recently released a fresh set of guidelines for putting Covid-19 patients with very mild or pre-symptomatic conditions on home isolation, if there is sufficient arrangement of caregiving. As per guidelines, the patients can seek medical attention when they face difficulties in breathing, persistent chest pain, mental confusion, discolouration in lips or face or as per the advice of the treating doctor. However, Jharkhand government is yet to notify the guidelines. Meanwhile, the administration’s efforts to set up new CCCs is being met with resistance from apprehensive locals. The staff of a private hospital in the city’s Bariatu area wrote to Ranchi DC urging him to reverse the decision of using the campus to house Covid-19 patients. Ray, however, said action will be initiated against those who try to obstruct government officials in dispensing their duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hunt-for-space-for-more-covid-centres/articleshow/75436390.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 29, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Paradigm change at rural haats as locals alter workdays to ensure distancing||JAMSHEDPUR/GUMLA: With the Covid-19 outbreak in 11 of 24 districts in the Jharkhand, traditional village haats, particularly those in tribal-dominated areas, have witnessed a stark change in the way rural business is conducted. While most weekly haats in remote pockets of the state are now operating on a daily basis, others are opening on a few days of the week. Authorities said social distancing norms are being followed more religiously in rural areas owing to the growing awareness levels among the tribals. In West Singhbhum, a tribal stronghold district in Kolhan region, the mangla haat is operating every day for the last month to bail people out during the lockdown and regulate the flow of the crowd. Speaking to TOI, West Singhbhum deputy development commissioner (DDC) Aditya Ranjan said, “We have identified big grounds to set up haats in every panchayat so that people can sell their produce in their areas during a specific time frame every day.” To ensure vegetables, rice, and other perishable items are not wasted, the administration has directed block development officers (BDOs) and district disaster and relief forces to procure the produce from the villagers to be used for meals provided at quarantine centres and under the ‘Meals on Wheels’ scheme. Ranjan added, “In the first 20 days of the lockdown, we served food to one lakh people. More than 7,000 people are being provided with food everyday under the ‘Meals on Wheels’ scheme. A majority of the vegetables and pulses used to prepare this food comes from local producers.” In rural haats, the administration demarcated places for sellers to put up their shops so that the market does not get crowded. The administration has also hired vans to transport the produce from the farms to the market. “A producer calls up at the control room to hire a vehicle and the officials at the cell work as an interface to connect the driver with the producer,” Ranjan said. Similar changes in operation can be seen in Simdega and Gumla districts. Rural haats that earlier operated on more days are now held once or twice a week in Simdega. “On the day of the haat, the village’s panchayat secretary, a police team and a school teacher ensure that social distancing norms are followed. We also visit village bazaars to ensure all protocols are in place. Things are smooth,” said Bano BDO Sameer Khalkho. In Gumla district, women self-help groups have been deployed to ensure social distancing in rural markets. Chainpur BDO Shishir Kumar Singh said, “Haats are now held four days a week in the villages of this block of 10 panchayats. Didi Kitchens have been set up near these markets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/paradigm-change-at-rural-haats-as-locals-alter-workdays-to-ensure-distancing/articleshow/75454749.cms||B Sridhar
April 29, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Paradigm change at rural haats as locals alter workdays to ensure distancing||JAMSHEDPUR/GUMLA: With the Covid-19 outbreak in 11 of 24 districts in the Jharkhand, traditional village haats, particularly those in tribal-dominated areas, have witnessed a stark change in the way rural business is conducted. While most weekly haats in remote pockets of the state are now operating on a daily basis, others are opening on a few days of the week. Authorities said social distancing norms are being followed more religiously in rural areas owing to the growing awareness levels among the tribals. In West Singhbhum, a tribal stronghold district in Kolhan region, the mangla haat is operating every day for the last month to bail people out during the lockdown and regulate the flow of the crowd. Speaking to TOI, West Singhbhum deputy development commissioner (DDC) Aditya Ranjan said, “We have identified big grounds to set up haats in every panchayat so that people can sell their produce in their areas during a specific time frame every day.” To ensure vegetables, rice, and other perishable items are not wasted, the administration has directed block development officers (BDOs) and district disaster and relief forces to procure the produce from the villagers to be used for meals provided at quarantine centres and under the ‘Meals on Wheels’ scheme. Ranjan added, “In the first 20 days of the lockdown, we served food to one lakh people. More than 7,000 people are being provided with food everyday under the ‘Meals on Wheels’ scheme. A majority of the vegetables and pulses used to prepare this food comes from local producers.” In rural haats, the administration demarcated places for sellers to put up their shops so that the market does not get crowded. The administration has also hired vans to transport the produce from the farms to the market. “A producer calls up at the control room to hire a vehicle and the officials at the cell work as an interface to connect the driver with the producer,” Ranjan said. Similar changes in operation can be seen in Simdega and Gumla districts. Rural haats that earlier operated on more days are now held once or twice a week in Simdega. “On the day of the haat, the village’s panchayat secretary, a police team and a school teacher ensure that social distancing norms are followed. We also visit village bazaars to ensure all protocols are in place. Things are smooth,” said Bano BDO Sameer Khalkho. In Gumla district, women self-help groups have been deployed to ensure social distancing in rural markets. Chainpur BDO Shishir Kumar Singh said, “Haats are now held four days a week in the villages of this block of 10 panchayats. Didi Kitchens have been set up near these markets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paradigm-change-at-rural-haats-as-locals-alter-workdays-to-ensure-distancing/articleshow/75436285.cms||B Sridhar
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Community mkts in every area soon||With a view to provide fresh vegetables and fruits at reasonable rates, mayor Sandip Joshi has announced to start community markets in every locality. “Amid coronavirus scare, city’s markets witnessed chaos, but vegetables are also being sold at higher prices,” he said. Joshi has come up with the concept of ‘Community Market’ through which fresh and high quality vegetables and fruits will be available directly from the growers/farmers at reasonable prices in residential localities. City’s first community market will be opened at Laxmi Nagar ground near Aath Rasta Square from April 30. The market will remain open from 6am to 8.30am. After the pilot project, similar markets will be opened in other parts of the city, said the mayor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/community-mkts-in-every-area-soon/articleshow/75437349.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Seven more Covid-19 patients get discharge; total now 38||Nagpur: Seven more Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) after making full recovery. Total number of discharged persons in the district is now 38.Deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH Dr Sagar Pande told TOI, “Two consecutive day samples of seven persons came in negative and they were discharged,” he said.Doctors and other staff members of IGGMCH including policemen, security guards gave a round of applause to the seven as they left the hospital. Of the seven, three are Jabalpur-based Tablighi Jamaatis (TJs) and were quarantined by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on April 3 as per orders of Ministry of Home Affairs.They are among eight TJs camping at Darul Falah situated at Takia Deewanshah, Mominpura. Seven of them had tested positive. Remaining four got discharged on Monday.The residence of cap seller who was Mominpura’s first positive case is situated three houses away from Darul Falah. Son of landlord of cap seller had also tested positive.A 42-year-old person from Choodi Gully was taking care of food and other requirements of TJs and had tested positive. One more person who was also taking care of TJs had also tested positive. Thus, 14 positive persons from Mominpura were all linked with each other.TJ Nagpur Markaz secretary Abdul Bari Patel has sought permission from collector Ravindra Thakare to send them back to Jabalpur.Four others discharged are from Satranjipura including two family members of 68-year-old deceased from Satranjipura, city’s first and only death from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seven-more-covid-19-patients-get-discharge-total-now-38/articleshow/75437359.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Bail for 13 TJ members in Chanda||Chandrapur: 13 Tablighhi Jamat (TJ) members, including 11 foreigners, who were booked on April 5 for violating visa laws and other regulations and sent for institutional quarantine after they came to Chandrapur from Markaz in Nizamuddin, were released on bail on Tuesday. The 11 foreigners are from Kyrgystan, Kazakhstan and Russia, while the other two belong to different states. In Chandrapur, the foreigners had visited different places in the district by violating norms, said the police. When authorities from the police and health department learnt about their travel history, an offence was registered and they were quarantined at Rangers College and Wasant Bhavan. City police took the 13 TJ members into custody after their institutional quarantine ended on Tuesday. They were produced before the court which granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bail-for-13-tj-members-in-chanda/articleshow/75437369.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Cops above 55 yrs of age withdrawn||Nagpur: To shield them from the pandemic, the city police has issued an order withdrawing cops above 55 years of age from Covid-related duties. As a precautionary measure, pregnant cops and those with a history of any chronic ailment, too, have been sent on leave. Mumbai police has sent cops above the age of 55 years on leave after three personnel in the same age group died due to Covid-19 in the last few days. Jt CP Ravindra Kadam said cops above 55 would not be a part of the checking duty or at containment zones. They would be deployed at places that are safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-above-55-yrs-of-age-withdrawn/articleshow/75437374.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Father shoots two sons, ends own life||Chandrapur: A father shot his two young sons and then committed suicide by shooting himself, in Ballarpur town on Tuesday evening. While the elder son died on the spot, the younger one has been rushed to Nagpur for emergency treatment. Sources said accused Mulchand Diwedi hails from Nagpur and works as a security guard there. He was staying with his sons at Subhash Ward in Ballarpur following the lockdown. A fight broke out between Mulchand and his two sons Aakash (22) and Pawan (20) over some petty issue at around 5pm at their home. An angry Mulchand took out his licensed revolver and shot Akash and Pawan from close range. Later, he shot himself in the temple and died on the spot. Akash suffered a bullet injury in the heart and while one bullet just missed Pawan’s heart. Both youths were immediately rushed to Chandrapur for treatment. Doctors declared Akash brought dead. Pawan has been referred to Nagpur in critical condition by the doctors here. Mulchand is learnt to be the brother of senior BJP leader Shivchand Diwedi of Ballarpur. Deceased Aakash too was working as security guard at Ballarpur, while Pawan runs an ice cream parlour. The exact reason for the quarrel between father and sons could not be ascertained. Sources claimed accused Mulchand Diwedi was short tempered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/father-shoots-two-sons-ends-own-life/articleshow/75437382.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Nagpur||Ytl guardian min chairs review meet||Yavatmal: Taking cognisance of TOI report on Tuesday highlighting unsatisfactory replies by doctors to media queries about lack of cleanliness, drinking water supply and food served to patients in isolation wards at the local GMCH, district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod chaired a review meeting on Tuesday. The minister warned the dean, civil surgeon and district health officer of stringent action if they fail to rectify the anomalies. “The dean will he held responsible for food quality and medicines given to the patients in isolation wards,” said Rathod. “Civil surgeon and DHO should make arrangements for institutionally quarantined persons for which they may acquire private hostels where presumptive cases can be accommodated. There is no need to refer all suspected cases to the GMCH,” he said. The dean Dr Rajesh Singh, Covid-19 coordinator Dr Milind Kamble, civil surgeon Dr Tarangthushar Warey, DHO Dr Balasaheb Chavan, head of the department of medicine Dr Baba Elke were present at the meeting. “Those found guilty of dereliction of duty would not be spared. The GMCH should seek administration’s help in getting all requirements fulfilled,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ytl-guardian-min-chairs-review-meet/articleshow/75437389.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh to follow Centre call on lockdown||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday left the decision to extend the lockdown or go for a graded exit after May 3 to the Centre. The state will follow the Centre’s decision on the lockdown, he told the PM at Monday’s video conference. Jagan made a detailed presentation on the containment measures undertaken by the government in the state. “Strict lockdown has been enforced in the red zones and containment areas. The number of positive cases in the state are less than the national average. We are granting permissions to certain industries and firms located in green zones by following the Centre’s guidelines. We will not relax conditions in red zones and containment areas,” he asserted. The CM further said that the test, trace and treatment plans were yielding results as they were confining the positive cases to isolation wards. “The state has been providing food and shelter to migrant labourers without allowing them to move out of their present locations. AP has also improved its health infrastructure by setting up nine VRDL labs and five dedicated Covid-19 hospitals along with a large number of quarantine homes,” he said. Later, in a televised public address, the chief minister told people there is no stigma about being tested positive for Covid-19. He urged people not to treat Covid patients as untouchables as it could affect anyone in future and is fully curable if detected early. The CM said nearly 98% of Covid-19 patients are recovering from the illness across the globe. “Only 14% need hospitalization and 4% ICU treatment. Over 80 per cent people have recovered at their homes,” he said. He said the situation has reached such a level that Covid-19 may become “a part of our lives for a long time”. “One could beat the virus with hygienic practices and by maintaining social distance,” he added, and appealed to people to come forward and get tested so that the spread can be contained. The CM further said that over 80% of the state is in green zone and they need to protect it from getting infected. “Some 63 out of 676 mandals are classified as red zones and 54 as orange zones. As many as 559 mandals are in green zone, which can help us revive economic activity and normal life if protected properly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-to-follow-centres-call-on-lifting-lockdown-says-jagan/articleshow/75416359.cms||Samdani MN
April 29, 2020||Amaravati||CM Jaganmohan Reddy promises special cards for Andhra Pradesh’s 56 lakh farmers||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday said special credit and debit cards would be issued to about 56 lakh farmers in the state by the kharif season. The issuance of the cards is aimed at easing the process of disbursement of government incentives and crop loans, he said, adding that the government is planning to open new accounts for farmers to help them take advantage of the added benefits. He further stated that 11,158 Rythu Bharosa centres would be set up across the state by June 1. “The farmers expect quality seeds and it is the responsibility of the government to supply them the same. Cases should be booked against those involved in the supply of spurious seeds,” he told officials. He also asked officials to start an exclusive call centre to address the issues of aqua farmers, and ensure supply of quality seed and feed for aqua produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-promises-special-cards-for-states-56-lakh-farmers/articleshow/75416374.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dementia care doubly difficult amid pandemic in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: 72-year-old Jayant Rao lives with his wife at Balaji Bay Mount in Rushikonda. Most of his days are spent on caring for his wife who was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease in 2013, at the age of 59. The Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown has made life doubly difficult for the elderly couple. Intent on reducing his wife’s risk of getting infected, Jayant Rao has let her evening caregiver go and has taken up the job of caring for his wife full time. Rao says that he is confused about how he can reduce risk when caring for Alzheimer patients primarily requires touch. The lockdown is taking a toll on people caring for their loved ones who suffer from Alzheimer’s disease (AD) — the most common type of dementia where the mental ability of the patient declines gradually to a point where it becomes difficult for them to perform regular, day-to-day jobs essential to lead a normal life. As the disease progresses, patients find themselves more and more dependent on their caregivers. While dementia in itself does not exacerbate the risk of contracting Covid-19, but behaviours associated with the disease make caring for patients especially challenging, said Dr NS Raju, managing trustee of Age Care Foundation. Dr Raju said that dementia patients are typically very sensitive to changes in routine and often require a great deal of hands-on care, both factors are hard to manage now. Families of patients with dementia usually rely on day-care programmes or visiting caregivers. But now, they are finding it difficult to handle complete responsibility. On the other hand, families of patients who live in facilities are finding it difficult to visit. According to Dr Raju, caregivers need to take measures to avoid exposure by having provisions delivered, disinfecting surfaces and employing proper hand-washing technique. The priority for caregivers, Dr Raju said, is to keep themselves healthy and act like emergency medical workers. He advises caregivers to go out and take walks by themselves and preferably set up a pool of people who can come in and give them breaks. Dr K Venkateswarlu, emeritus professor of neurology at Andhra Medical College said, “Elderly people with dementia and other chronic conditions are particularly more vulnerable to complications from coronavirus infection, which is a matter of great concern.” “With limited access to information, they may not register safeguards such as using masks, sanitizers or maintaining social distancing, which makes them vulnerable to infection. In view of their special needs, there needs to be a collaborative effort from mental health professionals, social workers, nursing home administrators and volunteers,” Dr Venkateswarlu, who is also the Visakhapatnam chapter president of Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ADRSI), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dementia-care-doubly-difficult-amid-pandemic/articleshow/75436215.cms||Reshma Jain
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid cases continue to surge in Krishna, 8 cops test positive||Vijayawada: Krishna district continued to witness a surge in Covid-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day on Monday. With 33 new cases, the total number of cases in the district went up to 210. According to reports, 8 police officials from Vijayawada have tested positive. They are being treated at the Covid centre in Government General Hospital (GGH). Sources informed that of the eight police officials, one is a cybercrime wing sub-inspector, three are constables of Machavaram police station and one each is from Gannavaram, Ajith Singh Nagar and Traffic police station. Further, a senior police official is also reported to have tested positive. The district administration and the city police have focussed their attention on safety of doctors and police personnel. All at-risk officials are being tested. Krishna Lanka and Karmika Nagar areas continued to see a spike in cases for the fourth consecutive day. Six new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Krishna Lanka and four new cases at Karmika Nagar. Further, new cases were registered at APIIC Colony, Poornanadampet, Ajith Singh Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Kothapet, Payakapuram, Gollapuddi and Yanamalakuduru. Vijayawada sub-collector Dhyana Chandra declared Ramavarappau a red zone after the first Covid-19 case was registered there. A three-kilometre radius containment zone has been declared till Enikepadu. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz appealed to citizens to stay at home and follow lockdown norms. Police are strictly restricting movement in the streets. VMC (Vijayawada Municipal Corporation) commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh conducted inspections at red zones in Krishna Lanka and Machavaram. He directed sanitation inspectors to intensify spraying of disinfectants at high-risk areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-cases-continue-to-surge-in-krishna-8-cops-test-positive/articleshow/75416386.cms||Venu Lanka
April 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Meet to check on hospital’s preparedness||VISAKHAPATNAM: KGH (King George Hospital) superintendent Dr G Arjuna chaired a meeting with heads of departments to discuss ways of controlling spread of the novel coronavirus and hospital’s preparedness in dealing with other ailments on Tuesday. The meeting discussed the availability of blood in the blood bank and blood transfusion in thalassemia and sickle cell anaemia patients. Dr Arjuna asked paediatric medicine doctors to provide him with a list of thalassemia and sickle cell anaemia patients who need blood transfusion over last three months. Discussions were also held on chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer patients. Dr Arjuna discussed the stock position of blood units with the blood bank medical officer and found it to be inadequate. He directed HoDs to ensure that no gatherings are allowed in wards or ICUs during visiting hours and social distancing is maintained.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/meet-to-check-on-hospitals-preparedness/articleshow/75436275.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Low-pressure area likely to be formed in south Andaman Sea||VISAKHAPATNAM: A low-pressure area is likely to be formed in south Andaman Sea around April 30, the Indian Meteorological Department informed on Tuesday. The phenomenon is likely to intensify over the subsequent 48 hours. If the low-pressure system continues on track, it would move north and northwest ward and then curve north and northeast ward by May 3. IMD director K Nagaratna said, “It is too early to predict whether the system will intensify into a cyclone. However, if weather conditions such as sea surface temperature favour the system, it will upgrade to a cyclone stage. It would be the first cyclone of the north Indian Ocean cyclone season.” Even if the system does turn into a cyclone, it may not hit the Indian coastal states such as Andhra Pradesh. The system may come close to the Indian coast and then take a re-curve towards Bangladesh, said a senior weather official of Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam. IMD officials have warned that fishermen should not venture into sea from Wednesday as sea conditions will be rough to very rough over the Sumatra coast, Andaman Sea, adjoining east and the southeast of the Bay of Bengal. Light to moderate rain and thundershowers are expected at places across north-coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema till April 30. A senior agriculture department official said, “Many areas in the state received heavy to very heavy rainfall over the last three days due to thunderstorm under the influence of cumulonimbus clouds..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-pressure-area-likely-to-be-formed-in-south-andaman-sea/articleshow/75436306.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Lockdown violators in city placed in quarantine||Vijayawada: In a bid to curtail the rising number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, police on Monday started to quarantine people found violating lockdown orders and roaming around in Krishna Lanka. City police commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao ordered police personnel to detail violators in an ambulance kept on standby. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Vikrant Patil and assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Suryachandra Rao conducted a special enforcement drive in the area. Krishna Lanka is the biggest hotspot in the city with 18 positive Covid-19 cases reported from the area in one day. Addressing the media, south zone ACP Suryachandra Rao said the number of lockdown violations have come under control after the initiative. “We would continue quarantining violators till we achieve complete compliance. We have set up an ambulance and sent all the violators to the respective quarantine centres for a period of 14 days,” Rao said. Police sources said similar initiatives have been undertaken in states such as Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-violators-in-city-placed-in-quarantine/articleshow/75416440.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Will students of Andhra government schools be able to avail online classes?||VISAKHAPATNAM: The school education department is discussing the possibility of online classes for students of government-run schools, according to sources. The lockdown has thrown the entire academic calendar out of gear and even class X examinations remain to be conducted. Teachers’ associations however are unsure of the success of the online model for government school students. “Students of private schools may have android phones in the family, but it’s difficult to expect that all students of government schools will also have the same,” said T Madhu, an office-bearer of Democratic Teachers’ Federation. Upon being asked about the plan, district education officer B Lingeswar Reddy told TOI that classes are going on through the Saptagiri channel and teachers are receiving English training through a mobile application. Further details about the action plan will come out in a week or two, he said. Moreover, sources said that the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) is discussing the possibility of the academic session to begin from mid-August or September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/will-students-of-govt-schools-be-able-to-avail-online-classes/articleshow/75436334.cms||Siva G
April 29, 2020||Vijayawada||703 people discharged in Kurnool so far: Collector||Tirupati: Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian on Monday said 703 persons have been discharged so far from quarantine facilities in the district. Speaking to reporters in Kurnool, the collector said 1,755 suspected cases were kept in isolation at 24 quarantine facilities across the district since the outbreak of the virus. Appreciating the efforts of frontline workers, the collector said, “303 suspects were discharged from various quarantine facilities on Sunday alone. With the discharge of a large number of patients in a single day, seven quarantine facilities in the district are now empty.” “Following the instructions of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, the best of infrastructure and amenities were created at quarantine facilities in the district. We ensured the best of food and medical care was available for the suspects round-the-clock. The services rendered by doctors, paramedic, sanitation and police personnel during the crisis was invaluable,” said the district collector. The district administration handed over the state government’s financial assistance of Rs 2,000, along with fruits, to the suspects discharged from quarantine. Meanwhile, with 13 new cases reported in the district on Monday, the tally of coronavirus patients went up to 295. Nine deaths were reported and 31 patients discharged, taking the number of active patients undergoing treatment in the district to 252. Of the 13 new cases, 10 cases are from Kurnool city, while two cases are from Kodumur and one is from Aspari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/703-people-discharged-in-kurnool-so-far-collector/articleshow/75416426.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Seven more rythu bazaars to come up in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam district administration is reportedly planning to increase the number of rythu bazaars in Vizag city from 13 to 20. Rythu bazaars provide farmers the opportunity to sell their produce directly to consumers. Rythu bazaars came up in Visakhapatnam nearly 15 years ago. Now, these farmers’ markets sell nearly 5,000 quintals of vegetables every day. Farmers come to sell their produce directly at the Anandapuram market on the outskirts of Vizag as well. It’s claimed that around 2,000 quintals of vegetables are sold from here every day. The Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown led the district administration set up a plethora of mobile rythu bazaars. The administration has set up more than 130 temporary and mobile rythu bazaars in the city during the lockdown. Speaking to TOI, joint collector L Siva Sankar said, “There’s need for more rythu bazaars in the city which now has 98 wards after delimitation. “ He added that the administration will identify vacant land to set up more rythu bazaars once the lockdown ends. The joint collector further said that the administration would set up the bazaars in temporary sheds and then gradually build permanent structures. “We don’t need more funds to set up rythu bazaars. We’ll identify government land and set up these bazaars,” he said. Most vegetables in Vizag’s rythu bazaars come from Devarapalli, Padmanabham, Anandapuram, K Kotapadu, and Araku mandals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/7-more-rythu-bazaars-to-come-up-in-city/articleshow/75436362.cms||Siva G
April 29, 2020||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman rebuts Rahul Gandhi's claim, says no loan waived off||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman strongly rebutted Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s claims on banks writing off bad debt of Rs 68,600 crore, saying that facts had been taken out of context. “Provisions are made for NPAs as per the four-year provisioning cycle laid down by the RBI. Upon full provisioning being done, banks write off the fully provided NPA but continue to pursue recovery against the borrower. No loan is waived off,” she said in a series of tweets. She then hit back at UPA saying banks wrote off Rs 1.4 lakh crore between 2009-10 and 2013-14. “Those defaulters who do not repay despite having capacity to pay, divert or siphon off funds, or dispose of secured assets without bank’s permission are categorised as wilful defaulters. They are those well connected promoters who benefited from UPA’s ‘phone banking’,” the finance minister said. After an RTI reply by the RBI named the country’s top 50 bank defaulters, Rahul on Tuesday alleged that the government did not answer his question on the issue in Parliament in March because the defaulters included “BJP’s friends”. CPM too slammed the Modi government for writing off loans of “crony capitalists” while being blind to the misery of the poor.RBI sources clarified that it has not written off any loans as the loans are advanced by banks. Also, when banks write off loans, they use their operating profits to make provisions so that they do not have to depend on the repayment to meet depositor liabilities. However, there is no waiver of borrowers’ liability and they pursue recovery from the borrowers by attaching property and in courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nirmala-sitharaman-rebuts-rahul-gandhis-claim-says-no-loan-waived-off/articleshow/75440023.cms||---
April 29, 2020||Business||E-tailers eye more brand tie-ups, staff intake||Kolkata: Following the Mamata Banerjee government's new order on Tuesday, locked-down consumers who had lost all hopes of doorstep delivery of important but ‘non-essential’ items during the Covid-19 lockdown are trying out ordering various other products online, with e-tailers and e-delivery firms such as Amazon, Grofers, Swiggy, Zomato, Flipkart and Bigbasket having stepped on the gas. E-grocery major BigBasket witnessed an over 100% increase in its capacity in the last 30 days. Over the next few weeks, it is expecting to serve 20-25% more customers every day. “The Kolkata Police have been working with us to pass on information to people, especially senior citizens, in need of assistance,” the e-grocer said. Amazon India is engaged in discussions with multiple companies to explore providing interim work opportunities for their under-utilized manpower in order to service the increasing customer demand across India. It would allow the companies to cater to customer demands across India. Swiggy has partnered with several national brands and retailers such as HUL, P&G, ITC, Godrej, Dabur, MTR, Marico, Vishal Mega Mart, Adani Wilmers, Cipla and many other city-specific stores to deliver branded essentials to consumers across the country. In addition to this, it has also scaled up its 'Genie' service to over 30 cities to enable pickup and drop of essential products from any store in the city. “Grocery has always been a part of our long-term strategy of hyper-local delivery model,” a Swiggy spokesperson said. Anticipating a huge surge in demand post-lockdown ease, with social distancing norms still in place, e-delivery firms are hiring more executives besides going for more brand tie-ups. Grofers has hired over 2,500 people from industries that have been deeply impacted by the current crisis and is planning to recruit 4,500 more in the coming weeks. “Now, we are completing over 1.9 lakh orders a day. And hopefully, the demand would increase by 50% in the coming months. To cater to the rising demand, we are ramping up our supplies from brand and manufacturing partners,” said Albinder Dhindsa, CEO and co-founder, Grofers. The company has collaborated with other platforms such as Zomato, DriveU and Zoomcar to get their delivery fleet on board. BigBasket, too, is looking at employing 15-20% more people for its last mile delivery as well as warehouse operations. A company spokesperson at Zomato told TOI that the company has more than 3,500 partners on board, including FMCGs, retail chains such as ITC, Marico, Cipla, Nivea, Grofers among several others. “Zomato marketplace is available in more than 180 cities, serving over 50 Lakh households.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-eye-more-brand-tie-ups-staff-intake/articleshow/75438458.cms||Sovon Manna
April 29, 2020||India||Deemed universities & their trustees come under graft act: SC||NEW DELHI: Widening the ambit of Prevention of Corruption Act, the Supreme Court ruled that even deemed universities will come under the purview of anti-corruption law and that trustees of the Trusts running these universities could be prosecuted as public servants for their corrupt acts. "Corruption is the malignant manifestation of a malady menacing the morality of men. There is a common perception that corruption in India has spread to all corners of public life and is currently choking the constitutional aspirations enshrined in the Preamble. In this context, this case revolves around requiring this Court to facilitate making India corruption free," said a bench headed by Justice N V Ramana while giving this ruling. The bench, also comprising Justice M M Shantanagoudar, was deciding a corruption case relating to a trustee of Sumandeep Charitable Trust, which runs a deemed university 'Sumandeep Vidyapeeth' in Gujarat. Prosecution alleged that the institution demanded an additional Rs 25 lakh to allow a complainant's daughter to appear in final MBBS examination, despite entire annual fee having been already paid up. The institution agreed to accept a cheque for the amount in lieu of promise to pay the amount in cash later. On complaint, the police set up audio and video camera trap. After catching the conduit, the police raided the institution and found several undated cheques drawn in the name of the institution worth over Rs 100 crore. The Gujarat police registered a case under PC Act arraying the trustee as an accused as he was described by arrested persons as the one who demanded illegal donations. Setting aside the Gujarat HC order discharging the trustee on the ground that deemed university did not come under the ambit of PC Act, the SC took a broader view of the term 'public servant' to count deemed university as a public institution and its functionaries, including the trustees, as public servants. Justice Ramana, writing the judgment for the bench, said, "There is no gainsaying that nations are built upon trust. In a democracy one needs to rely on those with power and influence and to trust them of being transparent and fair. There is no doubt that any action which is driven by self­ interest of these powerful individuals, rather than public interest, destroys that trust." "Where this becomes the norm, democracy, the economy and the rule of law, all take a beating, ultimately putting the whole nation at risk. Corrupt societies often spring from the examples set at the highest levels of government, but small­scale corruption can be equally insidious. In this regard, the PC Act was formulated to bring about transparency and honesty in public life, as indicated by its objects and reasons. We need to keep the aforesaid legislative intention in mind while interpreting the provisions of the PC Act," the bench said giving wider meaning to the PC Act provision. "There is no dispute that corruption in India is pervasive. Its impact on the nation is more pronounced, due to the fact that India is still a developing economy. Presently, it can be stated that corruption in India has become an issue which affects all walks of life. In this context, we must state that although anti­corruption laws are fairly stringent in India, the percolation and enforcement of the same are sometimes criticized as being ineffective. Due to this, the constitutional aspirations of economic and social justice are sacrificed on a daily basis. It is in the above context that we need to resolve the issues concerned herein," the SC said. The SC said that education sector has become riddled with corruption."In this context, we need to understand whether a deemed university would be covered within the ambit of the Section 2(c)(xi) of the PC Act," it said while setting aside the HC order discharging the trustee from the corruption case. It asked the trial court to proceed with the trial expeditiously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deemed-universities-their-trustees-come-under-graft-act-sc/articleshow/75440030.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
April 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two ‘minors’ among four held for double murder||MUMBAI: Shivaji Nagar police arrested four persons, including two suspected minors, for allegedly rioting and killing two persons following a petty fight in Govandi on Monday. This is the second double murder within five days. Two brothers were killed and the third was critically injured in a similar fight in Sewri last Thursday. In both cases, the motive appears to be ego, and frustration over the nationwide lockdown. Last Sunday, Shivaji Nagar police arrested six boys who pelted stones when they were prevented from moving around the area without masks. In the fresh case, it is suspected to be a petty fight between two groups over installation of a sabil, a drinking water booth installed on the eve of Ramzan. Police said the fight was also a fallout of previous rivalry, and the deceased and accused are related. “Since two claimed to be minors we have sent them for a medical examination to determine their age, and a Covid test,” said Sudarshan Paithankar, senior inspector. Police said on Monday evening a group headed by Sheru and Amin wanted to install the sabil near BMC school road 8, when the deceased’s group objected. Sheru and Amin attacked Rajjab Ali, his friend Prem Singh and Rajab’s younger brother Mohammed Ali with choppers and swords and fled, said ACP Bhujbal. The trio was taken to Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar, where two were declared dead on arrival. Mohammed Ali is critical in hospital. Police have booked the accused under Indian Penal Code sections for murder, rioting and wrongful assembly during lockdown. Heavy police bandobast has been deployed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-two-minors-among-four-held-for-double-murder/articleshow/75440026.cms||Ahmed Ali
April 29, 2020||Delhi||At ‘sealed’ Badarpur border, huge jam, spat with cops, nurse in tears||NEW DELHI: There was chaos at Badarpur border on Tuesday after the Haryana government decided to deny entry to people coming from Delhi on the ground that they were carrying Covid-19 infection into the state. Left stranded were many important frontline workers of the national capital, including Delhi Police personnel, healthcare workers, municipal employees and even media people. The only vehicles allowed to cross the point were trucks laden with vegetables and grocery items. As a result, a traffic jam stretched to half a kilometre, some people pleaded with cops, others argued with them, while a nurse was reduced to tears. While more than a dozen Haryana Police and Rapid Action Force personnel could be heard admonishing the people trying to cross the toll point between the states, there were hundreds caught in a predicament after the border sealing. Udai Budhlani was one of them. “My daughter is pregnant and nearing labour. Since her doctor is in Faridabad, she needs to be there,” he said, waving some papers, unable to understand why his concern didn’t make any impression on cops manning the crossing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-sealed-badarpur-border-huge-jam-spat-with-cops-nurse-in-tears/articleshow/75440054.cms||Sakshi Chand
April 29, 2020||Delhi||This ‘Akashvani’ warns lockdown violators to get off south Delhi roads||NEW DELHI: People crowding at a grocery shop in Mehrauli were startled when a loud voice from the sky announced that they were violating social distancing norms. The “Akashvani drone”, as the frontline cops call it, has been keeping an eagle eye on lockdown violators in south Delhi in places where cops are not present. The drone is a quad-copter fitted with a public address system and a radio that can relay instructions from a distance of 5 km. The device has been the police’s eye in colonies, especially after cops have been asked to avoid direct contact with people to check the spread of coronavirus. The drone system, which was tested in central Delhi earlier this month, can fly over congested lanes without creating any interference in day-to-day activities.  DCP (south) Atul Thakur said the drones have a capacity of carrying a payload of up to 500 gm. “We have fitted a small public address system that can be controlled remotely,” he said. “We use the drone’s public address system to warn violators to stay off the roads. It has been creating a major impact among people,” said a police officer. The drone is usually flown by an operator who is a pillion rider on a police bike driven by a Covid action team member. The quad-copter flies ahead of the team to spot violators. If anyone is found violating the lockdown order, legal action is initiated, said a police officer. Cops to deploy Akashvani drones in other parts tooCops are planning to procure similar Akashvani drones for other parts of the city to patrol congested areas. “The device is a force multiplier especially while conducting flag marches or keeping an eye on gatherings. By the time our team reaches a place, drones do a major part of the job,” said DCP (central) Sanjay Bhatia. A senior cop said these drones are very effective especially when the police brass has given a clear instruction to personnel to maintain an optimal force on the ground to prevent being infected. “We have reduced our staff at the barricades to a minimum to ensure no one gets exposed to infection. Here the drone plays an important role,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-akashvani-warns-lockdown-violators-to-get-off-south-delhi-roads/articleshow/75440059.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
